-- How K-Rations Fed Soldiers and Saved American Businesses
-- B y   H a r d y   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-20T15:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/how-k-rations-fed-soldiers-and-saved-american-businesses.html
In 1936, with war clouds gathering
over Europe, some in the U.S. Army couldn’t stop thinking about
food.  Fast food, in particular -- which is to say victuals for
soldiers such as paratroopers, who were required to be highly
mobile. “The primary focus,” reflected three Army investigators
some years after the war, was on “nutritional adequacy, storage
stability, and military functionality.”  After five years of research, an outside consultant
suggested a fourth issue. Would the troops actually like the
food -- and eat it?  More investigation followed. Finally, a revolutionary
product emerged: the K-ration.  The visionary consultant was Ancel Keys, a University of
Minnesota physiologist hired by the Quartermaster Corps’s
Subsistence Research and Development Laboratory. Keys was an
unlikely choice to become the autocrat of the mess table. A
scientist trained at Berkeley and Cambridge, he had studied
zoology and the effects of high altitude on the human body. He
told one journalist that he was never sure how the Army came to
pick him for the K-rations project.  Guinea Pigs  Keys’s first step was to visit a Minneapolis supermarket,
where he assembled 30 sample packets, each of which included
hard biscuits, sausage, chocolate and hard candy. These were
tested on troops at Fort Snelling and at Fort Benning in
Georgia. The human guinea pigs thought the meals were tolerable
but tellingly suggested the inclusion of cigarettes and toilet
paper.  The contents of the 2,800-calorie, three-meals-in-one-box
K-rations continued to evolve throughout World War II. Canned
meat and cheese, biscuits, candy bars, and instant coffee became
standards. Other contents: malted-milk tablets, lemonade powder
(so acrid that it was best suited, many said, to be floor
cleaner), cigarettes and Wrigley’s spearmint gum.  K-rations became an infantry mainstay -- more than 105
million were produced in 1944 -- and ultimately an object of
considerable GI opprobrium. The troops “complained in no
uncertain terms about their steady diet of processed foods,” a
postwar report noted pointedly. Nor did K-rations provide
sufficient calories for physically taxed combatants. Soldiers
who weren’t on the front lines got better chow, including eggs
and vegetables. The New Yorker magazine writer A.J. Liebling,
ever attuned to dietary matters, reported having a mess-tent
breakfast of bacon, rice, apple butter, margarine, hard biscuits
and sweetened tea during a 1943 trip to the Tunisian front.  Other troops got C-rations: two 12-ounce cans per meal, one
containing a meat stew and the other bread and dessert. That was
a lot to lug around, so a considerable percentage of the meals
the troops ate -- in some areas, more than 80 percent -- were K-
rations.  The food industry, of course, provided regular input. Amid
fierce lobbying, some companies profited more than others.
William Wrigley Jr. Co., for example, convinced the Army that
chewing gum could help soldiers overcome thirst and won the bid
to supply gum in K-rations. The company also served as one of
the packers for the boxes of rations, dedicating an entire
factory to the work.  Essential Products  In return, Wrigley’s gum became an “essential product,”
exempt from the sugar rationing that put other candy makers out
of business. The move “guaranteed the survival of the gum
business,” Fortune magazine wrote.  Sales to the armed forces also helped other companies
compensate for losses in a rationed domestic market. Liggett &
Myers Tobacco Co.’s Chesterfield cigarettes were regularly
included in K-rations (one four-pack per meal), as was  Geo. A.
Hormel & Co .’s fatty potted ham, aka Spam. The military bought
half of Wrigley’s total product. Huge K-ration orders kept four
Hormel production lines humming during double shifts, even as
the company’s U.S. sales were hurt by restrictions on the use of
metal cans.  Patriotic involvement in the war effort also became part of
companies’ marketing. “It’s Chesterfield,” proclaimed a
helmeted, cigarette-smoking soldier in a full-color Liggett &
Myers magazine ad. “They treat you right.”  Fortune magazine noted that, by the war’s end, the American
soldier “will have brought gum to the four corners of the
world.” The Army played a role akin to that of sample
distributors in American supermarkets. The children of liberated
France came to expect regular doles of gum and cigarettes from
U.S. troops, prompting some less-generous soldiers to paint “No
gum, chum” on their vehicles. K-rations provided nutrition even
to Paris’s elite, including  Pablo Picasso , theater designer
Christian Berard, and the British officer  Lord Rothschild .
American cigarettes, soap, coffee and Spam were the lifeblood of
the black market.  By 1945, 100 million pounds of Spam had been shipped
abroad, mostly to the U.K., where it became almost ubiquitous.
Despite eating so much of the stuff, many Britons grew to like
it. And everyone admitted: “We couldn’t possibly have survived
the war without it.”  ( Hardy Green  is working on a book about World War II and
the home front. He is the author of “The Company Town: The
Industrial Edens and Satanic Mills That Shaped the American
Economy.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this article:  Hardy Green  at
 hardygreen1@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 