-- Toys ‘R’ Us $35 Million Antitrust Accord Overturned
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-02-20T00:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/toys-r-us-35-million-antitrust-accord-overturned.html
Toys “R” Us Inc. ’s $35 million
settlement of an antitrust group lawsuit over inflated prices
was thrown out by an appeals court that questioned the
distribution of the funds and rejected the fees awarded lawyers.  The U.S Court of Appeals in Philadelphia said in a ruling
today that the distribution may be unfair to consumers who would
see $3 million under the accord while the attorneys would get
$14 million in fees. The remaining $18.5 million would go to
charities.  “The settlement has resulted in a troubling, and,
according to counsel for the parties, surprising allocation of
the settlement fund,” the judges said. “Though the parties
contemplated that excess funds would be distributed to charity
after the bulk of the settlement fund was distributed to class
members through an exhaustive claims process, it appears the
actual allocation will be just the opposite.”  The settlement stems from antitrust lawsuits filed in 2005
and 2006 by consumers and Internet retailers, including
Babyage.com Inc., claiming that Babies “R” Us conspired with
baby-product manufacturers to limit discount pricing on certain
items. The retailers claimed Toys “R” Us threatened to cut off
supplies if they charged less than agreed upon minimum prices.
Consumers said the company’s actions caused them to pay inflated
prices.  Compensation Levels  Under the settlement, consumers were entitled to varying
levels of compensation depending on the proof of purchase they
submitted.  The lower court judge who approved the settlement wasn’t
told by the lawyers that many class members were forced into a
lower level by the “restrictive claims process,” the appeals
court said.  Many fewer claims for the higher payouts resulted in excess
money to be distributed to a nonparty for a charitable purpose,
according to the decision.  The court also tossed the lower court’s order awarding
attorneys fees and costs.  “In this case, class counsel, and not their client, may be
the foremost beneficiaries of the settlement,” the judges said.
“The current distribution of settlement funds arguably
overcompensates class counsel at the expense of the class.”  Ivy Tabarra, an attorney for the plaintiffs at Hagens
Berman Sobol Shapiro in Seattle, didn’t immediately respond to a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  Kathleen Waugh , a spokeswoman for Wayne, New Jersey-based
Toy “R” Us, declined to comment on the decision.  The case is In Re Baby Products Antitrust Litigation,
12-1165, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  