-- Panetta Notifies Congress of Worker Furloughs Under Cuts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2013-02-20T21:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/panetta-notifies-congress-of-worker-furloughs-under-cuts.html
Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta 
said he notified Congress of plans to impose furloughs on the
Pentagon’s civilian employees should automatic budget cuts take
effect on March 1 and “continue for a substantial period.”  Panetta said in a message today to about 800,000 Department
of Defense employees that the “vast majority” of them would
have to take unpaid leave and that they would get at least 30
days’ notice if that’s to happen.  “We are doing everything possible to limit the worst
effects on DoD personnel but I regret that our flexibility
within the law is extremely limited,” Panetta said. “The
president has used his legal authority to exempt military
personnel funding from sequestration, but we have no legal
authority to exempt civilian personnel funding from
reductions.”  Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said last week in
congressional testimony that furloughs are likely to average one
day a week for as many as 22 weeks, resulting in a 20 percent
cut in pay for civilians. Pentagon Comptroller  Robert Hale  said
today that notifications would start in mid-march and furloughs
wouldn’t begin until late April.  “There will be some very limited exceptions to these
furloughs,” Hale said at a Pentagon briefing. “We will except
citizens deployed. We will not furlough civilians deployed in
combat zones. We will not furlough civilians who are required to
maintain safety of life or property, but only to the extent that
they have to do that to maintain life and property.”  State-by-State Costs  Unless lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  can agree on an
alternative, the across-the-board spending reductions, known as
sequestration, will begin March 1. About half the cuts will
affect defense spending, requiring about $46 billion in
reductions in the seven remaining months of this fiscal year and
about $500 billion over a decade.  The Pentagon estimates furloughs of civilian employees
would cost them as much as $4.86 billion in pay in the fiscal
year that ends Sept. 30.  Virginia would see the biggest drop in payrolls to civilian
employees of the military, with $660.9 million lost, according
to the estimate released by the Defense Department. That would
be followed by California, which would see a $419.7 million
decline; Maryland, losing $359.3 million; and Texas, losing
$290.9 million.  ‘Hollow Force’  “Sequestration will put us on a path toward a hollow force
and inflict serious damage on our national security,” Panetta
wrote today in a letter to Representative  Howard “Buck” McKeon , a Republican from California and chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said that the House has acted
twice on “common-sense cuts and reforms” to replace
sequestration while Obama “has yet to put forward a specific
plan that can pass his Democratic-controlled Senate.”  “As the commander in chief, President Obama is ultimately
responsible for our military readiness, so it’s fair to ask:
What is he doing to stop this sequester that would ‘hollow out’
our armed forces?” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in an e-
mailed statement.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said Congressional
Republicans are unwilling to accept a “balanced package” of
spending cuts and revenue increases. If they maintain their
position and the sequester goes into effect, “Americans will
lose their jobs because Republicans made a choice for that to
happen,” he said.  Less Training  Military leaders said last week that allowing the spending
reductions to take effect would mean less training for Army
personnel and fewer purchases of Navy vessels and Air Force
fighter jets.  Separately, the Army said sequestration, combined with
stopgap defense funding already in effect, may trigger furloughs
or job cuts for more than 302,000 of its employees and those of
contractors and businesses that provide services, according to a
planning document obtained by Bloomberg News.  Nationwide, the job effects and reductions in base
operations and improvements would cost the economy $15.4
billion, the service said.  The hardest-hit state economically would be Texas, followed
in order by Alabama, Pennsylvania and Virginia, according to the
Army.  Contractor Workforce  Texas, home to some of the biggest Army bases such as Fort
Hood, may lose $2.4 billion from the service’s spending
reductions, according to the service. Almost 35,000 jobs would
be affected, including about 30,000 civilian workers.  The Army said it has begun cutting its contractor
workforce, firing temporary employees and canceling depot
maintenance, among other actions, to help offset an expected $18
billion budget shortfall in the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  An index of the top 10 Pentagon contractors trails the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by 6 percentage points this year, as
Washington deadlocks for the second time on how to avert $1.2
trillion in automatic budget reductions set to begin kicking in
March 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  