-- PBOC Switch to Drain Cash Turns Citigroup Bearish
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-21T04:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/pboc-switch-to-drain-cash-turns-citigroup-bearish-china-credit.html
The People’s Bank of  China ’s first
draining of cash since June, seeking to damp a property-market
revival, is prompting  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to predict one-year yields
will rise faster than longer-term rates.  The central bank sold repurchase  agreements  for the first
time in eight months on Feb. 19, withdrawing capital from banks
after they lent the most money in two years in January. The  gap 
between one- and 10-year government yields has widened 26 basis
points in the past four months to 87, after touching 88 on Feb.
19, the highest level since August 16, according to Chinabond.
Comparable spreads across the so-called yield curve are 172
basis points in  Brazil , 155 in  Russia  and one in  India .  “The PBOC regards the current liquidity conditions as
overly loose,” said Weisheng He, a strategist in  Shanghai  at
Citigroup. “Going into April, I expect the bond curve to bear-
flatten,” he said, predicting the one-year yield will rise to 3
percent this year from 2.70 percent yesterday.  The outlook for a flattening yield curve reflects the risks
that excessive lending may fuel inflation in the world’s second-
largest economy and lead to a property-market bubble. The
central bank said on Feb. 6 that China must be alert to changes
in price expectations and to imported inflation.  China’s banks extended 1.07 trillion  yuan  ($172 billion) of
 loans  in January, compared with 738 billion yuan a year earlier,
the PBOC said on Feb. 8.  Aggregate financing , which includes
non-bank lending, climbed 914 billion yuan last month to a
record 2.54 trillion yuan, central bank data show.  Flatter Curve  “It was probably the rapid increase in loans that prompted
the central bank to fine-tune monetary policy,” said Chen Qi,
co-head of fixed-income research at UBS Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “Liquidity won’t be as ample as before, which will
help push up short-term yields. It’s possible that the curve
will flatten.”  The yield on 10-year  government bonds  dropped four basis
points this month to 3.57 percent, according to Chinabond, the
nation’s second-biggest clearing house. The rate on one-year
debt declined 11 basis points.  Chinese developers were able to improve their liquidity at
favorable costs because funding channels reopened,  Standard &
Poor’s  said a report released yesterday. Home sales in China’s
10 biggest cities almost quadrupled to 8.5 million square meters
(91.5 million square feet) in the first five weeks from last
year, property data and consulting firm China Real Estate
Information Corp. said on Feb. 19.  Tighter Policy  “The PBOC will try to tighten liquidity this year to
counter rises in  home prices  and also to curb inflationary
pressures at the consumer level,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “It will try
to drain liquidity via open-market operations such as repos and
bill sales. I also expect yields it offers in these operations
to be increased.”  The PBOC drained a  net  910 billion yuan of capital this
week, the biggest withdrawal since Bloomberg started compiling
the data in 2008, after issuing 40 billion yuan of 28-day
repurchase contracts and 10 billion yuan of 91-day repos. By
contrast, the monetary authority pumped in a record 662 billion
yuan of funds during the five days through Feb. 8, as cash
demand surged before the Chinese New Year holiday.  The seven-day repurchase  rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, has declined 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage
point, in February to 3 percent, according to the National
Interbank Funding Center. The yuan weakened 0.07 percent to
6.2422 per dollar today.  Stimulating Growth  China “won’t tighten policy too much” as the government
aims to shift the focus of the economy to domestic consumption,
according to Stephane Monier, deputy global chief investment
officer at Lombard Odier Asset Management, which manages $200
billion. The Geneva-based private bank is bullish on sovereign
debt because of the prospects for yuan appreciation, he said.  “There’s not a very strong argument for strong
tightening,” Monier said in an interview yesterday in  Hong
Kong . “What would be wise for them is to continue the
tightening by a moderate appreciation of the currency.”  The finance ministry yesterday issued 26 billion yuan of
10-year government bonds at a yield of 3.52 percent, according
to Chinabond. That compared with the median estimate of 3.565
percent in a Bloomberg News survey. The sale drew bids worth
2.86 times the amount on offer, the highest for the maturity
since 2005, according to China International Capital Corp. data.  Bond Demand  “The strong demand for bonds in the primary market
reaffirms the fact that the financial system is flooded with
cash,” said Chen Jianheng, a bond analyst in Beijing at CICC,
the nation’s biggest investment bank. “The resumed repo sales
are only used to make liquidity not excessively loose. The
central bank isn’t sending a tightening signal.”  Consumer prices  rose 2 percent from a year earlier in
January, compared with 2.5 percent in the previous month, the
statistics bureau said on Feb. 8.  Ba Shusong , a researcher at
the State Council’s Development Research Center, said inflation
may accelerate to 3 percent in February, the China National
Radio reported on the same day.  Confidence in  China’s economy  has improved this month.
Five-year credit-default swaps protecting China’s sovereign
notes against non-payment fell 4.5 basis points in February to
64.5 as of Feb. 20 in  New York , according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The world’s second-biggest  economy  expanded 7.9 percent in
the fourth quarter, compared with 7.4 percent in the previous
three months, China’s statistics bureau said on Jan. 18.  The central bank will “mildly” drain capital from the
financial system because the economic recovery is good so far,
said Shi Lei, head of fixed-income research at Ping An
Securities Co., a unit of the nation’s second-biggest insurance
company.  “The seven-day repo rate may rise to 3.3 percent after the
PBOC resumed repo sales,” said Shi. “The rising funding costs
will help damp companies’ demand for money a bit.”  -- Judy Chen . With assistance from Kim Kyoungwha in Shanghai and
Fion Li in Hong Kong. Editors: Sandy Hendry, Amit Prakash  To contact the reporter on this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 