-- Pistorius Argued With Girlfriend Before Shots: Prosecutor
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-02-20T09:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/pistorius-argued-with-girlfriend-before-shots-prosecutor.html
Oscar Pistorius , the South African
gold-medal winning Paralympian, argued with his girlfriend,
Reeva Steenkamp, before he shot her dead, prosecutor Gerrie Nel
said.  A composed Pistorius, 26, lowered his face as a police
investigator contested his affidavit that he thought Steenkamp
was a burglar when he fired four shots at her in the bathroom of
his Pretoria home on Feb. 14. Pistorius and Steenkamp, 29,
argued between 2 a.m. and 3 a.m. that morning, Nel said in court
today, citing a witness. The shots fired by Pistorius couldn’t
have hit Steenkamp where she was sitting if he had been shooting
through the toilet door, Nel said.  South African magistrate Desmond Nair heard a second day of
evidence in Pistorius’s bail hearing before a trial for
premeditated murder. Pistorius, dubbed the ‘ ‘Blade Runner ’’
because of his double leg amputation and prosthetic running
blades, faces a maximum term of life in prison if found guilty
of the charge, according to Nair. The defense will have to prove
“exceptional circumstances” to get bail under the current
charge, Nair said yesterday. The prosecution will add a charge
of possession of unlicensed ammunition, Nel said.  “If you walk in directly and fire at the door, you miss
the toilet,” Nel said.  Pistorius said in an affidavit read out in court yesterday
he feared for his life when he heard noises coming from the
bathroom in the early hours of the morning on Feb. 14, thinking
a burglar had climbed through an open window. He shot through
the door before realizing it could have been Steenkamp, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  