-- Pound Slumps to 15-Month Low Against Euro on BOE Minutes
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-20T16:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/pound-weakens-third-day-versus-euro-before-boe-minutes.html
The pound slumped to a 15-month low
against the euro after Bank of England minutes showed more
officials voted to expand asset purchases at this month’s
meeting, a policy that that typically debases a currency.  Sterling dropped to the lowest level since June versus the
dollar after minutes of the central bank’s Feb. 7 meeting showed
policy makers also considered an interest-rate cut. Governor
 Mervyn King  and Paul Fisher joined David Miles in voting to
increase the  target  for bond purchases by 25 billion pounds
($38.3 billion) to 400 billion pounds, though they were outvoted
by the remaining six members of the Monetary Policy Committee.
U.K. government bonds declined.  “The market clearly has sterling in the cross hairs,”
said  Gavin Friend , a foreign-exchange strategist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in London. “King and Fisher have joined
Miles in voting for more quantitative easing and the market has
thumped sterling on the back of that.”  The pound depreciated 0.5 percent to 87.26 pence per euro
at 4:38 p.m. London time after reaching 87.65 pence, the weakest
level since October 2011. Sterling fell 0.9 percent to $1.5291,
after sliding to $1.5282, the lowest since June 1.  The vote marks the fourth time King, who is retiring in
June and will be replaced by Mark Carney, has been outvoted as
governor of the London-based central bank.  The minutes showed policy makers also considered lowering
the benchmark interest rate from its  record-low  0.5 percent,
purchasing assets other than gilts and changing the remuneration
on bank reserves. These options had been considered in the past
and the drawbacks noted previously remained.  ‘Friendless Pound’  This year “just goes from bad to worse for the pound as
this morning’s MPC minutes came out with a surprisingly bearish
vote,” said  Lee McDarby , head of dealing on the corporate and
institutional treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in London.
“This continues the snowball of gloominess which has been
gathering pace against sterling with the downside risk now
getting more worrying for the friendless pound.”  The pound has fallen 5.4 percent this year, the second-
worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Only the yen has
weakened more, losing 7 percent.  The 10-year gilt yield rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.20 percent. It fell as much as nine basis
points after the minutes were released. The price of the 1.75
percent bond due September 2022 slid 0.15, or 1.50 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 96.15.  Monetary Policy  The Bank of England minutes also said that “higher gilt
yields represent a tightening” of monetary policy. The rate on
the 10-year gilt has climbed 39 basis points this year.  “We had expected that the MPC would become concerned about
the tightening effect of higher gilt yields,”  Sam Hill , a fixed
income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London, wrote in an
e-mailed note. “We are surprised about the extent of their
apparent sensitivity to a comparatively modest move in the grand
scheme of things. Another move higher in yields could require
the MPC to walk the walk on asset purchases.”  The U.K. Debt Management Office is scheduled to auction
2.25 billion pounds of 10-year gilts tomorrow.  The yield spread between 10- and two-year securities
widened as much as five basis points to 193 basis points, the
most since March 22.  U.K. government bonds lost 2.7 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds dropped 1.5 percent and Treasuries fell 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  