-- Qantas Profit Rises on Boeing Cash and Long-Haul Revival
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-21T05:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/qantas-first-half-profit-rises-on-boeing-contract-cash.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
largest carrier, said first-half profit more than doubled after
it took cash from canceling orders for  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 jets and
cut losses on long-haul routes. The shares hit a 10-month high.  Net income  rose to A$111 million ($114 million) in the six
months ended Dec. 31 from A$42 million a year earlier, the
Sydney-based carrier said in a statement today. Profit before
tax and one-time items at A$223 million beat the A$212 million
median of four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Qantas reduced losses at its  international unit  by 65
percent after dropping unprofitable routes and retiring older
planes amid a battle with  Middle East  and Asian carriers on
long-haul services. An alliance with Emirates on overseas
flights, due to begin April 1, will be a “killer combination,”
Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  “It could mark a turning point in the way the market
perceives Qantas,” Peter Esho, chief market analyst at City
Index Ltd., said by phone from Sydney. “They’re spending less
cash, they’re losing less money, while ensuring the fleet is up
to the competition.”  The loss on international routes in the first half narrowed
to A$91 million from A$262 million a year earlier, the company
said. Qantas lost A$450 million on long-haul services last
financial year amid a fight for passengers with Gulf carriers
and fuel costs that ate up about half of revenue on a typical
flight between Australia and  London .  Emirates Alliance  Joyce has promised to return the division to profit by 2015
as part of a five-year turnaround plan announced in August 2011.
The international alliance with Emirates may lift earnings by
A$70 million to A$240 million a year once it’s fully implemented
in 2014, Macquarie Group Ltd. analyst  Russell Shaw  wrote in a
note to clients Feb. 1.  “Qantas’s international transformation should really start
delivering in 2013,” Shaw wrote. “Investors have become
increasingly positive” about management’s plans for the unit.  Qantas won provisional approval for its Emirates tie-up
from Australia’s antitrust regulator on Dec. 20. The agreement
will shift the so-called “kangaroo route” between Australia
and  Europe  to Emirates’ Dubai hub from existing routes via
 Singapore  and Hong Kong.  Demand on the route was running five times higher in the
second week of sales than it had been a year earlier under
Qantas’s former alliance with International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA’s British Airways unit, Joyce said in an
interview with  Susan Li  on Bloomberg Television.  ‘Killer Combination’  “It’s off to a great start,” he said. “It’s only been
three weeks and there’s probably been some pent-up demand but
the combination of Qantas and Emirates together is, I think, a
killer combination.”  Bookings to Milan and  Barcelona , which now fly via a single
stop in Dubai rather than two stops under the British Airways
alliance, were up 17 times and 10 times respectively, he said.  Qantas  rose  2.8 percent to A$1.66 at the close of trade in
Sydney, the highest level since April 18.  Group revenue in the six-month period was A$8.2 billion,
compared with A$8.05 billion a year earlier while earnings
before interest and tax rose 12 percent to A$310 million.  The domestic division posted a 34 percent drop in earnings
to A$218 million. Budget unit Jetstar posted a 13 percent drop
in earnings while profit from the frequent flier division rose
15 percent.  Boeing Agreement  Qantas carried 24.7 million passengers in the six months,
4.3 percent more than a year earlier. Yields, the average price
a passenger pays to fly a kilometer, fell 2.9 percent, the
airline said in the statement today.  “We have just started realizing the benefits of the
changes we have made,” Joyce told a briefing in Sydney. “Those
benefits will become greater next year.”  The first-half result includes A$125 million received after
Qantas canceled an order for 35 Boeing 787 Dreamliners in
August, the company said, limiting the impact of A$106 million
of one-time costs from firing workers and writing down the value
of equipment.  The operating environment “remains challenging and
volatile,” Qantas said. The airline didn’t provide a full-year
forecast.  Job cuts at investment banks and competition between
carriers pushed the price of premium tickets between  Asia  and
the U.S. to $5,827 in January, their lowest level since 2009.
That may pick up if the global economy improves, Tony Webber, a
former Qantas chief economist and managing director of Webber
Quantitative Consulting Pty., said in a Jan. 17 interview.  Rising Demand  The prospects for demand on international routes are
“generally improving and likely to continue to do so,” Will Seddon, who helps manage about A$350 million in funds including
Qantas stock at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney, said by
phone before the result.  The carrier will use capacity freed up by the Emirates deal
to reschedule its Asian arrival times in a bid to improve its
connections and increase the appeal to business class
passengers, Qantas said Feb. 4.  It’s spent A$9 million refurbishing lounges in  Hong Kong 
and Singapore and will upgrade interiors on 10 Airbus SAS
A330-300s flying in the region from late 2014, with flat-bed
seats in business class and new entertainment systems, the
company said in a separate statement today.  Domestic Battle  It’s doing the same to 20 A330-200s on domestic routes, as
well as buying five extra Boeing 737-800s and extending leases
on two more, Qantas said.  Joyce has pledged to defend the carrier’s current 65
percent share of Australia’s domestic market, which he considers
most lucrative. That’s meant adding new services during the
first half as second-ranked  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  ramps
up transcontinental routes and  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) 
expands.  An index of domestic business class airfares hit a 12-year
low in December as Virgin’s attempt to break into the corporate
travel market broke an effective monopoly Qantas had enjoyed on
the since the collapse of Ansett Holdings Ltd. following the
Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.  Qantas’s share of domestic corporate travel was 84 percent
in the half after it renewed 40 major accounts and added 39 new
clients, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  