-- Qatar Fund to Hunt for Distressed Assets as Recovery Takes Hold
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-02-20T12:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/qatar-fund-to-hunt-for-distressed-assets-as-recovery-takes-hold.html
Qatar is planning a $12 billion fund
to invest in distressed assets just as the world economic
recovery signals such opportunities may be harder to find.  Global growth will increase 4.1 percent this year from 3.6
percent last, according to International Monetary Fund data.
Equities are rallying, with the S&P 500 gaining 7.3 percent so
far this year, the FTSE 100 rising 8.2 percent and the Nikkei
225 up 10 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qatar said yesterday that the new fund, to be called Doha
Global Investment, will receive about $3 billion in assets from
Qatar Holding LLC, a unit of the country’s wealth fund, and seek
to raise the same amount in a share sale to nationals. The
Persian Gulf emirate is using wealth from the world’s third-
largest gas reserves to acquire assets across the globe.  “Given current low global rates, tight spreads and low
volatility, only terrible or European companies now fit in the
distressed bracket with significant capital already chasing
distressed assets,” said  Emad Mostaque , a strategist at Noah
Capital Markets in London. “It doesn’t look like an ideal area
for investment in the near future.”  Qatar Holding, the foreign investment arm of Qatar
Investment Authority, agreed with Credit Suisse Group AG in
November to form asset manager Aventicum Capital Management to
boost investments in emerging markets.  Long-Term Opportunities  Doha Global Investment will buy assets including real
estate, bonds and equities, Hussain Al Abdulla, board member at
Qatar Investment Authority, said yesterday. The fund sees
investment opportunities in distressed assets in the next
decade, said  Aladdin Hangari , head of adviser Credit Suisse in
Qatar that will advise on the creation of the fund.  “The period of acute distress seems to have passed,” said
 Simon Williams , Dubai-based chief Middle East economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc. “Some assets have already refloated.”  The Middle Eastern nation last year pushed Glencore
International Plc to boost its offer for Swiss miner Xstrata Plc
in a $31 billion deal. It also bought U.K. luxury-good store
Harrods for 1.5 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) in 2010 and holds
stakes in companies ranging from Barclays Plc to Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. and retailer J Sainsbury Plc. Qatar boosted
its stake in Tiffany & Co., the world’s second-largest luxury
jewelry retailer, to 8.7 percent at the end of last year from
7.8 percent stake.  “The world economic crises will create opportunities for a
long time, the next ten years,” Credit Suisse’s Hangari said.
The financial crises of 2008 and the debt crises in Europe
“will help in finding investment opportunities.”  Distressed assets can always be found whatever the business
cycle, said  Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce , London-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc. “Sometimes it becomes precisely a great
opportunity for an entity that has the financial fire power in
environments where financing could be tight -- and that’s where
and when Qatar hope to play a role.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  