-- State-Aided Raiffeisen Raises Dividend While Profit Drops
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-02-20T11:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/raiffeisen-defies-fourth-quarter-loss-with-dividend-increase.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG 
announced a dividend increase even as its profit declined,
drawing criticism from analysts who say the Austrian bank isn’t
weaning itself off dependence on state-provided capital.  Eastern Europe’s second-biggest lender is proposing to pay
out 1.17 euros a share for 2012, 11 percent more than a year
earlier, according to a statement from the Vienna-based bank
today. Raiffeisen posted lower full-year profit and swung to a
loss of 117 million euros ($157 million) in the fourth quarter,
compared with net income of 222 million euros a year earlier, on
bad-debt charges and a writedown at its Ukrainian unit.  About a quarter of Raiffeisen’s capital is  state aid  that
helped the bank avoid a cash call in 2009, when the financial
crisis drove its stock to a record low. Chief Executive Officer
 Herbert Stepic ’s move to increase the share of earnings paid out
to its shareholders, which are mostly regional cooperative
banks, is at odds with regulatory calls for Austrian banks to
use their profit to bolster capital.  “This is almost a 30 percent payout ratio, and such a high
dividend contradicts the bank’s objective to strengthen capital
by retained earnings,”  Eleni Papoula , an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in London who recommends selling the shares, said by phone.
“It contradicts the guidance by the local regulator to the
banks to strengthen their capital.”  Quarterly Loss  Austria’s central bank declined to comment. It has
repeatedly urged the nation’s biggest lenders to raise more
capital to repay government funding, satisfy new regulations and
catch up with better-capitalized rivals in eastern Europe.  Raiffeisen’s quarterly loss was its first since its initial
public offering in 2005. Full-year net income declined 25
percent to 725 million euros.  The shares  fell  0.3 percent to 30.69 euros at 12:20 p.m. in
Vienna. The stock is down 2.5 percent this year, underperforming
the 46-member  Stoxx 600 Banks  index, which is up about 8
percent.  Raiffeisen’s dividend increase was partly to pass on 272
million euros in one-time gains the bank posted in the first
quarter from buying back some of its own debt and selling
securities, Raiffeisen spokeswoman  Ingrid Krenn-Ditz  said in an
e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  “We believe that the 2012 result was respectable,” she
said. Krenn-Ditz also said Raiffeisen feels “comfortably
capitalized” with its core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial
strength, at 10.7 percent at the end of last year.  Capital Ratios  Berenberg’s Papoula estimates Raiffeisen’s core Tier 1
ratio is only 7.7 percent if 1.75 billion euros of state-
provided capital and 750 million euros in a similar form of
capital being phased out by regulators are excluded. That trails
the average of more than 10 percent among Raiffeisen’s European
peers, she said.  Under international Basel III bank regulations that began
taking effect this year, the government capital is valid for
measuring core Tier 1 ratios until 2017.  Raiffeisen’s total dividend payout will be 229 million
euros. The biggest share of that is paid to  Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG , which owns  78.5 percent  of the stock
and is in turn owned by Austrian regional cooperative banks.  The bank surprised investors a year ago when it left its
dividend unchanged, even as it was filling a 2.1 billion-euro
capital hole found by the European Banking Authority. RZB and
its holders, led by Raiffeisenlandesbank Niederoesterreich-Wien
AG and Raiffeisenlandesbank Oberoesterreich AG, also rejected a
sale of new Raiffeisen shares to address the shortfall.  Raiffeisen joined other European lenders reporting losses
on writedowns and provisions for possible future charges during
the most recent quarter, including Erste Group Bank AG, Deutsche
Bank AG, and UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  