-- Rajoy Says Spain’s 2012 Deficit Was Below 7% of Output
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-02-20T14:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/rajoy-says-spain-s-2012-deficit-was-below-7-of-output.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told
his fellow Spaniards they’ve weathered the worst of the crisis
as he announced the smallest budget deficit in four years.  Spain’s 2012 budget gap was less than 7 percent of gross
domestic product, excluding the cost of bailing out banks, and
gains in competitiveness have laid the foundations for a return
to economic growth, Rajoy told lawmakers in Madrid today. The
yield on 10-year debt dropped 6 basis points to 5.14 percent at
2:50 p.m. in Madrid, almost 250 points below its July peak.  “The worst of the threat is passing into memory,” the
premier said as he opened the State of the Nation debate in
parliament. “We have other challenges to face, but they will
not be so grave.”  Rajoy is seeking to turn a corner after the deepest budget
cuts in Spain’s democratic history and a corruption scandal
roiled his party. He was spared having to request a full bailout
by the European Central Bank’s pledge to backstop euro-region
debt last year.  The premier, who denies reports in El Pais newspaper that
he received more than 250,000 euros ($335,000) in illegal cash
payments, said he’ll toughen sentencing for those convicted on
corruption charges and force political parties to disclose more
details of their financing.  ‘Clean Country’  “Spain is a clean country which is going through a
difficult time and seeing corruption cases emerge just like any
other,” Rajoy said. “Disseminating the idea that Spain is a
corrupt country is profoundly unfair.”  The government will spur 32 billion euros of financing for
small businesses through the state-owned Instituto de Credito
and introduce a suite of tax breaks for smaller companies and
entrepreneurs aimed at reducing youth unemployment of more than
50 percent and kick-starting economic growth, Rajoy said.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a budget
deficit of 8 percent of GDP for last year, compared with a 6.3
percent target set by the European Union. The number includes
European aid to recapitalize Spanish banks, which Rajoy’s figure
doesn’t, and matches the European Commission’s November
prediction. The commission’s latest assessment of the Spanish
economy is due on Feb. 22.  September Revision?  “The question is whether this deficit number may be
revised in September, as was done last year,” Ignacio Conde-
Ruiz, an economist at the Applied Economic Research Foundation
in Madrid, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “There
are a lot of doubts about the adjustment in the regions which
won’t be cleared up until the full breakdown has been
published.”  Spain’s  budget deficit  was 9.4 percent of GDP in 2011,
according to Eurostat’s most recent data, compared with Rajoy’s
first estimate of 8.5 percent reported about a year ago.  The government plans to discuss the pace of its budget cuts
with the commission and the International Monetary Fund to
ensure the economic slump doesn’t worsen, Budget Minister
 Cristobal Montoro  said last week. Economy Minister  Luis de Guindos  has said he wouldn’t rule out an easing of Spain’s
deficit goals.  While the Treasury has already covered almost 20 percent of
its  planned  gross mid- and long-term debt issuance for 2013, it
faces its highest borrowing needs since 2005, according to UBS
AG. Its fast-tracked issuances are threatening to saturate the
market at a time when debt supply is also fueled by companies
and government-backed bodies.  The government is counting on strong exports and a
reduction in its current-account deficit to restore investor
confidence and contain borrowing costs to help pave the way to a
return to growth as soon as this year. Data yesterday showed
Spanish exports rose to their highest level since records began
in 1971 even as a recession spread across the euro region.  “A year ago, nobody looking at Spain from outside would
bet on it,” Rajoy said. “Today, no one would say we could
leave the euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  