-- RBA Paper Estimates Resource Industry Accounts for 10% of Jobs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-20T02:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/rba-paper-estimates-resource-industry-accounts-for-10-of-jobs.html
Almost one in 10 Australian jobs is
tied to resource extraction and industries that service it, a
central bank paper showed.  The share of total employment in the resource economy is
estimated to have doubled since the mid-2000s to about 9.75
percent in the 12 months through June 30, according to the  paper 
by Reserve Bank of Australia economists Vanessa Rayner and James
Bishop released today. The extraction of resources accounted for
3.25 percent of employment, the report showed.  “The share of workers employed in the resource extraction
sector has accounted for only one-quarter of the overall
increase in the resource economy’s share of employment since
2004/05,” the authors said. “The remainder is due to an
increase in employment in industries that service the operations
of mines, such as transport of output from the mine site to
ports, business services and power generation.”  Hiring demand from a mining investment bonanza helped
support the nation’s employment market as the sustained strength
of the Australian currency drives job cuts in industries
including manufacturing and tourism. The central bank reduced
its benchmark interest rate by  1.75 percentage points  in the 14
months through December to 3 percent, matching a half-century
low, as it seeks to spur industries outside resources where
investment is predicted to crest this year.  “Once the peak in resource investment has passed and the
resource boom enters its production phase, the share of labor
employed in the more labor-intensive resource-related industries
is likely to decline and the share employed in the less labor-
intensive resource extraction sector is likely to rise
further,” the paper showed.  Australian employers added part-time jobs in January and
fewer people hunted for work, helping keep the unemployment rate
unchanged at 5.4 percent, a government report showed Feb. 7.
About 30,000 new jobs in resource-rich Queensland state offset a
similar decline in the manufacturing hub of Victoria, it showed.  A separate Australian Bureau of Statistics report today
showed  wages  rose at a faster pace in the fourth quarter,
spurred by higher salaries in the mining industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  