-- Real’s Di Maria Offered to Manchester Utd., PSG: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-20T05:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/real-s-di-maria-offered-to-manchester-utd-psg-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Angel Offering  Real Madrid’s  Angel di Maria  is being offered around to
leading European teams including Manchester United and Paris
Saint-Germain, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Argentine winger, 25, has had an indifferent season in
Spain and agents are now sounding out clubs’ interest, the
newspaper added.  Nani Unsettled  Portugal winger  Nani  is set on leaving Manchester United at
the end of the season even after after his man-of-the-match
performance in the F.A. Cup win against Reading this week, the
 Independent reported .  It would take an integral role in the last third of
United’s season to convince Nani, who has started four matches
in the past three months, that he should accept the club’s offer
of a new contract, the newspaper added.  Monitoring Mignolet  Manchester United and Arsenal are monitoring Sunderland
goalkeeper Simon Mignolet, the  Sun reported .  Mignolet, 24, joined Sunderland on a five-year contract in
June 2010 and is now battling to be Belgium’s No. 1 with
Atletico Madrid’s on-loan goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois, the
newspaper added.  Benitez’s ‘Sweetheart’  Rafael Benitez , Chelsea’s interim manager, told a Spanish
radio station that his hometown club Real Madrid remains his
“sweetheart” and said he “can’t rule out one day becoming
national coach” of Spain, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Benitez is among the candidates to succeed  Jose Mourinho 
should the Portuguese coach leave the club at the end of this
season, the newspaper added.  Lyon to Liverpool?  Liverpool is considering an offseason bid for Lyon defender
Dejan Lovren, the  Daily Mail reported . Premier League rivals
Chelsea and Everton are also keen on the 23-year-old Croatia
center-back, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  