-- Red Flags Raised Again as Zoomlion Leads Junk Drop: China Credit
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-02-20T04:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/red-flags-raised-again-as-zoomlion-leads-junk-drop-china-credit.html
China ’s second-biggest construction
equipment maker fell the most among Asian dollar-denominated
 junk bonds  amid corporate governance concerns in the nation.  Notes sold by Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology
Co. have lost 4 percent this year, the biggest drop among
similar securities tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes, as the company denied a media report that it had faked
sales. Dollar debt in  Asia  has gained 0.18 percent in February,
while globally notes in the currency returned 0.21 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service warned of “red flags” on the
accounting of 61 firms in July 2011 and forestry  operator  Sino-Forest Corp. filed for  bankruptcy protection  in March last year
after accusations it had overstated its plantations. Non-investment-grade issuance from Chinese businesses boosted dollar
debt sales in the Asia-Pacific to a monthly record of $37.3
billion in January, raising the stakes for global investors.  “It will definitely be a short-term negative,” said
Suanjin Tan, a Singapore-based Asian fixed income portfolio
manager at BlackRock Inc., which had $3.79 trillion of assets
under management as of Dec. 31. “This should also serve to
distinguish the companies that are transparent from their peers
that are not.”  Zoomlion’s (1157)  December 2022 notes, which were priced at 99.08
cents on the dollar on Dec. 13, sunk to 94.1 cents on Feb. 4,
Bloomberg-compiled prices show. The bonds were at 94.4 cents
yesterday, according to the data.  Fraud Denial  The manufacturer, based in Changsha in the south-central
province of Hunan, said “no accounting fraud has ever been
committed” and that claims of fictitious sales were “false,
groundless and misleading,” in a Feb. 4 filing. That came after
the Shanghai-based National Business Daily reported that it
received documents showing the company made inaccurate revenue
statements.  “We certainly feel that current prices do not reflect the
fair value of Zoomlion bonds,” according to a statement from
Shen Ke, secretary to the company’s board of directors, e-mailed
by Wonderful Sky Financial Group, the financial public relations
consultant for the company in Hong Kong, in response to
questions about the securities. “In general bonds have less
liquidity than equity stocks, which make them a bit more
susceptible to temporary significant price fluctuations
sometimes caused by rather small trades, and when market
instincts over-react to what in this case was certain
misinformation.”  ‘Digestion Problems’  Securities sold by  Soho China Ltd. (410) , developer of the
Sanlitun SOHO area in Beijing, fell after the company denied a
report in the Beijing Times that linked it to  money laundering ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Soho’s $600 million of
2017 notes, which priced at par in November, tumbled to 95.2
cents on the dollar on Feb. 7, Bloomberg-compiled data show. The
securities were at 97.4 cents yesterday.  “We emphasize again that any accusations about us
colluding in money laundering or kickbacks are rumors,” Soho
Chief Executive Officer Zhang Xin said on Feb. 6 in a statement
on her microblog, confirmed by the company.  “The issue about corporate governance with respect to
Chinese companies is not new,” said Desmond Soon, a Singapore-based senior portfolio manager at Western Asset Management,
which manages $461.9 billion of assets globally as of Dec. 31.
“In part, price actions on these bonds are severe because we
have seen so much new issuance and there were digestion problems
to begin with.”  Companies in China and  Hong Kong  have sold $11.85 billion
of dollar bonds this year, the most in any similar period in
previous years, according to Bloomberg-compiled data.  Premiums Rise  The extra yield investors demand to buy dollar securities
of Chinese companies rather than Treasuries has climbed 5 basis
points this year, compared with the average 2 basis-point
decrease in the spread on dollar bonds in the  region , according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The premium reached an 11-week
high of  399 basis points  on Feb. 5, up from a three-year low of
 356 basis points  on Jan. 7.  The world’s second-biggest economy accelerated for the
first time in two years last quarter, pushing up sovereign bond
yields and buoying the nation’s currency. Gross domestic product
expanded 7.9 percent in the three months through December, up
from 7.4 percent in the previous period.  The  benchmark  10-year government bond yield climbed to a
high for the year at 3.61 percent on Jan. 29 from as low as 3.24
percent on July 11. It was unchanged at 3.6 percent yesterday.  Bookkeeping Scrutiny  The  yuan  touched a 19-year high at 6.2124 on Jan. 14. The
currency rose 0.04 percent to 6.2419 per dollar as of 9:53
a.m. in  Shanghai , prices from the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System show.  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment with
credit-default swap contracts has fallen 5 basis points to 64
this month, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. It is down from as high as 146 in
June last year. The indexes typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Chinese companies’ bookkeeping came under greater scrutiny
after  Carson Block ’s research firm Muddy Waters said Sino-Forest
overstated profit margins in June 2011. The Moody’s “red
flags” report came weeks later. Gary Lau, Hong Kong-based head
of corporate finance at Moody’s, declined to comment on current
corporate governance concerns in China.  ‘Better Standards’  “I think investors should now have prepared for potential
corporate governance issues among Chinese companies,” said
Annisa Lee, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “That said, when it is a  bull market , investors tend to
ignore this factor and bonds will be priced tightly.”  Zoomlion is “very confident about the quality of our
business performance and financial numbers,” according to the
statement from Shen e-mailed by Wonderful Sky Financial Group.
“Any future  bond issue  will definitely take into account
performance of existing bonds, ultimately the market makes the
judgment based on the company’s fundamental health—and on that
again we are very confident.”  Chinese real estate developers  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) 
and Longfor Properties Co. were among businesses mentioned in
the Moody’s report in 2011 that have recently sold debt.  Agile, in which JPMorgan Chase & Co. owns a stake, paid
8.25 percent for a $700 million perpetual bond on Jan. 11, while
Longfor sold $500 million of 10-year notes at 6.75 percent on
Jan. 22. By comparison, Agile offered 9.875 percent in March for
five-year debt and Longfor 6.875 percent for a seven-year note
in October, according to Bloomberg-compiled data.  “These reports absolutely do impact conviction levels,”
said Bryan Collins, a Hong Kong-based money manager at FIL Ltd.,
known as Fidelity Worldwide Investment. “At the end of the day,
there’s some short-term pain for long-term gain. At least these
reports encourage companies to be more open, more clear and for
investors to insist on better standards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  