-- Christie-Backed Revel Atlantic City Plans Bankruptcy
-- B y   A l a n   G o l d s t e i n ,   F a r i s   K h a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-20T17:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/revel-reaches-agreement-with-lenders-for-prepackaged-bankruptcy.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said investors are showing confidence in Atlantic City as  Revel
AC Inc.  plans to file for a prepackaged bankruptcy that will
reduce its debt burden by more than $1 billion.  Certain Revel lenders will provide about $250 million in
debtor-in-possession financing, including $45 million of new
loans, the company said yesterday in a statement. No taxpayer
money will be used to finance the restructuring, Revel said.  Revel, Atlantic City’s first new casino since 2003, opened
in April at a cost of $2.6 billion with the aid of Christie, who
helped restart the project after Morgan Stanley abandoned
construction. An attempt to bring higher-end customers to the
seaside city, Revel has struggled to attract business, suffering
an added setback when Hurricane Sandy forced its closure for
five days starting Oct. 28. New Jersey, faced with regional
competition, saw its total gambling revenue fall 8 percent to $3
billion in 2012, the sixth year of declines.  “What’s happening here is merely a shifting of debt load
to equity,” Christie, a Republican, told reporters today in
Little Ferry, New Jersey. “So these people were owed debt and
now they’re taking ownership in the hotel. They’re showing their
faith and confidence in the concept and in the future of
Atlantic City by not walking away and closing the place down,
but by saying, ‘We’re going to take the money we’re owed, and
instead we’ll take stock in the company.’”  Five Years  Christie said he had given Atlantic City five years to turn
around.  “We’re about two-and-a-half years into that, so give me
another two-and-a-half years,” he said. “You can call it a
failure at the end of five if that’s where it turns out, if
that’s where we wind up being. But I’m not ready to give up
yet.”  Revel had the second-lowest gambling revenue among the
market’s 12 resorts in January, according to New Jersey Division
of Gaming Enforcement data compiled by Bloomberg Industries
analysts.  The company’s $900 million term loan due in 2017 was little
changed today at 38.2 cents on the dollar, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt was arranged by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in February 2011.  “We’ve been saying for a long time there are some problems
with this company,” Ben Begleiter, a research analyst at Unite
Here, a labor union representing workers in industries such as
hotel, gaming and food service, said in a telephone interview.
“Our hope is that they use this as an opportunity to take a
look from top to bottom and make changes that are good for the
company, the workers and Atlantic City.”  Tax Incentives  The state’s Economic Development Authority granted $261
million in tax incentives to help jump start stalled
construction of the project in February 2011. Christie signed
legislation at the Revel construction site that created a state
tourism district in the city, boosted marketing of the resorts
and eased regulations on casino operators.  “My vision for Atlantic City is that Atlantic City needs
to become Las Vegas East,” the governor said in a January 2011
interview with Bloomberg News.  Christie stepped in after Morgan Stanley walked away from
the beachfront project in 2010, halting funding on what was
conceived as the city’s biggest resort and writing off most of
its $1.2 billion investment.  Non-Gaming Strategy  Pennsylvania’s gaming revenue has surged since Revel was
first conceived, siphoning off customers, and the company “got
a bad break” from Hurricane Sandy, which came when Revel was
still trying to build up its customer base, according to David
Schwartz, director of the Center for Gaming Research at the
University of Nevada Las Vegas.  Revel’s focus on non-gaming amenities such as restaurants
and shows is still a viable strategy, he said.  “It’s going to help them get out from under that debt load
and hopefully into a place that’s financially sustainable,”
Schwartz said.  Lenders that include Canyon Capital Advisors LLC, Capital
Research & Management Co. and Chatham Asset Management LLC will
own most of the equity once Revel emerges from bankruptcy
protection, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people
familiar with the matter.  Ratings Cut  Moody’s Investors Service earlier this month cut its rating
on the casino to Caa3, two levels above default. Losses at Revel
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the
nine months ended Sept. 30 were $69 million, according to
Moody’s.  Standard & Poor’s last month lowered its rating on Revel’s
loan to CC and cut its recovery rating to ‘6’ indicating
negligible recovery for lenders in the event of default. S&P has
a CCC grade on the company.  “The agreement we have reached with our lenders will
ensure that the hundreds of thousands of guests who visit Revel
every year will continue to enjoy a signature Revel experience
in our world-class facility,” Chief Executive Officer  Kevin DeSanctis  said in the statement.  Revel’s management team will remain in place, according to
a person with knowledge of the deal who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly.  The company had about $1.3 billion of debt and capacity to
draw approximately $57.7 million of additional funds under its
credit line on Sept. 28, it said in an Oct. 1 filing.  Poverty, Crime  Atlantic City  was a bustling beach resort until the 1960s,
when it became riddled with poverty, crime and corruption. The
state approved casino gambling in 1976 and  limited  it to the
city to boost its ailing finances.  The first casino, Resorts International, opened in 1978.
Gambling revenue rose every year until 2007, when the 18-month
recession began.  The city’s casinos have a history of debt troubles.  Donald Trump ’s Taj Mahal declared bankruptcy in 1990. Trump Hotels &
Casino Resorts Inc. then filed for bankruptcy protection in
2004. The Tropicana filed for bankruptcy in May 2008 with $2.4
billion of debt. The Atlantic City Hilton missed an interest
payment and other funding requirements on July 9, defaulting on
a $348.2 million loan.  Revel’s legal adviser in the restructuring is Kirkland &
Ellis LLP. Alvarez & Marsal is financial adviser and Moelis &
Co. is its investment bank.  The inspiration for Revel was described by Chief Investment
Officer  Michael Garrity  at the company’s casino licensing
hearing in March 2012.  “I’ve spent a lot of years on Wall Street,” Garrity said
then. “And what’s always amazed me, the thousands of traders,
analysts, private equity guys, bankers that will jump on a
plane, fly four to five hours to Vegas, lose the day on the way
back. Because they’re gamblers? No. Because they want to have
fun. And that was really the premise behind Revel.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Goldstein in New York at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan in New York at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  