-- Rothschild’s Bumi Bid Struggles as Standard Life Backs Board
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-02-20T06:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/rothschild-s-bumi-bid-struggles-as-standard-life-backs-board.html
Nathaniel Rothschild ’s bid to oust
most of the board of Bumi Plc, the Indonesian coal venture he
founded and is fighting to gain control of, may struggle after
one of his earlier supporters said it would vote against him.  Standard Life Plc, with a 2.2 percent stake in London-
listed Bumi Plc, said yesterday it won’t support Rothschild’s
plan to replace 12 of Bumi’s 14 directors, including its chief
executive officer and chairman. Rothschild said in December,
before he called for the board changes, that he had the backing
of the-then top-five institutional investors, including Standard
Life, for a different proposal to restructure Bumi Plc.  The move comes after a major shareholder said this week it
sold a 13 percent stake, increasing the support Rothschild needs
to win as those  voting rights  had previously been excluded.
Rejecting Rothchild’s plan would make it easier to split Bumi
Plc from its Indonesian unit PT Bumi Resources and help the
share price, according to Liberum Capital Ltd.  “The separation is key,” said  Richard Knights , an analyst
at Liberum Capital. “It extracts value from the PT Bumi
Resources stake, that’s the key thing. You can’t do that under
Nat’s proposal because the Bakries won’t buy it.”  Rothschild and Indonesia’s Bakrie Group, a palm oil-to-
property empire run by billionaire politician  Aburizal Bakrie 
and his brothers, set up Bumi Plc by bundling 29 percent of Bumi
Resources and 85 percent of PT Berau Coal Energy in a $3 billion
deal in 2010. They sought to create an Indonesian “resources
champion” combining the nation’s largest coal producer, Bumi
Resources, and fifth-largest, Berau. Bakrie became the first
major Indonesian business to tap the U.K. equity market.  Remote Chance  Shareholders will gather in London tomorrow at Armoury
House, home to the Honourable Artillery Company, the
headquarters of Britain’s oldest army regiment, to decide the
company’s future. None of the Bakrie family will attend,
according to spokesman Chris Fong. Rothschild, who holds about
14.8 percent of Bumi Plc stock according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, is seeking reappointment to the board and has
nominated former Leighton Holdings Ltd. head Wallace King as
chairman and Brock Gill as CEO.  Rothschild’s chance of unseating the Bumi Plc board is
“remote,” the Australian newspaper reported today, citing
nominee King. The vote is going to be “very close,” Alexander
Ramlie, a director of Bumi Plc, said today in a text message.  Bumi Plc plunged  69 percent in London trading last year
amid the battle for control, boardroom infighting and financial
probes in the U.K. and Indonesia. Both Rothschild and the
Bakries are seeking to unwind their collaboration and the Bumi
Plc board is also pursuing a separation from the Bakries.  Best Prospects  “We shall support the Bumi board and vote against all the
resolutions being considered,”  David Cumming , head of equities
of Standard Life Investments, said in a statement yesterday.
“We believe the restructured Bumi Plc board has the best
prospects of exiting the Bakrie relationship and maximizing
long-term value for the remaining shareholders.”  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., an investors’
adviser, recommended they remove representatives of the Bakries
and Bumi Plc Chairman  Tan  from the board.  Scott Merrillees  and
 Alexander Ramlie  should go as “they do not appear to offer a
viewpoint different from Tan’s, and may simply create a voting
block rather than add additional value.” Nathin Rathod, the
remaining Bakrie representative, should also be ousted, it said
this month in a report.  At the same time ISS said that shareholders should reject
the bid to replace all independent directors as that may thwart
plans to separate Bumi Plc from the Bakries.  Dissolve Deal  Bumi Plc surged a record 39 percent in London on Oct. 11
after the Bakries offered to buy back coal assets and
effectively dissolve the $3 billion deal. The stock has added 5
percent in the past two days, to close at 396 pence in London
trading, as the sale of a stake in the company increased the
number of votes Rothschild needs to win approval.  Rothschild, who has accused Bumi management and Chairman
Tan of failing investors, said yesterday the shares had
benefited because of his intervention and efforts to remove
members of the board.  “This vote will be very close and the existing board will
hang on only thanks to an 11th hour Takeover Panel ruling,”
Rothschild said yesterday by e-mail. “They therefore have no
real mandate. Any serious buy-side investor knows that the
shares have risen for one reason only - my intervention.”  Shares Rebound  The stock, up 44 percent this year, has surged since
Rothschild announced the extraordinary general meeting to try to
depose the board, whose members aren’t responsible for the
recovery in the stock price, Rothschild said last week.  “Since we launched our EGM the stock has risen from 265
pence to 404 pence, and this is not because of the current
boards’ efforts - the Bakrie separation was already announced
before we called our EGM,” he said.  The tide turned in the board’s favor Feb. 18 when  Rosan Roeslani , an associate of the Bakries, sold about 24.2 million
Bumi Plc shares to three separate investors. Rothschild will
need to win those votes, which were previously excluded by a
U.K. Takeover Panel ruling.  The disposal has “lifted the voting rights in favor of the
Bakrie Group,” said  Norico Gaman , head of research at BNI
Securities in Jakarta. “I would put Bakrie’s probability to win
the EGM at 60 percent, while Nat has a 40 percent chance.”  Significant Downside  A separation of Bumi Resources would value Bumi Plc at 429
pence a share, while a “sum of the parts” valuation should the
deal be scuttled would be below 300 pence, according to Liberum.  “We see significant downside here if Rothschild wins the
vote and removes 12 of the 14 directors, as the ability of the
company to extract value from its Bumi Resources stake will be
materially diminished,” Liberum said in a note to investors.  A Rothschild victory tomorrow may force Bumi Plc to buy out
holders of Bumi Resources, according to a commissioner at the
Indonesian financial services regulator, OJK. Should the ouster
of the company’s board, including CEO  Nick Von Schirnding , be
deemed a change of control over the Bumi Plc subsidiary, it
would trigger a mandatory offer for the rest of its shares, said
OJK’s Nurhaida, who goes by only one name.  The Bakries propose exchanging their 23.8 percent in Bumi
Plc for 10.3 percent of Bumi Resources. That plan also calls for
Bumi Plc to sell to the Bakrie Group the remaining 18.9 percent
of its Bumi Resources stake for $278 million in cash.  Rothschild wrote in a Jan. 7 letter that the board had
failed and CEO von Schirnding and Chairman Tan were among
directors who should be removed. That day, Bumi Plc acceded to
his request for a shareholder meeting to vote on the removal
directors.  Sofaer Capital Inc., which owns more than 1 percent of
Bumi, said last month it supports Rothschild’s proposal. The
changes in personnel would benefit Bumi, the Financial Times
cited  Richard Buxton , head of U.K. equities at Schroders Plc, as
saying in January. Schroder Investment Management Ltd. had a
3.51 percent stake in Bumi as of Oct. 3 last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  