-- Deutsche Bank Venture Said to Plan $1.3 Billion Home Sale
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-02-21T08:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/rreef-prelios-said-to-plan-1-3-billion-sale-of-german-homes.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Prelios SpA (PRS) 
plan to sell German homes valued at about 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion), two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The companies are seeking to sell the DGAG portfolio this
year, according to the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. DGAG owns about 10,000
apartments in northern German cities including Hamburg and
Luebeck, said one of the people. Spokesmen at RREEF, the
Deutsche Bank real estate investment unit that holds the
property, and Milan-based Prelios declined to comment.  Property owners are trying to profit from demand for German
homes as investors seek alternatives to lower-yielding fixed-
income assets. Offer prices for existing German apartments rose
7.4 percent in 2012, according to data compiled by Berlin-based
online broker ImmobilienScout24. Hamburg was one of the biggest
gainers, with a 10 percent increase.  At least two other big German home portfolios are on the
market.  Bayerische Landesbank  is seeking a buyer for 32,000
homes valued at about 2.4 billion euros.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
the largest manager of real estate private-equity funds, intends
to sell almost 8,000 Berlin apartments that it bought last year,
two people with knowledge of the firm’s plans said.  Pirelli RE’s Successor  Prelios, the real estate company formerly known as Pirelli
RE, bought DGAG in 2007. At the time, DGAG’s apartments were
valued at about 1.4 billion euros. Prelios then sold some of
DGAG’s residential properties to its partnership with RREEF.  In 2007, RREEF and Prelios also bought 27,000 German
apartments from Cerberus Capital Management LP. The properties,
known as the Baubecon portfolio, were valued at about 1.6 euros,
according to a  statement  from Pirelli.  The Baubecon and DGAG deals, both financed with about 80
percent debt, are legacies of the buyout boom in German
multifamily housing before the credit crisis hit in 2008.
Barclays Plc, the lender for the Baubecon purchase, took over
those homes in 2011 when Prelios and RREEF  refused to inject
more money  after building-maintenance costs and a slide in
values wiped out their investment. Barclays sold Baubecon to
German residential landlord  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  in 2012.  In December, Prelios said it plans to gradually divest its
property holdings with the goal of focusing on property
servicing. That month, the company was one of a group of owners
that sold Berlin’s KaDeWe department store as part of a deal
valued at 1.1 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 