-- Russia 2012 Illegal Outflow Was $49 Billion, Central Bank Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-02-20T14:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/russia-2012-illegal-outflow-was-49-billion-central-bank-says.html
Russia’s illegal outflows reached
$49 billion last year, more than half of it controlled by one
organized group, central bank Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said.  The illicit transfers, which account for 86 percent of net
capital flight in 2012 and about 2.5 percent of Russia’s $2.1
trillion economy, include the proceeds of bribe-taking and
embezzlement by officials, payments for drug trafficking and tax
evasion, Ignatiev said in an  interview  with the Moscow-based
Vedomosti newspaper, posted on the central bank’s website today.  The bulk of the unlawful money flows “seem to be
controlled by one well-organized group of people,” said
Ignatiev, 65, who steps down in June.  President  Vladimir Putin  has backed an initiative by
lawmakers to repatriate as much as $1 trillion held by high-
ranking officials and companies abroad. Russia is placed the
worst of any Group of 20 nation in Transparency International’s
 2012 Corruption Perceptions Index  published in December, placing
it 133rd out of 176 countries, below Uganda and Nicaragua.  Russia needs to pass a law enabling banks to shut down
accounts through which suspicious transactions pass and crack
down on the corporate practice of setting up shell companies for
criminal activities, Ignatiev said. A web of interconnected
companies are behind most of the suspect bank transfers, he
said.  ‘Most Opaque’  “A serious effort by law-enforcement agencies would
succeed in establishing the identity of these people and the
beneficiaries of the operations,” he said.  Illicit capital outflows from Russia were as much as $211.5
billion between 1994 and 2011 as the underground economy moved
funds abroad, according to a report published Feb. 13 by Global
Financial Integrity, a group that studies financial flows.  Russia is “the most-opaque economy we have analyzed,” and
the data probably underestimate the real scale of the outflows,
 Raymond Baker , GFI’s director, said in a note accompanying the
report. “By utilizing their own pocket banks to handle the
transactions, Russian corporations have been able to transfer
hundreds of billions of dollars out of their country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  