-- Russia Should Refrain From Monetary Easing on Prices, IMF Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-02-20T12:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/russia-should-refrain-from-monetary-easing-on-prices-imf-says.html
Russia should refrain from easing
monetary policy as economic growth is in line with its potential
and inflation exceeds the central bank’s target range, the
International Monetary Fund said.  The IMF’s base scenario is that the economy will grow at
about its estimated potential of 3.75 percent this year and in
the medium term,  Odd Per Brekk , the Washington-based lender’s
resident representative, told reporters today in Moscow. That
compares with Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s target of 5
percent.  The government has urged policy makers to ease monetary
policy after economic growth slowed to 3.4 percent last year,
the weakest since a 2009 recession. Bank Rossii may cut rates if
the pace of price increases slows, Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev ,
whose third and final term ends in June, told lawmakers today.
The  inflation  rate was 7.1 percent in January, jumping from 6.6
percent the previous month.  “The short-term policy issue is to keep monetary policy on
hold, but with a tightening bias,” Brekk said. “Policy
shouldn’t spur domestic demand so that economy exceeds its
capacity because the main effect will be inflation.”  The ruble traded at 30.0705 per dollar at 3:20 p.m. in
Moscow, compared with 30.0760 yesterday. It has strengthened 1.5
percent this year, the eighth-best performance among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation  will be 6 percent this year and next after last
year’s average consumer price index of 5.1 percent if monetary
and fiscal policies remain unchanged, according to the IMF. The
central bank aims to keep price growth at 4 percent to 5 percent
next year.  Growth Recommendations  The government’s goal of 5 percent economic growth is
achievable if “productive investment” increases, which may
push the expansion to as much as 6 percent, according to Brekk.  The IMF recommends tighter fiscal policy, a move to a
flexible exchange rate and inflation targeting by the central
bank, developing and stabilizing the financial industry and
improving the investment climate, Brekk said.  Russia should set “more a ambitious fiscal-tightening goal
for this year” than its plan to cut the non-oil budget deficit
by 0.5 percent of gross domestic product, Brekk said. The “non-
oil deficit remains very high, it’s about 10 percent of GDP.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  