-- Russia Urges Syria to Respond to Opposition’s Talks Offer
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-20T10:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/russia-steps-up-syrian-diplomacy-before-assad-envoy-visit.html
Russia urged President  Bashar al- Assad  to respond to an offer of dialogue by his opponents as it
steps up diplomatic efforts aimed at ending the almost two-year
conflict in Syria.  Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , who will receive his Syrian
counterpart  Walid Al-Muallem  in Moscow next week, said after
talks today with top Arab officials that the warring sides must
appoint representatives for peace negotiations.  “It’s important now that the Syrian opposition’s
willingness for dialogue is met by the government’s confirmation
that it is ready for dialogue,” Lavrov told reporters in the
Russian capital. “Words must be accompanied by action.”  Russia, which has Soviet-era ties with Syria, is seeking a
leading role as a mediator. Syrian opposition head  Moaz al- Khatib , who reached out to the two main Syrian allies by holding
talks with the Russian and Iranian foreign ministers in Munich
this month, is due to travel to Moscow in early March, Lavrov
said. Russia is willing to host peace talks, he added.  Arab League Secretary-General  Nabil El-Arabi , who met
Lavrov today along with the foreign ministers of Egypt, Iraq and
Lebanon, said all sides agreed to seek a political solution to
the civil war. Russia’s “strong ties” with Syria should be
used to convince Assad to negotiate a settlement, El-Arabi said.  Assad has been fighting an insurgency that has left almost
70,000 people dead, according to the United Nations. The mainly
Sunni Syrian opposition, which had refused to negotiate with
Assad’s Alawite-led government, is now considering dialogue with
the authorities. The government indicated last week that it’s
ready to meet with al-Khatib, who has called for talks to end
the violence.  Russia has “cautious optimism” about the possibility of
Syrian peace talks, Deputy Foreign Minister  Gennady Gatilov  said
yesterday.  “We hope the opposition and the government will find a way
to sit down at the negotiating table,” Gatilov told reporters
in Moscow. “A consolidated position of outside powers” is
among the conditions needed for that to happen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  