-- Truworths Sees Lower Credit Sales as Customers Miss Payments
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-02-20T16:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/truworths-credit-sales-to-weaken-after-first-half-profit-rises.html
Truworths International Ltd. , South
Africa’s biggest clothing retailer by market value, predicted
more credit customers will miss payments even as it reported
first-half profit that advanced 20 percent.  Net income climbed to 1.4 billion rand ($158 million) in
the six months through December, compared with 1.2 billion rand
a year earlier, the Cape Town-based owner of brands such as Uzzi
and Daniel Hechter said in a statement. Sales rose 15 percent to
5.9 billion rand.  “The quantum of unsecured lending has led to escalating
levels of debt,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Mark said in a
telephone interview. “We may go into a credit contraction.”
Mark said he “hopes” for a second-half performance in line
with the first half.  Truworths’ shares declined as much as 2.9 percent, the most
in more than a week, and closed down 1 percent at 99.80 rand in
Johannesburg, the lowest since Jan. 30. The stock is on a seven-
day falling streak, the longest since Nov. 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The comments on the credit environment are “likely to be
of concern to the market,”  Jeanine Womersley , an analyst at
Renaissance Capital, said in an e-mailed statement today. “A
lot of the benefit of the company’s strong top line growth has
been mitigated by the 40 percent increase in debtors costs over
the 26 week period.”  South African  retail sales  growth weakened in the closing
months of 2012 as rising unemployment and inflation curbed
demand.  Inflation  rose to 5.7 percent in December.  Shoprite Holdings Ltd., Africa’s largest retailer, said
yesterday that rising costs for households and labor unrest
would continue to damp consumer spending in the first half of
2013. It said December sales rose 12 percent, compared with 17
percent in the same month a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  