-- SAP’s Plattner to Keep $9.4 Billion Stake in Gates Pledge
-- B y   D a v i d   d e   J o n g   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-20T23:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/sap-s-plattner-to-keep-9-4-billion-stake-in-gates-pledge.html
Hasso Plattner , the co-founder and
chairman of  SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of business
management software, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday
that he would donate all of the assets in his foundation to  Bill
Gates ’s Giving Pledge.  Plattner made the statement after the German newspapers
 Bild  and  Tagesspiegel  published reports yesterday that denied
the 69-year-old had made the pledge. The two publications quoted
Plattner as saying that Gates had been trying for years to get
him to join the initiative, although he wouldn’t let himself be
“pressured.”  “I am happy to be a member of the Giving Pledge,”
Plattner said. “In this role I will leverage the entire capital
of my foundation with its focus on education, culture, and
health in the spirit of the worldwide aspirations of The Giving
Pledge.”  As a condition to  joining  the pledge, the German
billionaire won’t give up any of his 10 percent interest in the
software company he co-founded with former International
Business Machines Corp. employees in 1972, according to Daniel
Reinhardt, a spokesman for Walldorf, Germany-based SAP. His
stake in the company is worth 7.1 billion euros ($9.4 billion),
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Members of the Giving Pledge, whose co-founders include
 Warren Buffett , typically commit to give away at least half of
their wealth to charitable organizations and philanthropic
causes. Buffett, 82, is the fourth-richest person on the planet
with a net worth of $53.8 billion, according to the index.
Gates, 57, ranks second and has a fortune of $66.2 billion.
Plattner was initiated yesterday, according to a  statement  on
the Giving Pledge’s website.  First German  “The Giving Pledge is a commitment to give the majority of
one’s wealth to philanthropy either in one’s lifetime or in
one’s will,” Bridgitt Arnold, a spokeswoman for the Bellevue,
Washington-based Giving Pledge, said in an e-mailed statement.
Plattner is the first German billionaire to join the pledge.  SAP shares have gained 21 percent over the past 12 months,
valuing the software maker at 73.7 billion euros. Plattner has a
net worth of $10.9 billion, making him the 99th-richest person,
according to the index.  “As long as I live, I won’t donate more than 50 percent of
my shareholding in SAP,” Plattner was quoted by Bild as saying.
“I am responsible for the company that I co-founded, and I can
only be responsible if I have control -- that means owning the
shares.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David  De Jong  in  New York  at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  