-- Senator Lautenberg Suit Against Peter Madoff Barred Again
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-20T18:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/senator-lautenberg-suit-against-peter-madoff-barred-again.html
U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg ’s
charitable foundation can’t continue a $9 million lawsuit
against  Bernard Madoff ’s brother Peter, an appeals court ruled.  Affirming lower-court decisions, the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New York said “there would ensue a chaotic rush to the
courthouse” by parties seeking assets that by law belong to the
Madoff estate, if such private suits weren’t stopped.  “We conclude that the preliminary injunction serves the
legitimate purpose of preserving the debtor’s estate for the
creditors and funneling claims to one proceeding in the
bankruptcy court,” the appeals panel said today in its ruling.
“The third-party actions would have an immediate adverse
economic consequence for the debtor’s estate.”  Lautenberg, a five-term Democrat from New Jersey, was
joined by his son and daughter in seeking to recover losses from
the Ponzi operator’s brother, claiming that as chief compliance
officer at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, he was
culpable for the scheme run by the con man. They appealed a
second time after a district court and a bankruptcy judge
stopped their suit.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  ruled two years ago
that the Lautenbergs and other Madoff clients who filed lawsuits
must wait until the Madoff estate’s liquidator,  Irving Picard ,
concludes two suits then seeking $244 million from Madoff family
members.  Oldest Member  Lautenberg, who, at 89, is the chamber’s oldest member,
said this month he won’t seek re-election in 2014. While New
Jersey voters approved of Lautenberg’s job performance, 71
percent said his age made it too difficult for him to do the
work of a U.S. senator, according to a Jan. 23 poll released by
Quinnipiac University.  “While I may not be seeking re-election, there is plenty
of work to do before the end of this term,” Lautenberg said in
a statement announcing the move. “This is not the end of
anything, but rather the beginning of a two-year mission to pass
new gun safety laws, protect children from toxic chemicals and
create more opportunities for working families in New Jersey.”  Picard has usually prevailed in his attempts to block
competing litigation by private parties, claiming that only he
as trustee has a right to sue alleged Madoff conspirators. Some
state law enforcers including New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  continue to challenge him by asserting rival
powers.  In December,  Peter Madoff , after pleading guilty to aiding
the fraud while claiming he didn’t know his older brother was
running a vast, decades-long Ponzi scheme, was sentenced to 10
years in prison. Earlier this month, he agreed to pay about
$90.4 million to Picard.  Bernard Madoff, arrested in 2008, is serving 150 years in
prison for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  Peter Madoff, 67, is at the federal prison located in
Estill, South Carolina, about 50 miles north of Savannah,
Georgia. He is scheduled to be released around October 2021.  The Lautenberg appeal is In re  Bernard L. Madoff , 11-5421,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  