-- Sharp’s Bond Rally Is ‘Groundless,’ Credit Advisory Ohashi Says
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-02-20T05:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/sharp-s-bond-rally-is-groundless-credit-advisory-ohashi-says.html
Sharp Corp.’s bond rally is driven
by “groundless enthusiasm” because the company’s ability to
survive remains in question, according to  Hidetoshi Ohashi , who
runs hedge fund Japan Credit Advisory Co.  “The company is barely scraping by” and it’s still
unclear if the television maker can repay 200 billion yen ($2.1
billion) of convertible bonds maturing in September, Ohashi said
at a seminar held by SMBC Friend Securities Co. on Feb. 19.
“This isn’t the time to lose caution.”  Investors, emboldened by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s plans for 10.3 trillion yen of fiscal stimulus, have
flocked to the debt of junk-rated manufacturers Tokyo Electric
Power Co. and Nippon Sheet Glass Co. in search of higher
returns. Sharp’s 100 billion yen of bonds due 2014 have more
than doubled, rising to 78.5 yen yesterday per 100 yen face
value, from a record low of 35 yen on Oct. 18, according to JS
Price data.  Abe, whose Liberal Democratic Party swept to power in
December, has spurred the Topix stock index to the longest rally
since 1973 and pushed the yen to its lowest since May 2010 by
calling on the central bank to lift limits on spending and end
deflation. Tokyo Electric’s notes maturing in 2017 and Nippon
Sheet Glass’s 24 billion yen of debt due 2015 are trading at
record highs, JS Price data show.  Sharp plans to replenish funds necessary for the repayment
by selling assets in addition to boosting cash flow,  Tetsuo Onishi , a senior executive managing officer at the company, said
at a Feb. 1 briefing. The Osaka-based manufacturer forecast at
the time operating profit will reach 13.8 billion yen in the six
months to March 31, rebounding from a 168.9 billion loss in the
first half.  “The markets seem to believe the LDP won’t let the company
go bankrupt,” Ohashi said. “It is just a baseless gamble, not
a rational judgment.”  Ohashi, a former Tokyo-based credit strategist for Morgan
Stanley, started a hedge fund last year with a focus on Japanese
corporate bonds and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  