-- Shire’s New Chief Said to Eye Two to Three Acquiisitions
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-20T17:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/shire-s-new-chief-said-to-eye-two-to-three-acquiisitions.html
Shire Plc  is considering an
acquisition that investors would look favorably on, Chief
Executive Officer-designate  Flemming Ornskov  told analysts,
according to two people who were at the meeting.  Shire is working on two to three deals that are in advanced
talks, Ornskov said, according to one of the people who attended
an event the drugmaker held for analysts last night at the  South
Place Hotel  in London. When pressed, the new CEO said a
transaction probably won’t be announced this year, this person
said.  The gathering is part of an effort by Ornskov, who takes
over from  Angus Russell  as CEO on April 30, to get to know
analysts and sales people who follow Dublin-based Shire. Ornskov
said Shire aims for double-digit sales growth over the longer
term and is willing to expand into other businesses to achieve
that, said the second person. The people asked not to be
identified because the event, which about 25 people attended,
was private.  Shire, which has management offices in Basingstoke,
England, rose 0.6 percent to 2,085 pence in London, giving the
company a market value of 11.6 billion pounds ($17.8 billion).
The stock has declined 7 percent in the past year, including
reinvested dividends,  compared  with a 23 percent advance in the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Transformational Deals  Ornskov spoke of one of the potential deals being
transformational, one of the people said, while the other said
he indicated that transformational deals are still on the
agenda. Ornskov said at the meeting that none of the deals would
be transformational, and those who heard his comment may have
misunderstood it, said  Ben Atwell , a spokesman for Shire.  Drugs for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
accounted for 38 percent of  Shire’s sales  last year, while
medicines for rare genetic diseases contributed 31 percent.  Ornskov spoke of needing to invest more in research and
development to remain competitive, the second person said.  The CEO-designate and Chief Financial Officer  Graham Hetherington  mingled with different groups at last night’s
gathering for drinks. In one group, Ornskov said Shire may favor
partnerships with milestone payments over acquisitions,
according to a third person who was at the event.  Ornskov also said that divesting Dermagraft, a treatment
for diabetic foot ulcers, isn’t out of the question, this person
said. Shire acquired the product with its $750 million purchase
of Advanced Biohealing Inc. in May 2011. The company abandoned
efforts to develop Dermagraft for leg ulcers in August 2011
after it failed in a clinical trial. Sales of Dermagraft dropped
65 percent to $19 million in the fourth quarter, Shire said Feb.
14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  