-- Simpson-Bowles 2.0 Trades Credibility for Influence
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-02-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/simpson-bowles-2-0-trades-credibility-for-influence.html
For years, Erskine Bowles and  Alan Simpson  pulled off a very unusual and very difficult trick: They
managed to position themselves firmly in the political center
even as their budget proposal was far beyond the boundaries of
what either party was proposing.  The  Simpson-Bowles plan , released in December 2010,
included more than $2.5 trillion in tax increases over a decade
-- more than President  Barack Obama  has ever asked for. It
eliminated the tax break on capital-gains income entirely. It
raised the gas tax by 15 cents. It phased out the deductibility
of employer-provided health insurance. It converted the
mortgage-interest deduction and the charitable deduction into
tax credits. It included deeper Defense Department cuts than
called for under sequestration. It raised the Social Security
retirement age as well as the payroll-tax cap.  (The  other  major bipartisan debt-commission proposal, from
former White House budget director  Alice Rivlin  and former
Republican Senator Pete Domenici, was, if anything, even more
aggressive on taxes, proposing a value-added tax.)  Much of this, in my view, was to the plan’s credit. But it
made it a bit surprising that so many resolutely anti-tax
Republicans also liked the Simpson-Bowles plan, or at least
professed to like the Simpson-Bowles plan.  Republican Support  Senator  Johnny Isakson , a Georgia Republican, raised no
eyebrows when he called the plan which, remember, included $2.5
trillion in new taxes, “a conscientious way to address the debt
and deficit.” And it became rote for Republicans to criticize
Obama for not doing more to support Simpson-Bowles. “In my
view, the president should have grabbed it,”  Mitt Romney  said
during the debates. “If you wanted to make some adjustments to
it, take it, go to Congress, fight for it.”  Of course, that’s just what the president did. His 2012
budget differed from Simpson-Bowles mainly because it included
fewer tax increases and defense cuts. That moved the budget
debate to the right. Republicans, of course, brought out the
Ryan budget, which pushed the debate even further to the right.
So Simpson and Bowles were left in an uncomfortable position:
They were supposed to represent the center, but they were
actually, in terms of policy, relatively far to what had
unexpectedly become the left.  Predictably, when it came down to it, the kind words from
Republican politicians didn’t translate into “aye” votes. Very
few Republicans -- or Democrats -- actually supported Simpson-
Bowles. When a bill based on the plan came to a vote in the
House, it failed, 382-38. Only 16 Republicans supported it. And
that was a version built specifically to  appeal to Republicans .  What saved the duo’s political potency is that few of their
fans actually read the proposal. The Simpson-Bowles brand came
to denote a nonpartisan, solutions-oriented approach to the
 federal budget  -- the antithesis of the small ball and bickering
that had quickly come to define  Washington .  But that misunderstanding could only last so long. So
Simpson and Bowles are  back this week  with a plan that tries to
reposition their policy alongside their reputation: firmly in
the center. And that makes it an interesting window into how
perceptions of the center -- or what passes for it in Washington
-- have shifted since December 2010.  The main difference between Simpson-Bowles 1.0 and Simpson-
Bowles 2.0 is that the second iteration cuts the tax increase in
half. If the original proposal were to pass today, it would
raise taxes by more than $2.5 trillion. The new version would
raise closer to $1.3 trillion.  Some of the difference is made up in cuts to health-care
spending. The original proposal would save $480 billion from
health-care programs. The new proposal would save $600 billion.  Big Changes  The bulk of the change, however, is simply that the new
plan attempts less deficit reduction than its predecessor.
Whereas Simpson-Bowles 1.0 would have cut the deficit over the
next 10 years by more than $6 trillion, this plan cuts barely
more than $5 trillion. I asked Bowles this week what was behind
the changes. He gave me  two answers . One was that Simpson-Bowles
1.0 was an attempt to get to the right answer while Simpson-
Bowles 2.0 was an attempt to get to an answer. “We weren’t
trying to put out the ideal plan,” he said. “We were trying to
put out something that might be able to get done.”  The other was that he felt burned by the White House. “I
think it is fair to say if you go back and look at what was said
after we came out with the original Simpson-Bowles plan, the
White House and the president hit us up pretty hard for two
things,” he said. “They said we had too much revenue and too
much defense cuts.” He added, “Being far out front of the
president on revenues wasn’t something I wanted to do again.”  The president’s team would argue the opposite. Simpson and
Bowles, they think, never really made the case for their
revenues or defense cuts, and they instead hid behind a pox-on-
both-their-houses political approach that let them preserve
their popularity while enabling the Republicans’ ceaseless march
to the right. Despite being far closer to the Simpson-Bowles
plan than the Republicans, the White House never got cover from
the two budget gurus, whom it suspected were more interested in
husbanding their own popularity than in pressuring Republicans
to cut a deal.  Behind this debate is a strange political reality. The
original Simpson-Bowles plan was released after the Republicans
won the 2010 midterm election. In the time between that plan and
this plan, we’ve had many budget debates, a lot of deficit
reduction tilted toward spending cuts, and an election in which
Democrats scored an overwhelming victory -- in part by arguing
for higher taxes. And yet the judgment of Simpson and Bowles,
perhaps correctly, is that the center has moved far to the right
on taxes.  In releasing this new plan, however, the two budgeteers
radically change the nature of their project. Their original
effort was an attempt to build a center around a proposal they
thought was the right answer. The new effort is an attempt to
pick a center between the two parties. The credibility that once
came from being at least somewhat outside the political system
has been traded for the possible influence that comes from
working within it.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 