-- Slim’s America Movil Sets Terms to Back KPN’s Stock Sale
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-20T21:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/slim-s-america-movil-sets-terms-to-back-kpn-s-stock-sale.html
America Movil SAB , the mobile-phone
carrier controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , agreed to support
 Royal KPN NV ’s 4 billion-euro ($5.4 billion) capital-raising
plan in return for nominating two people to the Dutch carrier’s
supervisory board.  America Movil will take part in a 3 billion-euro KPN share
sale, while declining to participate in a 1 billion-euro sale of
so-called hybrid instruments, the Mexico City-based company said
today. KPN dropped to an 11-year low in Amsterdam trading on
disappointment that Slim didn’t demand more changes and also
agreed not to raise his stake beyond 30 percent.  “What I miss is that there’s no change in management,”
 Corne Aben , who helps manage about 1 billion euros at Amsterdam-
based Optimix Vermogensbeheer including KPN shares, said in a
phone interview. “I had hoped there would have been winds of
change within KPN.”  The compromise shows Slim is willing to put more money into
an investment that has  lost  more than half of its value since
America Movil bid 8 euros a share for KPN stock. KPN said today
its agreement with America Movil will preclude Slim’s company
from increasing its stake to more than 30 percent, from about 28
percent now.  America Movil had also considered asking for Chief
Executive Officer  Eelco Blok ’s ouster as a condition for its
support for the share sale, people familiar with the matter said
last week.  Stefan Simons , a KPN spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the company’s press release.  New Stock  KPN dropped 9.7 percent to 2.92 euros at the close in
Amsterdam. The stock  fell  16 percent on Feb. 5, the day the
company said it plans to sell new shares to current investors.  America Movil fell 2.3 percent to 14.13 pesos in Mexico
City.  It made sense for Slim’s company to support the rights
offering to put KPN on more solid footing, putting off until
later deliberations on whether to attempt a full takeover of the
Dutch carrier, said  Richard Dineen , an analyst at HSBC Holdings
Plc in New York.  “It’s important not to panic about KPN, to be very
rational,” Dineen said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“They can pay a small amount of money now to keep their options
open. KPN gets to live, and you get to make a decision another
day.” He has the equivalent of a buy  rating  on America Movil
shares.  Company Directors  Following today’s announcement, a shareholder meeting
scheduled for March 19 has been canceled and the agenda will be
discussed at the annual meeting on April 10, KPN  said  today. The
company will have eight board members after the meeting,
including America Movil’s two representatives, it said.  KPN  is among European phone companies looking at asset
sales and raising capital to cope with the rising costs of
maintaining high-speed networks for devices like  Apple Inc .’s
iPhone. Under Blok, who took over in 2011, KPN’s shares have
plunged amid stagnant revenue and abortive attempts to sell its
Belgian unit and merge its German operations with those of
 Telefonica SA .  America Movil plans to spend a little less than 900 million
euros for the KPN shares, according to a press official. The
company said it intends to keep its stake in KPN at its current
level, which is about 28 percent. The carrier spent a total of
3.07 billion euros last year on KPN shares, in a bet on the
Dutch operator’s long-term growth prospects.  ‘Strong Relationship’  “The support of our largest shareholder is a major step
towards the successful execution of our capital raise,” KPN
said in its statement. “KPN will have the benefit of a strong
relationship with a global leader in the telecom sector going
forward.”  The carrier said it reached a standby underwriting
agreement with Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for the 3 billion-euro rights issue. Along
with the hybrid capital instruments, the sale proceeds will go
toward investments and cutting debt, KPN said.  KPN is in the process of appointing more banks to split the
underwriting risk of 2.1 billion euros among themselves, said a
person involved in the transaction, declining to be named as the
details aren’t public. American Movil’s participation in the
rights sale will amount to about 890 million euros, the person
said.  The rights issue will happen after the April 10 shareholder
meeting and the hybrid sale before that, the person said. KPN is
scheduled to report first-quarter results April 23.  Growing Market  The former Dutch phone monopoly spent 1.35 billion euros
acquiring wireless spectrum in the Netherlands in December. It
faces a new challenger there from Sweden’s  Tele2 AB , which will
offer consumers mobile services after buying its own spectrum in
the same auction.  That makes the Netherlands one of the few European
countries in which the number of mobile operators is growing
rather than shrinking, increasing competition and potentially
driving down prices.  Moody’s Investors Service  rates  KPN’s debt Baa2, the
second-lowest investment grade, while Standard & Poor’s ranks
the debt one step lower, at BBB-.  Slim’s decision to invest in KPN was the first major foray
into Europe for Mexico City-based America Movil, which dominates
Mexico’s wireless market and operates throughout Latin America,
typically in close competition with Spain’s Telefonica. The
group also built a 23 percent stake in  Telekom Austria AG  last
year, prompting speculation Slim could eventually attempt to
merge his European assets.  At the time, Slim’s son and America Movil co-Chairman
 Carlos Slim Domit  described the KPN deal as an attempt to find
opportunity in “hard times” for Europe’s economy ahead of an
eventual recovery in the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  