-- Golf’s World Match Play Championship Interrupted by Arizona Snow
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-21T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/snow-in-arizona-postpones-golf-s-world-match-play-championship.html
First-round matches will resume
today at the World Golf Championships Match Play Championship,
one day after snow blanketed the desert course in Marana,
 Arizona , and forced organizers to halt play.  Greens, fairways and cacti at the Golf Club at Dove
Mountain were covered by 1 to 1 1/2 inches of snow when play was
stopped with 22 of the 32 opening-round matches under way.  “I’ve never actually played golf to the point where we’ve
stopped for snow,” Jason Day of  Australia  said at a news
conference. “It’s a little crazy for it to snow in the desert,
but Mother Nature can just do whatever she wants.”  Snow had interrupted U.S. PGA Tour events twice before in
the past eight years -- at the 2011 WGC Match Play Championship
outside Tucson and at the 2005 Bellsouth Classic near Atlanta.  No matches were finished yesterday, though Sergio Garcia of
Spain will have a 12-foot birdie putt to close out Thongchai Jaidee of  Thailand  when play resumes. Garcia has a 2-up lead
through 15 holes, meaning he’s won two more than his opponent,
and could take an unbeatable advantage by winning the 16th hole.  The tournament features 64 of the top 66 players in the
Official World Golf Ranking and a $1.5 million top prize.  Rory McIlroy, Keegan Bradley, Ian Poulter, Luke Donald and
 Rickie Fowler  were among the players to post photos of the snow-
covered course and practice areas while play was delayed
yesterday, and the PGA Tour had a shot of several caddies having
a snowball fight on its official  Twitter page .  Northern Ireland’s McIlroy is the top overall seed and had
yet to start his match against Ireland’s Shane Lowry. Second-
seeded Tiger Woods, a three-time winner of the event, will face
fellow American Charles Howell III.  McIlroy, Woods, Luke Donald and Louis Oosthuizen are No. 1
seeds in the four 16-player brackets. England’s Donald will face
 Germany ’s Marcel Siem in his opening match and South Africa’s
Oosthuizen takes on  Scotland ’s Richie Ramsay.  Defending champion Hunter Mahan of the U.S. is 4-up through
nine holes against Matteo Manassero of  Italy .  Day had the largest lead when play was suspended, 6-up
through 10 holes in his match against American Zach Johnson. Bo Van Pelt of the U.S. is 5-up in his match against John Senden
after 12 holes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  