-- Snow in the Midwest May Move East to Boston This Weekend
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-02-20T19:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/snow-in-the-midwest-may-move-east-to-boston-this-weekend.html
As snow falls across the Great
Plains, forecasters are watching the potential for a strong
storm to scrape southern New England this weekend.  Winter storm warnings and advisories stretch from Colorado
to southern Illinois and south into Arkansas and Oklahoma from a
system that may bring as much as 6 inches (15 centimeters) of
snow and sleet to St. Louis and 3 to 5 inches to Chicago
tomorrow, according to the  National Weather Service .  That storm might merge with a system off the Atlantic this
weekend, bringing snow to Boston and New England and mostly rain
to New York City, said  Rob Carolan , founder and meteorologist of
Hometown Forecast Services Inc. in Nashua, New Hampshire.  It’s the same sort of scenario that produced a blizzard
across the Northeast two weeks ago. However, the air won’t be as
cold and the systems may come together farther from the coast,
which would keep the storm from being as severe, he said.  “We’re going to have to watch it,” Carolan said by
telephone.  The track the storm takes Feb. 23 to Feb. 24 will determine
how much snow or rain Boston gets, Carolan said. The closer the
system is to the coast, the more snow it will bring.  Models Disagree  Computer forecast models are in disagreement, said Bill
Simpson, a weather service meteorologist in Taunton,
Massachusetts. Before the blizzard that began Feb. 8, the models
started to agree on a forecast several days out, and that isn’t
happening this time, he said.  The best chance for “plowable snow” is north of the
Massachusetts Turnpike and west of Interstate 495 in the central
part of the state, Simpson said. From  the Boston area  to
Providence, Rhode Island, there’s a good chance the storm will
produce rain as well as snow, which would keep accumulations
lower, he said.  “We will know much better tomorrow,” Simpson said by
telephone.  For New York, the storm will probably mean rain with some
snow north and west of the city, Carolan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  