-- SocGen Favors Naira for Stability as Rand Set for 4-Year Low
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-02-20T14:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/socgen-favors-naira-for-stability-as-rand-set-for-4-year-low.html
Investors should buy Nigeria’s naira
against the rand, betting on the stability of the currency of
Africa’s biggest oil producer against deteriorating conditions
in South Africa, Societe Generale SA said.  The rand may retreat to 9.2 per dollar, the weakest in
almost four years, while the naira will probably continue to
trade within the Nigerian central bank’s targeted peg of 3
percent below or above 155 per dollar,  Souheir Asba , a London-
based strategist at SocGen, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
today. Investors should short three-month rand versus three
month naira non-deliverable forwards with an entry at 17.7393
naira per rand and exiting at 18.1, Asba said.  “The South African Reserve Bank maintains its position of
desiring a weaker rand as deteriorating domestic conditions in
South Africa are threatening its economy,” said Asba. “The
naira on the other hand has enjoyed a relative stability” and
“the central bank has now the determination and the means to
keep it within that band,” Asba said.  The rand slumped after three credit rating downgrades since
October and as labor disputes shut gold and platinum mines,
cutting South Africa’s gross domestic product by 0.5 percentage
point, according to the National Treasury. The currency of
Africa’s biggest economy has declined 4.5 percent this year
versus the dollar, the worst performer among emerging-market
peers.  The naira increased 3.9 percent in 2012, the best
performing currency in Africa, after the Central Bank of Nigeria
left interest rates at a record high 12 percent and as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. added the country’s debt to its emerging-market bond
index series in October. The currency has retreated 0.7 percent
this year.  The main risk against this trade is increased Islamic
militancy in Nigeria, which could trigger speculation against
the naira, Asba said. The government has been battling the Boko
Haram group, which has carried out gun and bomb attacks in the
north and in the capital Abuja, killing hundreds of people since
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  