-- South African Inflation Slows to Five-Month Low of 5.4%
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-02-20T09:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/south-african-inflation-slows-to-5-4-in-january-on-rand.html
South African inflation slowed to a
five-month low in January after the statistics office adjusted
the consumer price basket and food and fuel prices eased.  The  inflation  rate fell to 5.4 percent from 5.7 percent in
December, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its
website today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 19
economists was 5.7 percent. Prices rose 0.3 percent in the
month.  The government cut the price of gasoline by 1.2 percent in
January as a stronger rand in the previous month helped to curb
import costs. Since then, the currency has plunged 4.8 percent
against the dollar and fuel prices climbed, adding to pressure
on inflation.  “All indications are that this is not going to last and
the overall trajectory is still upward,”  George Glynos , an
economist at Econometrix Treasury Management, said in a phone
interview from Johannesburg.  The rand strengthened after the release of the data,
advancing 0.2 percent to 8.8371 against the dollar by 11:11 a.m.
in Johannesburg. Investors pared back expectations of higher
interest rates, with the yield on forward-rate agreements due as
soon as six months dropping 5 basis points to 5.03 percent.  Interest Rates  The Reserve Bank has held its benchmark  repurchase rate  at
5 percent since a surprise cut in July. The bank’s mandate is to
keep inflation within a range of 3 percent to 6 percent.  “This should have no implication for the repo rate, given
this is expected to be a temporary slowdown,”  Carmen Nel , an
economist at Rand Merchant Bank, said in a phone interview from
Cape Town.  Annual food inflation slowed to 6.2 percent in January from
6.9 percent the month before, while transport costs eased to 5.1
percent from 5.5 percent, the statistics agency said.  The statistics agency adjusted the consumer price basket
with effect from January to give more weighting to electricity
and gasoline prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  