-- Sprint CEO Hesse Seeking More Deals as Data Demand Surges
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-02-20T21:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/sprint-ceo-hesse-seeking-more-deals-as-data-demand-surges-tech.html
Sprint Nextel Corp.  Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Hesse  said he’s on a hunt for wireless spectrum
after watching Verizon Wireless and AT&T Inc. devour more and
more of the mobile-phone industry’s most precious resource.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, needs to
add capacity to keep its data service from buckling in the
future as more users watch sports and music videos on phones and
tablets. The company is looking for deals with other companies
or through government sales, Hesse said in an interview.  A cash infusion is helping Hesse get more aggressive. In
the two months after Softbank Corp.’s October agreement to spend
$20 billion to take over Sprint, Hesse’s company agreed to $2.6
billion in purchases, mostly in an attempt to seize control of
Clearwire Corp. In the previous 12 months, Sprint had spent
almost nothing, standing by as its two biggest competitors
cobbled together more than $5 billion in purchases.  “Clearwire would give us a strong spectrum position for a
period of time,” Hesse said in an interview this month. “But
we also have a very long-term view, and we would want to acquire
more spectrum.”  Sprint’s options may include buying more capacity from
smaller carriers such as U.S. Cellular Corp. or  Leap Wireless
International Inc.  or buying them outright, said  Phil Marshall ,
chief research officer at Tolaga Research. A deal with Hesse’s
regulatory nemesis, Dish Network Corp. Chairman  Charlie Ergen ,
is also a possibility, Marshall said. Or Sprint could acquire
licenses in government auctions.  Scarce Resource  While radio waves are all around us, they’re not abundant
enough for mobile-phone companies. The U.S. government treats
airwaves as a public good, dividing them up and selling licenses
to companies, including wireless carriers, to use for their
communications. Those licenses are becoming tougher to find, and
more expensive, as the Federal Communications Commission runs
low on new frequencies it can offer for sale.  Extra spectrum would help fill out gaps in Sprint’s
coverage, and the acquisitions could add more users, helping the
company increase revenue and scale.  Hesse’s appetite for acquisitions depends on his ability to
close the deal with  Softbank . As part of the October takeover
agreement, the Tokyo-based company said it would supply Sprint
with $8 billion in capital so it could begin making purchases
and investments. The deal is under regulatory review.  Billion-Dollar Deals  Sprint has lots of work to do if it aims to catch up to
Verizon and AT&T in capacity. Verizon Wireless acquired $3.9
billion in airwaves from cable companies led by Comcast Corp.
and Time Warner Cable Inc. And AT&T, in an effort to make up for
lost ground during its failed takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc.,
said last month that it had signed 50 spectrum deals in the past
year, including a $600 million purchase of NextWave Wireless and
a $1.9 billion agreement to buy spectrum from Verizon Wireless
itself.  “Spectrum availability is a core competitive weapon in a
mini arms race,” said  Craig Wigginton , head of
telecommunications strategy at Deloitte & Touche LLP in New
York.  With more people using smartphones and tablets, traffic on
wireless networks is increasing. In the fourth quarter,
smartphones accounted for 77 percent of Sprint’s retail phone
sales, the company said during its fourth-quarter earnings call.  Total worldwide mobile traffic will increase 13-fold
through 2017 at a compound annual rate of 66 percent, according
to a report this month from Cisco Systems Inc.  Sprint’s Moves  Sprint began making moves in November, with a $480 million
deal to gain network capacity and customers in Chicago and St.
Louis from U.S. Cellular. In December, with Softbank’s urging,
Sprint agreed to buy all of Clearwire, its national wireless
broadband joint-venture partner, for $2.97 a share. While that
acquisition would help replenish Sprint’s spectrum needs, the
company will require more in the future, Hesse said.  “Given the increases in data usage we are seeing, we will
continue to be interested in spectrum as it comes to market,”
Hesse said in the interview. “It could be more deals like
spectrum from other companies like we did with U.S. Cellular or
it could be FCC auctions.”  Dish, co-founded by billionaire Ergen, has made a
counterbid to Clearwire of $3.30 a share, an offer that is
complicated because Sprint is Clearwire’s majority owner.
Sprint, which has wrangled with Dish over regulatory approval
for airwaves Ergen’s satellite-TV company owns, called Dish’s
bid “illusory.’’  Sprint slid 1.9 percent to $5.79 at the close in New York,
while Clearwire fell 1 percent to $3.12, a price that indicates
shareholders expect to get more than Sprint’s current bid. Dish
dropped less than 1 percent to $36.03.  Secondary Market  Even so, Sprint could end up acquiring spectrum from
Englewood, Colorado-based Dish if the satellite-TV company
doesn’t find a partner for a mobile-phone service and decides to
sell its airwaves. Such purchases of unused spectrum, in the so-
called secondary market, are a possibility, Marshall said.  Acquiring entire companies would help Sprint expand its
customer base in addition to getting more airwaves.  U.S.
Cellular , based in Chicago, has 5.8 million customers and had
$4.4 billion in revenue in the 12 months through last September.  “Sprint could use a better presence in the Midwest
market,”  Ron Westfall , research director for service provider
infrastructure for Current Analysis, said in an interview.  Leap Target?  Leap could be in play as well, said George Ford, a former
FCC economist who is now chief economist at Phoenix Center, a
public-policy research group in Washington. Leap serves 5.6
million customers, offering no-contract mobile-phone plans.  “This year, Leap and U.S. Cellular and the smaller
regional carriers are the only potential targets in the
market,” said  Coleman Bazelon , a principal at consulting firm
Brattle Group who specializes in phone and video regulation.  Greg Lund , a spokesman with Leap, declined to comment on
takeover possibilities. Steve Carlson, a spokesman for U.S.
Cellular, didn’t reply immediately to a request for comment.  Leap sank 8.3 percent to $5.61, while U.S. Cellular fell
less than 1 percent to $38.68.  Two other competitors, T-Mobile USA and MetroPCS
Communications Inc., are in the process of sealing their own
merger, which must be approved by shareholders and regulators.  “If you look at the top four, Sprint and T-Mobile are the
ones with the most need for spectrum,” said Marshall.  The FCC is also planning more spectrum license auctions,
providing another opportunity for Sprint to gain capacity. There
are potentially attractive  airwaves  next to some that Sprint
already owns, Bazelon said.  Buying Time  U.S. Cellular has customers and spectrum in cities that
would help bolster Sprint’s coverage. San Diego-based Leap has
pay-as-you-go customers that could offer Sprint a revenue boost.
Leap said in a November 7 earnings call that it has $3 billion
worth of spectrum.  Last month,  Shing Yin , an analyst with Guggenheim
Securities, issued a report highlighting Leap’s potential
attractiveness as a takeover. Left out of recent wireless
consolidations and struggling to hang on to customers, Leap
trades at about an 80 percent discount to U.S. Cellular.  The planned addition of Clearwire spectrum buys Sprint some
time to complete the construction of a network using long-term
evolution technology to offer faster speeds, said  Kevin Smithen ,
a New York-based analyst for Macquarie Group Ltd. Eventually, it
will need more capacity for growing demand, he said.  “Sprint’s focus this year will be on getting Clearwire
done and building the LTE network,” said Smithen. “I think
2014 and 2015 are probably the big years for Sprint as far as
spectrum deals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  