-- Square Unveils All-in-One Point-of-Sale System for Stores
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-02-20T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/square-unveils-all-in-one-point-of-sale-system-for-stores.html
Square Inc. is introducing hardware
designed to work with its mobile-payment software, seeking to
replace cash registers by companies including  NCR Corp.  and
stepping up competition with  EBay Inc.  and  Intuit Inc.   “Business in a Box,” which Square is introducing today,
includes two credit-card readers, a cash drawer, an iPad stand
and an optional receipt printer,  Jesse Dorogusker , a vice
president at Square, said in an interview yesterday. The
ensemble costs $599, or $299 excluding the printer.  San Franciso-based Square began offering a stamp-sized
credit-card reader in 2009 that lets merchants accept payments
on the go, and now competes with devices by Intuit and EBay’s
PayPal. Square’s new hardware, which makes it easier for
merchants to handle cash transactions, is similar to Intuit
 products , including a barcode scanner, that sell for about $600.  “Cash is not dead -- people need a cash drawer to run
their business,” said Dorogusker, who oversees Square Register,
the company’s point-of-sale software that lets businesses keep
track of daily sales and compile analytics. “We weren’t going
that full step and saying here’s everything you need, it’s in a
box, click, pay, it shows up on your doorstep.”  Founded by Twitter Inc. Chairman and co-founder  Jack Dorsey , Square offers a flat fee of 2.75 percent for credit-card
swipes or a monthly fee of $275, and free software. In addition
to smaller merchants such as food trucks and mom-and-pop
retailers, Square has tied up with companies such as  Starbucks
Corp.   Expanding Market  More than 3 million merchants used Square’s card reader to
process $10 billion in payments on an annualized basis in
January, the company said. While PayPal has 123 million
registered accounts, it hasn’t said how many of those are using
the mobile card reader that competes with Square.  Square has seen an uptick in larger businesses signing onto
its services over the past six months. Revenue from merchants
with multiple accounts, which usually means they have more than
one employee or store, has increased sevenfold in that period,
Dorogusker said.  Juniper Research estimates that the market for mobile
payments for physical goods may top $170 billion in transactions
by 2015, up from about $60 billion  in 2011 .  Square’s agreement with Starbucks last year introduced
mobile-payments in 7,000 stores. Starbucks invested $25 million
in Square, and the coffee chain’s chief executive officer,
 Howard Schultz , joined the mobile payment company’s board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  