-- Stokley Towles, Partner Who Recast Brown Brothers, Dies at 77
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-02-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/stokley-towles-partner-who-reshaped-brown-brothers-dies-at-77.html
Stokley Towles, a mainstay in the
 Boston  office of Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. credited with
creating the bank’s global custody business, which now accounts
for more than 70 percent of the firm’s employees, has died. He
was 77.  He died on Feb. 14 at his home in Westwood,  Massachusetts ,
according to a  death notice  published yesterday in the  New York 
Times. No cause was given.  Towles (pronounced “tolls”) joined the Boston office of
New York-based Brown Brothers after graduating from  Harvard
Business School  in 1960. He spent the rest of his life with the
firm, becoming a general partner in 1978 and a limited partner
in 2010. The firm is the oldest closely held financial
institution in the U.S., with roots reaching back to the
founding of  Brown Brothers  in 1818 in Philadelphia.  In 1969, with Brown Brothers experiencing a decline in its
traditional business of extending credit to New England
manufacturers and commodities firms, Towles proposed that the
firm enter the field of global custody, according to a  2010
profile  in Global Custodian magazine. Global custody refers to
the settlement, safekeeping and reporting of assets traded
across international borders and currencies.  ‘Valuable’ Earnings  “Custody was not then considered what professional bankers
did,” Towles recalled, according to the magazine.
“Professional bankers operated at a much higher level, making
loans, financing trade and deal-making with senior corporate
executives. We were one of the few banks that chose to focus on
international custody at that time.”  As Global Custodian put it, “Towles was among the few
senior bankers on the east coast of America to recognize that,
if it lacked glamour, custody still threw off valuable ancillary
earnings from foreign exchange and cash management.”  Brown Brothers reported $3.3 trillion in assets under
custody and administration in 2012. It has 4,200 employees
worldwide, with 3,000 working directly or indirectly in global
custody, which the firm calls Investor Services.  “In addition to his many other accomplishments, Stokley’s
vision during the 1970s led us into the emerging field of global
custody, and the firm became a pioneer facilitating the cross-
border investment activity of the most sophisticated global
asset managers,” Douglas Donahue, the firm’s managing partner,
said yesterday in a statement. “This business became, and today
remains, the firm’s largest.  Missouri Native  “Stokley was a highly respected industry and civic leader
who leaves his legacy at  BBH  for his unfailing commitment to our
clients, many of whom have reached out from around the world to
share their reflections in working with Stokes -- which is
always memorable. My partners and I will miss his presence.”  Stokley Porter Towles was born on Dec. 12, 1935, in  St.
Louis . He graduated in 1953 from St. Louis Country Day School
and in 1957 from  Princeton University  before enrolling in
Harvard Business School.  At the time he joined Brown Brothers, its Boston office
mostly provided banking and brokerage services to clients in the
Massachusetts leather, textile and commodities industries,
according to the Global Custodian profile.  “We had to begin building new businesses,” Towles
recalled, according to the profile. “It did not take long to
recognize that was the assignment.”  He became a manager in the banking department in 1969 and a
general partner in 1978.  Churchill, Chardonnay  Towles led the board of the  Museum of Fine Arts  in Boston
from 2007 to 2010.  He also was, according to the death notice, “an ardent fan
of bridge, chardonnay, ‘Cheers,’ chicken soup, Churchill, common
sense, conversation, dinner partners, his dogs, early morning
Sunday services, history, Jumbles, life stories, Mediterranean
climates, motor-boating, paperback mysteries, people, pop art,
problem solving, ‘ The Rockford Files ,’ routines, ‘Seinfeld,’
simple pleasures, Starbucks, tennis, thrift, the Top 40, vistas,
and youth.”  Survivors include his wife, Jeanne; his children Stokley,
Amor and Kimbrough; stepsons Clark and Chip Eddy; and 13
grandchildren, according to the death notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  