-- Maruti, Hero Shut India Plants Amid Strike Over Singh Revamp
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-02-20T13:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/strike-over-singh-policy-revamp-disrupts-indian-banks-transport.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.  and  Hero
MotoCorp Ltd.  said they will shut their factories tomorrow as a
nationwide strike called by trade unions disrupted public
transport and other services in parts of India.  Maruti, the nation’s biggest carmaker by volume that
witnessed labor riots in July at one of its facilities near New
Delhi, said in a text message that its plants in Gurgaon and
Manesar will be closed after a call for a two-day strike by
workers’ groups opposed to rising prices and the government’s
economic agenda. Hero, the biggest motorcycle maker, said in an
e-mail statement that its facilities in Gurgaon and Dharuhera
near the capital will remain shut “keeping in mind the safety
and best interests of our employees.”  The impact of the industrial action that started today
varied across the country, in part a reflection of the local
power of left-leaning political parties and affiliated unions.
Taxi and auto-rickshaw drivers joined the stoppage in New Delhi
while markets and restaurants were closed in the southern state
of Kerala and eastern Odisha. In West Bengal, until 2011 run by
a coalition of Marxist parties, shops were mostly open while bus
services were hit.  Mixed Response  The strike is the latest in a string of protests Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh has faced since the end of 2010 as
issues ranging from  inflation  and alleged corruption to the
opening of the economy to more foreign investment stirred
dissent. The budget session of parliament begins tomorrow as the
government fends off the damage from charges in Italy that
bribes were paid for an India order of helicopters from defense
contractor  Finmeccanica SpA . The budget for the next financial
year will be unveiled on Feb. 28.  “The response to the strike is very mixed” as the demands
of the trade unions are neither “focused nor convincing,” said
 N. Bhaskara Rao , chairman of the New Delhi-based Centre for
Media Studies. “But that does not mean that public anger
against the government has subsided, particularly on price
rises.”  Flights at New Delhi’s airport haven’t been affected, said
Saptarshi Sanyal, a spokesman for Delhi International Airport
Ltd. In Mumbai, airlines were facing no disruptions.  Policy Logjam  The benchmark 30-stock  Sensitive Index  was little changed
from yesterday, while the yield on the government’s 10-year bond
slipped 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.81
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee
gained 0.3 percent to 54.0675 against the dollar in Mumbai.  More than two years of demonstrations over graft charges,
linked to the hosting of 2010 Commonwealth Games, an earlier
sale of mobile phone permits and the award of coal assets,
helped lead to a two-year logjam in policy making and an
economic slowdown, in the process fracturing the ruling
coalition headed by Singh’s Congress party.  Fighting back, Singh in September began his biggest policy
push in a decade, relaxing rules on foreign investment in the
retail and aviation industries, among other measures, and
overhauling his cabinet ahead of a general election scheduled
for the first half of next year.  The biggest challenge facing Congress is recovering from
the series of corruption scandals, according to 31 percent of
people polled last month.  Checking Inflation  In the Jan. 22-24 survey of 800 voters in eight cities for
Outlook Magazine, 41 percent said they would vote for a Congress
party headed by its newly anointed vice-president,  Rahul Gandhi .
Meanwhile, 38 percent said they would support the main
opposition block if it was led by current Gujarat Chief Minister
 Narendra Modi , who is pitching for the leadership of his party.
The poll had a margin of error of 3.46 percent.  The government is battling to check an inflation rate
exceeding 6 percent and to boost an economy which may expand at
a decade-low 5 percent in the fiscal year ending March.  Trade unions supporting the protests include the  Indian
National Trade Union Congress , affiliated to Congress, and
 Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh  that owes political allegiance to the
main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party .  In a statement which begins with a call for an end to the
government’s “imperialist globalisation,” trade union
federations demanded the government curb price gains, create
jobs, stop the sale of stakes in state-run companies and enforce
labor laws, social security provisions and minimum wages for
workers.  The government raised $2.1 billion this month selling
shares in  NTPC Ltd. , the nation’s biggest power generator, and
$1.1 billion from a December offering in  NMDC Ltd. , the largest
iron ore producer.  Maruti will be halting production for the second time since
a brawl between an employee and a supervisor escalated into a
riot on July 18, resulting in the death of a manager and a
lockout that shuttered its Manesar factory for almost a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  