-- Sumitomo-Backed Acal Raises Funds to Expand Fuel-Cell Technology
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-02-20T14:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/sumitomo-backed-acal-raises-funds-to-expand-fuel-cell-technology.html
Acal Energy Ltd. , a U.K. developer
of fuel-cell technology backed by Sumitomo Corp., expects to
raise 15 million pounds ($23 million) by the end of the first
half to respond to rising demand for clean power from industry.  Acal is working with Innovator Capital Ltd., an investment
bank that advises clean-technology companies, to raise funds
from new and current shareholders, Managing Director Brendan
Bilton said in an interview in London.  “We have received a high level of interest from venture-
capital companies, family offices and corporate venturers and
geographically the spread is from Asia, Europe and North
America,” Bilton said. “The money will be spent on expanding
the technical team, research and development, intellectual-
property protection and capital expenditures.”  Companies from manufacturers to retailers are installing
fuel cells at factories and stores to produce clean energy on
site and reduce reliance on polluting fossil fuels. Fuel cells,
which like batteries produce electricity from a chemical
reaction, provide continuous power, giving them an advantage
over intermittent renewable energies such as solar and wind.  Acal has developed chemicals that it says curb the need for
platinum in fuel cells, lowering their cost. It plans to remain
a chemicals company, licensing its fuel-cell design to
manufacturers, Bilton said.  Shareholders include Japanese trading house Sumitomo,
Belgian chemicals company Solvay SA, I2BF Global Ventures and
the U.K.’s Carbon Trust.  Acal, based in Runcorn, northern England, will generate
revenue over the next six to 12 months by working with partners
to replicate and verify performance data for its technology.
Once that’s complete, the company will enter into joint
development agreements, Bilton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  