-- U.K. May Start Lloyds Stake Sale This Year, Talbut Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-02-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/u-k-may-start-lloyds-stake-sale-this-year-talbut-says.html
The U.K. government may start
selling its 40 percent stake  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  this year
after a surge in the bank’s shares, according to  Robert Talbut ,
chief investment officer of  Royal London Asset Management Ltd.   A partial sale would be well-received by investors and
voters, two years before Britain’s next general election, said
Talbut, who helps manage 45 billion pounds ($70 billion) of
assets, in an interview. Lloyds has  gained  56 percent in the
past year to 55.3 pence in London trading, 14 percent below the
government’s break-even price.  “There are advantages from the government’s perspective
and management perspective of starting that process, with a
favorable wind, some time this year,” said Talbut, 52, who is
also chairman of investment affairs at the  Association of
British Insurers , which represents firms with 1.8 trillion
pounds of assets. “The government has an eye on the electoral
timetable so with a couple of years to go if they could get rid
of some of the stakes, then that will be seen as quite useful.”  Taxpayers injected about 20 billion pounds in Lloyds,
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, and 45.5 billion pounds in
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  to bolster the lenders’ capital
amid the 2008 financial crisis. The government has been
prevented from selling its stakes as a stalled U.K. economic
recovery and banking scandals including loan insurance mis-
selling have left the shares behind the U.K.’s break-even price
of investment.  Entry Price  “I don’t think they should be necessarily wedded to the
idea they can’t sell any shares below the entry price,” Talbut
said. “They want to make money on the overall holding. If they
are seen to be making a start on that process below their
average entry price, I think that is quite good in sending a
signal to the market.”  The government may offer some shares to retail investors as
part of any sale, he said. Business Secretary  Vince Cable ’s
proposal to give away shares in the banks to the public is “not
the best of ideas” because of the cost of administering 20
million shareholders and the political pressure if the shares
underperform the market, Talbut said.  Talbut, along with  Richard Buxton , head of U.K. equities at
 Schroders Plc  and  Keith Skeoch , chief executive officer of
Standard Life Investments, last year told lawmakers that
political interference was hampering the recovery of RBS,
recipient of the world’s biggest bank bailout and 81 percent
owned by the taxpayer.  ‘Bit Surprised’  Prime Minister  David Cameron  on Feb. 18 urged RBS CEO
 Stephen Hester  to “accelerate” the bank’s return to health and
left open the possibility of giving the public shares in the
bank.  “I’m a little bit surprised at that because what I’m told
privately is that politicians on both sides of the political
fence are pretty happy with the job Hester has done,” said
Talbut.  Hester gave up his 963,000-pound bonus last year following
criticism of bankers’ pay from politicians and the public.
Hester has cut assets by more than 800 billion pounds and
eliminated about 36,000 jobs since taking over from  Fred Goodwin 
in 2008.  RBS  closed  at 345.1 pence a share yesterday, valuing the
firm at about 38.6 billion pounds, and about 45 percent below
the government’s break-even price. Royal London holds Lloyds
stock in its actively managed funds and RBS in index-linked
funds.  “For RBS my honest view is the government is stuck with it
for the foreseeable future,” Talbut said. “With RBS it’s
intensely political. It’s more difficult to take the view this
is a company that can completely determine its own future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 