-- U.S. Fund Managers Drawn by Rally to Japan Stock Meetings
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-02-20T07:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/u-s-fund-managers-drawn-by-rally-to-japan-stock-meetings.html
U.S. fund managers and their
European and Asian counterparts are increasing attendance at
Japanese equity-investor conferences as foreign buying propels
the country’s strongest stock rally in 40 years, according to
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets and Mizuho Securities Co.  About 20 percent more investors than last year will attend
the CLSA conference from Feb. 25-28, with the greatest increase
from senior U.S. portfolio managers and 700 in total expected,
said  Gary Hopkinson , Tokyo-based country head of the brokerage.
 Foreign investors  were net buyers of Japanese stocks for 13
straight weeks through Feb. 8, according to data from the Japan
Exchange Group Inc., boosting the  Topix Index  to its longest
weekly winning streak since 1973.  Even as foreign buying propels the Topix, Japan’s broadest
equity measure, to levels not seen since before the country’s
record earthquake in March 2011, overseas investors’ returns are
being eroded by a 7 percent drop by the yen against the dollar
this year. The Topix’s year-to-date increase in dollar terms is
5.3 percent, less than the 7.3 percent gain by the U.S. Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  “The interest is for foreign investors to try and
understand if Japan is to finally get out of deflation,” said
CLSA’s Hopkinson. Foreign investors are also “looking to
reevaluate Japanese corporations’ competitive edge due to the
weakening of the currency and to learn more about the current
government which they see as strong leaders on the global
stage.”  Mizuho Record  Fund managers from the U.S., Europe and Asia have helped
push attendance at Mizuho’s two-day meeting from Feb. 26 to a
record, said Mikihiko Kitano, spokesman for the Japanese
securities firm. About 120 overseas investment firms will be
represented, up from 76 companies last year and boosting
attendance to 800.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc.  is also expecting
a record number of foreign investors at its equity conference
from March 4-8 in Tokyo.  Stocks have rallied amid optimism Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe 
and the Bank of Japan will lead the country out of deflation.
The yen has weakened at least 14 percent against the dollar
since elections were announced in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  