-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Close to 10-Month High as Fed Debates QE Pace
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-02-20T22:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/u-s-10-year-yield-close-to-10-month-high-as-fed-debates-qe-pace.html
Treasury 10-year yields  traded  close
to the highest in 10 months, after Federal Reserve meeting
minutes showed policy makers continued to debate when to start
trimming debt purchases.  Benchmark notes fluctuated as several Fed policy makers
said the central bank should be ready to vary the pace of $85
billion in monthly bond purchases amid a debate about the risks
and benefits of further quantitative easing, known as QE. U.S.
debt fell earlier after a report showed builders broke ground in
January on the most U.S. single-family homes in more than four
years and permits for future construction rose, an indication
the industry’s momentum carried over into 2013. The difference
between Treasury yields for two-and 10-year securities widened
to 1.77 percentage points, close to the most since April.  “We’ve taken the initial selloff back after the minutes as
the market has realized that the Fed is engaged more in a policy
debate and less of an imminent action coming down the pipe,”
said  Aaron Kohli , an interest-rate strategist BNP Paribas SA in
New York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“The economy has not seen the escape velocity that they need to
start to wind down purchases. Until the economy gets better, the
Fed will continue to err on the side of easing.”  The U.S. 10-year yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.01 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
due in February 2023 added 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 29/32.  Yield Levels  The benchmark yield reached as much as 2.05 percent. It
climbed to 2.06 percent on Feb. 14, the highest level since
April 10.  The Fed officials “emphasized that the committee should be
prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases, either in response
to changes in the economic outlook or as its evaluation of the
efficacy and costs of such purchases evolved,” according to the
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Jan. 29-30
meeting released today in Washington.  “The market’s initial reaction was to run with the idea
that there is an increased probability of reducing the pace of
asset purchases prior to year end,” said  Adrian Miller ,
director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “At the same time, a
number of participants also voiced concern about ending easing
too soon, and that should balance the market.”  Market Reaction  Treasury 10-year yields had risen about 11 basis points
since the minutes from the FOMC Dec. 11-12 meeting, released on
Jan. 3, showed a divide among participants on how long the
purchases should continue. Those who provided estimates were
“approximately evenly divided” between participants who said
it would be appropriate to end the purchases around mid-2013 and
those who said they should continue beyond that date.  The Fed minutes suggest continued Fed purchases are at risk
if the economy improves, Bill Gross, co-chief investment officer
and founder of Newport Beach, California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co., wrote in a Twitter post.  The Fed bought $3.3 billion of Treasuries maturing from May
2020 to February 2023 today as part of its outright purchase
program to bolster the economy. The Fed Bank of New York said it
will test allowing “small broker-dealers” to act as
counterparties in sales and purchases of Treasuries for the
central bank’s portfolio.  Treasury market volatility, as measured by the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch MOVE index,  declined  to 58.4 yesterday
from 59.1 on Feb. 15 and compared with the 59.74 average since
the Fed announced $40 billion a month in mortgage purchases.  Moving Averages  The 200-day moving average for 10-year yields is leveling
out after falling for 18 months, according to Mirae Asset Global
Investments Co. The 200-day average of 1.71 percent has been
little changed for almost four weeks after it tumbled from its
August 2011 level of 3.17 percent.  “There is bearish momentum in the Treasury market,” said
 Will Tseng , a fixed-income trader in Taipei at Mirae Asset,
which oversees $50 billion. “The long-term moving average has
changed from a downward trend to flat. It won’t be a big jump,
but it will be a slow upward trend” in yields, he said.  Wholesale prices in the U.S. rose in January for the first
time in four months, reflecting higher costs for food and
pharmaceuticals. The producer-price index climbed 0.2 percent
after a 0.3 percent drop in December, the Labor Department
reported today in Washington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 74 economists projected a 0.3 percent increase.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
2.55 percentage points. The average in the past decade is 2.20
percentage points.  Treasuries handed investors a 1 percent loss this year
through yesterday, after a 2.2 percent gain last year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  