-- Human-to-Human Spread of New Virus Lifts Threat to EU
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-20T11:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/human-to-human-spread-of-new-virus-lifts-threat-to-eu.html
Two probable cases of human-to-human
transmission of the new coronavirus that’s killed six people
increase the pathogen’s threat to the European Union, according
to the bloc’s disease-tracking agency.  The appearance of a mild case of the disease caused by the
virus also raises concern because it suggests more people may be
infected than are known, have few or no symptoms, and are
spreading the bug to others, the European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control said in a  report  late yesterday.  The new virus, which is related to the one that killed 774
people in the  SARS outbreak  of 2002 and 2003, is known to have
infected 12 people in the past year, and half of them died. Ten
of those infected either lived in or traveled to the Middle
East, while two people diagnosed in the U.K. last week almost
certainly contracted the bug from a family member who had
traveled to Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, the ECDC said.  “The fact that an infection has come to Europe on a
commercial flight and then resulted in two probable human-to-
human transmission episodes has increased the threat,” the ECDC
said in the report. “There is a lot more that we do not know
than we know about this virus.”  The coronavirus can infect the lining of a person’s airways
faster than the SARS bug, according to a study published
yesterday, though researchers still don’t know how easy it is to
transmit from person to person.  There’s no evidence so far of “SARS-like super-spreading
events to date,” the ECDC said. Like H5N1 bird flu, the virus
may have the potential to spread more widely, but not without
acquiring multiple genetic changes, said Ian Jones, a professor
of virology at the University of Reading in England.  Likely Outcome  “The most likely outcome for the current infections is a
dead end, that is, the virus will become extinct locally,”
Jones said in e-mailed comments distributed by the U.K.’s
Science Media Centre.  Of the three recent cases in the the U.K., the first
patient, a man, is still receiving treatment, while a male
relative who had an underlying condition that may have made him
susceptible to respiratory infections has died. A younger female
relative, who was exposed to the original case while he was
hospitalized, had mild flu-like symptoms and has recovered, the
ECDC said. She is one of only two women infected so far, the
agency said.  While the virus is related to the one responsible for SARS,
it shouldn’t be described as SARS-like because the two pathogens
are genetically distinct, the World Health Organization has
said. Genetic evidence suggests the virus is most closely
related to a coronavirus found in bats, the Geneva-based WHO
said in November.  The earliest known cases are two hospital workers aged 25
and 45 in Jordan who died in April but weren’t found to have the
coronavirus until samples were tested in November. A further
nine less severe cases associated with the same hospital fit the
WHO definition for the illness and haven’t yet been tested, the
ECDC said in its report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  