-- World Powers See Progress on Iran With New Nuclear Offer
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-02-21T13:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/un-unit-to-make-substantial-nuclear-offer-to-iran-diplomat-says.html
The five United Nations Security
Council permanent members and  Germany  anticipate making progress
with a new offer to  Iran  to resolve the dispute about its
nuclear program in talks next week.  “We will make an updated offer that will contain new
substantive elements,” the French Foreign Ministry said in an
e-mailed answer to questions today, adding it wants to see “a
real exchange, leading to concrete results.” Russian Deputy
Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told reporters in  Brazil  that
his country is anticipating “progress but no breakthrough.”  Stalled multilateral negotiations on Iran’s nuclear work
are scheduled to resume in Kazakhstan on Feb. 26. The last round
of talks between Iran and world powers, held in Moscow in June,
failed to yield results. The multinational group asked the
Islamic Republic to suspend production of 20 percent enriched
uranium while Iran pressed for relief from financial and trade
sanctions imposed because of its nuclear program.  The offer will contain significant new elements, a Western
diplomat told reporters in  London  yesterday, asking not to be
more closely identified and without giving further details.  Israel  has warned that it may carry out military strikes to
prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons capacity. The U.S.,
while backing diplomacy, says it doesn’t rule out using force to
achieve the same goal.  ‘Better Prepared’  The six powers negotiating with the country are counting on
Iran coming to the meeting “better prepared in terms of
conducting a real process of finding a common platform,”
Ryabkov said in Brasilia. The new offer contains a gradual
approach starting with confidence-building measures, according
to the French Foreign Ministry.  Iran said Feb. 19 it can ease western states’ concern over
its nuclear activities if they fully recognize its right to
operate a civilian nuclear program. The negotiating states are
known as the P5+1.  If the U.S., U.K.,  France , Germany, Russia and China
“recognize our full rights for peaceful nuclear energy, this
will show their goodwill,” the Persian Gulf state’s Foreign
Ministry spokesman,  Ramin Mehmanparast , told reporters in
Tehran. “As for us, we will offer ways to remove concerns”
that the nuclear program may have a military dimension.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  