-- Hungary Rate Cut Outlook Extends Bond Rally: Budapest Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-02-20T17:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/hungary-rate-cut-outlook-extends-bond-rally-budapest-mover.html
Yields on short-term Hungarian
government bonds fell on mounting speculation the central bank
will keep cutting interest rates to counter recession.  Yields on forint-denominated notes due February 2017 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.45 percent by
5:32 p.m. in Budapest, the lowest in almost three years,
according to generic indexes compiled by Bloomberg. The forint
was little changed at 291.25 against the euro.  Extra liquidity from the European Central Bank is pushing
investors into higher-yielding forint bonds while money-market
traders have increased bets on monetary easing in Hungary since
data last week showed the economic contraction intensified in
the fourth quarter and inflation slowed in January. Short-term
price pressure may “significantly” ease, Vice-Governor Ferenc
Karvalits was quoted as saying by Dow Jones Newswires today.  “Further rate cuts are justified,”  Zsolt Kondrat , an
analyst at Bayerische Landesbank’s Budapest-based MKB unit, said
by phone today. “I expect plenty of liquidity and don’t foresee
a big deterioration in sentiment. That means the forint might
stay relatively stable and rate cuts can continue.”  The benchmark rate will probably be reduced to 4.5 percent
by the end of June from 5.5 percent now, Kondrat said.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which has lowered the main rate by
a cumulative 1.5 percentage points since August to a two-year
low, will deliver a 25 basis-point cut on Feb. 26, according to
all 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Policy makers will keep cutting the rate in quarter-point
steps to 4 percent,  Daniel Hewitt , a London-based senior
economist for emerging markets at Barclays Plc, wrote in a
report to clients yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  