-- Tunisia’s Ennahda Seeks to Name Replacement for Premier
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/tunisia-s-ennahda-seeks-to-name-replacement-for-premier.html
As Tunisia’s leaders seek consensus
on a new prime minister after  Hamadi Jbeli  quit, they’re also
battling to stop the country sliding deeper into a political
crisis with echoes of the one engulfing Egypt.  Jbeli, secretary-general of the moderate Islamist Ennahda
Party, resigned on Feb. 19 after failing to form a technocratic
government to ease tensions after the assassination of an
opposition leader earlier this month. Ennahda, which holds the
most seats in parliament and opposed Jbeli’s plan, said
yesterday it favored re-nominating him.  The impasse underscored the continued threats to stability
in Tunisia, often hailed as a model for other Arab transitions,
two years after the uprising that ousted President  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali . It also offered parallels with challenges
confronting other nations, especially Egypt, that followed in
its footsteps during the so-called Arab Spring.  “It’s been, like we’ve seen in Egypt as well, a total lack
of progress in a place where people don’t have much patience,”
 Said Hirsh , a London-based independent Mideast economist, said
by phone. “It’s better that Jbeli has resigned because he’s
making it seem like there’s something democratic going on.”  Jbeli said he stepped down to fulfill a pledge he made if
he couldn’t form a new cabinet. Ennahda is committed to re-
nominating Jbeli, although it has prepared a list of alternative
candidates should he reject the job, party spokesman Abdul-Hamid
Jelassi said by phone.  Leader Assassinated  Ennahda’s chief,  Rashid Ghannouchi , met with President
 Moncef Marzouki  and told reporters that negotiations are
ongoing. He said a new cabinet must be completed by the end of
the week, and repeated a call for a government combining party
figures with “competent” individuals from outside politics, in
a nod to the technocrat idea. Jbeli has rejected that formula.  Unrest surfaced during the December anniversary of
Tunisia’s uprising and turned into violent protests after the
killing of Democratic Patriots leader Chukri Beleid on Feb. 6.
It prompted Standard & Poor’s to cut Tunisia’s credit rating on
Feb. 19 for the third time since 2011.  The divisions hurt the government’s ability to “take
corrective measures against a weakening economic and financial
backdrop,” S&P analyst Patrick Raleigh wrote.  Tunisia’s economy is struggling to recover from its first
contraction in at least two decades. The budget deficit widened
to a 12-year high of 6.4 percent of output last year, according
to the International Monetary Fund.  ‘Further Tremors’  Some opposition politicians backed Jbeli to stay on.  Ahmed Nejib Chebbi , a top official with the Jumhuri, or Republican,
party, said that would “spare the country further tremors.”  Tunisia’s political crisis has parallels with the situation
in Egypt, another North African nation now led by moderate
Islamists who swept into power with promises of social justice
that have not translated into better living standards.  While in Tunisia there was the appearance of political
consensus-building, Egypt’s case is “a lot worse,” said Hirsh.
Its Muslim Brotherhood leaders “just ploughed ahead, hoping
things would change with them. But things got worse.”  Mursi Rebuff  Egyptian President  Mohamed Mursi  has rebuffed opposition
calls for a national unity government, focusing instead on
pushing ahead with parliamentary elections. No date has been set
for the vote, and in a potential setback for the president the
country’s top court this week sent back to parliament a draft
election law, saying some clauses were unconstitutional.  The Muslim Brotherhood, which fielded Mursi for office, is
hoping for a clean sweep in the vote even as mounting daily
protests reflect disaffection among its secular and youth
activist opponents. Tensions with other Islamist groups have
also surfaced, leading Mursi to accept an offer by the Al-Gamaa
Al-Islamiya religious group to mediate.  Egypt’s economy is growing at the  slowest pace  in two
decades and  foreign currency reserves  have plunged. Protests in
Port Said effectively shut down the Suez Canal city for a fourth
day yesterday. The canal’s container terminal said it suspended
its night shift, warning that traffic may shrink.  Demonstrators have accused Mursi of failing to end abuses
by police, one of the grievances behind the revolt against  Hosni Mubarak .  Opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei  yesterday urged an
investigation of the alleged torture of a man by police during a
rally last month. “Back to dark ages of brutality,” ElBaradei
said of the case on his Twitter account.  Ennahda Blamed  Tunisia had largely avoided the repeated waves of protests
that stymied Egypt’s progress. That may have changed with
Beleid’s killing, which sparked thousands-strong street protests
against Ennahda and the government.  Beleid’s widow has blamed Ennahda for his death. Opposition
politicians have called for the breakup of pro-government
militias blamed for violence in recent months.  Chebbi, whose party is secular, said the key to forming a
new government is to sideline Ennahda from the so-called
sovereign ministries, particularly the Interior Ministry, which
controls the police.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jihen Laghmari  in Tunis via Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net 
 Tarek El-Tablawy  in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  