-- UnitedHealth Unit Liable for Doctor’s Errors, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-02-21T19:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/unitedhealth-trial-to-test-liability-for-doctor-s-errors.html
A unit of  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,
the biggest U.S. medical insurer, was accused of failing to
properly oversee a Las Vegas doctor who gave colonoscopy
patients hepatitis C by mishandling the anesthetic Propofol.  UnitedHealth’s Health Plan of Nevada Inc. unit renewed
contracts with Dipak Desai, a former gastroenterologist, even
though it knew of his “substandard” medical practices, Robert
Eglet, an attorney for two women, Bonnie Brunson and Helen
Meyer, who contracted the disease after undergoing procedures in
2005, told jurors in state court in Las Vegas yesterday.  UnitedHealth denies the allegations, placing the blame on
Desai who “cared more about money than about his patients’
safety and health,” Lawrence Scarborough, an attorney for the
HMO said yesterday in statements to the jury. The HMO shouldn’t
be blamed for the doctor’s actions, Scarborough said.  “What was done to Mrs. Brunson and Ms. Meyer is
horrible,” Scarborough told jurors at the trial followed
remotely over the Courtroom View Network. “It’s unconscionable
that a doctor who has taken an oath to first do no harm would
intentionally disregard basic common sense medical principles
just to save a few dollars.”  The trial is the first against the unit of Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based UnitedHealth over a hepatitis C outbreak linked
to Desai’s clinic. The outbreak forced  Nevada  officials to
notify 50,000 patients of potential risks, Eglet said.  Largest Outbreak  “This turned out to be the largest hepatitis C outbreak in
United States history,” Eglet told jurors. “We are suing the
HMO companies for violating the public safety rule requiring an
HMO to make the health and safety of its insured members its
primary concern.”  Officials with Health Plan of Nevada knew in the late 1990s
about Desai’s poor reputation after a doctor who was employed at
one facility informed the company that Desai was cutting corners
and compromising patient safety, Eglet said.  Desai performed colonoscopies in as little as three
minutes, much shorter than the standard time of more than 20
minutes, Eglet told jurors.  The Nevada unit’s officials didn’t adequately review
Desai’s medical practices before hiring him or properly oversee
his operations, Eglet said.  ‘Responsible HMO’  “A reasonable and responsible HMO should not place or keep
a health-care provider on its provider network that it knows or
should know is unsafely treating patients,” Eglet told jurors.  The UnitedHealth unit never followed up on allegations
against Desai and renewed contracts with the doctor’s group amid
complaints of his failure to diagnose cancer and Crohn’s disease
in several patients, and of lapses in hygiene at the facility.
The contract renewals came as Health Plan of Nevada’s membership
grew to more than 300,000 in 2004 from 100,000 in 1993.  Shortest Time  By March 2004, Desai’s group was performing as many as 100
procedures a day at its facility. By January 2005, the staff was
unable to keep up with the volume of HMO patients requiring
procedures, Eglet said. The following month the group was
recognized as having the shortest colonoscopy procedure time in
the U.S. in 2004, Eglet said.  The first case of acute hepatitis C infection was reported
in December 2007. The state announced the outbreak linked to
Desai’s clinic in February 2008, Eglet said.  In addition to reusing Propofol vials, Desai’s center
failed to change fluid used to disinfect medical devices, reused
biting blocks and even cut corners on disposable medical napkins
used to treat incontinence in patients, Eglet said.  ‘Deliberate Malpractice’  The trial comes a month after UnitedHealth officials said
fourth-quarter  earnings  of $1.20 a share met analysts’
expectations and the insurer added 6.4 million members after
acquiring  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3) ,  Brazil ’s largest managed-health
provider. The company had a market value of $58 billion as of
Feb. 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nevada colonoscopy patients shouldn’t seek to hold
UnitedHealth liable for Desai’s mishandling of their procedures,
according to the insurer.  “Making insurers liable for the deliberate malpractice of
independent doctors will force those insurers to seek intrusive,
burdensome and expensive oversight of how care is delivered,”
Tyler Mason, a UnitedHealth spokesman, said Feb. 19 in an e-
mailed statement.  Lawyers for Meyer and Brunson said during jury selection
that they may ask the panel to award $1 billion in punitive
damages for the insurer’s alleged failure to properly vet the
doctor and monitor his operations, according to court
transcripts.  80 Lawsuits  Nevada juries already have handed down multimillion-dollar
punitive awards against  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
which made the Propofol used by Desai. Three juries awarded
colonoscopy patients more than $750 million in punitive damages
over the drugmaker’s decision to sell the anesthetic in
oversized vials that could be reused.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , agreed last year to
pay $250 million to settle more than 80 lawsuits over Propofol
sales.  Desai, 62, and two nurse anesthetists are facing second-
degree murder charges over the death of a colonoscopy patient. A
 trial  on the state charges is set for April. Desai also faces
federal fraud charges.  Annual Reports  Meyer and Brunson are suing the UnitedHealth unit under a
Nevada law that requires HMO officials to file annual reports
showing they have reviewed the quality of  health services 
provided to consumers covered by their plans.  The insurers should have known as early as 2004 that Desai
was using unsafe medical practices, Eglet, the plaintiffs’
lawyer, said.  UnitedHealth officials contend that Desai hid his practices
from the company, state agencies and accreditation boards and he
was admitted to practice in more than a dozen hospitals in the
 Las Vegas  area.  “Our deepest sympathies go to the victims and their
families in this terrible situation that we wish had been caught
sooner,” Mason said in the statement.  The case is Meyer v. Health Plan of Nevada Inc., A5837999
(Consolidated), Clark County District Court (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  