-- US Airways Says AMR Corp. Name to Disappear in American Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-02-20T23:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/us-airways-says-amr-corp-name-to-disappear-in-american-merger.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  said AMR Corp.
will disappear after 31 years as the name of American Airlines’
parent once their pending $11 billion merger is final.  American Airlines Group Inc. will replace AMR “immediately
after the effective time of the merger,” according to a U.S.
regulatory filing today by Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways. The
carriers have said they expect to complete the combination in
the third quarter.  For months, US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker
has said a tie-up, if approved, would keep the name of the
larger American and its Fort Worth, Texas, headquarters. In
announcing their merger agreement on Feb. 14, American CEO Tom
Horton said the new carrier would be called  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and
operate under the American Airlines name.  “Our filing speaks to our understanding,” John McDonald,
a US Airways spokesman, said in an e-mail when asked about the
name. “Can’t really expound beyond that.”  Horton “must have just misspoke” in a conference call on
the merger last week, Mike Trevino, an American spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement. Trevino confirmed the new name.  American shareholders approved creation of a new holding
company called  AMR Corp.  in 1982, according to the carrier’s
website.  US Airways began pursuing a merger in January 2012, less
than two months after AMR and American sought bankruptcy court
protection. The combination will pass United Continental
Holdings Inc. as the world’s largest airline based on passenger
traffic.  Parker will serve as CEO of the merged airline, with Horton
serving a limited tenure as chairman. The plan must be approved
by American’s bankruptcy court, US Airways shareholders and
federal regulatory agencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  