-- A Better Way to Help the Working Poor
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2013-02-20T00:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/use-tax-credit-not-minimum-wage-to-help-poor.html
U.S. President Barack Obama  wants to 
raise the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour from $7.25 as a way
to alleviate the pain of poverty and make work more attractive
for the poor.  These are worthy goals, but they should be paid for by
taxpayers nationwide, not just by the businesses that employ
lower-wage workers. Instead of redistribution through
regulation, Congress should enhance and improve the  earned
income tax credit , or start a new taxpayer-financed program that
makes working more attractive for the poor.  The great appeal of raising the minimum wage is that it
appears to reduce inequality without increasing budget deficits.
That seductive glimmer is the policy’s greatest flaw. We should
have a debate about how much to spend to promote opportunity. We
shouldn’t embrace policies that make politicians look caring
without requiring them to pay the cost of justifying higher
taxes. We should abhor cheap tricks, such as unfunded mandates,
and the minimum wage is a bit like an unfunded mandate.  Like the minimum wage, the  Americans with Disabilities Act 
was motivated by worthy goals. I care deeply that disabled
Americans suffer less. But instead of funding remedies with
taxpayer dollars, the ADA pushed the burden downstream to local
public transit systems, declaring that it was discrimination for
a system to “fail to provide” alternatives such as
“paratransit and other special transportation services to
individuals with disabilities.”  Transit Costs  This means that the finances of the Boston area’s transit
system, for example, have been  deeply strained  by the $40-a-trip
cost of paratransit, which leads to more than $100 million of
 annual spending  that is only trivially offset by $5 million in
federal aid. The costs of righting a widespread social wrong
shouldn’t have to be paid for by bus and train riders, who face
higher fees and reduced service, as systems work to cover the
law’s mandated costs.  Likewise, why should the costs of making the U.S. more
egalitarian be paid by the employers that happen to hire lower-
wage workers? In January, the  unemployment rate  among high
school dropouts was 12 percent. Only 40 percent of that group
was employed at all.  Those scary numbers reflect a failure of entrepreneurial
imagination: an inability of American companies to figure out
ways to productively employ the less skilled. The most skill-
intensive sectors, including my own, won’t pay the price of a
higher minimum wage, precisely because they provide so few jobs
for people at the low end of the skill spectrum.  The debate over the minimum wage is often depicted as a
battle of social justice, calling for higher wages instead of
economic efficiency, which operates best with fewer regulatory
restrictions. Although providing more for the poor may be social
justice, there is nothing just about loading all the costs onto
the employers and customers of lower-wage workers. For 20 years,
there has been a fierce debate about the impact that minimum
wage laws have on unemployment.  Alan Krueger , now chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, and  David Card , of the University of California at
Berkeley, are responsible for the research that reopened the
debate on the efficiency costs of the minimum wage. They
compared fast-food workers in New Jersey and Pennsylvania and
 found little decline  in employment after New Jersey raised its
minimum wage in 1992. Their  1997 book  brings together five years
of their serious scholarship, which suggests that at low levels
an increase in minimum wage does little to discourage
employment.  Economists  David Neumark  and  William Wascher   provide the
strongest  alternative voice. Summarizing a large body of recent
research, they write that “the oft-stated assertion that recent
research fails to support the traditional view that the minimum
wage reduces the employment of low-wage workers is clearly
incorrect.”  Reducing Employment  Changes in the minimum wage have been found  to reduce
employment  by Kevin Murphy of the University of Chicago and
economists Donald Deere and Finis Welch of Welch Consulting  as
well as  by  Janet Currie  and  Bruce Fallick . These findings are
sufficiently disparate so that progressives can plausibly claim
that Obama’s proposed minimum-wage increase will do little harm
to employment, while libertarians can argue that a 24 percent
increase in the minimum wage will lead to more unemployed
teenagers and high school dropouts.  We would be stuck between two ideologically driven
viewpoints if the minimum wage was our only tool to help lower-
income Americans.  There are better ways of making work pay. The earned income
tax credit has  helped make work pay  since 1975. It rises
initially with income up to a maximum of $5,236 for families
with two children, and  then it phases out .  It has downsides, such as administrative complexity and
monitoring, but it has been shown to increase employment,
 especially for single mothers . It can be improved and increased,
and it remains the best alternative to raising the minimum wage.  Perhaps the simplest way to alter the credit is for it to
provide a clear per-hour benefit directly to workers earning
less than $9 an hour. An extra $1.75 an hour, the proposed
increase in the minimum wage, for the 1.67 million workers who
currently  earn the minimum wage , would cost about $4 billion,
which could be easily funded with minor cuts to other programs
such as highway spending.  The federal government enacted another smart policy when it
gave workers a payroll tax holiday during the recession that
also  helped make work pay  more for lower-income Americans. That
tax holiday ended last month.  Bashing Employers  The New Year’s Eve budget deal would have done more to
encourage employment if it had kept the tax holiday, rather than
the unemployment insurance extension.  Political progressives see raising the minimum wage as a
tool to promote equality without raising taxes. Some of them
even seem to like the idea of  punishing big business . But such
anti-enterprise authors are wrong to bash those employers who
are helping to solve the American underemployment problem. The
economy’s larger challenge isn’t the companies paying $7.25 an
hour, but the companies that only employ workers at the top end
of the skill distribution and pay much more.  Redistribution through regulation has a long history in
Europe, where abundant labor market regulations  materially
reduce  work hours. Raising the minimum wage wouldn’t turn the
U.S. into Greece, but it is a step in the wrong direction --away
from smart egalitarianism toward a policy that is popular only
because it seems cheap.  It would be odd for the U.S. to ramp up its labor market
rules at a time when unemployment remains high and even
President  Francois Hollande  of France  is pushing  for less labor
market rigidity.  The free market doesn’t provide opportunity equally and
Obama is right to want work to pay more. But smart
egalitarianism aids the poor, encourages work and is paid for by
everyone who has a stake in a fairer nation with less
unemployment.  The Republicans have a chance to show their support for the
working poor if they counter the president’s minimum wage
proposal not with an angry “No way,” but with a smarter
alternative, such as increasing the earned income tax credit and
making its benefits simpler and more salient. For once, they
could make the Democrats seem like the dinosaurs trapped in
their New Deal past, while the Republicans are offering anti-
poverty policies designed for the 21st century.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at Harvard
University, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 