-- Vivendi Says EU Court Should Uphold Its France Telecom Complaint
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-02-20T12:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/vivendi-says-eu-court-should-uphold-its-france-telecom-complaint.html
Vivendi SA  said its complaint
alleging antitrust violations by former French telephone
monopoly  France Telecom SA  was unlawfully rejected by European
Union regulators.  The European Commission’s  July 2010 rejection  of the
complaint that France Telecom abused its dominant position
should be overturned, Olivier Freget, a lawyer representing
Paris-based Vivendi said in a hearing at the EU General Court
today.  “This is a complete denial of justice,” Freget, who works
at law firm Allen & Overy LLP in Paris, told a three-judge panel
of the Luxembourg-based court, the second-highest in the EU.
“As long as this decision exists, we are blocked or won’t be
able anymore -- without major difficulties -- to raise the
points in it, even by re-filing a complaint at national level in
Paris.”  French telecommunications operators are trying to protect
revenue in one of Europe’s most competitive markets for fixed-
line services. Vivendi had 5 million fixed-line subscribers as
of  Sept. 30  and its SFR unit had 20.9 million mobile customers
while France Telecom had 17.8 million fixed-line subscribers and
 26.6 million  mobile clients.  The commission in its decision said the March 2009
complaint had to be rejected because “there wasn’t a sufficient
EU interest in pursuing the investigation of the alleged
violations.”  Discriminatory Practices  Vivendi had argued among other points that France Telecom
followed a strategy of artificially increasing its competitors’
costs through discriminatory practices.  The company’s complaint at the time “was extremely
ambitious,” Bernard Mongin, a lawyer for the Brussels-based
commission told the court today.  The EU antitrust regulator rejected the complaint for two
reasons, said Mongin. One, was that it had a “very limited
effect on the functioning of the market” and two, there was a
“limited probability that any violation could have been
established.”  Any ruling by the EU court can be appealed one last time.  The case is: T-432/10, Vivendi v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  