-- VIX Soars Most in 15 Months After Fed Minutes
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2013-02-20T21:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/vix-soars-most-in-15-months-as-fed-minutes-sends-stocks-tumbling.html
The  benchmark gauge  for U.S. stock
options rose the most 15 months as minutes from the Federal
Reserve’s last meeting showed a debate over the monetary
stimulus that has fueled a four-year  bull market  in equities.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , or
VIX, climbed 19 percent to 14.68, the biggest advance since
November 2011. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.2 percent,
the most since Nov. 14. The VIX, which measures the cost of
using options as insurance against losses in the  S&P 500 , closed
at the lowest level since April 2007 yesterday.  “It’s not surprising that to see a move up from such a
magnitude coming from such a low level,”  Hank Smith , who helps
oversee $6.5 billion as chief investment officer of Haverford
Trust Co. in Radnor, Pennsylvania, said in a phone interview.
“In such an environment, the Fed minutes would be a good
excuse.”  The S&P 500, poised to enter the fifth year of the advance
that began in March 2009, is within 3.4 percent of its 2007
record amid global central bank stimulus. The Fed has tied
monetary policy to unemployment and announced a third round of
bond purchases, while the European Central Bank pledged to buy
as many securities as needed to lower borrowing costs and
preserve the euro.  Stocks extended losses today after minutes of the Federal
Open Market Committee’s Jan. 29-30 meeting released today showed
policy makers were divided about the strategy behind Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s program of buying bonds until there is
“substantial” improvement in a U.S. labor market burdened with
7.9 percent unemployment.  Some said an earlier end to purchases might be needed, and
others warned against a premature withdrawal of stimulus.
Several policy makers said the central bank should be ready to
vary the pace of their $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  The VIX has fallen 19 percent this year, adding to a 23
percent drop in 2012, as the rally in U.S. equities reduced
demand for protection against losses. The gauge closed at the
highest level since Jan. 2 today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  