-- Wal-Mart Wins Dismissal of Tennessee Sex-Bias Class Claim
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-02-20T20:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/wal-mart-wins-dismissal-of-tennessee-sex-bias-class-claims.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  women workers
in Tennessee and four other southern states can’t pursue sex-
discrimination claims against the company through a class
action, or group lawsuit, a federal judge said.  The class action is barred because it was filed too late,
U.S. District Judge  Aleta Trauger  in Nashville said today. A
1988 decision by the federal appeals court in Cincinnati in a
separate case, known as Andrews v. Orr, blocks the women from
joining a new class action, she said.  “The class claims are time-barred,” she said in her 54-
page decision. “Unless this court finds that Andrews is no
longer good law, the court is constrained to apply the holding
in Andrews to this case.” Trauger didn’t rule on the merits of
the women’s claims.  The lawsuit was filed in Nashville last year by three women
who claimed Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, paid  women 
less than men in comparable jobs and blocked promotions for
female workers in five southern states. The women sought to
proceed on behalf of Wal-Mart’s female employees in the
company’s Region 43, which comprises Tennessee and parts of
Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia and Mississippi.  ‘Seek Review’  “We are disappointed by the U.S. District Court ruling,
but will seek review in the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals,”
 Joseph Sellers , an attorney for the women, said today.  David Tovar , a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the ruling.  The suit is the one of four regional gender-discrimination
claims filed against Wal-Mart following a U.S. Supreme Court
decision in 2011 rejecting a nationwide class action. Women in
California, Texas and Florida have filed lawsuits as well. The
Texas class claim was dismissed in October.  The lawsuit is Phipps v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 12-cv-01009,
U.S. District Court, Middle District of Tennessee (Nashville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  