-- Wal-Mart Sales Slump May Signal U.S. Consumer Spending to Cool
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-02-20T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/wal-mart-sales-slump-may-signal-u-s-consumer-spending-to-cool.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. internal e-
mails revealing the worst sales start to a month in at least
seven years may be the first sign U.S. consumer spending will
cool as households try to cope with a payroll-tax increase and
delayed refunds.  The Wal-Mart warning has led some economists to ask whether
it was premature to conclude, based on January U.S.  retail sales 
figures and demand for automobiles, that the two percentage-
point increase in the payroll tax that took place at the start
of the year had less impact on spending than they predicted.
Combined with a delay in tax refunds and rising gasoline prices,
the cut in take-home pay may mean the world’s largest retailer
won’t be the only one suffering.  “You have three extremely significant headwinds facing the
consumer, so from that perspective, the comment by Wal-Mart
seems rather appropriate,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S.
economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York. Porcelli is
the top-ranked U.S. forecaster for consumer spending for the two
years through December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Wal-Mart’s size and influence mean that “when they make
comments like that, you should perk up,” he said.  This month’s sales figures are “a total disaster,” Jerry
Murray, Wal-Mart’s vice president of finance and logistics, said
in a Feb. 12 e-mail to other executives, Bloomberg first
reported in a Feb. 15 story. Company officials expected a strong
start to February because of the Super Bowl and milder weather,
according to the minutes of a Feb. 1 officers meeting obtained
by Bloomberg.  Sales Data  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based chain, which has more than
4,500 stores and clubs and 1.4 million employees in the U.S.,
doesn’t release monthly sales figures, only quarterly data.  When a payroll-tax break expired Dec. 31, Americans began
paying two percentage points more in Social Security taxes on
their first $113,700 in wages. For a person making $40,000 a
year, that is about $15 a week.  Total retail sales in the U.S. rose 0.1 percent in January,
a third consecutive advance, showing household spending held up
even as the increase in the payroll tax takes a bigger bite from
paychecks.  Department stores and online merchants were among those
showing growing demand as improving job prospects and a
strengthening housing market helped companies such as  Gap Inc. 
and  Target Corp.  Economists at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in St.
Louis boosted their tracking estimate of first-quarter household
spending to 1.9 percent from a prior forecast of 1.4 percent
after the report.  ‘Caution Flag’  “Any signs of weak spending should wave a caution flag,
because it’s going to take at least a few months to figure out
the full impact of the tax hikes,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in New York. McCarthy is
the second-best forecaster of retail sales for two years through
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher fuel costs are another hurdle facing consumers. The
 average price  of a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump was
$3.75 on Feb. 18, up from a one-year low of $3.22 on Dec. 19 and
the highest since mid-October.  Higher payroll taxes, on top of rising prices at the pump,
“go against our customers’ wallet,”  Howard Levine , chief
executive officer of Family Dollar Stores Inc., the second-
largest U.S. dollar store chain, said on a Jan. 3 conference
call. “Clearly, they do not have as much today for
discretionary purchases that they did.”  Refunds Delayed  Adding to consumer distress, the Internal Revenue Service
did not begin accepting and processing 2012 returns until Jan.
30, later than its original Jan. 22 electronic filing start
date, due to Congress’ last-minute Jan. 1 tax deal. That,
combined with the IRS’s efforts to prevent fraud, may slow
refunds.  About $19.7 billion more in tax refunds had been delivered
to shoppers by this time last year, according to an analysis
prepared by Wal-Mart’s Global Customer Insights & Analytics
division that was attached to Murray’s e-mail on Feb. 12. The
retailer expected returns to be delayed by three to four weeks
because of the late release of tax forms and as a result of
federally mandated tax-fraud scrutiny.  Joel Prakken , senior managing director at Macroeconomic
Advisors and a former economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, is among those urging caution in interpreting the Wal-
Mart emails as a sign of impending doom.  ‘Extremely Dangerous’  “It’s extremely dangerous to make much in the way of
inferences from one company’s internal emails,” said Prakken.
“I’m resisting the sky-is-falling interpretation of these
emails.”  Even so, gains in consumer spending will probably slow from
the second quarter’s 2.2 percent increase at an annual rate
because of the tax increase, said Prakken. “It’s not a
disaster, it’s a deceleration.”  There is little evidence yet that the headwinds facing
consumers are affecting demand for big-ticket items. Cars and
light trucks  sold  at a 15.2 million annual rate in January
compared with the prior month’s 15.3 million pace, according to
data from Ward’s Automotive Group. Including November’s 15.5
million rate, auto sales over the past three months have been
the strongest in five years.  The Standard & Poor’s  Consumer Discretionary Index , which
is a weighted measure of companies in industries that tend to be
most sensitive to swings in the economy, including homebuilders,
restaurant chains and automakers, rose 0.4 percent yesterday to
close at 405.31 in New York, a record high. Wal-Mart shares fell
0.8 percent.  Luxury Retailers  Also, luxury retailers may fare better than discount
chains, said  Chris Christopher , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts.  “Luxury might be doing well,” lifted by rising stock
prices and property values, Christopher said. “The lower-end
household incomes are going to pull back a little more
significantly, and the upper-income brackets are not as impacted
by all this.”  Analysts at Citigroup Inc. also point out that discount
stores will probably prosper, rather be hurt, if the economy
were taking a turn for the worse.  Lower-end retailers may benefit as customers struggling
with the economy trade down, according to a Feb. 17 report by
Citigroup Inc. analyst  Deborah Weinswig  in New York. “This
should ultimately benefit retailers that cater to these
customers,” such as Wal-Mart and dollar stores, she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Jamrisko  in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  