-- Walter Says Audley Move May Be ‘Disruptive'
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-02-21T16:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/walter-energy-drops-after-earnings-miss-estimates.html
Walter Energy Inc. (WLT) , said investor
Audley Capital LLC’s proposal to change the U.S. metallurgical-
coal producer’s board may be “disruptive.”  Audley, which announced Feb. 19 it intended to nominate
five candidates to Walter’s board, hasn’t communicated directly
with the coal company, Walter Chief Executive Officer Walter Scheller said today.  “We’re always willing to have constructive conversation
with our owners about ways that the board and management team
can enhance shareholder value,” he said on Walter’s fourth-
quarter earnings conference call. “It’s unfortunate that Audley
has chosen to take a course that may prove disruptive to our
company.”  Audley says Walter has lost shareholders’ confidence after
missing earnings expectations, failing to control costs and
accumulating too much debt with its 2011 purchase of Canada’s
Western Coal Corp. It also said the company lacked consistent
leadership by having four CEOs in the last five years. London-
based Audley  owns  21,000 shares of Walter according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We believe some pressure from shareholders to cut costs
and improve operations could serve Walter well,” Paul Forward,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Inc. in Baltimore, said in a
note yesterday.  “We fear that the effort to replace board members revives
the 2011 dispute that led to the surprising early exit of former
Walter CEO (and Western Coal CEO) Keith Calder,” he said. “In
our view, neither side in a reopening of the dispute would be
likely to emerge spotless.”  Shares Decline  Walter has posted two straight quarterly losses after
prices for metallurgical coal fell amid slowing economic growth
in  China , the biggest steelmaker. Walter said yesterday its
average sales price fell 39 percent to $149 a metric ton in the
quarter.  The fourth-quarter loss was $66 million, excluding
restructuring costs and other one-time items, Birmingham,
Alabama-based Walter said in a statement yesterday after the
close of regular U.S. trading. That was wider than the $61
million average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue declined 32 percent to $478.8 million, compared
with the $506.1 million average of 12 estimates. Selling,
general and administrative costs fell 13 percent to $28.8
million. Walter said it sees 2013 production and sales of
metallurgical coal in line with last year.  The shares dropped 7 percent to $34.19 at 11:40 a.m. in New
York.  Audley’s proposed nominees include Julian Treger, its co-
founder and managing partner; Eddie Scholtz, a former executive
at BHP Billiton Ltd. and CIC Energy Corp.; Mark Lochtenberg,
chairman of Australia’s Cockatoo Coal Ltd. and a former co-head
of Glencore International Plc’s coal business; Robert Stan, the
former CEO of  Canada ’s Grande Cache Coal Corp.; and Lawrence Clark Jr., CEO of closely held U.S. coal company JW Resources
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  