-- Weight-Loss Surgery Fails to Reduce Costs, Study Finds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-02-21T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/weight-loss-surgery-fails-to-reduce-costs-study-finds.html
People who undergo  weight-loss 
surgery don’t reduce their costs as they take off pounds, as
hospital stays for complications from the procedure exceed
savings from obesity-related illnesses, a study found.  Researchers tracked insurance claims of 29,820 patients for
as many as six years after bariatric surgery, comparing their
costs with a group of people with obesity-related conditions who
didn’t have the procedures. While pharmacy expenses and office
visits were lower for surgical patients, repeat procedures were
higher, according to the study in the journal  JAMA-Surgery .  Bariatric surgery is one of the most effective weight loss
methods, with studies showing the procedure yields health
benefits such as reduced diabetes risk and lower cholesterol for
at least six years. There’s no evidence, though, that it
prolongs life. The study released yesterday, the largest and
longest of its kind, shows the improvements that stem from
avoiding diabetes and heart disease don’t necessarily bolster
health across the board.  “This suggests that rampant bariatric surgery isn’t going
to be an answer to health-care costs,” as some have suggested,
said  Jonathan Weiner , professor of health policy and management
at  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health , and the
study’s lead author. “That doesn’t mean that some people, some
of the time won’t benefit from surgery. This is a major source
of information into the overall decision into who should get
surgery.”  $28,000 Cost  The study found no reduction in expenses to help recoup the
$28,000 average cost of the initial surgery, with repeat
inpatient hospital costs peaking after two to three years. The
patients traded off the type of care they needed, with costs
remaining stable at roughly $9,000 a year.  The number of procedures performed in the U.S. topped
220,000 in 2009, according to the  American Society for Metabolic
& Bariatric Surgery . The procedures, which achieve weight loss
by restricting the size of the stomach, include gastric banding
that is adjustable and reversible, and gastric bypass, in which
part of the stomach is closed and the other is connected to the
small intestine.  “Future studies should focus on the potential benefit of
improved health and well-being of patients undergoing the
procedure rather than on cost savings,” Weiner said in a
statement.  Allergan Inc. (AGN) , which sells the Lap-Band weight loss device,
said Feb. 5 it will sell its obesity-treatment unit in the first
half of 2013. The unit’s sales tumbled 22 percent in the fourth
quarter to $36.8 million. Annual sales are down from a peak of
$296 million in 2009 amid questions about the stomach-shrinking
device’s risk and lawsuits stemming from surgical complications.  500 Million Obese  More than 500 million people worldwide are obese, according
to the  World Health Organization . In the U.S., more than  44
percent  of adults may be obese by 2030, according to a report
from the Trust for America’s Health and Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation. Obesity-related health costs in the U.S. now top
$168 billion annually, the researchers said.  While weight loss surgery can dramatically help a single
person, the benefits are markedly less when the risks and costs
are considered for everyone getting the procedure, said Edward
Livingston, JAMA’s deputy managing editor, in an editorial
accompanying the study. Swedish research found surgery reduced
prescription drug use while boosting hospital costs over time. A
U.S. Veterans Department analysis found the most common and
effective type of bypass surgery failed to reduce health-care
spending, he wrote.  Little Benefit  “Coupled with findings that bariatric surgery confers
little to no long-term survival benefit, these observations show
that bariatric surgery does not provide an overall societal
benefit,” Livingston wrote. “In this era of tight finances and
inevitable rationing of health care resources, bariatric surgery
should be viewed as an expensive resource that can help some
patients.”  The surgery should only be offered to those who have clear
health problems tied to obesity, such as diabetes or arthritis,
and can comply with the dietary restrictions that follow
surgery, he said. It shouldn’t be done simply to help people
lose weight, he said.  The finding also underscores the need for alternative,
effective weight loss methods, said Kenneth Thorpe, chairman of
health policy and management of Emory University’s Rollins
School of  Public Health  and a consultant to  Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , which
makes the weight-loss medicine Qsymia.  The Medicare health insurance program for the elderly
doesn’t cover other weight-loss approaches, such as intensive
lifestyle interventions that are much less expensive, he said.  “Rising rates of obesity and chronic disease are a key
driver of rising health care costs,” he said. “‘We need more
options to address issues around overweight and obesity in the
Medicare program that are less interventional and save money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  