-- Wheeler Says RBNZ Could Intervene, Warns on ‘One-Way’ Bets
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-20T04:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/wheeler-says-rbnz-prepared-to-intervene-warns-on-one-way-bets.html
New Zealand central bank Governor
 Graeme Wheeler  said the monetary authority is prepared to step
in to damp the nation’s currency. The so-called kiwi tumbled.  “When the New Zealand dollar is coming under upward
pressure, we want investors to know that the kiwi is not a one-
way bet,” Wheeler said in a  speech  to manufacturers and
exporters in Auckland. “The Reserve Bank is prepared to
intervene to influence the kiwi. But given the strength of
recent capital flows, we can only attempt to smooth the peaks.”  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 1.5 percent this year
following a 6.6 percent rise in 2012, curbing the value of
exports which make up 30 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product. Along with the Australian, Canadian, Swedish and other
currencies, the kiwi has strengthened as nations such as the
U.S., Japan and the U.K. reduce interest rates to near-zero and
undertake quantitative easing to boost their economies.  Wheeler, a World Bank official for 13 years before joining
the RBNZ in September, acknowledged the limitations of
intervention and signaled a Swiss-style cap wouldn’t be wise for
the kiwi. Finance Minister  Bill English  cautioned last week that
New Zealand wouldn’t join the so-called currency wars because
it’s only armed with a “peashooter.”  The local currency weakened after Wheeler’s remarks,
trading at 84.05 U.S. cents at 4:25 p.m. in Wellington, from
around 84.60 cents before notes of his speech were released.  Softer Tone  “Clearly he softened his tone not just for today’s
audience but for the broader public given the New Zealand dollar
was nudging” 85 U.S. cents,  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-
Pacific research for TD Securities Inc. in Singapore, said in an
e-mailed note. “Will he intervene in the currency? No. Will he
cut the official cash rate? No.”  Wheeler reiterated the central bank’s long-standing
criteria for intervention in foreign-exchange markets: “whether
the exchange rate is at an exceptional level, whether its level
is justified, whether intervention would be consistent with
monetary policy, and whether market conditions exist to
successfully achieve the desired exchange rate adjustment.”  Japan’s currency has fallen 13 percent in the past three
months as the government takes steps to stimulate its economy
and beat deflation. Central banks from London, Washington and
Tokyo have kept interest rates near zero in a bid to reflate
asset prices and restore borrowing after the 2008 credit crunch.  Higher Yields  “These policies are aimed at stimulating growth but also
have significant spillover effects,” Wheeler said. Many other
nations are similarly affected as investors seek higher yields
in economies with stronger growth rates and favorable commodity
price outlooks, he said.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20
nations pledged not “to target our exchange rates for
competitive purposes,” according to a statement issued after a
meeting in Moscow that concluded Feb. 17.  The G-20 meeting didn’t censure Japan because its policy
wasn’t to intentionally devalue, Brazilian Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  told reporters after the meeting. Yesterday, South
Korea denied that the G-20 endorsed Japan’s quantitative easing.  New Zealand’s government is wary of intervening to weaken
the currency, Finance Minister  Bill English  indicated last week.  “We’re not willing to take the kind of huge risks involved
in large scale speculation in the exchange rate with taxpayer
dollars,’ English told reporters on Feb. 13. ‘‘To influence the
exchange rate you need a couple of hundred billion U.S. in the
bank so they take you seriously. We’d be out in the war zone
with a peashooter.”  N.Z.’s Reserves  New Zealand’s foreign reserves were NZ$21.4 billion ($18
billion) as at Dec. 31, according to government figures. The
U.S. international reserve position at Feb. 8 was $150.9
billion, according to Treasury data.  Wheeler today indicated that any intervention would occur
in a foreign-exchange market where as much as $5 trillion a day
is transacted, and the nation’s currency is about the 10th-most
traded worldwide. The country’s official  cash rate  has been held
at a record-low 2.5 percent since March 2011.  Part of the New Zealand dollar’s strength is a result of
the ratio of export prices to import prices, Wheeler said.
Putting that aside, the “currency is overvalued in terms of
economic fundamentals and the Reserve Bank would like to see a
lower exchange rate,” he said.  Job Losses  Some manufacturers have closed New Zealand plants and fired
workers, citing declining demand and high costs, including the
currency. Invacare Corp., an Ohio-based medical equipment maker,
announced in November it is closing a New Zealand plant, firing
60 workers. Norske Skogindustrier ASA, Europe’s third-largest
maker of publication paper, is cutting 110 jobs at a plant in
the central North Island after scaling back operations.  Wheeler reiterated his view that quantitative easing isn’t
justified in New Zealand because the country didn’t suffer the
same extent of “economic damage” as the U.S. and some European
countries. Adopting the Swiss National Bank policy of capping
the currency would be a risky strategy, he said.  “There are no simple solutions available to the Reserve
Bank of the exchange rate challenges we face,” he said. “We
will use the cash rate as circumstances require and we’re
exploring the scope to use macroprudential instruments.”  Further efforts to improve the level of labor productivity,
reduce the fiscal deficit and to bolster savings “have to be a
major part of the solution,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  