-- Why Should Taxpayers Give Big Banks $83 Billion a Year?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-20T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/why-should-taxpayers-give-big-banks-83-billion-a-year-.html
On television, in interviews and in
meetings with investors, executives of the biggest U.S. banks --
notably JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive  Jamie Dimon  -- make
the case that size is a competitive advantage. It helps them
lower costs and vie for customers on an international scale.
Limiting it, they warn, would impair profitability and weaken
the country’s position in global finance.  So what if we told you that, by our calculations, the
largest U.S. banks aren’t really profitable at all? What if the
billions of dollars they allegedly earn for their shareholders
were almost entirely a gift from U.S. taxpayers?  Granted, it’s a hard concept to swallow. It’s also crucial
to understanding why the big banks present such a threat to the
global economy.  Let’s start with a bit of background. Banks have a powerful
incentive to get big and unwieldy. The larger they are, the more
disastrous their failure would be and the more certain they can
be of a government bailout in an emergency. The result is an
implicit subsidy: The banks that are potentially the most
dangerous can borrow at lower rates, because creditors perceive
them as too big to fail.  Lately, economists have tried to pin down exactly how much
the subsidy lowers big banks’ borrowing costs. In one relatively
thorough  effort , two researchers -- Kenichi Ueda of the
 International Monetary Fund  and Beatrice Weder di Mauro of the
University of Mainz -- put the number at about 0.8 percentage
point. The discount applies to all their liabilities, including
bonds and customer deposits.  Big Difference  Small as it might sound, 0.8 percentage point makes a big
difference. Multiplied by the total liabilities of the 10
largest U.S. banks by assets, it amounts to a taxpayer subsidy
of $83 billion a year. To put the figure in perspective, it’s
tantamount to the government giving the banks about 3 cents of
every tax dollar collected.  The top five banks -- JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc., Wells Fargo & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. -
- account for $64 billion of the total subsidy, an amount
roughly equal to their typical annual profits (see tables for
data on individual banks). In other words, the banks occupying
the commanding heights of the U.S. financial industry -- with
almost $9 trillion in assets, more than half the size of the
 U.S. economy  -- would just about break even in the absence of
corporate welfare. In large part, the profits they report are
essentially transfers from taxpayers to their shareholders.  Neither bank executives nor shareholders have much
incentive to change the situation. On the contrary, the
financial industry spends  hundreds of millions  of dollars every
election cycle on campaign donations and lobbying, much of which
is aimed at maintaining the subsidy. The result is a bloated
financial sector and recurring credit gluts. Left unchecked, the
superbanks could ultimately require bailouts that exceed the
government’s resources. Picture a meltdown in which the Treasury
is helpless to step in as it did in 2008 and 2009.  Regulators can change the game by paring down the subsidy.
One option is to make banks fund their activities with more
equity from shareholders, a measure that would make them less
likely to need bailouts (we recommend $1 of equity for each $5
of assets, far more than the 1-to-33 ratio that new global rules
require). Another idea is to shock creditors out of complacency
by making some of them take losses when banks run into trouble.
A third is to prevent banks from using the subsidy to finance
speculative trading, the aim of the Volcker rule in the U.S. and
financial ring-fencing in the U.K.  Once shareholders fully recognized how poorly the biggest
banks perform without government support, they would be
motivated to demand better. This could entail anything from
cutting pay packages to breaking down financial juggernauts into
more manageable units. The market discipline might not please
executives, but it would certainly be an improvement over paying
banks to put us in danger.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 