-- Twitter Joins With Adobe, Salesforce to Sell Ads on Site
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-02-20T21:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/twitter-joins-with-adobe-salesforce-to-sell-ads-on-site.html
Twitter Inc., seeking to boost
revenue, said it will work with partners including  Adobe Systems
Inc.  and  Salesforce.com Inc.  to sell advertising that appears
alongside the social site’s 140-character status updates.  Using software that taps into Twitter’s ad platform, other
companies will be able to sell promotions on its behalf and
improve the relevancy of ads, Twitter said in a  blog  posting
today. No financial terms were disclosed.  Twitter is following the approach of  Facebook Inc. , which
has also enlisted outside software makers to sell ads on its
social network. The alliances are aimed at helping businesses
use tools such as Adobe’s Media Optimizer and Salesforce’s
Marketing Cloud to place promotions simultaneously on multiple
social-media sites, including Twitter, said  Clark Fredricksen ,
vice president at EMarketer Inc.  “It will make it easier for companies that already buy ads
on Facebook and other properties to also make buys on Twitter,”
Fredricksen, who is based in New York, said in an interview.  The ad partnerships could help Twitter, which is preparing
for an eventual initial public offering, reach its target of $1
billion in revenue in 2014. The site is projected to increase
sales by 89 percent to $545.2 million this year, EMarketer
estimated.  Twitter has 200 million active users.  In addition to Adobe and Salesforce, the company will let
marketers buy messages through  Hootsuite Media Inc. ,  TBG Digital
Ltd.  and  GraphEffect Inc.   Ad Platform  Salesforce customers, which include ad agencies  Omnicom
Group Inc.  and  Razorfish Inc. , will now be able to determine
which promoted tweets, or sponsored messages, have the best
chance of reaching a certain audience, said  Michael Lazerow ,
chief marketing officer of Salesforce Marketing Cloud.  “When we can show our clients that these are the tweets
you should buy as promoted tweets and we take the guesswork out
of it, you have a significant increase in the results,” Lazerow
said.  Twitter will still collect the full price paid by
advertisers, while Salesforce can charge clients for other
services, such as improving the targeting of those ads, Lazerow
said.  Partners will tap into Twitter’s ad platform via an
application programming interface, or API, that lets software
programs exchange information and work with each other.  After Facebook opened its advertising API to outside
developers, it spawned a cottage industry of startups like Buddy
Media, the ad software company Lazerow co-founded and sold to
Salesforce last year.  About 60 percent of Facebook’s advertising revenue in 2012
was generated by promotions purchased via third-party software,
EMarketer estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  