-- Wolters Kluwer CEO Plans Disposals While Expanding in China
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-20T17:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/wolters-kluwer-chief-plans-disposals-while-expanding-in-china.html
Wolters Kluwer NV , Europe’s largest
tax and legal publisher, will sell unprofitable businesses and
further its expansion into China this year to counter a slowdown
in European growth.  The  company , which gets 42 percent of its sales from
Europe, may also find “operating efficiencies” in areas such
as real estate and IT sourcing, Chief Executive Officer  Nancy McKinstry  said in a phone interview today. Meanwhile, the Alphen
aan den Rijn, Netherlands-based publisher is seeking
acquisitions in software and digital products.  “We wouldn’t do something really significant in size that
transforms the business,” she said. “Over the past 10 years we
usually spend between 200 million and 300 million euros a year
on acquisitions.”  Wolters Kluwer, which today reported organic revenue growth
of 1 percent for 2012, said conditions in Europe will remain
tough this year. The company and peers, including the U.K.’s
 Reed Elsevier Plc , are focusing on growth through online
subscriptions, software and digital offerings to counter a slow
European market and a drop in traditional print sales.  Still, there are “pockets of growth” in the region, in
fields such as tax and accounting, and corporate legal services,
McKinstry said. Book lines and products for governments are
lagging behind, she said.  Europe Slowdown  “We’re expecting our European business to only perform
better over the medium-term in the next couple of years,”
McKinstry said. “Customer retention is holding up within the
business but the question is how quickly news sales will
rebound.”  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization in 2012
increased to 785 million euros ($1.05 billion) from 728 million
euros. Revenue climbed 7.4 percent to 3.6 billion euros, beating
analysts’ 3.55 billion-euro average  estimate , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s  shares  rose 2.9 percent to 15.60 euros in
Amsterdam trading, bringing the advance this year to 0.8 percent
and giving Wolters Kluwer a market value of 4.71 billion euros.  Wolters Kluwer, which expanded its business in China by
about 17 percent in 2012, is seeking similar growth in the
country this year, McKinstry said.  “We’ve been growing nicely in China and we made some small
acquisitions there,” she said.  Aside from sales in Europe, the company gets about 54
percent of revenue from the U.S. and about 6 percent from the
rest of the world, she said.  The publisher also announced today that  Kevin Entricken 
will become Chief Financial Officer in May, succeeding  Boudewijn Beerkens , who has accepted the job of finance chief at SHV, a
Dutch family-owned company. Entricken has been CFO of Wolters
Kluwer Health for three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 