-- Struggle From Slavery Pressed by Women’s Ambassador
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-02-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/women-s-global-stuggle-for-empowerment-pressed-by-verveer.html
During almost four years as the
first U.S. ambassador for global women’s issues,  Melanne Verveer 
pressed governments around the world on matters ranging from
ending child marriages to integrating women into peace efforts.  Yet, that diplomatic role hardly prepared her for some
personal encounters along the way, such as the day in Nepal when
she was taken to meet a woman who went to Saudi Arabia as a
housekeeper and was enslaved and beaten by her employer. She had
leapt from a balcony in a desperate escape from her tormentor.  “Her back was broken, she was in a brace, she showed me
her black and blue marks all over her body,” Verveer, 68,
recalled in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York.  “I can’t quite get her out of my eyes still,” said
Verveer, who this month returned to her alma mater, Georgetown
University in Washington, to become the  executive director  of
the  Georgetown Institute  for Women, Peace and Security.  Such disturbing experiences informed and drove Verveer’s
efforts to not only raise awareness to the suffering of women
but also to bridge the gender gap, elevate women to leadership
roles and showcase their role in the economy.  As ambassador, Verveer, one of former Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton ’s closest confidantes, traveled to more than 60
countries in an effort that shows the growing prominence of
women’s issues on the international agenda -- and just how much
remains to be done.  ‘Women Leaders’  Alongside Clinton, whom she’s known for three decades,
Verveer has worked to bring visibility and empowerment to women.
When Clinton, as first lady, famously declared in Beijing in
1995 that “women’s rights are human rights,” Verveer was by
her side as her chief of staff. In her ambassadorial role,
Verveer has worked to also elevate women’s issues within U.S.
policy making circles.  Asked in an interview about what has been a guiding
principle of her women’s advocacy, Verveer cites a 2009
conversation she had with an Afghan woman in Kabul.  “Please don’t see us as victims but as the women leaders
we are,” Verveer said she was told at that meeting, which took
place soon after President  Barack Obama  appointed her
ambassador-at-large.  Verveer’s travels have taken her from Haiti, plagued by
rape and gender-based violence, to tumultuous Yemen, home to one
of the female protagonists of the Arab Spring: journalist and
Nobel peace prize laureate  Tawakkul Karman . The protests that
sprung up in 2011 and swept across North Africa and the Middle
East also challenged the role of women in male-dominated
societies.  Struggle On  In her conversations with the activist, Verveer said the
she was told that in Yemen “which is about as tradition-bound a
society as you can find” something had snapped.  “The way she put it to me was that the women were asleep
and they woke up, and they are not going back to sleep
anymore,” Verveer said. “Now, how long they will have to be
awake and how long that struggle will be and how many changes
they will see -- none of us knows.”  With their departures -- Clinton plans to pen her memoirs
and give speeches amid speculation about her 2016 presidential
intentions -- it remains to be seen who will replace Verveer and
whether new Secretary of State  John Kerry  will give women’s
issue the same visibility and importance as Clinton.  Verveer says there is still plenty to do.  “I hope this job ends and this position is not needed, but
we’re not there yet,” she said. “It’s like so much affirmative
action that still needs to happen.”  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Michael Shepard  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  