-- World Trade Center Asks 9/11 Judge to Dismiss AMR Defense
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-20T18:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/world-trade-center-asks-9-11-judge-to-dismiss-amr-defense.html
World Trade Center Properties LLC
asked a federal judge to rule in its favor and reject a defense
asserted by  AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines that it was the victim
of an “act of war” in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  WTC Properties, leaseholder of the lower Manhattan twin
skyscrapers destroyed in the attacks, sued parties including
United Continental Holdings Inc. and American Airlines in 2008,
claiming their negligence caused the towers’ collapse.  Terrorists hijacked airliners and flew them into the two
towers and the Pentagon and crashed a fourth in a field in
Pennsylvania, killing about 3,000 people. World Trade Center
Properties is an affiliate of Silverstein Properties, which is
developing towers at the site.  The airline defendants “repeatedly and explicitly promised
Congress, regulators and the American people that they would not
use act of war to avoid paying claims,” lawyers for Silverstein
said in court papers filed yesterday and today in federal court
in Manhattan.  “Those promises, widely praised at the time but since
broken, led to a massive federal bailout of the aviation
industry and a huge taxpayer-funded financial windfall for the
defendants’ insurers,” Silverstein said.  The Silverstein Properties Inc. unit, named for  Larry Silverstein , asked for a partial summary judgment, or a ruling
ahead of trial, claiming that in the wake of the attacks the
airlines’ insurers promised U.S. officials they wouldn’t use the
act-of-war defense to avoid paying claims for the attacks.  Airline Statement  “This motion by the Silverstein interests has no factual
or legal support,” Sean Collins, a spokesman for American
Airlines, said by e-mail. “American Airlines has defended
itself with all defenses available at law against the baseless
attempt by the Silverstein entities to hold American responsible
for the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.”  Silverstein said in court papers that, after the attacks,
American and other aviation defendants obtained a liability cap
that limited the amount of the airlines’ insurance coverage and
created a victims’ compensation fund using taxpayer money to pay
claims for deaths and injuries.  The airlines also received benefits including loan
guarantees, insurance reimbursement and tax relief, which
Silverstein argues “totaled in the tens of billions of
dollars.”  “Defendants are engaged in a shameful display of
duplicity,” Silverstein’s lawyers wrote, saying the defendants
should be prevented “from reneging on the promises their
insurers made shortly after 9/11 in order to achieve the massive
bailout and windfall that came their way as a result of those
promises.”  Related Damage  When the towers collapsed, debris was thrown against nearby
buildings, causing fires and eventually the collapse of
skyscrapers including 7 World Trade Center.  World Trade Center Properties includes five properties on
the site, including the twin towers and 7 World Trade Center.  AMR and  United Continental  in September lost a bid to avoid
a trial over negligence claims tied to the hijacking of the
jetliners. U.S. District Judge  Alvin K. Hellerstein  ruled a
trial was required.  The lease owners sued insurers after the attacks,,
eventually settling for $4.09 billion, Hellerstein has said in a
prior ruling. World Trade Center Properties sued the airlines
seeking $8.4 billion, the estimated cost of replacing the two
towers, as well as claims of negligence. Hellerstein previously
rejected the airlines’ bid for summary judgment.  The judge also rejected the air carriers’ argument that
since the buildings’ lease owners recovered $4.09 billion from
insurance, World Trade Center Properties couldn’t also recover
the $2.8 billion sought for the lease.  The case is In Re September 11 Litigation, 21-MC-101, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 