-- Worst Australia Bond Fund Flees Sovereigns to Seek Yield
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-20T01:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/worst-australia-bond-fund-flees-sovereigns-to-seek-yield.html
Bill Bovingdon,  Strategic Fixed
Interest Trust ’s new manager, is seeking higher yields away from
Australian government debt to turn around the nation’s worst-
performing actively-managed bond fund of 2012.  The trust returned 6.8 percent last year, ranking No. 21
out of 22 debt funds in the nation, according to Morningstar
Australia in Sydney. Only Macquarie True Index Sovereign Bond
Fund, which tracks a debt index, performed worse with a 5.5
percent gain, the data show. The world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which invests mainly in the
U.S., returned 10 percent.  Altius Asset Management Pty, where Bovingdon is chief
investment officer,  took over  Strategic Fixed Interest from
Vianova Asset Management Pty in January, after assets plunged 85
percent last quarter and three top officials left. Reserve Bank
Governor Glenn Stevens said yesterday interest rates at a half-
century low of 3 percent are starting to spur the economy.  “We’re looking for more attractive investment
opportunities in our sector mix,” said Bovingdon, 51. “We’ve
had abnormally low yields for a long period of time, and we’re
slowly seeing a semblance of stability and improvement in
growth.”  ‘Very Expensive’  Government debt is “very expensive,” so Bovingdon favors
state bonds, high-grade corporate debt and mortgage-backed
securities, he said. The fund had assets of A$90.9 million ($94
million) at Jan. 31, down from a peak of A$835.3 million in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank of Australia may still cut interest rates
to a record 2.75 percent this year from 3 percent now, Bovingdon
said, even though Stevens refrained from trimming borrowing
costs when policy makers met earlier this month.  Australian sovereign bonds gained 5.5 percent in 2012,
compared with an average annual return of 9.5 percent, based on
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index set up at the end of 1985.
Domestic corporate notes advanced 11 percent last year,
according to the Bank of America unit.  The UBS Composite Bond Index of Australian bonds outpaced
Strategic Fixed Interest with a 7.7 percent return in 2012,
according to the  website  of Australian Unity Ltd., which is a
joint venture partner with Altius and markets the Strategic
Fixed Interest Trust.  Record Yields  The gain in prices pushed 10-year sovereign  yields  to a
record low of 2.698 percent in June. The rate rose to a nine-
month high of 3.61 percent today, and was 3.59 percent as of
12:13 p.m. in Sydney, versus the average over the past decade of
5.22 percent.  The best performer in Morningstar’s bond-fund ranking last
year was the AMP Capital Corporate Bond Fund, returning 11
percent.  AMP Capital Investors Ltd., Macquarie Funds Group and BT
Investment Management Ltd. said last month they were betting on
the bonds of Australia’s banks in 2013 after leading returns
among the nation’s debt managers in the fourth quarter.  The extra yield investors demand to hold corporate bonds
instead of government debt in Australia shrank to 1.44
percentage points this week, the narrowest spread since December
2007, the Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Bovingdon also runs the Altius Bond Fund, which returned
8.8 percent last year to rank No. 12 out of 22, based on the
Morningstar figures, which are all after fees.  He was  head  of fixed income at Aberdeen Investment
Management Australia Ltd. from 2007 to 2009 and held the same
position at Deutsche Asset Management Australia Ltd. from 1999
to 2007, he said.  Providing Safety  Strategic Fixed Interest will still seek to provide safety
and low volatility, Bovingdon said. Ninety-two percent of its
 assets  were in top-level AAA debt ratings on Dec. 31.  The fund is different because it doesn’t track or try to
beat a benchmark. That means it can extend into longer-term
securities when interest rates may fall or buy shorter-term debt
when rates may rise.  “It’s benchmark unaware,” Bovingdon said. “There’s
certainly some pain to be had if you become beholden to
benchmarks” while yields rise, he said.  Australian Unity had been using joint-venture partner
Vianova Asset Management to run the portfolio and appointed
Altius after three Vianova officials quit last year.  Assets Tumbled  Assets tumbled to A$397 million in November after
Australian Unity announced in October that Michael Schneider,
Vianova’s chief investment officer, had resigned. Michael Swan,
Vianova’s senior portfolio manager, and Gareth Apsey, the
operations manager, later did the same, Australian Unity
reported on its  website  in November.  The fund shrank to A$113.8 million by year-end, the
Bloomberg data show.  “It likely would have underperformed the broad market
index last year regardless of the manager change,” said Tim
Murphy, co-head of fund research at Morningstar in Sydney.
“This fund’s approach has always been a cautious one. Most of
the outflow was a result of the management change.”  All three would continue in their current roles at Vianova
until the resignations took effect, which would happen in April
for Schneider and in May for Swan and Apsey, according to
Australian Unity. Swan said nobody at Vianova would comment,
speaking by telephone yesterday.  RBA Outlook  Traders see a 69 percent chance the RBA benchmark will be
2.75 percent or lower by mid-year and a 39 percent chance it
will be 2.5 percent or less by August, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia’s 10-year yield may rise to 4 percent by June 30,
while U.S. yields may climb to 2.5 percent from 2.02 percent,
Bovingdon said. For investors who bought today, Australian bonds
would lose 1.7 percent after accounting for interest, and
Treasuries would hand investors a 3.3 percent decline if the
forecasts are correct, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The South Pacific nation’s economy probably grew 3.5
percent in 2012, the most since 2007 before the global financial
crisis struck, based on a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
The government reports fourth-quarter gross domestic product on
March 6.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said Jan. 30 it will buy about $85
billion of government and mortgage securities a month to support
growth. Minutes of the Fed’s Dec. 11-12 meeting showed members
divided between a mid- or end-of-year finish to bond purchases.  Stimulating Growth  The Reserve Bank  said  yesterday in minutes from its Feb. 5
meeting that there are indications that lower  interest rates  are
starting to spur the economy, while it reiterated there is scope
to cut further if needed.  Strategic Fixed Interest won’t take on as much risk as the
Altius Bond Fund, Bovingdon said.  “It may have some more credit added to it, and we are
looking at opportunities, but it won’t have anything like the
same kind of appetite for credit that the  Altius Bond Fund 
has,” Bovingdon said. “You wouldn’t expect it to perform the
same as the other fixed-income funds in that universe because
it’s very much focused upon capital preservation, high quality,
low volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  