-- Yahoo Co-Founder Jerry Yang Joins Lenovo’s Board as Observer
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-20T22:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/yahoo-co-founder-jerry-yang-joins-lenovo-board-as-an-observer.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, said  Yahoo! Inc . co-
founder  Jerry Yang  will join the board of directors as an
observer amid its expansion into smartphones and tablets.  Yang, 44, will attend board meetings to share his
“experience and perspective as an Internet and technology
pioneer,” Beijing-based Lenovo said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. He will not have the power to vote at any board
meeting and may not exercise any other rights of a director.  “Jerry’s perspective, experience and proven
entrepreneurial spirit will help us continue to drive growth and
expand our business,” Lenovo Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in the e-mailed statement.  Lenovo is expanding beyond PCs to take on rivals including
Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. in smartphones, tablets
and Internet-ready televisions.  The company last year also made its first acquisition of a
software vendor, Stoneware Inc., that Lenovo said at the time
could be used to build a “public cloud” for consumers. Such a
service would compete with Apple’s iCloud that lets users store
music, movies and applications. Yang’s experience with Yahoo
would help the company grow in such areas, said  Jean-Louis Lafayeedney , an analyst at JI Asia in Hong Kong.  “Jerry Yang brings good quality Internet experience to a
hardware company which has ambitions to harvest revenues from
content,” said Lafayeedney.  Yang’s Fees  Jerry Yang and Yang Yuanqing were both unavailable for
additional comment,  Angela Lee , a Beijing-based spokeswoman for
Lenovo, said in an e-mail.  Lenovo will pay Jerry Yang a cash fee of $61,875 and offer
rights to equity in the company with a value of $135,000
annually, it said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange.  Lenovo shares fell 0.5 percent to close at HK$8.63 in Hong
Kong yesterday, before the announcement. They have  gained  25
percent in the past year, outpacing the 8.8 percent rise in the
benchmark Hang Seng Index.  After co-founding Yahoo with  David Filo  in 1995 as doctoral
students at Stanford University, Yang helped build it into the
world’s most popular website. Yahoo lost its luster in recent
years as it ceded share to Google Inc. Yang served as Yahoo’s
chief executive officer from June 2007 to January 2009, and also
served as a director on its board until Jan. 17, 2012.  ‘ITunes-Type Model’  Lenovo could be moving toward a “sort of iTunes-type
business model” or running server farms which they then rent
out to users of Lenovo hardware, much in the same way  Sony
Corp .’s Playstation does for Netflix Inc., Lafayeedney said.  “The ecosystem mandate is the ultimate aim for a hardware
maker like Lenovo, which would leverage hardware to capture
content sales,” Lafayeedney said. “If in China Lenovo can
persuade media content providers to bring exclusivity to Lenovo,
or indeed charge for software, this would be the way.”  Inducting Yang as an observer to its board means Lenovo
must be considering creation of some service with music, video,
or web storage, said  Vincent Chen , an analyst at Yuanta
Securities Co. in Taipei.  “It is a cloud environment,” Chen said. “Every player is
trying to build its own community in the cloud. Internet
transaction and ads can be the ultimate goal, for which Jerry
should be able to provide valuable suggestions.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  