-- Yandex Cheapest Ever Versus Google on Spending: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-20T13:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/yandex-cheapest-ever-versus-google-on-spending-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV  plunged to the cheapest
level on record versus Google Inc. on concern the Russian search
engine is boosting spending to remain competitive with its rival
as the outlook for web advertising deteriorates.  Shares of  Yandex  sank 10 percent yesterday to $23.01 in New
York, the steepest one-day drop in almost 17 months. The
company, which dominates more than 60 percent of Russian web
searches, traded at 20 times estimated earnings, 14 percent
above Google’s valuation and the smallest premium since Yandex
started trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market in 2011. The
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity  Index rose 0.5 percent.  Yandex tumbled after reporting fourth-quarter  net income 
that trailed analysts’ estimates and saying 2013 revenue growth
may slow to as little as 28 percent, from 44 percent last year.
The company, which rolled out a  Turkish search site  in 2011 and
became the fourth-biggest engine by number of searches globally
in November, said yesterday that costs swelled to 25 percent of
revenue in 2012, from 23.5 percent in 2011.  “Expansion outside of Russia as well as maintaining the
company’s current market share in the home market comes at a
cost,”  Anastasia Obukhova , an analyst at VTB Capital, the
investment banking unit of Russia’s second-largest bank, said by
phone from Moscow yesterday. “The cost seems to be unjustified
and is just too high.”  Obukhova has a sell  recommendation  on Yandex shares, and a
target price of $21 per share, representing an 8.7 percent drop
from yesterday’s closing price. Yandex’s trading volume was
almost seven times the daily average over the past three months
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The benchmark  Micex
Index  slid 0.5 percent to 1,514.75 by 5:35 p.m. in Moscow today.  ETF Rallies  Futures on Moscow’s RTS stock index fell 0.3 percent in
Moscow today to 158,390. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF , the
largest Russian exchange-traded fund, rose 0.9 percent to $30.26
in New York yesterday, while the Bloomberg Russia-US gauge
climbed to 103.40. The  RTS Volatility Index , which measures
expected swings in futures, slipped 0.6 percent to 20.15 points
today.  Net income for Yandex was 2.69 billion rubles ($89 million)
in the three months through December, compared with 2.12 billion
rubles in the same period a year earlier, the Hague,
Netherlands-based company said yesterday. That missed the 2.96
billion-ruble average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yandex forecast that revenue growth may slow to between 28
percent to 32 percent this year, compared with the 32 percent
increase estimated by analysts. The company got 90 percent of
third-quarter revenue from text-based advertising.  ‘Flat’ Margins  “The market has matured and it’s impossible to grow at 60
or 44 percent a year anymore,” Chief Financial Officer
 Alexander Shulgin  told reporters in Moscow yesterday. “We
estimate 2013 margins to be flat compared to 2012.”  The below-estimate guidance suggests that growth in Russian
Internet advertising is “slowing fairly sharply,”  David Ferguson , a media analyst at Renaissance Capital that rates
Yandex hold, wrote in a client note yesterday.  Web advertising in Russia rose 35 percent last year to
$1.87 billion, the Association of Communication Agencies of
Russia, or AKAR, said Feb. 6. Russia’s economy grew 2.2 percent
in the three months to the end of 2012, Deputy Economy Minister
 Andrei Klepach  said Jan. 29. That would be the  slowest pace 
since the economy contracted in 2009.  Yandex had 61.9 percent of Russian searches in the week to
Feb. 18, compared with 26.1 percent for Mountain View,
California-based Google, according to Liveinternet.ru  data .
Yandex overtook Microsoft Corp.’s Bing on global web searches in
November to become the world’s fourth-biggest engine by number
of searches, ComScore Inc. data issued Feb. 7 showed.  Turkish Focus  In Turkey, where its yandex.com.tr site offers local maps,
free e-mail, and translation as well as search, Yandex is
seeking to boost its share of the market to as much as 8 percent
by the end of this year, from 1 percent last year,  Alexander Vengranovich , an analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp. in Moscow
who rates the stock buy, said by phone yesterday.  Google has about 60 percent of the Turkish search market,
Mehmet Ali Yalcindag, the chairman of Yandex Turkey, said in
September.  Yandex’s focus in Turkey this year “will be market share,
not so much revenues,” Chief Executive Officer  Arkady Volozh 
said yesterday, according to the transcript of a conference call
with investors and analysts. “We need to reach some critical
mass to start selling the search advertising there.”  The spending in Turkey will pay off over time, according to
Otkritie’s Vengranovich.  ‘Right Thing’  “The Russian market is slowing and Yandex is looking for
new areas for growth, which is the right thing to do,” he said
by phone yesterday. “It comes at a cost, which doesn’t have to
blur a longer-term vision.”  Piper Jaffray Cos. reiterated its rating equivalent to buy
on Yandex stock yesterday, saying it is still the “best play on
the Russian Internet market,” according to an e-mailed report
from analysts including  Gene Munster  in Minneapolis. The Russian
company may be a better investment when it comes to
international web search than Beijing-based  Baidu Inc. , China’s
most-used search engine, the Piper Jaffray analysts said.  Tiger Global Management LLC cut its stake in Yandex to 8.14
percent by the end of last year, from 37.4 percent a year
earlier, according to the New York-based fund’s Feb. 14
regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  