-- Dollar Advances Versus Euro, Yen After FOMC Minutes
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-20T22:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/yen-drops-on-japan-s-record-trade-deficit-boj-governor-report.html
The dollar gained versus the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers after minutes from the
Federal Reserve’s last meeting showed several policy makers said
the central bank should vary the pace of its bond purchases.  New Zealand’s dollar slumped the most in almost nine months
against the U.S. currency after Reserve Bank Governor Graeme
Wheeler said the monetary authority was prepared to step in to
prevent it from strengthening. The greenback extended gains
against the euro as the Fed’s Jan. 29-30 meeting minutes show
policy makers remain divided about the strategy of buying bonds,
easing concern it will erode the value of the currency.  “Some people might say initially that it’s slightly
hawkish, considering that they’re having these discussions,”
 Brian Kim , a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s RBS Securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a
telephone interview. “We also had several officials warning not
to reduce easing too soon. At this point, there’s a little bit
for everyone, unfortunately.”  The dollar gained 0.8 percent to $1.3283 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time. It was little changed at 93.57 yen. Japan’s
currency strengthened 0.8 percent to 124.28 per euro.  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, slid 1.3
percent to 83.56 U.S. cents after declining as much as 1.7
percent, the most since May 22.  FOMC’s View  The Dollar Index rose to a three-month high as some Federal
Open Market Committee officials “emphasized that the committee
should be prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases, either
in response to changes in the economic outlook or as its
evaluation of the efficacy and costs of such purchases
evolved,” according to the minutes of the FOMC’s last meeting
released today in Washington.  The minutes showed policy makers were divided about the
strategy behind Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s program of buying
bonds until there is “substantial” improvement in a U.S. labor
market burdened with 7.9 percent unemployment, with some saying
an earlier end to purchases might be needed, and others warning
against a premature withdrawal of stimulus.  “There are people on both sides of the fence,” RBS
Securities’ Kim said. “But you could also take the view that
because they are talking about it, that’s something becoming
more and more of a common discussion.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S trading
partners, rose 0.7 percent to 81.035 after touching 81.116, the
highest since Nov. 21.  Kiwi Surge  The kiwi slipped for the first time in three days against
the dollar as Wheeler said the Reserve Bank of New Zealand can
“attempt to smooth the peaks” of the exchange rate, in the
text of a speech to manufacturers and exporters in Auckland.  The kiwi has surged more than 40 percent since the end of
2008, the biggest advance after its Australian counterpart among
more than 150 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It climbed to
88.43 U.S. cents on Aug. 1, 2011, the strongest since it was
freely floated in 1985.  New Zealand is the latest in a string of countries warning
their currencies are too strong even as Group of 20 nations
pledge to refrain from competitive devaluation.  “From a longer-term investment value-driven perspective,
there’s still demand for kiwi,”  PK Sinha , New York-based
managing director of foreign-exchange at CRT Capital Group LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s not as attractive as it
used to be, but it’s still there.”  Pound Declines  The pound dropped to the lowest level in 31 months versus
the dollar after the minutes of the central bank’s Feb. 7
meeting showed policy makers also considered an interest-rate
cut.  Governor Mervyn King and Paul Fisher joined David Miles in
voting to increase the target for bond purchases by 25 billion
pounds ($38.3 billion) to 400 billion pounds, though they were
outvoted by the other six members of the Monetary Policy
Committee.  Sterling fell 1.2 percent to $1.5234 after dropping to
$1.5193, the lowest since July 2010. It slumped 0.4 percent to
87.18 pence per euro.  The yen rose versus the euro after Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  said there is less need for his nation to buy foreign debt,
backing away from a proposal to set up a fund to buy foreign
bonds that may be seen by other nations as an attempt to weaken
the currency.  Abe will be accompanied by Vice Finance Minister Takehiko
Nakao, his top currency official, when he visits the U.S.
tomorrow to meet with President Barack Obama to discuss the
weakening yen, among other matters.  The yen has slumped 6.6 percent this year, the worst
performer of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 2.3 percent and
the dollar added 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  