-- Hyundai Home Advantage Vanishes as Koreans Say Camry Best
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-02-21T06:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/hyundai-home-advantage-vanishes-as-koreans-say-camry-best-cars.html
For more than two decades,  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005830)  could count on the sun rising each morning and for
South Koreans to buy South Korean vehicles. Then  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Camry became the country’s “Car of the Year.”  Sure, it’s the same staid sedan that won consumers’ hearts
around the globe as more than 14 million units rolled off Toyota
production lines since 1982. But given  Korea ’s fraught
relationship with its one-time and sometimes brutal occupier, it
was a surprise the country’s auto journalists awarded the title
to any Japanese car.  Shifting attitudes to foreign goods in South Korea, free-
trade pacts and a stronger currency have driven the share of
imports to a record in Asia’s fourth-biggest car market. For
Toyota, annual shipments on a par with those it makes to  Hawaii 
are no big deal; for Hyundai and its  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  affiliate,
they represent a breach of their biggest profit center, just as
global sales are eroded by the won’s gains.  “Before, Korean people chose what they wore, what they
used, what cars they drove based on whether they were made by
Koreans,” said Takeshi Miyao, an industry analyst at researcher
Carnorama  Japan  in  Tokyo . “If you look at the streets of Seoul
now, younger people are buying imported brands, and choosing
based on whether they’re good quality.”  Take Kim Sung Eun. “I didn’t even consider Hyundais when
looking for a new car this winter,” said the 27-year-old online
marketer based in Seoul. “I don’t think my car has anything to
do with patriotism. It’s just a personal choice.”  Tariff Barriers  In Kim’s case, that’s between Toyota’s Prius and the Camry,
which this month beat out 44 other cars, including models from
previous winners Hyundai and Kia, to become the first foreign
vehicle to win the Korea Automobile Journalist Association’s
award.  Such inroads by foreign companies would have been almost
unthinkable as recently as a decade ago, when Korean carmakers
controlled more than 99 percent of the domestic market.  Protected by tariffs as part of military strongman General
Park Chung Hee’s plans to modernize his agrarian country,
Hyundai began mass producing its Pony sedan in 1975 and now
churns out more than 4 million cars a year, with 2012 revenue of
84.5 trillion won ($78 billion).  Park’s backing of the diversified industrial groups known
as chaebol, combined with his nationalist ideology, fostered
development of electronics-to-shipping giant  Samsung Group  and
 Hyundai Group  as well as a domestic market hostile to foreign
companies.  IMF Bailout  After South Korea was forced to accept a humiliating $60
billion bailout from lenders including the  International
Monetary Fund  in 1998 during the Asian financial crisis,
newspaper  columns  sang the virtues of only buying and using
domestic products: clothes made by Korean brands over  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,
Korean movies instead of Hollywood blockbusters and Hyundai
rather than imports.  That’s begun to change. Within a year of its introduction
in 2009,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone captured a quarter of Korean
smartphone sales.  Imported beer  consumption grew at twice the
pace of the overall market between 2007 and 2011, according to
data from the Korea Alcohol & Liquor Industry Association and
the Korea Wines & Spirits Importers Association.  Over the past decade, car imports have inched forward too,
reaching 10 percent for the first time last year as domestic
manufacturers’ sales dropped 2.9 percent, Korea Automobile
Importers & Distributors Association data show.  Luxury Demand  Korean sales of Toyotas -- including the high-end Lexus
models -- gained 73 percent last year to 15,771 vehicles, making
it the fourth-biggest foreign brand in the country, with 1.2
percent of the market, the import data show. Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG was first, with 28,152 units.  “Korea is where Hyundai and Kia sell most of their top-end
models, and these offer higher margins,” said Lee Hyung Sil, an
analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co.  Both Seoul-based companies reported quarterly profit
declines last month and expressed concern about worsening
exchange rates that make imports cheaper while reducing the
value of cars they export. The won gained 4.8 percent against
the dollar over the past six months; the yen dropped 15 percent.  With the currencies expected to continue their divergent
paths, investors have punished the Korean companies’ stock: Kia
had slipped 29 percent over the past six months and Hyundai is
down 11 percent, the two worst  performers  on a 28-member
Bloomberg gauge of global carmakers. Toyota surged 46 percent.  Trade Deals  Hyundai fell 0.5 percent to 216,000 won at the close in
Seoul today. Toyota declined 1.1 percent to 4,765 yen. Citing
higher volume sales and the weaker yen, Tatsuo Yoshida, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.,
raised his share price forecast for Toyota to 6,300 yen from
4,900 yen and maintained an outperform rating on the stock.  A 2011 free trade agreement with the European Union has cut
 import duties  to 3.2 percent from 8 percent. A similar pact with
the U.S. took effect last year, making foreign cars cheaper for
South Korean motorists and also helping Japanese producers to
ship vehicles from their North American plants.  Hyundai garnered more than 60 percent of its operating
profit last year from Korean revenue that made up 45 percent of
the total, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The U.S. accounted
for only 22 percent of profit, though 30 percent of sales.  To win back Korean customers, Hyundai cut the price of mid-
size sedans as by as much as 1 million won, or about 3.5 percent
of the sticker price for its top-end Sonata hybrid. Kia, in
which Hyundai holds a 34 percent stake, cut the price of its
flagship K9 luxury sedan.  “We are improving the design and quality of our
products,” Hyundai said in an e-mailed response to queries.  Revamped Models  The revamped Tucson sport utility vehicle and Elantra small
sedan now include more expensive options such as bigger wheels,
upgraded music systems and more luxurious seats.  Toyota, meantime, will introduce the RAV4 sport utility
vehicle and U.S.-made Avalon sedan to  South Korea  this year
while its Lexus luxury unit will bring in the IS model from
Japan.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Japan’s third-biggest carmaker, introduced
five new models between November and January, including the
Accord sedan, its best-selling car in the U.S.  For  Hyundai, (005380)  the success of foreign producers in South
Korea hurts the automaker as Japanese carmakers win back a share
in export markets they lost in the wake of the 2011 earthquake
and tsunami in Japan and flooding in  Thailand  that disrupted
output.  U.S. Decline  Toyota’s U.S. market share grew to 14.4 percent, according
to researcher Autodata Corp. Hyundai’s fell 0.2 of a percentage
point to 4.9 percent, the company said. Toyota, the world’s
biggest carmaker, sold 9.75 million units globally last year, up
from 7.95 million in 2011.  “As Honda and Toyota came back stronger than anticipated
after the tsunami, Hyundai lost some of the market share they
gained,” said  Jesse Toprak , a senior analyst at TrueCar.com in
Santa Monica,  California .  South Korea is Hyundai’s third-biggest market, behind  China 
and the U.S., as well as its main production base. The company
says it made 43 percent of its vehicles at home last year.  Domestic sales of the three Hyundai luxury models plunged
20 percent in 2012. Toyota’s Lexus sales jumped 21 percent, to
4,976 cars. Total Japanese car exports to Korea rose 26 percent
to 23,924 units in the same period.  While lingering resentment over Japan’s invasion and
occupation continues to cloud political relations between the
two nations -- most recently marked by territorial disputes --it
seems consumers have moved on.  “South Koreans aren’t as sensitive as they were in the
past about Japanese products,” said Park Jung Hyun, a senior
researcher at LG Economic Research Institute in Seoul.
“Consumers want products made in developed countries, which
they trust will only offer quality products. Japan and Germany
fit into that trustworthy category.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  