-- Terror Suspects May be Sent to U.S., European Court Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-04-10T14:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/abu-hamza-loses-human-rights-case-over-u-s-terror-extradition.html
Abu Hamza al-Masri, an Islamic
cleric jailed for inciting murder and racial hatred, can be
extradited from Britain to the U.S. because prison conditions
there won’t violate his human rights, a  European court  ruled.  The potential for a life sentence and solitary confinement
in a maximum-security federal prison in Florence,  Colorado , is
justified in cases where inmates are a “significant security
risk,” the  European Court of Human Rights  in Strasbourg,
 France , ruled today. The U.S. facility also has amenities that
go beyond what’s provided in most prisons in  Europe , it said.  The ruling rejected claims by Hamza and four other accused
terrorists that conditions at the so-called supermax U.S. prison
would violate their rights to avoid inhuman and degrading
treatment. The U.S. seeks to prosecute Hamza on charges he
supported the Taliban with money and troops, set up a terrorist
training camp in Bly,  Oregon , in 2000 and aided a kidnapping
plot that left four hostages dead in Yemen in 1998.  “I am very pleased with this news,” U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  told reporters today in  Tokyo . “It is quite right
we have a proper legal process, although sometimes you can get
frustrated with how long they take.”  Hamza, who was born in  Egypt  and granted British
citizenship in 1986, appealed his extradition with other men
sought by the U.S. on terror charges between 1999 and 2006. The
European court halted their extraditions in July 2010, while it
considered the cases.  ‘Significant Security Risk’  “If the applicants were convicted as charged, the U.S.
authorities would be justified in considering them a significant
security risk and in imposing strict limitations on their
ability to communicate with the outside world,” the court,
which enforces the European Convention on Human Rights, said in
a press release.  Inmates in the disputed U.S. prison have access to
television, radio, newspapers, books, craft items, telephone
calls, social visits, correspondence with families and prayer
groups, the court said today. Prisoners also have access to
mental-health treatment and a chance to be moved to lower
security prisons with more human contact, it said.  The other accused men whose extraditions were approved by
today’s ruling are Babar Ahmad, Syed Ahsan, Adel Bary and Khaled
Al-Fawwaz. The U.S. is “pleased” with the finding, which won’t
become final until a three-month window for appeals expires, the
American embassy in London said today in an e-mailed statement.  “We look forward to the court’s decision becoming final
and to the extradition of these defendants to stand trial in the
 United States ,” the embassy said.  The European court said it accepted statements in the case
from the Colorado prison and the  U.S. Department of Justice ,
which said it may be “impossible” to house Hamza in the prison
due to his physical condition, particularly the amputation of
his arms.  Extradition ‘Disarray’  The ruling highlights the “disarray of extradition and
removals in the U.K.,” Keith Vaz, chairman of Parliament’s Home
Affairs Select Committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
delay is unacceptable,” Vaz said, citing the eight-year wait
for Ahmad, a British man accused of raising money for the
Taliban.  Hamza, the former head of the Finsbury Park mosque in north
London, was sentenced by a U.K. court in 2006 to seven years in
prison for encouraging his followers to kill Jews and other non-
Muslims in sermons between 1997 and 2000.  An appeals court
rejected his claims the jury was swayed by the media’s
demonization of the cleric and unrelated acts of terrorism, such
as the 2005 bombings on  London ’s public transport system.  Hamza, who is known for the hook-shaped prosthetic he wears
in place of his hands, argued in the U.K. case that he preaches
religious tenets set forth in the Koran and was only prosecuted
to avoid political embarrassment after the U.S. government filed
terrorism charges against him.  Possible Appeal  Hamza and the other accused terrorists have three months to
appeal the case to the court’s Grand Chamber, where a panel of
five judges would consider the matter, according to the court’s
statement. If a referral request is denied, the current ruling
will become final.  A U.K. immigration court ruled in November 2010 Hamza could
keep his British passport because without it he would be
stateless. Cameron said at the time he was disappointed with
that court’s decision.  The U.K. approved Hamza’s extradition after the U.S. gave
diplomatic assurances the cleric’s human rights would be
respected. Hamza had appealed both the lower court decision to
allow his extradition and the U.K. government’s signing of the
extradition papers.  In January, Jordanian cleric Abu Qatada avoided deportation
from Britain to his home country after the human-rights court
ruled judges there might use evidence gained through torture.
The Islamic cleric was granted bail by a U.K. court the
following month, drawing criticism from the U.K. Home Office,
which said the man is a security threat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  