-- Sands Plans Global Casino Push on Spain, Asia Investments
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-04-11T08:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/adelson-s-las-vegas-sands-pares-gains-before-cotai-debut.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  Chairman
 Sheldon Adelson  plans to spend $35 billion on building Spanish
gambling resorts over nine years and will add a new Macau
location to expand globally.  Adelson, speaking today at the opening of the $5 billion
Sands Cotai Central, said his Asian business is seeking Macau
government approval for an added 3,600-room casino hotel in the
world’s largest gambling hub. In Spain, the company wants to
build 12 resorts in three phases, he said.  The new locations may help boost the casino operator’s
revenue outside the U.S. Las Vegas Sands, which is already
benefiting from Asian expansion, said in February that fourth-
quarter profit rose 17 percent on growth in Singapore and Macau,
the only place in  China  where casinos are legal.  “The Macau government hasn’t given any signal on any
approvals for a while and without that you are stalled,” said
Lantis Li, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Capital Securities Corp. (6005) 
“It’s normal for them to look for other areas for expansion.”
It would take time to see benefits from other markets because of
regulatory approvals needed, he said.  The company plans to build 12 integrated resorts in Spain
with each featuring 3,000 rooms intended to attract Eastern
European and Russian visitors, Adelson said today.  Madrid or Barcelona  Adelson previously said Sands has been negotiating with the
Spanish government to develop a casino resort strip in a country
whose unemployment exceeds 20 percent. It will be decided in the
next two to three months whether the strip will be in Madrid or
 Barcelona , he said today.  In  Asia  the company hopes to eventually build integrated
resorts in  Japan , Korea, Vietnam and Taiwan, Adelson said. He
has sought to reverse a ban on casinos in Japan.  The company would be interested in building two properties
in each of the Asian countries with each costing as much as $6
billion, Adelson said.  First-quarter earnings before interest taxes and
depreciation at Sands will probably be $974 million, according
to an estimate by  Joseph Greff , an analyst at J.P. Morgan
Securities. He increased his estimate this week from $939
million, citing better-than-expected Macau business.  Las Vegas Sands has risen 37 percent in New York trading
this year. Asian unit  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  fell 1.3 percent to
HK$29.50 at the close in Hong Kong. The Sands Cotai Central
opens today with 1,800 hotel rooms and is set to expand
eventually to 6,400 rooms, with stores, restaurants and meeting
space.  Plowing Back  Las Vegas Sands founder Adelson said the company’s total
investment may amount to as much as $15 billion in Macau,
including spending on existing properties and the new location
announced today in the territory, which had $34 billion in
gambling revenue last year.  The casino operator aims to build Macau as a convention
leisure and tourism hub after “having changed Las Vegas,”
Adelson said today.  Adelson, 78, is the 11th-richest person in the world, with
a net worth of $26.6 billion, according to Bloomberg’s
Billionaires Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  