-- Taiwan’s Stocks Gain After Panel Clarifies Trading Tax
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-10T05:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/taiwan-s-finance-ministry-to-submit-trading-tax-proposal.html
Taiwan ’s stocks climbed from a 10-
week low after a government panel outlined two options for
investors to assess their taxable income under a possible
capital gains tax on  stock trades , which eased concerns over how
the levy would be calculated.  The first option would be for investors to prove the actual
price they paid for the securities, according to a  statement 
posted on the ministry’s website yesterday after the tax-
overhaul panel met for a second time. The alternative is for the
government to pick a specific day as the basis for stock prices
to determine investors’ profit. The ministry said it will submit
a proposal to the Cabinet in two days to tax any capital gains
made from next year on stock transactions.  The benchmark  Taiex Index (TWSE)  closed 0.5 percent higher in
Taipei. The gauge settled at its lowest level since Feb. 1
yesterday after slumping 5.4 percent since the Economic Daily
News reported on March 29 that the government was evaluating the
levy. Foreign investors were net sellers of Taiwanese stocks in
five out of the last seven trading days.  “There’s more certainty on how to identify investors’
stock income,” Sam Hsieh, a Taipei-based  fund manager  at Fuh
Hwa Securities Investment Trust Co., who helps oversee the
equivalent of $7.8 billion, said by phone today. “Previously,
there was a lot of selling pressure because investors were
scared they may be taxed a lot based on other possible models.”  Securities transactions have been exempt from the duty
since Jan. 1, 1990, according to the stock exchange’s website.
The tax was scrapped because of evasion and the government has
contemplated reintroducing it since at least 1993.  Wealth Gap  During elections earlier this year, President Ma Ying-jeou
and the opposition said the tax should be imposed to help narrow
a wealth gap among Taiwan’s population. There’s a “99 percent”
chance the levy will be introduced to address social
inequalities and to raise revenues, Schive Chi, chairman of
Taiwan Stock Exchange Corp., said in an April 3 interview.  “The  Finance Ministry  will submit its proposal to the
Cabinet based on what we’ve discussed,” Finance Minister
Christina Liu told reporters after the tax panel’s meeting
yesterday. “We will consider all the pros and cons and submit
the proposal. Of course it won’t please everyone.”  Members of the tax panel were split over whether the tax
should be considered part of income tax or as a so-called
alternative minimum tax, she said. Taiwan in 2006 began to levy
an alternative minimum tax on individuals with high income that
get tax benefits or are exempt from taxes. The  tax rate  is a
flat 20 percent for annual income exceeding NT$6,000,000
($203,000). The income includes overseas income, stock bonuses,
insurance payments and gains from trading unlisted stocks.  Different Rates  Investors that qualify for the tax would pay at different
rates depending on levels of profit made from trading, Liu said
during the tax-overhaul panel’s first meeting on April 5.
Overseas investors without offices and direct business
operations in Taiwan will be exempt “in principle” from the
tax, she said, citing the California State Teachers’ Retirement
System, the second-largest U.S. public pension fund, as an
example.  In 1988, when the plan for a  capital-gains  tax was
discussed, stocks fell for 19 consecutive days, dropping about a
third in a month, Schive, chairman of  Asia ’s seventh-largest
stock market, said on April 3. Shares are unlikely to slump as
much this time because more companies are traded on the bourse
and there is a larger proportion of overseas investors, he said.  Closer Ties  Foreign investors sold about $250 million more Taiwanese
equities than they bought yesterday, according to stock exchange
data. Net sales this  month  were $536.5 million, the data show.  The Taiex has risen 8 percent this year, after a 21 percent
slide in 2011, on speculation the  U.S. economy  will recover and
Ma’s re-election as president on Jan. 14 would lead to stronger
economic ties with  China . The  stock index  is valued at 14.8
times estimated profit, a 38 percent premium to the  MSCI
Emerging-Markets Index (MXEF) ’s multiple of 10.7, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  