-- Taiwan Dollar Strengthens on Speculation Fed Will Ease Further
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-10T02:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/taiwan-dollar-strengthens-on-speculation-fed-will-ease-further.html
Taiwan ’s dollar snapped a three-day
loss on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will ease monetary
policy to support the  U.S. economy , boosting the supply of funds
available to be invested in emerging markets. Bonds were steady.  The island’s benchmark share index rose 1 percent after
dropping 1.4 percent yesterday amid concern authorities will
impose a capital-gains tax on stock trades. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday the U.S. economy has yet to recover
after data released last week showed employers added fewer jobs
than forecast in March.  “Taiwan’s dollar is appreciating because the U.S. dollar
market is expecting the Fed will do quantitative easing because
of the weak labor market,” said  James Wang , a debt trader at
Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei. Gains in local stocks “may
have helped the Taiwan dollar a little bit,” he said.  Taiwan’s dollar climbed 0.2 percent to NT$29.502 against
its U.S. counterpart as of 10:09 a.m. local time, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
price swings that options traders use, was unchanged at 4
percent.  The  Dollar Index  traded on ICE Futures in  New York , which
compares the currency to those of six trading partners, fell for
a third day. “About three and a half years have passed since
the darkest days of the financial crisis, but our economy is
still far from having fully recovered from its effects,”
Bernanke said.  Taiwan’s finance ministry will submit a proposal to the
government in two days that it impose a tax on any  capital gains 
made on stock transactions from next year, according to a
statement posted on its web site yesterday.  The yield on the island’s 1 percent bonds due January 2017
was little changed at 1.02 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. The government will sell NT$40 billion ($1.4
billion) of five-year securities today. The overnight  money-
market  dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
0.430 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  