-- Alcoa Posts Surprise Profit After Aluminum Orders Climb
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-04-11T20:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/alcoa-posts-surprise-profit-after-aluminum-orders-climb.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, reported an unexpected first-quarter profit
after orders rose and it closed higher-cost smelting capacity.
The shares advanced in German trading.  Net income fell to $94 million, or 9 cents a share, from
$308 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier, New York-based Alcoa
said yesterday in a statement. Profit excluding restructuring
costs and other items was 10 cents a share, compared with the
average  estimate  for a 4-cent loss from 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 0.8 percent to $6.01 billion, beating the
$5.77 billion average of 12 estimates. The shares rose the most
in three months in  New York .  The earnings were “driven by higher-than-expected
profitability from every operating segment,” Brian Yu, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  San Francisco  who estimated a 6-
cent loss, said in a note. “Good cost control likely played a
major role.”  Alcoa, traditionally the first company in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  to report quarterly earnings, announced it
would shut older plants in  North America  and  Europe  in January.
Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  is proceeding with an
$11 billion joint venture in  Saudi Arabia , which Alcoa says will
be the world’s most efficient integrated aluminum plant.  Alcoa rose 6.2 percent to $9.90 at the close in New York,
the biggest gain since Jan. 3. The stock dropped 44 percent in
the past year, the largest decline on the DJIA.  Aerospace Demand  The company has rebounded from a fourth quarter in which it
lost 3 cents a share, its first loss on an adjusted basis since
2009. Alcoa said yesterday its four units -- alumina, aluminum,
rolled products and engineered products -- each recorded an
operating profit after tax.  The rolled-products business, which processes aluminum used
in cars and aircraft, saw earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization per ton of metal rise 19 percent.  A jump in demand from planemakers rebuilding their fleets
and auto manufacturers adapting to new fuel and emissions
standards will help boost earnings in the next few years, said
Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond,
Virginia.  “Aerospace, automotive, trucks and trailers, that’s what’s
driving it,” he said.  Higher Output  Alcoa boosted its 2012 aerospace sales forecast by 3
percentage points to 13 percent to 14 percent. It projected U.S.
auto sales will climb 7 percent to 12 percent.  The company’s production of primary aluminum rose 5.2
percent to 951,000 metric tons in the quarter, even with the
smelter cutbacks. U.S. and Canadian aluminum producers’
shipments of extruded products, such as pipes and rods, rose 13
percent in the year through March 20 compared with the same
period a year earlier, the Aluminum Association said April 9.  Alcoa in January announced the closure of plants in the
U.S.,  Spain  and  Italy , cutting 531,000 tons of aluminum
capacity. The company said last week it will reduce output of
alumina, the raw material used to make aluminum, by 390,000
tons.  The cutbacks followed a decline in aluminum prices, which
are down 23 percent on the London Metal Exchange in the past 12
months. The metal averaged $2,219 a ton on the LME in the first
quarter, 12 percent less than a year earlier.  Deficit Forecast  Global aluminum use will exceed supply by 2.1 million tons
this year, assuming Chinese consumption of 17.6 million tons,
according to Andrew Cosgrove, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries
in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Kleinfeld said yesterday on a conference call that Alcoa
forecasts a deficit this year of 435,000 tons, or narrower than
the 600,000 tons he projected in January.  Alcoa isn’t the only aluminum producer to have cut capacity
this year. Norway’s  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY)  shut a 60,000-ton line at
its Kurri-Kurri smelter in  Australia  and cut 180,000 tons at a
German plant in January.  Oleg Deripaska, the CEO and largest shareholder of  Russia ’s
United Co. Rusal, said in December that falling metal prices may
prompt smelters to shut down 3 million tons of capacity
globally.  Alcoa’s announced cuts in capacity “may not be the end,”
Kleinfeld said on the call. The company is still considering the
future of its Point Henry smelter in Australia and its Brazilian
smelters, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 