-- Philippine Equity Movers: Alliance, GMA Network, PAL Holdings
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-04-10T07:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/alliance-energy-development-pal-philippine-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
had  unusual  moves in  Philippine (PASHR)  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close of trading in Manila.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  fell 0.3 percent to
5,022.29, the lowest close since March 13.  Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI)   sank 2.8 percent to
11.88 pesos, the lowest close since March 12, as its casino unit
Travellers International Hotel Group missed earnings estimates,
according to Alex Pomento, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  Travellers International Hotel Group, a joint venture of
Alliance Global and Genting Hong Kong Ltd., posted a 57 percent
increase in profit to $112.9 million last year, the Philippine
Star reported, citing documents filed with the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange. Alliance President Kingson Sian couldn’t be reached at
his office for comment.  “Some investors are frustrated with the weak results of
Travellers,” Pomento said. “Market consensus was for profit to
be at around $140 million.”  GMA Network Inc. (GMA7)  (GMA7 PM), the nation’s second-largest
broadcaster, added 3.4 percent to 9.10 pesos, the most since
Feb. 22. President Gilberto Duavit said 2012 profit may rise to
2.8 billion pesos ($65.4 million), boosted by an expected
“double-digit growth” in advertising spending. The company
said profit slid 39 percent to 1.71 billion pesos last year.  PAL Holdings Inc. (PAL)  , owner of Philippine Airlines
Inc., sank 3.6 percent to 7.99 pesos, the sharpest loss since
March 12, on speculation a plan by the carrier to spend up to $1
billion on a refleeting program may involve a share sale.  Philippine Air plans to modernize its fleet,  San Miguel
Corp. (SMC)  President Ramon Ang said in a mobile-phone text message.
 San Miguel  agreed to buy 49 percent stakes in Philippine Air and
low-cost affiliate Air Philippines Corp.  “Given the big size of the planned investment, PAL
Holdings might hold a share sale to fund part of it,” said
 James Lago , head of research at PCCI Securities Brokers Corp.
“That could dilute earnings per share.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  