-- Amazon Adds In-App Purchases to Woo Developers Away From Apple
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-04-10T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/amazon-adds-in-app-purchases-to-woo-developers-away-from-apple.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest
Internet retailer, will start letting users make purchases
within the applications sold in its online store, matching a
feature offered by rivals  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The new software enables developers to charge for digital
content and subscriptions, Amazon said today in a statement.
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Conde Nast , Gameloft and Dow Jones & Co. will
be some of the first participants after testing out the service
with Amazon over the past three months, the company said.  “Allowing for in-app transactions is now basic
functionality for app stores, and this is necessary to help
Amazon even the playing field,” said Colin Sebastian, an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco , who expects
Amazon shares to outperform peers. “Without this, I think
Amazon’s app store would be at a disadvantage.”  By making it easier to charge for items within apps,
developers may be more likely to write software for Amazon’s
store. The feature also provides extra revenue for the retailer,
which will take a 30 percent commission from every in-app
purchase. The apps are part of Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos’s strategy to increase demand for Amazon’s Kindle Fire
tablet and other devices, as well as digital content in general.  Amazon, based in Seattle, is playing catch-up with Apple
and Google with its  app store . It currently has about 34,000
apps, compared with 4,000 when the store debuted in March 2011,
the company said. Google and Apple have more than 450,000 apps
apiece in their stores.  Revenue Growth  Selling items from within downloadable software will
generate $5.6 billion in revenue in 2015, up from $970 million
last year, according to research firm IHS.  Amazon is seeking more content for its Kindle Fire, the
main challenger to Apple’s iPad. The company sells the device at
a loss, aiming to make up the difference by selling music,
movies and apps for the tablet. Amazon may make $136 on each
Kindle Fire, thanks to movie and book downloads, according to
 Ross Sandler , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York .  The new feature will use Amazon’s one-click purchasing,
letting consumers buy an item without having to exit the
application they’re using, Aaron Rubenson, director of the
Amazon Appstore, said in an interview.  “A number of developers have indicated that this
technology is important to their business models,” Rubenson
said. “For apps that really need this to be viable, this is an
important step. It will allow us to bring new apps to the
store.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  