-- AMR Executive Says Pilots Doubt Idea of US Airways Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-11T21:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/amr-executive-says-pilots-doubt-idea-of-us-airways-merger.html
Pilots at AMR Corp.’s  American
Airlines (AAMRQ)  are questioning the ability of potential suitor  US
Airways Group Inc. (AMR)  to orchestrate a successful merger, a senior
executive said.  They “have very serious concerns” about the hostile bid
they expect from US Airways, Vice President for Flight John Hale
wrote in a memo yesterday to Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton 
and other leaders at the third-largest U.S. airline.  “I’m confident pilots will continue to be very skeptical
about US Airways’ ability to integrate separate workforces or
grow the combined company,” he wrote. “The phrase ‘all hat and
no cattle’ comes to mind. There’s little indication from anyone
I’ve spoken to that a takeover by US would produce greater
opportunity for our pilots than American’s business plan.”  Hale’s comments are a departure for American, which has
focused on its plan to exit bankruptcy as a stand-alone carrier
and generally declined to discuss any interest from outside
parties. Hale also carries the title of chief pilot, a
management job at the Fort Worth, Texas-based airline.  The  Allied Pilots Association , which represents about 8,400
active American pilots, called the memo “a bit of a publicity
stunt.”  ‘Very Solid’  “US Airways has run a very solid operation whose
performance exceeds  American Airlines ’ no matter which metric
you use -- on-time, customer complaints, canceled flights and
lost bags,” Tom Hoban, a union spokesman, said today in an
interview. “They’ve been consistently profitable in the last
few years.”  Support among pilots for a takeover bid varies, largely
because of concerns about how seniority would be affected when
two pilot groups are mixed, Hoban said.  Bruce Hicks , an American spokesman, declined to elaborate
on the memo.  While a US Airways spokesman,  John McDonald , also declined
to discuss the memo, the smaller airline’s interest in American
is an open secret. It has confirmed hiring attorneys and
investment bankers to study a merger, and has held talks on a
takeover plan with some American creditors and their advisers,
people with knowledge of the matter said on March 22.  US Airways may be handicapped in making or building support
for a bid because pilot and flight attendant unions from its
2005 merger with America  West Holdings Corp. (1407)  continue working
under separate contracts, said Aaron Gellman, professor of
management and strategy at Northwestern University’s Kellogg
School of Management in Evanston,  Illinois .  “A lot of pilots at American would be somewhat less than
enthusiastic about a US Airways takeover given their foibles
with their own pilot unions,” he said in an interview today.  Lessons Learned  US Airways CEO Doug Parker said last month that he learned
the value of courting stakeholders such as unions after his
hostile bid for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  collapsed in 2007 amid
opposition from Delta’s pilots, the airline’s only major
unionized work group.  Hale said American should expect continued comments from
pilots “supportive of exploring a merger. There has been
chatter among pilots that they will use US Air’s overtures in an
attempt to exert bargaining leverage” during the legal process
to reject union contracts.  American has asked the  bankruptcy court  for permission to
void the agreements in favor of terms that would cut labor
spending by $1.25 billion a year. The APA has a seat on the
nine-member unsecured creditors committee, as do the unions
representing flight attendants, mechanics and baggage handlers.  Exclusive Right  The airline now has the exclusive right to propose a
bankruptcy-reorganization plan. Potential suitors can hold
discussions with members of the creditors panel, who have a
voice in major decisions made while American is in Chapter 11.  The current  US Airways  is the product of the 2005 merger of
a predecessor company of the same name, which was then in
bankruptcy, with  America West Holdings. (AWA)   Pilots at Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways have been
embroiled in a legal battle over merging their seniority lists,
while flight attendants last month rejected a proposed single
contract.  US Airways is the fifth-largest U.S. airline by passenger
traffic. Horton said in a Feb. 3 interview that it was a
“subscale” carrier and said American sees itself as a
potential acquirer after leaving court protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  