-- AOL Investor Starboard Says Patent Sale Won’t Fix Ad Losses
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-04-10T20:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/aol-investor-starboard-says-patent-sale-doesn-t-fix-ad-losses.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  investor  Starboard Value
LP (STAVOLP)  said the sale of patents to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  doesn’t go far
enough in solving the Internet company’s problems, urging it to
find new ways to extract value from its advertising business.  Starboard asked AOL to return more cash to shareholders and
reiterated plans to nominate candidates for AOL’s board,
according to a letter from the investor to New York-based AOL
today. Starboard first announced its plan to nominate five
directors in February.  AOL said yesterday it agreed to sell more than 800 patents
to Microsoft and license others in a transaction valued at $1.06
billion, triggering its biggest stock gain in more than two
years. The company’s revenue has dropped 29 percent since it was
spun off from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in late 2009, putting it under
pressure from shareholders such as Starboard that say it needs
to find ways to generate more revenue from its assets.  “The announced sale of the patents does little to address
our serious concerns with the company’s poor operating
performance and substantial losses in the display business,”
Jeffrey C. Smith, Starboard’s co-founder and chief executive
officer, said in the letter. “Management and the board have
been unable to meaningfully improve profitability in the display
business and unwilling to consider alternative strategies.”  Maureen Sullivan , an AOL spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  AOL fell 6 percent to $24.82 at the close in  New York  after
jumping 43 percent yesterday.  ‘Dismal Track Record’  Starboard, which owns about 5.3 percent of AOL, estimates
the company’s display-advertising business is losing more than
$500 million a year, including $150 million in Patch, a
distributor of local news. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, excluding losses from the display
business, would have been $932.5 million in 2011, compared with
the less than $400 million AOL  reported , Smith said.  The New York-based firm also called for AOL to change a
“dismal track record of capital allocation,” after the company
said it would return a “significant portion” of the patent
sale proceeds to shareholders.  “We do not understand why the company would only return a
’significant portion,’” Smith said. “Why wouldn’t the company
simply return all of the proceeds?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  