-- AOL, Sanofi, Rosetta Stone, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-10T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/aol-sanofi-rosetta-stone-google-intellectual-property.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , under shareholder
pressure to make changes as revenue falls, will sell and license
patents to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in an agreement worth $1.06 billion.  The Internet company will sell more than 800 patents and
related applications to Microsoft and grant the software maker a
nonexclusive license to its retained patent portfolio, the
companies said yesterday in a statement. AOL will hold more than
300 patents and applications after the transaction.  The arrangement lets New York-based AOL generate additional
funds amid slow advertising growth and a decline in dial-up
Internet subscribers. The company, whose revenue has dropped 29
percent since it was spun off from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in late
2009, has faced pressure from shareholder Starboard Value LP to
consider moves such as a patent deal.  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, is adding
the patents as it battles with Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
to protect  intellectual property  rights related to the Windows
mobile-phone operating system and Xbox video-gaming consoles.
The AOL deal comes as technology giants including Apple Inc. and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  are building patent war chests in efforts to fend
off litigation and defend sales of top products.  Tim Armstrong , AOL’s chief executive officer, said he
expects the license arrangement with Microsoft to generate $100
million over the life of the patents.  AOL reached the agreement late on April 5 after an open
auction, with many companies submitting bids, Armstrong said. He
declined to identify other bidders. AOL said it plans to return
a “significant portion” of the sale proceeds to shareholders  Starboard, which started pushing for change last year, had
said AOL’s patent portfolio could yield more than $1 billion.
Patent-advisory firm M-Cam Inc. estimated that AOL’s patent
portfolio would be valued at about $290 million in a sale.  Microsoft has accused Motorola Mobility, the mobile phone
maker being bought by Google, of infringing seven patents and is
seeking to block U.S. imports of devices that violate its
intellectual property rights.  Separately, Motorola Mobility has demanded $4 billion a
year in patent royalties for use of technology critical to
functioning of the Xbox video-gaming system, Microsoft said in a
March 30 filing.  Sanofi’s Patents on Cancer Drug Taxotere Invalidated  Sanofi’s (SNY)  two patents on the cancer drug Taxotere were ruled
invalid and unenforceable by a U.S. court yesterday in a victory
for generic-drug makers  Hospira Inc. (HSP)  and Apotex Inc.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit upheld a
lower court finding on patents 5,714,512 and 5,750,561. The
decision was posted on the court’s website.  Taxotere, the successor to the cancer drug Taxol, generated
922 million euros ($1.2 billion) last year for Paris-based
Sanofi. That’s a 57 percent drop from the year before because of
generic-drug competition, Sanofi said Feb. 8.  The Federal Circuit, which specializes in U.S. patent
cases, said a judge was correct to rule that the two patents
were obvious variations of earlier research, and that the
inventor misled the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to obtain
the patents by withholding that earlier know-how.  Sanofi (SAN)  was disappointed by the Court of Appeals decision on
the patents for Taxotere and is evaluating its options, said
Carrie Brown, a spokeswoman.  The case is Aventis Pharma SA v. Hospira Inc., 11-1018,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The
lower court case is Aventis Pharma SA v. Hospira Inc. and Apotex
Inc., 07CV721, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Rosetta Stone Trademark Claims Against Google Revived  Rosetta Stone Inc. (RST)  had some trademark-infringement claims
against Google Inc., the world’s largest Internet search
company, restored by a federal appeals court and returned to the
trial court for further consideration.  Rosetta Stone  had asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Richmond, Virginia, to overturn U.S. District Judge Gerald Bruce
Lee’s decision in 2010 that Google’s sales of Rosetta Stone’s
trademarked phrases as keywords in Web searches wouldn’t confuse
customers. Rosetta Stone, a maker of language-learning software,
claimed the keywords were sold to rivals and counterfeiters.  “A reasonable trier of fact could find that Google
intended to cause confusion in that it acted with the knowledge
that confusion was very likely to result from the use of its
marks,” the appeals judges said in yesterday’s ruling.  Google sells advertisers the rights to use certain words or
phrases as keywords for the paid ads, known as sponsored links,
on  its search site.  The links direct users to the advertisers’
websites. Advertisers bid what they will pay Google for each
click on an ad triggered by the keyword. The highest bid and
other factors determine whether the keywords can be used.
Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , derives most of its
revenue from ad sales.  The keywords that Google sold to other businesses include
“Rosetta Stone” and “Rosettastone.com.”  “Each time Rosetta Stone informed Google that a particular
advertiser was selling counterfeit Rosetta Stone products,
Google promptly took action including removing the
advertisement,” Google said in its appeal brief.  Diana Adair, a spokeswoman for Google, said, “We think
that the legitimate use of trademarks as keyword triggers helps
consumers to make more informed choices. For what remains of the
case, we’re confident that we will prevail on both the merits
and the law.”  “We are very pleased with the opinion, and we think it is
an important precedent,” Clifford Sloan, a lawyer for Rosetta
Stone, said in an e-mail.  The appeals court vacated three summary-judgment claims
that had gone against Rosetta Stone and affirmed two rulings
that that went in Google’s favor.  There was no evidence that Google “acts jointly with any
of the advertisers to control the counterfeit Rosetta Stone
products,” the judges said.  Rosetta Stone, founded in 1992, provides software for
learning more than 30 languages.  The case is Rosetta Stone v. Google, 10-2007, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond, Virginia).  Fake Products Costly to Pakistan’s Economy, Citizens’ Health  Counterfeit products cost Pakistan’s economy at least 21
billion Pakistani rupees ($232 billion), according to a  report 
in Pakistan’s Daily Times.  In addition to the financial losses, the Daily Times
reported the fake products have the potential to be hazardous if
not lethal for consumers, particularly medical patients.  The  Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce and Industry ,
whose members represent 189 foreign companies doing business in
the country, held a seminar April 2 at which a judicial official
said the courts are aware of the need for more serious
punishment for violation of IP rights, the Daily Times reported.  The president of the Overseas Investors Chamber said at the
conference that new legislation strengthening IP enforcement
needs to be passed on a priority basis, according to the
newspaper.  Board Longyear, Hayden Diamond Bit Settle Trademark Dispute  Board Longyear Ltd. (BOARF) , the world’s largest mineral
exploration drilling company, settled a trademark-infringement
suit with  Hayden Diamond Bit Industries Ltd. , a Richmond,
British Columbia-based drilling company.  Board Longyear, based in South Jordan, Utah, filed suit in
federal court in Helena, Montana in October 2010, accusing
Hayden of infringing the “Q” and “RQ” trademarks it uses for
its wireline drilling system.  The suit was filed after negotiations between the companies
failed, according to court papers. Board Longyear claimed
Hayden’s unauthorized use of the marks damaged the Utah
company’s market, reputation and goodwill.  The parties came to an agreement and the case was
dismissed, according to court filings. Each side is to pay its
own litigation costs and attorney fees. Board Longyear said in
an April 9 statement that Hayden had agreed to quit using the
“Q” and “RQ” trademarks in connection with its earth
drilling goods and services. Hayden didn’t respond immediately
to an e-mailed request for comment on the agreement.  Other terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed.  The case is Longyear TM v. Hayden Diamond Bit Industries,
6:10-cv-00047-RKS, U.S. District Court, District of Montana
(Helena).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Seeks Mona Lisa as Online Art Embraces Van Gogh, Monet  Google Inc. has expanded its virtual tours to more than 150
of the world’s major museums, featuring high-resolution close-
ups of many masterworks -- but not the  Mona Lisa .  The latest additions that went online this month include
the Musee d’Orsay in Paris and Jerusalem’s Israel Museum. The
Louvre in the French capital, home of the Da Vinci masterpiece,
isn’t taking part in the website, dubbed  Art Project .  “Everyone asks me if we have Leonardo’s Mona Lisa,” Amit
Sood, who heads the project, said at a news briefing in Paris.
“We’re talking to people from the Louvre. Maybe they’ll be part
of the next phase,” he said.  When contacted by telephone by Bloomberg News, a
spokeswoman at the Louvre press office declined to comment and
wouldn’t give her name.  The site went up in February 2011 with works from the Tate
Britain,  New York ’s Museum of  Modern Art  and 15 others from nine
countries. More than 40 of the museums have now allowed Google
to digitalize one artwork at a resolution of 7 billion pixels,
or 1,000 times the average digital camera.  The Mountain View, California-based  Internet company  has
sent robot-like devices equipped with cameras to roll around
museums from Sao Paulo to Istanbul over the past year, snapping
pictures of as many as 30,000 works.  By striking deals only with the museums, and not with
artists, their heirs nor foundations, Google avoids having to
deal with copyright issues, Sood said. The company has included
image security technology in the database to protect the photos,
he also said.  Among other museums taking part include the Uffizi Gallery
in Florence and the State Hermitage Museum in  St. Petersburg .  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  General Linen Service Inc. Sues Competitor Over Hacked Computer  General Linen Service Inc.  of Newburyport, Massachusetts,
sued a similarly named competitor for trade secret
misappropriation.  The suit, filed in federal court in Concord,  New Hampshire ,
accuses  General Linen Service Co.  of Sommersworth, New
Hampshire, of hacking into its computer database and using the
Massachusetts company’s invoices as a marketing strategy.
General Linen Service Inc. claims that as a result of the New
Hampshire company’s actions, it has had to lower its prices and
lost some customers altogether.  According to court papers, General Linen Service Inc.’s
database, which is licensed through Alliant Systems Inc., was
hacked by someone from General Linen Service Co., which also
uses Alliant. Both companies rent tablecloths and other textile
items to restaurants and other food-service entities.  The Massachusetts-based company said it was able to use
publicly available databases to identify the hacker.  It claims it has suffered economic harm as a result of
General Linen Service Co.’s actions and asked the court for
awards of money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees. It
also asked the court to triple the damages.  General Linen Service Co. didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  The case is General Linen Service Inc., v. General Linen
Service Co., 1:12-cv-00111-SM, U.s. District Court, District of
New Hampshire (Concord).  Customs Says Trade Secrets May Have Been Revealed in Document  U.S. Customs and Border Patrol has posted a  notice  on the
government website federalbizopps.gov that two documents placed
in its online “Virtual Reading Room” contains information that
may have been a commercial trade secret.  According to the notice, the documents were related to the
upgrade of a remote video surveillance system for Arizona,
including tribal lands. CBP said it temporarily withdrew public
access to the entire Virtual Reading Room, and the two documents
were to be removed entirely from the site.  Additionally, DBP said it has a list of everyone who
“accessed, viewed or downloaded” the documents, and that it
will be contacting each person individual to request that any
copies of those documents be deleted and/or destroyed. Those who
have done so will be asked to self-certify their actions in
writing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 