-- Apple, Macmillan Said to Prepare for U.S. E-Books Lawsuit
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/apple-macmillan-said-ready-for-antitrust-suit-on-ebook-pricing.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and the publisher
Macmillan are preparing to be sued as soon as today by the U.S.
 Justice Department  over alleged collusion in the pricing of e-
books, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Apple and Macmillan, which have refused to engage in
settlement talks with the Justice Department, deny they colluded
to raise prices for digital books, the people said. In an
antitrust case, they will argue that pricing agreements between
Apple and publishers enhanced competition in the e-book
industry, which was dominated by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   The Justice Department is probing how Cupertino,
California-based Apple changed the way publishers charged for e-
books on the iPad, a person familiar with the matter said last
month. The Justice Department’s antitrust division told Apple
and five publishers that it’s preparing to sue them for
allegedly fixing the prices of electronic books, a person
familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News March 8.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster, Lagardère SCA’s Hachette Book
Group and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins are seeking to avoid a
costly legal battle and could reach a settlement as soon as
today, two people familiar with the matter said.  Door Open  The U.S. is still leaving the door open for last-minute
settlement discussions this week, a person familiar with the
situation said.  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s  Penguin Group (PNGN)  was also preparing
to fight the U.S. Justice Department in court if necessary, two
people familiar with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg News
April 5.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, and representatives of Apple, Simon &
Schuster, HarperCollins, Hachette, Penguin and Macmillan, which
is a unit of Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, declined
to comment on prospects for lawsuits or settlements.  Apple, Penguin and Macmillan want to protect the so-called
agency model that lets publishers -- not vendors -- set e-book
prices, said the people on April 5, who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The government is seeking a settlement that would let
Amazon and other retailers return to a wholesale model, where
retailers decide what to charge customers, the people said. A
settlement could also void so-called most-favored nation clauses
in Apple’s contracts that require book sellers to provide the
maker of the iPad with the lowest prices they offer competitors,
the people said.  Competition Questions  Consumers and competition could be hurt if several
companies sign contracts that refer to prices charged to rivals
even if those firms aren’t dominant, said Fiona Scott-Morton, a
Justice Department economist, in an April 5 speech in
 Washington , signaling the antitrust division’s thinking on the
issue of most-favored-nation clauses.  Upholding the agency model would give publishers more
control over pricing and limit discounting, helping the industry
avoid sales losses as more consumers buy books online.  Sales of e-books rose 117 percent in 2011, generating
$969.9 million, Publishers Weekly reported Feb. 27, citing
estimates from the Association of American Publishers. By
eliminating printing and shipping costs, digital versions
generate higher profit margins than physical copies.  When Apple came out with the iPad in 2010, it let
publishers set their own prices for e-books as long as it got a
30 percent cut and the publishers agreed to offer their lowest
prices through Apple. This agency model overtook Amazon’s
practice of buying books at a discount from publishers and then
setting its own price for e-reader devices.  The results of a settlement or lawsuit wouldn’t necessarily
kill the agency model or prevent other publishers from
continuing to set their own prices for e-books, one of the
people said.  Random House Inc., based in  New York , has agreements with
Apple and Amazon that lets the  book publisher  set prices for e-
books, the essence of the agency model. The company isn’t a part
of the U.S. inquiry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  