-- Apple to Top Spain, Greece, Portugal: Chart of the Day
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-04-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/apple-to-top-spain-greece-portugal-chart-of-the-day.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s market value is about
to overtake that of almost 500 public companies in Spain,  Greece 
and  Portugal  combined, which together make less profit than the
maker of iPhones.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the equity capitalization of
Cupertino, California-based Apple, the world’s most valuable
company, and that of the three European countries at the center
of Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The total market value of the nations’ public
companies in November 2007 was 11 times that of Apple’s before
$1 trillion was wiped off their shares.  “This shows the difference between the dark macro
challenges and the bright corporate fundamentals, and highlights
the change in dynamics that has taken place in the past couple
of years,” said  Henk Potts , an equity strategist at Barclays
Wealth in  London , which oversees $239 billion, in an interview.  Apple shares rose eightfold from January 2009 to $636.23 on
April 9 as demand for products such as the iPad and iPhone
swelled. The average 12-month price estimate in a Bloomberg
analyst survey is for the stock to reach $689, or a market
capitalization of $643 billion. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index lost 36
percent since the start of 2010, Portugal’s PSI 20 declined 37
percent, and the Athens Stock Exchange General Index slid almost
70 percent as Greece restructured $273 billion in debt, while
borrowing costs for neighboring nations jumped.  Apple’s net income during the past 12 months was $33
billion, surpassing the $32 billion of combined earnings
reported by companies with a main listing in the three European
countries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The sovereign debt crisis has turned southern European
markets into a graveyard for investors,” Potts said. “While
Apple’s innovation, brand and cash generation has transported
its investors to a promised land of incredible returns and
stock-market dominance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  