-- YPF to Lose More Fields as Argentina Eyes Petrobras
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-04-10T20:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/argentina-s-santa-cruz-province-weighs-revoking-ypf-licenses.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest oil
company, will probably lose three licenses for fields in the
southern province of Santa Cruz where it produces 11 percent of
its crude, a local official said.  Santa Cruz Governor Daniel Peralta will probably issue a
decree withdrawing the licenses on April 12, Juan Ferreiro, head
of the provincial energy institute, said in a  statement 
yesterday. He said the province is also weighing whether
 Petrobras Argentina SA (PESA) , a unit of Brazil’s state-run Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as
Sinopec, are complying with their investment plans.  Six provinces have pulled at least 12 concessions from YPF
since March 13 as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
government demands higher investments in an attempt to boost
production and reduce fuel imports that doubled to $9.4 billion
in 2011. The revoked concessions accounted for about 5 percent
of YPF’s oil output, according to Banco Itau BBA.  The pressure on YPF prompted Deutsche Bank AG and  Raymond
James  Inc. to lower the stock’s rating. Raymond James cut YPF to
market perform from outperform because of “the potential loss
of key production areas in Santa Cruz and Chubut,” analysts
Emiliano Wachs and Federico Chapto said in a report today.  Last week, Neuquen became the first province to withdraw
licenses from companies other than YPF, by pulling areas from
Petrobras, Tecpetrol SA and  Azabache Energy Inc. (AZA)   CEO Visits  Petrobras and Neuquen officials met today with Argentine
Planning Minister Julio De Vido, who oversees energy policy, and
will work on an investment plan, according to an e-mailed
statement from the ministry. De Vido will present the plan in an
April 20 meeting with Maria das Gracas Foster, chief executive
officer of Petrobras Argentina’s Rio de Janeiro-based parent,
the ministry said.  Antonio Brufau , chief executive officer of YPF’s
controlling shareholder  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , arrived in  Buenos Aires 
yesterday and is seeking meetings with government officials to
discuss Argentina’s stance toward the oil producer. Newspapers
Pagina/12, El Cronista Comercial and Ambito Financiero have
reported over the past two months that the government may
nationalize or buy a stake in YPF.  “The political environment could continue to deteriorate
from here,” Deutsche Bank analysts Marcus Sequeira and Luiz
Fonseca said in note to clients today.  Press officials at YPF didn’t immediately respond to a
message left by Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Chinese Bid  China National Offshore Oil Corp., known as Cnooc, is
preparing a 9.16 billion euro ($12 billion) bid for YPF pending
approval from  Argentina ’s government, Spain’s El Confidencial
reported today, citing people it didn’t identify.  YPF dropped 2 percent to $22.22 at the close in New York.
It fell 1.6 percent to 120.50 pesos in Buenos Aires.  The three concessions that may be revoked April 12 are
Canadon Vasco, Los Perales-Las Mesetas and Pico Truncado-El
Cordon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  