-- Marlins Ban Guillen for Five Games for Pro-Castro Comments
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-04-10T16:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/marlins-guillen-returns-to-miami-to-explain-pro-castro-comments.html
Manager  Ozzie Guillen  was suspended
by the  Miami Marlins  for five games after making comments in
support of former Cuban President Fidel Castro.  Guillen, a Venezuelan who has lived in Miami for a decade,
apologized at a news conference in the Marlins’ stadium this
morning.  “Today will be the last time that this person talks about
politics,” Guillen said near the end of the 49-minute televised
session. “This was a very bad moment. I learned a lot.”  Guillen told Time magazine for an article was released on
April 5 that “I love Fidel Castro,” before clarifying his
comments, according to the magazine.  “The Marlins acknowledge the seriousness of the comments
attributed to Guillen,” the Major League Baseball team said in
a statement today. “The pain and suffering caused by  Fidel
Castro  cannot be minimized, especially in a community filled
with victims of the dictatorship.”  The population of Miami-Dade County, which helped fund the
Marlins’ new ballpark after a decade of negotiations, is 34
percent Cuban, according to the 2010  U.S. Census . In the city of
Miami, where Marlins Park is located, there are 137,301 people
of Cuban origin out of a total population of 399,457, also 34
percent. Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Gimenez were among those
condemning the remarks.  Guillen addressed the media today without any members of
the Marlins franchise by his side or overseeing the event.
Outside, members of the Cuban-American community protested.  ‘I’m Sorry’  “I feel like I betrayed to my Latin community and I’m here
to say I’m sorry with my heart in my hands, and I want to say
sorry to all those people that I hurt indirectly or directly,”
Guillen said in Spanish during an almost five-minute opening
statement, which was translated by ESPN.  Guillen flew back to Miami after the Marlins’ 6-2 win at
the Philadelphia Phillies yesterday, telling reporters that he
felt “guilty” and “embarrassed.”  “I respect Fidel Castro,” Guillen told Time. “You know
why? A lot of people have wanted to kill Fidel Castro for the
last 60 years, but that mother-----r is still here.”  Guillen said today that a communication gap during his
interview led to his comments being taken out of context.  “What I wanted to say was that I was surprised that Fidel
Castro was in power for so long,” Guillen said. “A lot was
missing in the translation.”  The Marlins, who hired Guillen in September and last week
opened the $515 million stadium in the Little Havana section of
downtown Miami, said in an April 6 statement that the manager’s
comments didn’t reflect the opinion of the team.  ‘Brutal Dictator’  “There is nothing to respect about Fidel Castro,” the
team said in the statement. “He is a brutal dictator who has
caused unthinkable pain for more than 50 years. We live in a
community filled with victims of this dictatorship, and the
people in Cuba continue to suffer today.”  Major League Baseball  Commissioner  Bud Selig  said today in
an e-mailed statement that he supported the team’s suspension of
Guillen.  “Baseball is a social institution with important social
responsibilities,” Selig said. “All of our 30 clubs play
significant roles within their local communities, and I expect
those who represent Major League Baseball to act with the kind
of respect and sensitivity that the game’s many cultures
deserve. Mr. Guillen’s remarks, which were offensive to an
important part of the Miami community and others throughout the
world, have no place in our game.”  Gimenez said in a statement yesterday that he joined his
community and “all freedom-loving people in condemning”
Guillen’s comments.  “For too long, the Marlins organization has been the
source of controversies in our community and I now challenge
them to take decisive steps to bring this community back
together,” Gimenez said.  Castro’s Reign  Castro, 85, stepped down as president of Cuba in 2008. He
had been the country’s leader since 1959.  ESPN reported that a Cuban-American advocacy group in
Miami, Vigilia Mambisa, has said it would boycott and
demonstrate against Guillen until the Marlins fire him.  Guillen was manager of the  Chicago White Sox  for eight
years before joining the Marlins, who sent Chicago two minor-
league prospects as compensation for releasing him from his
contract. He led the White Sox to a 678-617 record, winning the
 World Series  in 2005.  The 48-year-old Guillen has gotten in trouble for previous
comments. In 2006, he used profanity and a homosexual slur in
describing Chicago Sun-Times columnist Jay Mariotti before
apologizing the following day.  The Marlins, who play in Philadelphia tomorrow and the next
day, return to Miami on April 13 to begin a series against the
 Houston Astros .  Guillen also said on April 5 that his routine during road
trips is to get drunk at the hotel bar after games, according to
CBSSports.com.  “I get drunk because I’m happy we win or I get drunk
because I’m very sad and disturbed because we lose,” Guillen
said, according to the  website . “Same routine, it never
changes. It’s been the same routine for 25, 28 years. It doesn’t
change. I don’t like to go out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 