-- Tarullo Says Most Large Banks Need Better Capital Planning
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-04-10T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/tarullo-says-most-large-banks-need-better-capital-planning.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said most of the 19 largest U.S. banks need to improve
their capital planning.  Tarullo, the Fed governor in charge of supervision and
regulation, said stress test results released last month showed
the U.S. banking system was stronger than it was during the
financial crisis. Banks have also improved the way they estimate
how much capital they should retain or pay out.  “However, there appears to be room for improvement at
virtually every firm, and at some firms the amount of work
needed is still significant,” Tarullo said in the text of his
remarks to the Chicago Fed’s annual conference on risk. “This
will remain a major focus of supervisory efforts.”  The Fed said last month that 15 of the 19 largest U.S.
banks could maintain adequate capital levels even in a severe
recession scenario that assumes they continue to pay dividends
and buy back stock. The results of the so-called stress tests
showed that nearly three years of economic expansion have helped
U.S. banks raise profits, rebuild capital, and increase
liquidity after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. in
2008 nearly toppled the financial system.  Tarullo said the aggregate tier one common ratio, a measure
of bank capital, of the 19 largest banks at the end of the third
quarter of 2011 was about 10.1 percent, “nearly double the 5.3
percent aggregate ratio for the firms at the end of 2008.”  The Fed started the most recent test and review of banks’
forward-looking capital strategy in November, saying they should
have “credible plans” to meet tougher standards required by
new regulations and to continue lending even in period of
financial stress.  Plunge in Stocks  The Fed asked banks to test their capital against scenario
of an unemployment rate of 13 percent, a 50 percent drop in
stock prices and a 21 percent decline in  house prices  under the
stress scenario.  Six banking-holding companies with large trading, private
equity and derivatives activities were also subjected to tests
of these positions from a “global market shock.” The six were
Citigroup,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Wells Fargo & Co.,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The stress tests are now a standard feature of the Fed’s
big-bank supervision and oversight of financial risk. The
concept was born in late 2008 when Chairman Ben S. Bernanke was
trying to discern the maximum losses facing the banking system
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  