-- Asian Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses on BOJ, China
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-04-10T10:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/asia-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-exporters-gain.html
Asian  stocks  slipped, with the
region’s benchmark falling for a fifth day as markets opened
from a holiday, after the Bank of  Japan  didn’t add to monetary
stimulus and China reported an unexpected trade surplus.  Sony Corp. (6758) , which yesterday said it will cut 10,000 jobs,
extended declines as the yen rose after the Bank of Japan’s
decision to leave its stimulus measures unchanged. China
Resources Land Ltd. and other mainland developers dropped after
better-than-expected Chinese exports and a report yesterday that
inflation accelerated gave policy makers less room to ease
monetary policy.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s biggest oil
producer, dropped 0.6 percent after crude prices fell.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent to 123.85 as
of 7:45 p.m. in  Tokyo  on the first day this month that all Asian
markets have been open. The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan
Index stocks slipped 0.6 percent as shares in Hong Kong and
Australia fell following a four-day holiday during which the
U.S. reported slower jobs growth and  China ’s inflation
accelerated.  “Investors are still fearful that growth isn’t strong
enough and if there isn’t going to be more stimulus then that’s
negative,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment
strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100
billion under management. “There’s also a less healthy element
and that is that markets have become hooked on stimulus.”  Slowing Rally  The regional gauge has retreated 4 percent since the start
of March as China cut its economic growth target and on
speculation stocks had risen too fast after the index advanced
15 percent in the first two months of the year. Stocks on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index are valued at an average of 1.4 times
book value, compared with 2.3 times on the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPXL1)  and 1.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the  S&P 500  added 0.3 percent today. The gauge
slid 1.1 percent in  New York  yesterday after a report last week
showed U.S. employers in March added the fewest jobs in five
months.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  dropped 0.1 percent,
reversing gains after the Bank of Japan meeting. Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa and his colleagues left the central bank’s 30
trillion yen ($370 billion) asset-purchase fund and 35 trillion
yen credit-lending program unchanged, in line with the forecasts
of 12 of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Calling for Action’  “The market is calling for action from the BOJ,” said
 Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo, which manages about $123 billion. “The
bank’s policy makers might have reached a consensus to do
something at the next meeting. Political pressure is backing
them into a corner and will force them to act.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 1.2 percent, extending
declines after China reported an unexpected trade surplus for
March, damping speculation policy makers will cut lending curbs
to spur growth. Exports rose 8.9 percent from a year earlier,
more than the 7 percent gain predicted by economists.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  dropped 0.6 percent, led lower by
commodity producers and energy shares. South Korea’s Kospi Index
slipped 0.1 percent.  Sony plunged 3.5 percent to 1,586 yen, with declines
accelerating after the yen  appreciated  against the dollar,
crimping the earnings outlook for Japanese exporters. The
electronics maker’s full-year loss will widen to 520 billion yen
from the 220 billion yen projected two months ago, Sony said in
a statement after markets closed.  China Developers Drop  China Resources Land, a state-controlled property company,
dropped 2.1 percent to HK$14, extending declines after the
Chinese trade data was released.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813) 
fell 2.7 percent to HK$9.07. Country Garden Holdings Co., which
builds villas and apartments in the mainland, slipped 1.5
percent to HK$3.23.  BHP Billiton dropped 0.6 percent to A$34.25 in Sydney as
oil traded near the lowest price in almost a week in New York on
speculation U.S. crude stockpiles rose to the highest level for
this time of year since 1990.   Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil
and gas producer, dropped 1.4 percent to A$34.69. Cnooc Ltd.,
China’s biggest offshore oil producer by market value, slid 1.8
to HK$15.60.  “Asia markets have been soft since the end of February,
not breaking down but drifting lower,” said AMP’s Oliver. “We
could be in for a rougher patch.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  