-- Asia Inflation Risk May Check Easing
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-11T04:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/asia-inflation-risk-may-check-easing-even-as-boj-stimulus-urged.html
Asian nations from  South Korea  to
 Singapore  may refrain from monetary easing this week as rising
oil prices add to inflation risks, even as pressure mounts on
 Japan  to add stimulus and China grapples with slowing expansion.  Indonesia (IDBIRATE)  will keep interest rates unchanged for a second
month tomorrow, and South  Korea  and Pakistan will follow a day
later, according to Bloomberg News surveys. Singapore, which
uses its exchange rate to manage inflation, is forecast by
economists to maintain its policy stance on April 13, when the
government is predicted to report a rebound in growth.  Crude oil has risen 18 percent in the past six months,
forcing Asian governments to raise fuel prices and limiting
policy options for central banks in the world’s fastest growing
region. Developing Asia can refrain from further monetary and
fiscal stimulus because expansion will remain robust, while
spikes in energy costs can revive the threat of inflation, the
Asian Development Bank said in a report today.  “Economic momentum is steadily improving, so there is no
scope for further monetary accommodation,” said Wai Ho Leong, a
senior regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in Singapore.
“The focus of policy is to anchor inflation expectations.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  has risen about 8 percent this
year on signs the U.S. is recovering and as  Europe ’s turmoil
abated with  Greece ’s second bailout package. The Bank of Japan
yesterday resisted calls from lawmakers to expand monetary
easing and counter deflation.  Concerns Revived  Still, the regional stock index fell this week as Spanish
bonds trading closer to levels that prompted Greece, Ireland and
Portugal to seek European bailouts revived concern that Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen.  The Bank of Japan kept its  key rate  between zero and 0.1
percent and left its 30 trillion yen ($371 billion) asset-
purchase fund and 35 trillion yen credit-lending program
unchanged yesterday.  Takeshi Miyazaki, a Democratic Party of Japan lawmaker and
a leader of the ruling party’s anti-deflation group, called on
the BOJ to do more later this month, saying yesterday the
central bank should pursue “bold and large-scale monetary
easing.”  Japan’s machinery orders exceeded all economists’ estimates
in February, signaling gains in capital spending that may help
to sustain a recovery in the world’s third-biggest economy, a
Cabinet Office report showed in  Tokyo  today. Bookings increased
4.8 percent, the most since November.  Australian Loans  Elsewhere, Australian home-loan approvals fell for a second
month on the fastest exodus of first-home buyers in a decade, a
statistics bureau report showed in Sydney today. A private
survey showed consumer confidence declined to an eight-month low.
In neighboring New Zealand, business confidence rose in the
first quarter while companies had three months of weak trading,
a report by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research Inc.
showed.  In Europe, U.K.  retail sales  rose for the first time in
three months in March as warm weather boosted demand for
clothing and outdoor gear, the British Retail Consortium said.
Hungarian inflation probably slowed to 5.5 percent in March,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey ahead of
a report due today.  Russia  is due to release weekly price data,
and Norway and Spain will release industrial production data for
February.  A U.S. report on mortgage applications is due today from
the  Mortgage Bankers Association , a Washington-based trade group.
The country’s import prices are estimated to rise 0.8 percent in
March from the previous month, according to the median in a
Bloomberg survey. The  Federal Reserve  will release its Beige
Book survey.  Costlier Fuel  Oil has gained on concern tension with  Iran  will disrupt
global supplies.  China , the world’s largest oil consumer after
the U.S., increased gasoline and diesel prices for the second
time in less than six weeks on March 20. Its inflation
accelerated more than forecast in March, signaling policy makers
may exercise caution in adding stimulus to boost growth. The
Philippines,  Taiwan  and Vietnam have also raised fuel prices
this year.  “There is no clear case for short-term policy responses,
but if inflationary pressures build up again and capital inflows
resume, there may be a need to readjust monetary policy to
maintain price stability,” Changyong Rhee, ADB chief economist,
said in a statement.  Indonesia ’s central bank kept its  benchmark rate  unchanged
at 5.75 percent last month after cutting borrowing costs in
February, as a government plan to raise fuel prices revived
inflation risk. Inflation accelerated in March for the first
time in seven months.  Indonesian Bid  All 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy to hold its key rate tomorrow.  Lawmakers in March rejected the government’s bid for an
immediate 33 percent increase in the price of subsidized fuel,
instead giving it the power to raise prices only if the
Indonesia Crude Price exceeds the budget assumption of $105 a
barrel by an average 15 percent over a six-month period. The
six-month average was 11 percent above the budget assumption as
of March 31, according to Bloomberg calculations.  “Bank Indonesia has already signaled a shift in their bias
at the last policy meeting and with inflation risks on the
horizon, there is a strong case for them to maintain the current
stance,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-based economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “Having moved ahead of the rest of the
region in the easing cycle, Southeast Asia is probably already
done cutting  interest rates  this year.”  Singapore Stance  Singapore’s central bank will hold the current rate of the
local dollar’s advance and refrain from altering its trading
band, according to analysts at 19 of 21 financial companies
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Two said there is a chance the
central bank will leave it unchanged or increase the band’s
slope to levels prior to its last review in October.  The Singapore  economy  expanded an annualized 6.8 percent
last quarter from the previous three-month period, when it
contracted 2.5 percent, according to the median estimate of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  South Korea, which is holding parliamentary elections today,
grew the least in two years in the last three months of 2011,
and the economy will return to a recovery path this quarter,
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said April 4.  The  Bank of Korea  will keep the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate unchanged at 3.25 percent for a 10th month when
policy makers meet, according to all 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The central bank aims to keep inflation at the
midpoint of a range of between 2 percent and 4 percent over the
medium term.  Vietnam Cuts  Pakistan ’s central bank will keep the  discount rate  at 12
percent for a third meeting, according to all 11 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The country faces inflation exceeding 10
percent, the fastest in Asia after Vietnam. The price gains, the
lingering impact of floods in 2010 and 2011 and an insurgency
near the Afghan border are crimping expansion in the $200
billion economy.  Vietnam is one of the few countries in the region still
lowering interest rates. The Southeast Asian nation cut its
borrowing costs for the second time in less than a month this
week as easing inflation gave policy makers scope to bolster an
economy that’s growing at the slowest pace since 2009. The
reductions are effective today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  