-- Australia, N.Z. Dollars Fall as Euro Crisis Damps Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-10T21:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/australia-n-z-dollars-fall-as-euro-crisis-damps-demand.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars fell against their U.S. counterpart and the yen as
increased concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is
worsening reduced demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie, as the currency is known, weakened for a third
day against the yen as stocks and commodities slumped amid
concern the global economic recovery is faltering. New Zealand’s
currency fell as Spain’s borrowing costs climbed.  “Europe has been a little bit worse as of late, and Spain
has become more of the focus,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of
U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in  New York .
“There’s more fear, more uncertainty in the market, and that
plays out in terms of commodity currencies.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.6 percent to $1.0251 yesterday in
New York. It dropped 1.6 percent to 82.70 yen.  The kiwi, as New Zealand’s currency is nicknamed, weakened
0.8 percent to 81.49 U.S. cents and tumbled 1.8 percent to 65.74
yen.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  tumbled 1.7 percent,
falling for a fifth day in its longest slump since November. The
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials decreased
1.4 percent.  Spain’s 10-year  yields  climbed as much as 24 basis points,
or 0.24 percentage point, to 5.99 percent, the highest level
this year. They jumped more than 40 basis points last week, the
biggest surge since the five days ended Jan. 6, as Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the nation is in “extreme
difficulty.”  Additional Capital  Spanish banks may need additional capital if the economy
weakens more than expected, Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel
Fernandez Ordonez said yesterday at a conference in Madrid as he
warned the recovery will be slow.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S.
recovery is far from complete, spurring concern the global
economic recovery is faltering. He spoke April 9 at a conference
in Stone Mountain, Georgia. A report last week showed U.S.
employers added the fewest jobs in March in five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Cox  at 
 Pcox16@bloomberg.net  