-- AvtoVAZ to Borrow $2 Billion for Upgrade With Renault-Nissan
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-11T10:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/avtovaz-to-borrow-2-billion-for-car-upgrade-with-renault-nissan.html
OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , Russia’s biggest
automaker, will seek to borrow as much as 60 billion rubles ($2
billion) by 2015 for its biggest overhaul “in decades” with
 Renault SA (RNO)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (M7201) ’s help, to compete against
international brands.  “This is the first time in many years, if not in decades,
that AvtoVAZ is launching new projects on such a scale,” Chief
Executive Officer Igor Komarov said in an interview at the
Togliatti headquarters near the  Volga River . Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  visited the plant last week for the unveiling of
the Lada Largus minivan and passenger car, its first model based
on a Renault platform.  AvtoVAZ is revamping its vehicle lineup to boost sagging
sales as international automakers expand production in Russia.
The Russian car market may surpass  Germany  to become  Europe ’s
biggest in 2014, according to the Industry Ministry. AvtoVAZ
aims to hold 25 percent of the market in five years, or 40
percent together with Renault and Nissan.  The plant, which was built in the late 1960s with the
assistance of  Fiat SpA (F) , will more than double output from last
year to 1.2 million cars by 2017, Komarov said.  Sales of Ladas slumped 15 percent in the first quarter to
109,388 cars after a government-sponsored car rebate program
ended last year, the Association of European Businesses in
Moscow said April 9. Nissan increased sales by 52 percent and
Renault 27 percent in the period.  Renault-Nissan Models  The 400 million-euro ($525 million) assembly line
inaugurated April 4 by Putin, who returns to the presidency next
month, will be able to produce 350,000 vehicles a year under
Lada, Renault and Nissan brands.  By year-end, AvtoVAZ will manufacture 27,000 Largus
vehicles and produce a Nissan model, with two Renault models
planned for 2013, Komarov said. At the end of last year, the
factory started making a budget car, the Lada Granta, which is
now on sale, to replace its biggest-selling brands, the Classica
series and the Samara, next year.  Renault and Nissan, which are seeking a more than 50
percent stake in the Russian carmaker, may agree with the major
other owners on the details of the deal this month, AvtoVAZ
Chairman  Sergei Chemezov  said April 4. State-owned Russian
Technologies Corp., which holds 29 percent of AvtoVAZ and is
headed by Chemezov, plans to hold talks with the French-Japanese
alliance’s Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  in Paris at the
end of April.  Chance of Success  Renault, which has its headquarters in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt, has owned 25 percent in AvtoVAZ since 2008
and owns 43.4 percent of Yokohama-based Nissan,  Japan ’s second-
biggest carmaker.  “I look forward to a rapid and successful conclusion to
these negotiations,” said Komarov, who took over the helm at
the company in 2009 in the midst of a global recession. “The
parties have a real chance of success now.”  Oxana Nazarova, a Renault spokeswoman in Moscow, and
Tatiana Natarova, a Nissan spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Renault-Nissan may gain control of the car plant within two
years, with the alliance paying in stages as goals are met,
Sergey Skvortsov, managing director of Troika Dialog, which has
21 percent of AvtoVAZ that it plans to sell, said in an
interview in February.  Troika will take part in the Paris talks, Skvortsov said
yesterday through the investment bank’s press service.  No Competing Overlap  Renault paid $1 billion for its 25 percent in AvtoVAZ and a
similar amount will be required to raise that to more than 50
percent, given the investments made in the plant, Skvortsov said
in February.  AvtoVAZ has gained 21 percent this year, raising the its
value to 43.7 billion rubles ($1.5 billion). The shares traded
little changed at 24 rubles at 2:24 p.m. in Moscow.  The new 400 million-euro new line is based on the same
platform used to make Renault’s Dacia Logan and Sandero models,
Komarov said. “We and our alliance partners are devoting a lot
of attention to ensure that there is no competing overlap
between our models,” he said.  Total investments to 2015 will reach 75 billion rubles,
most of which will be financed with loans from state-controlled
OAO Sberbank, VTB Group and development bank VEB, Komarov said.
The carmaker has started talks with VEB on credit lines for
specific projects, he said. The company may also sell bonds to
help raise funds, he said.  Avoiding Unrest  “Our task is to keep current workforce levels by raising
output and increasing productivity,” Komarov said.  In 2009, the state agreed to give AvtoVAZ a 75 billion-
ruble bailout loan to avoid social unrest in Togliatti as the
company cut its workforce from 102,000 to 66,000 through
accelerated retirement and spinning off subsidiaries. The city
depends on the factory as its principal employer.  AvtoVAZ will probably generate a profit for this year
following a loss in the first half, after the government phased
out its rebate program, which had encouraged purchases of new
domestically made cars to replace old models, Komarov said.  Lada sales have dropped for the past six months in a row,
according to the AEB. The Russian cash-for-clunkers program,
which started in March 2010, accounted for almost 40 percent of
AvtoVAZ’s total sales in the period, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  Komarov will consider the terms the shareholders offer when
his contract runs out this year. Before joining AvtoVAZ, he
spent about six years as deputy CEO for finance at OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel,  Russia ’s biggest mining company.  “I am happy to be working with Renault-Nissan,” Komarov
said. “I have a very interesting job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  