-- Lawmaker Defends Cyber Bill as Groups Plan Internet Protest
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-04-10T18:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/lawmaker-defends-cyber-bill-as-groups-plan-internet-protest.html
The chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee defended his proposed legislation aimed
at improving cybersecurity as civil liberties groups planned an
Internet protest against the measure.  The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act, known as
CISPA, would encourage companies to share information on threats
with each other and the federal government through incentives
such as protection from lawsuits over data exchanges.  Civil liberties groups criticize the bill, introduced by
House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a Michigan
Republican, saying it would erode online privacy by letting
companies give personal information on users to the government
without penalty.  “The bill only permits information directly pertaining to
threats and vulnerabilities to be identified and shared for the
purpose of protecting systems and networks,” Rogers said in a
conference call with reporters today. “‘It’s very limited.”  The bill, approved by Rogers’ committee 17-1 in December,
has more than 100 co-sponsors from both parties, including the
panel’s senior Democrat, Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland .  Groups including the Center for Democracy & Technology,
 American Civil Liberties Union  and the Electronic Frontier
Foundation are planning a Web-based protest over the legislation
next week.  ‘Rise Up’  Rogers’ comments are designed to blunt the concerns of
civil liberties groups “so the Internet doesn’t rise up and
destroy this legislation like we killed SOPA,” the Stop Online
Piracy Act, Rainey Reitman, activism director for San Francisco-
based EFF, said in an interview. SOPA was one of two pieces of
anti-piracy legislation shelved this year after  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
Wikipedia and other websites led an Internet protest that eroded
congressional support.  The Rogers bill is one of the central pieces of
cybersecurity legislation being considered by Congress as
lawmakers debate how to combat hackers, computer viruses and
cyber espionage. The bill may be brought to the House floor
within two weeks.  Groups taking part in the Internet protest plan to conduct
a social-media campaign and encourage people to contact their
representatives, Greg Nojeim, senior counsel for the Washington-
based Center for Democracy & Technology, said in an interview.  ‘Drive a Bulldozer’  The Rogers bill “would drive a bulldozer through privacy
laws because it includes no meaningful restrictions on the
government’s use of the information shared with it and because
it trumps all privacy laws in the service of cybersecurity,”
Nojeim said.  The center receives some of its funding from technology
companies including Google and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Two technology trade associations said yesterday their
websites were disabled by so-called denial-of-service attacks
led by the hacker-activist group Anonymous over their support of
the Rogers bill. Such attacks involve flooding a website with
traffic, causing it to temporarily crash.  USTelecom, which represents telephone companies such as
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , and TechAmerica,
whose members include  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , said they would continue to support the
legislation after the Web-based assaults.  Bill Changes  Rogers said today he is making changes to his bill, to let
people sue the government for damages if it improperly uses
information supplied by private companies, and clarifying that
the Defense Department and U.S. intelligence agencies couldn’t
direct companies to take actions when it comes to protecting
their  computer networks .  Under another modification, the Homeland Security
Department would get copies of information that companies share
with the government to help ensure privacy violations don’t
occur, Rogers said.  Senate Democrats and President  Barack Obama  support a
separate cybersecurity bill introduced by Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, that would let the
Homeland Security agency set regulations for operators of
critical networks to improve their cyber defenses.  The Rogers bill is H.R. 3523. The Lieberman bill is S.
2105.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 