-- Tax Breaks for Wealthy Should Be Cut, Paul Ryan Says
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/tax-breaks-for-wealthy-should-be-cut-paul-ryan-says.html
U.S. House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  said tax breaks for the wealthy should be
reduced as part of an overhaul of the nation’s tax code.  “We should ask: Who should get them?” Ryan, a Wisconsin
Republican, said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg View
in  New York . “We should circumscribe these tax benefits to
middle-income and low-income people, and not to higher-income
people.”  Ryan, 42, declined to identify which benefits ought to be
cut to finance his proposed tax overhaul.  Last month, the House approved his  budget  that calls for
consolidating the current six individual tax brackets into two,
with rates set at 25 percent and 10 percent. The top rate now is
35 percent. His plan would make cuts in  food stamps ,  Medicaid (USBOMDCA) ,
Pell college tuition grants and other programs for the poor.  Ryan’s plan calls for financing the reductions by cutting
individual tax preferences, without identifying which ones. Ryan
has said the House’s tax-writing Ways and Means Committee will
sort that out later. It would need to come up with about $4.6
trillion in revenue over the next decade to pay for the lower
tax rates, according to the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  in
Washington.  Ryan also said he has a “hard time” believing lawmakers
will reach a so-called grand bargain to cut the deficit in a
post-election session of Congress.  Stronger Hand  The election winners will probably believe they would have
a stronger hand in negotiations when the new Congress takes
office in January, he said. Lawmakers shouldn’t try to address
those issues after the election anyway, Ryan said, because it
would mean passing major legislation with relatively little
scrutiny.  “I’m not a big believer in trying to cut backroom deals
and then bringing them down from on high and showing them to the
country,” he said. Lawmakers should be “having hearings,
having debates, in open, in public -- passing legislation
through the front door versus cutting a deal in the back.”  Congress will probably pass short-term legislation allowing
lawmakers to postpone decisions until 2013 on issues such as
whether to continue expiring Bush-era tax breaks, he said.  Ryan said lawmakers will examine which tax breaks are worth
keeping and who should benefit from them.  He said his plan leaves room for some breaks “and if we
believe that there are good tax expenditures, that they are good
for the economy and the country, let’s limit them to middle-
income earners and lower.”  Wisconsin Recall Vote  He also predicted that a June recall election targeting
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican, will provide a
major political boost to the party that wins.  “It’s the second-most important election this year, next
to the presidential election,” Ryan said. “It’s a momentum-
maker for either side -- it’s high risk, high reward for either
side.”  Ryan, who has endorsed Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , declined to say whether he wants to be his running
mate.  “I don’t spend my time thinking about that stuff, worrying
about it, because it’s somebody else’s decision a long time from
now and I, quite frankly, feel like I can make a big difference
where I am,” the congressman said.  Romney is “a lot more warm and attractive in person than
what you can see on TV,” said Ryan. He’s also “very earnest”
and “kind of a throwback to the Fifties,” the congressman
said.  Ryan defended his budget’s call for steep cuts in many
federal programs for the poor.  “We need to think about what works and what doesn’t,” he
said. “We need to focus our poverty-eradication policies on
treating root causes instead of subsidizing them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  