-- Balotelli May Get Nine-Game Ban for Tackle: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-10T08:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/balotelli-may-get-nine-game-ban-for-tackle-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Balotelli Ban  Manchester City striker  Mario Balotelli  is facing a nine-
game ban after the Football Association said it’s reviewing his
tackle on Arsenal’s  Alex Song  that went unpunished during a
Premier League match two days ago, the  Daily Mail reported .  Balotelli, who will miss three games after getting sent off
late in City’s 1-0 loss at Arsenal, could be banned for a
further three matches for his tackle on Song and then for
another three because that would count as his fourth red card of
the season, the newspaper said. Referee Martin Atkinson missed
the knee-high challenge on Song, the Mail added.  Striker Says Sorry  Balotelli apologized to City manager  Roberto Mancini  for
his red card against Arsenal and said he’ll discuss his future
at the club at the end of the season, the  Sun reported .  Mancini said after the loss at Arsenal that the Italian
striker wouldn’t play again this campaign and would “probably”
be traded in the off-season, the newspaper added.  “Maybe Roberto said those things because a defeat is hard
to swallow,” the Sun cited Mino Raiola, Balotelli’s agent, as
saying. “I think there was a misunderstanding.”  Mancini Talks  Mancini is fighting for his future as City’s manager and
needs the team to finish the season strongly to strengthen his
case for a new contract, the  Guardian reported .  Formal talks regarding a new deal are scheduled to start in
May and Mancini’s current agreement has a year remaining, the
newspaper said. City has taken five points from its last five
games to trail league leader  Manchester United  by eight points
with six games remaining.  Squad Revamp  Mancini will overhaul his squad if he keeps his job with
Balotelli,  Carlos Tevez ,  Edin Dzeko , Nigel de Jong and Kolo Toure to leave if City can find buyers at the right price, the
 Daily Express reported .  Loaned players including Emmanuel Adebayor,  Wayne Bridge 
and Roque Santa Cruz also will be sold to raise funds for new
acquisitions, the newspaper said. Arsenal’s Robin van Persie is
the top target with Lille’s Eden Hazard and Napoli duo Edinson
Cavani and Ezequiel Lavezzi also wanted, the Express added.  Teenage Goalie  Manchester United is ready to join the chase for Birmingham
City’s teenage goalkeeper Jack Butland, who’s rated at 3 million
pounds ($4.7 million), the  Daily Mirror reported .  The 19-year-old, who has represented  England  at under-21
level and is yet to play for Birmingham’s first team, is also
being tracked by Arsenal, the Mirror added.  Dalglish Risks Rap  Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  risks being charged by the
Football Association after he questioned the integrity of match
officials and criticized “inexcusable” decisions that he said
have gone against his team in the past three games, the  Guardian
reported .  Dalglish also called for officials to explain key
decisions, saying it would be “helpful and more transparent,”
the Guardian added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  