-- Bankers Quit Wall Street to Find $50 Million for Wine
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/bankers-quit-wall-street-to-find-50-million-for-wine.html
Brian Mota didn’t find it easy to
give up the familiar turf of private equity for wine investing.  Mota, 38, had been evaluating more conventional investment
opportunities at WallerSutton Capital in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
after leaving  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment-banking unit.
Then he saw a way to treat wine in a similar fashion.  He hooked up with former investment banker Timothy Clew,
40, an active collector of wine, and after sending out feelers,
they began  The Wine Trust  in earnest in 2010.  Their firm TWT Investment Partners LP, which is based in
Ridgefield, Connecticut, is in the process of raising as much as
$50 million for the trust, the only private-equity-structured
wine-investment fund in the U.S. with a targeted amount of more
than $20 million.  “This was an opportunity to take Wall Street-type
disciplines and apply them to an asset class that was largely
devoid of that type of thinking,” Clew said.  The fund buys both physical wine and futures -- wine that
is made and in casks but not yet bottled -- directly from
negociants to lock-in lower prices and secure significant
quantities for investment of the most sought-after producers. It
seeks wines with strong appreciation prospects after release,
including first-growth Bordeaux.  First Stab  Mota says his first stab at managing wine like other
investments involved gathering a pool of $2 million to $3
million, with four friends, buying a lot of liquid assets and
monitoring the potential return. His own collection has about
500 bottles, and he’s partial to white Burgundy and white
Bordeaux.  While at  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , Clew helped start the bank’s
advisory for wineries on mergers and acquisitions. He was
already a wine enthusiast, and now has 600 to 700 bottles of his
own. He says his cellar is “about drinking.”  Unlike many wine funds that are structured as  hedge funds ,
The Wine Trust is more like a private-equity fund. The money
invested is basically locked up for as long as eight years,
which helps managers ride out a decline.  “It allows us to be more patient with the market,” Clew
said. “We don’t have to worry about selling into a falling
market.” Yet because of the structure and the timing of their
initial foray in 2009, it wasn’t easy luring investors “during
the downturn because people didn’t want to lock up their money
for eight years,” Mota said.  ‘New Asset Class’  “We went to market as first-time managers with a new asset
class in the worst economic downturn since the Great
Depression,” Mota said. “We were competing with the mattress
as much as other asset classes.”  In 2010, investors started showing more receptivity to hard
assets, Mota said. “That’s the case we’ve been making all
along; it’s a real asset investment much like an allocation to
gold, commodities, metals, and other things that have tangible
underlying value,” he said.  Management of the fund includes taking advantages of market
inefficiencies, such as the price variations of desirable wines
in different locations.  “The sought-after wines are sought after whether you’re
sitting in  New York ,  London  or  Hong Kong ,” Clew said. “If you
know the logistics network and know how to move wine across
markets, you can take wine from lower-priced markets and sell
into higher-priced markets.”  Retailers, Restaurants  The fund stores its bottles primarily in  Europe  and sells
mainly to retailers and restaurants with which the managers have
established relationships or buyers that are listed on the
London International Vintners Exchange, an electronic trading
and information platform for wine merchants. In that way the
fund avoids the 20 percent premium auction houses generally
charge.  The Liv-ex  Fine Wine 100 index,  the industry benchmark, has
produced a return of 195 percent during the past seven years.
The index, calculated monthly, represents price movement of 100
of the most sought-after wines.  “Returns from wine investment have consistently
outperformed other asset classes,” said  Miles Davis , a partner
at London-based Wine Asset Managers LLP, in a telephone
interview.  Wine Asset Managers, with about $25 million under
management from two funds, has returned about 10 percent during
the past five years.  “At the end of the day, all of these investments are 750
milliliters of grape juice,” Mota said. “So at $1,500 a
bottle, is Lafite 10 times better than Lynch Bages at $150 a
bottle?”  Today's highlights: Amanda Gordon's Scene Last Night 
featuring Dimons,  Victor Cruz ; Martin Gayford reviews U.K. 
design;  Craig Seligman  on Nadine Gordimer's “No Time Like 
the Present.”   To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 