-- Bank of Japan Keeps Policy Unchanged as Pressure Builds
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-04-10T09:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/bank-of-japan-keeps-policy-unchanged.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from
expanding monetary easing to counter deflation, resisting
pressure from lawmakers who five days ago rejected a nominee for
the policy board.  The central bank kept the  key rate  between zero and 0.1
percent in Tokyo today. It left its 30 trillion yen ($368
billion) asset-purchase fund and 35 trillion yen credit-lending
program unchanged, in line with the forecasts of 12 of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The yen strengthened and stocks pared gains after the
unanimous decision, the first since the upper house of
parliament blocked the appointment of BNP Paribas SA economist
 Ryutaro Kono  after some lawmakers said he wouldn’t support
stronger measures. The central bank may be preserving its
ammunition for later in the month, when its revised price
projections are likely to show a goal of 1 percent inflation is
not in sight.  “The BOJ held off on additional easing to show it isn’t
willing to be pushed around by politicians,” said  Junko Nishioka , a Tokyo-based analyst at RBS Securities  Japan  Ltd. who
has worked for the central bank. “The BOJ will be under
pressure to ease policy at its next board meeting because of its
close-to-zero percent inflation outlook.”  Yen Strengthens  The yen traded at 81.26 per dollar as of 5:42 p.m. in
Tokyo, from 81.77 immediately before the decision. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average dropped 0.1 percent after earlier climbing as
much as 1.1 percent.  “We will take appropriate policies based on our outlook
for prices and growth after carefully examining them” at the
next meeting, BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said at a press
conference today. “We don’t have any preconceptions” about
what policy action will be taken, he said.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday that the
government will hold ministerial meetings on overcoming
deflation as policy makers explore ways to end more than a
decade of price declines. Shirakawa will attend the gatherings
as an observer and the meetings could begin as soon as this
month, the Nikkei newspaper reported, without citing where it
obtained the information.  Takeshi Miyazaki, a  Democratic Party  of Japan lawmaker and
a leader of the ruling party’s anti-deflation group, called on
the BOJ to do more later this month.  “The decision not to implement monetary easing is very
regrettable,” Miyazaki said in an interview in Tokyo today.
“This is a betrayal of the hopes of the market” he said,
adding that the BOJ should pursue “bold and large-scale
monetary easing” at the second gathering.  Nomination Rejected  After his rejection by the board, Kono said politicians
were proposing monetary policies “divorced from reality” and
spreading “sweet words” that such measures could reduce the
public’s burden.  The government aims to sustain an economic recovery after
gross domestic product shrank for three of the past four years
and an earthquake and tsunami devastated northeastern regions in
March last year. At the same time, officials need to contain the
world’s largest public debt, with Noda struggling to convince
his party members and opposition parties to double the 5 percent
sales tax.  Future Expansion  Japan’s central bank will expand its asset purchases by 5
trillion yen at the next meeting,  Yasunari Ueno , chief market
economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo, said before today’s
decision. Izuru Kato, chief market economist at Totan Research
Co., expects up to a 10 trillion yen increase.  The BOJ’s  Tankan (JNTSMFG)  survey this month showed large
manufacturers’ confidence failed to improve in March and
executives see the yen averaging 78.14 per dollar this fiscal
year. Akio Toyoda, the president of Toyota Motor Corp., said
last month an “appropriate level” is 95 to 100.  Sony Corp. (6758) , will cut 10,000 jobs worldwide, the Nikkei
newspaper reported yesterday, without identifying where it
obtained the information. The consumer electronics company more
than doubled its annual loss forecast which was affected by the
strong yen that reduces profits when repatriated.  Lawmakers last week escalated pressure for extra action by
blocking the nomination of Kono and renewing calls for a more
“proactive” monetary policy. Two of nine BOJ board seats have
been vacant since April 5.  Consumer prices rose 0.1 percent in February before the BOJ
will review its inflation outlook of 0.5 percent for the year
starting in April 2013 on April 27.  “The BOJ is unlikely to remain in a wait-and-see stance
for long,” analysts including Masayuki Kichikawa at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  Tokyo , wrote in a report yesterday.
“In addition to the delay in the recovery of business
sentiment, pressure on the BOJ is increasing both from
politicians and the financial markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  