-- Bankrupt Elpida Inspires Billion-Dollar Bids Over Samsung: Tech
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-04-11T07:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/bankrupt-elpida-inspires-billion-dollar-bids-over-samsung-tech.html
For a bankrupt company,  Elpida
Memory Inc. (6665)  is getting a lot of attention as the subject of a
billion-dollar chess game among the biggest technology
companies.  They don’t necessarily covet Elpida’s debt, workforce or
even most of its business. They just want the part of its
business that makes chips for Apple Inc.’s mobile devices --and,
even more, they want to make sure their competitors don’t get
that.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest memory-chip
maker, said March 30 it’s bidding for Tokyo-based Elpida.
Private-equity firm TPG Capital also plans a bid, a person
familiar with the matter said on April 6.  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  may join
Hynix, and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  may also try to buy the
company’s assets, Japanese media including the Nikkei newspaper
have reported.  Whoever gets the prize will be in a better position to
compete with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest
memory-chip maker, and make life even tougher for all smaller
rivals.  “Elpida’s technology is what everyone wants, as its
technology can compete with Samsung’s,”  Mitsuo Shimizu , a
Tokyo-based analyst at Cosmo Securities Co., said by phone.  Japan’s DRAM Leader  Elpida was  Japan ’s largest maker of dynamic random access
memory, or DRAM, chips. Then the price for DRAM chips used in
personal computers plummeted as they became a commodity and as
PCs gave way to mobile communication devices. Amid a stronger
yen hurting exports, Elpida filed for  bankruptcy protection  on
Feb. 27 after losing money for five quarters.  Samsung successfully made the transition to mobile DRAM and
controlled 54 percent of the global market for such chips,
according to TrendForce Corp., a Taipei-based research company.
Hynix followed with 21 percent and Elpida with 17 percent for
mobile DRAM as of the fourth quarter of last year.  Shipments of DRAM chips used in mobile devices such as
 Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhone are set to surge sevenfold by 2015 from 2011,
according to IHS Inc.’s iSuppli, an Englewood, Colorado-based
research company.  The mobile DRAM business is “the only thing worth buying”
among Elpida’s assets, Amir Anvarzadeh, a Singapore-based
manager for Asian equity sales at BGC Partners, said in a phone
interview.  Kodak’s Bankruptcy  Elpida isn’t the only company in bankruptcy attracting
interest. Eastman Kodak Co., which filed for Chapter 11
protection in January, is seeking to sell more than 1,100
digital-imaging patents it has said are worth more than $1
billion. The photography pioneer is also pursuing patent-
infringement suits against device makers Apple, Research In
Motion Ltd. and HTC Corp., maintaining the companies owe it
royalty payments.  Elpida makes all of its mobile DRAM chips at its plant in
Hiroshima, Japan, 40 percent of them for Apple, Anvarzadeh said.
Apple overtook Hewlett-Packard Co. as the world’s largest chip
buyer last year,  according to  Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner Inc.  “Their mobile DRAM technology is perceived as good
globally,” said  Park Hyun , a Seoul-based analyst at Tong Yang
Securities Inc. Elpida began supplying Apple with the chips
ahead of Hynix, Park said.  Unlike DRAM chips for PCs, mobile DRAM chips are customized
to the specifications required by device makers.  Mobile Memory  Taking over Elpida would enable Boise, Idaho-based Micron
to boost its mobile DRAM business. Micron had 7.3 percent in
mobile DRAM as of the fourth quarter, according to TrendForce.
For Tokyo-based Toshiba, which only produces NAND flash, a
different type of memory chip, buying Elpida’s DRAM assets would
allow it to package both memory chips on its own, according to
TrendForce.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung and Icheon, South Korea-
based Hynix each produce both NAND chips, used to store data
permanently, and DRAM chips, which store data temporarily.  Hynix declined to comment beyond the March 30 regulatory
filing in which it expressed interest in Elpida, said Park Seong Ae, a Seoul-based spokeswoman for the company. Keisuke Ohmori, a
spokesman for Toshiba, declined to comment, as did Tim Payne, an
external spokesman for TPG in  Hong Kong . An Elpida spokesman,
who declined to be identified, citing company policy, also
declined to comment.  Micron President  Mark Adams  also declined to comment on a
possible investment in Elpida in a March 22 interview.  “Micron executives have stated that we’re interested in
opportunities for industry consolidation, but we have nothing to
add at this time,” said Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Micron.  Samsung Versus Apple  Samsung, the largest seller of chips for Apple, and the
Cupertino, California-based iPhone maker have been  suing  each
other globally since last year over patents related to mobile
technology and design. The competition may give other chipmakers
a chance to increase supplies to Apple, as the U.S. company may
not want to be too dependent on Samsung, BGC’s Anvarzadeh said.  Apple already accounts for about 7.8 percent of Hynix’s
revenue from selling NAND flash and DRAM chips, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Toshiba has proposed making a joint bid with Hynix for
Elpida’s assets, the Nikkei reported April 5. If the two
companies teamed up in a successful bid, Toshiba would probably
take Elpida’s mobile DRAM capacity, while Hynix’s interest may
be in converting Elpida’s PC DRAM production into NAND output,
Dongbu’s Shin said.  Hynix may also want to bid up the price for Elpida so its
competitors don’t pick up the company’s assets cheaply, Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst at Taurus Investment Securities
Co., wrote in an April 2 report.  Revival Plan  Elpida plans to select a bidder as part of its
restructuring plan in early May, a Toshiba executive said March
30. The deadline for final bids is April 27, a person familiar
with the matter said.  Yukio Sakamoto, 64, Elpida’s president, is heading the
company’s restructuring after getting court approval to serve as
its trustee on March 23.  Selling Elpida, sitting on 448 billion yen ($5.5 billion)
of  debt , will have some obstacles. A buyer would have to spend
$3 billion during the next 12 to 18 months to make it
competitive again, making the deal risky, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in a March 30 report. While Elpida’s
creditors may ask for at least $3 billion to $4 billion, bidders
may offer $2 billion at the most, according to the report.  Labor Force  Managing the chipmaker’s  labor force  also will be a burden,
and for an overseas company, operating factories in multiple
countries won’t be easy, said Seo Won Seok, a Seoul-based
analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co.  “You’d have to take all the engineers and make all this
investment in facilities,” he said. “Be it Hynix or Micron or
whoever, they won’t likely be very proactive in bidding because
the takeover would give them a big burden.”  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of NEC Corp.’s
and Hitachi Ltd.’s memory businesses. Japan’s government and
banks bailed out the company in 2009 with 140 billion yen in
financial aid and loans. The bankruptcy filing in February came
after slowing PC sales cut demand for chips and the strong yen
eroded earnings from overseas sales.  Shipments in the $32 billion DRAM industry fell 3.3 percent
last year for the first annual decline in at least five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  “DRAM makers are still struggling with oversupply and weak
demand,” Anand Srinivasan, a Bloomberg Industries analyst, said
in a report today.  Elpida’s chip patents, accumulated through NEC and Hitachi,
can still be attractive to bidders, Korea Investment’s Seo said.  “There can be some benefits,” Seo said. “An increasing
number of people are thinking if you buy them cheaply enough,
you can gain market share, and it won’t be too bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  