-- Bayer Birth-Control Pill May Boost Risks for Blood Clots
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-10T20:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/bayer-s-birth-control-pills-may-boost-blood-clot-risk-fda-says.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Yasmin and 10 other
birth-control pills may pose a greater risk for blood clots in
women using the drugs, and language on the labels must be
strengthened to clarify those dangers, U.S. regulators said.  Pills containing drospirenone, a synthetic version of the
hormone progesterone, will carry new labels about a review that
showed as much as triple the risk for blood clots, the  Food and
Drug Administration  said today in a  statement . The research
compared the drugs with low-dose estrogen pills. Some studies
found no increased risk.  Bayer has faced a wave of lawsuits in the U.S. since 2009
alleging the Leverkusen, Germany-based drugmaker’s birth-control
pills, which also include Beyaz and Yaz, caused sometimes fatal
blood clots. Lawyers suing the drugmaker cited FDA reports of at
least 50 deaths tied to the pills from 2004 to 2008.  “Bayer has consistently updated the FDA and other
regulatory authorities around the world as new data have become
available” about drospirenone-containing oral contraceptives,
the company said today in a statement. Bayer “has worked with
the agencies to make label updates, as appropriate.”  Known risk factors for developing a clot include smoking,
obesity and family history, Bayer said. Other birth-control
pills containing drospirenone include generic products made by
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , Sandoz AG and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)   Risk Assessment  Advisers to the FDA voted in December that the benefits of
the drospirenone-containing class of birth-control pills
outweigh the risks and recommended a label change to better
reflect the potential for blood clots. The FDA suggested women
talk to their doctors about their risk before deciding on an
oral contraceptive.  “To put the risk of developing a blood clot from a birth
control pill into perspective: The risk of blood clots is higher
when using any birth control pills than not using them, but
still remains lower than the risk of developing blood clots in
pregnancy and in the postpartum period,” the FDA said today.  Of 10,000 women who aren’t pregnant and don’t use birth
control pills, one to five will develop a blood clot, the FDA
said. That number compares with three to nine women who use the
contraceptives and 40 to 65 women of 10,000 who will develop a
clot 12 weeks after giving birth, according to the agency.  Women are at greatest risk of developing a blood clot in
the first year of oral contraceptive use or when restarting the
pill after at least a four-week break, Bayer said in its
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  