-- Bernanke Calls on Regulators to Curb Shadow Banking Risks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/bernanke-calls-on-regulators-to-limit-risks-of-shadow-banking.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called for new steps to curb “shadow banking”
operating beyond standard oversight while saying the economy has
far to go before fully recovering from the credit crisis.  “The heavy human and economic costs of the crisis
underscore the importance of taking all necessary steps to avoid
a repeat of the events of the past few years,” Bernanke said
yesterday in a speech in Stone Mountain, Georgia.  Bernanke supported efforts to increase the “resiliency”
of money market funds, referring to Securities and Exchange
Commission proposals to require firms to maintain capital
buffers or to redeem shares at the market value of underlying
assets rather than at a fixed price of $1. He also called for
efforts to monitor financial innovation and backed curbs on
intraday credit in tri-party repo markets.  An average of more than $2.8 trillion in securities was
financed during the market peak in 2008 through tri-party
transactions, many of which had short-term maturities. During
the first quarter of 2010, the value of securities financed by
tri-party repo had fallen to an average of $1.7 trillion,
according to  New York  Fed calculations based on Bank of New York
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. data and cited in a May 2010 Fed paper.  Following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2008, Bernanke flooded the financial system with liquidity by
opening facilities that provided credit to money market funds,
primary dealers, commercial paper markets, banks and other
borrowers.  Regulatory Overhaul  Congress under a 2010 regulatory overhaul known as Dodd-
Frank mandated the Fed to safeguard stability partly by
monitoring firms whose collapse may provoke turmoil across
financial markets.  “About three and a half years have passed since the
darkest days of the financial crisis, but our economy is still
far from having fully recovered from its effects,” Bernanke
said in his only reference to the economy’s current condition.
He didn’t refer to current monetary policy.  U.S. stocks fell yesterday and yields on 10-year Treasuries
slipped as  job creation  in the world’s biggest economy trailed
estimates last week. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.1
percent to 1,382.20. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell
to 2.047 percent from 2.054 percent on April 6.  Risk Taking  Responding to audience questions, Bernanke said a
regulation known as the Volcker rule, which bans banks from
risking capital by trading for their own accounts, raises a
“lot of complexities” and internationally “it is not going to
be a completely level playing field in that area.”  The rule, named for its original champion, former Fed
Chairman  Paul Volcker , is aimed at reducing the odds that banks
will make risky investments with their own capital and put
depositors’ money at risk. Bernanke said on Feb. 29 that the
central bank and other regulators won’t meet the July deadline
to complete work on the Volcker rule. The Fed has received over
17,000 comment letters on the proposal.  The Fed will seek an “appropriate balance” between a ban
on proprietary trading and a rule that “allows appropriate
market making,” Bernanke said.  International capital regulations known as Basel III will
lead to “a very substantial increase in capital, and I think
that is essential,” he said.  Bank Reserves  The higher level of required bank capital “probably will
feed through” at least marginally to “the cost of credit” in
the economy, Bernanke said. The costs of higher capital are
small compared to the benefits from reducing the odds of a new
financial crisis, he said.  “The cost-benefit test is very easily passed,” he said.  Bernanke said the Dodd-Frank Act had removed some of the
Fed’s ability to make emergency loans, saying that “we can no
longer lend to an individual firm as we did in the crisis.”  “Fortunately, I don’t think that they weaken our ability
to provide backstop liquidity where necessary,” Bernanke said.
The Fed is still able to lend through the discount window or to
a broad class of borrowers in an emergency, he said.  Bernanke said that infrequent use of emergency programs as
well as new abilities to supervise different types of firms
should help reduce moral hazard, or excessive risking-taking by
firms that expect a government bailout. “Anytime you have a
safety net” regulators need a mechanism “to minimize moral
hazard,” he said.  Big Price Decline  Following the collapse of the housing bubble, regulators
will take steps to guard against another large decline in  home
prices , Bernanke said.  “Obviously, we have already taken steps and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau will continue to take further steps
to provide additional protections and try to avoid any similar
event in the future,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke used his remarks at the 2012  Federal Reserve (FDTR)  Bank
of Atlanta Financial Markets Conference to summarize the Fed’s
progress in implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and to highlight
current challenges.  “Additional steps to increase the resiliency of  money
market funds  are important for the overall stability of our
financial system and warrant serious consideration,” he said.  The SEC is working on revamping rules for money market
funds, as regulators have debated how to make the funds more
stable since the 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund, which triggered an industrywide run by clients
that helped freeze global credit markets.  Enacted Changes  The agency enacted changes two years later in an attempt to
prevent runs, including new liquidity requirements, shorter
maturity limits and enhanced disclosure mandates. SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  has called for further steps to fix “weaknesses”
with the funds.  Bernanke, 58, also called on participants in the tri-party
repo market to eliminate intraday credit, something an industry
task force supported in 2010, he said.  “Although some progress has been made, securities dealers
and clearing banks have yet to fully implement that
recommendation,” Bernanke said. “Through supervision and other
means, we continue to push the industry toward this critical
goal.”  The Fed has been seeking to strengthen the tri-party
repurchase agreement market, which almost collapsed in 2008 amid
the demise of Bear Stearns Cos. and bankruptcy of  Lehman
Brothers .  More Oversight  In February, the central bank said it will increase
oversight of efforts to protect the market for borrowing and
lending securities after an industry group, the Tri-Party Repo
Infrastructure Task Force, said more time was needed for it to
meet goals for reducing risk.  Repos are transactions used by the Fed’s primary dealers
for short-term funding and typically involve the sale of U.S.
government securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held
as collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender,
typically a money-market mutual fund.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Steve Matthews in Stone Mountain,  Georgia  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  