-- Best Buy Clarifies CEO Departure as Conduct Queried
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-04-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/best-buy-s-dunn-resigns-as-ceo-mikan-to-serve-as-interim-chief.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , after saying Chief
Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  had resigned yesterday because the
company needed new leadership, later said the resignation came
amid a board investigation into Dunn’s “personal conduct.”  The shares sank 5.9 percent to $21.32 yesterday in regular
trading. The Star Tribune in  Minneapolis  reported the company’s
second statement after the market closed.  “Certain issues were brought to the board’s attention
regarding Mr. Dunn’s personal conduct, unrelated to the
company’s operations or financial controls, and an audit
committee investigation was initiated,” Claire Koeneman, a Best
Buy spokeswoman who works for H+K Strategies, said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. “Prior to the completion of the
investigation, Mr. Dunn chose to resign.”  The change in management, with board member G. Mike Mikan
taking over as interim CEO, was a “mutual agreement” that new
leadership was needed, the Richfield, Minnesota-based company
said earlier yesterday in a statement that didn’t mention the
conduct probe. A committee of directors has been created to
search for the next CEO, the company said.  Best Buy, the world’s largest electronics retailer, has
been cutting jobs and shifting to smaller store formats amid
competition from Internet retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
Dunn, who started with Best Buy in 1985 as a VCR salesman, said
in an interview last month that he believed he was the “right
person” to lead the company through the transition.  Amazon Battle  “Where there is smoke, there tends to be fire,”  Brian
Sozzi , an independent analyst in New York, said yesterday by
telephone. “It may be a small-burning fire, but when Best Buy
has the competitive problems that it does, you as an investor
don’t want to see an audit committee investigation.” He
recommends selling Best Buy  shares .  Best Buy has tumbled 35 percent since June 23, 2009, the
day before Dunn took over as CEO.  Dunn’s successor will grapple with consumers’ growing
comfort in making purchases with smartphones, sometimes inside
of Best Buy stores, as well as the popularity of buying from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Amazon, said Adam Hanft, a brand strategist and
CEO of Hanft Projects in New York.  “That is the triple demon that they face,” Hanft said
yesterday by telephone. “They get foot traffic, but they’re not
converting that into sales because people are in there with
their iPads seeing if they can get a better buy.”  Online Sales  That type of comparison shopping is fueling U.S. online
sales, which reached $202 billion last year and may climb 62
percent to $327 billion in 2016, according to Forrester Research
Inc. in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . At that level, online commerce
would account for 9 percent of total retail sales, up from 7
percent in 2011.  Best Buy should hire an outsider who is “more of a
strategic thinker and not afraid to ruffle a few feathers,”
 Anthony Chukumba , an analyst for BB&T Capital Markets in  New
York  who recommends buying the shares, wrote yesterday in a note
to clients.  Dunn succeeded Brad Anderson, who retired in 2009 after
seven years as CEO and about 30 years at the company, starting
as a stereo salesman. Richard Schulze, the company’s founder and
first CEO, remains chairman.  While someone with no connections to Best Buy would be
best, Chukumba wrote that he has a “highly favorable opinion”
of  Mike Vitelli , an executive vice president in charge of U.S.
operations.  Circuit City  Dunn’s successor will need to move more aggressively to
prevent Best Buy from sharing the fate of Circuit City Stores
Inc., which closed its locations three years ago, and Borders
Group Inc., which shut stores last year, Sozzi said.  “I don’t know if there is anyone who has managed a
transition from big box to small box, but that’s what they
need,”  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles , said yesterday by e-mail. He rates Best Buy shares
neutral, the equivalent of a hold.  GameStop Corp. (GME)  CEO J. Paul Raines, who also worked at  Home
Depot Inc. (HD) , has experience in both large and small stores,
Pachter said.  “The retail landscape is changing with such velocity that
the predictability of saying, ‘I want someone who did this
there,’ doesn’t apply anymore,” said Hanft, whose technology
clients have included Sony Corp. and Clearwire Corp. “It could
be someone from the tech world who has a retail sensibility.”  Followed Course  J.C. Penney Co., the fourth-largest U.S. department store
company, followed that course last year, Hanft said. The company
hired  Ron Johnson  as CEO after he had run Apple Inc.’s retail
business.  Best Buy last month posted a $1.23 billion  net loss  for its
fiscal 2012, its first annual loss in more than two decades, as
sales rose less than 1 percent. The company said it would close
50 U.S. big-box stores this year and expand its smaller Best Buy
Mobile stores to as many as 800 outlets by its fiscal 2016, from
305 now.  “I believe I absolutely am the right person to lead the
company forward,” Dunn, 52, said in a telephone interview after
that announcement. “I’m really not spending a lot of time
looking in my rearview mirror. I believe wholeheartedly in what
we are doing.”  Mikan, who has been on Best Buy’s board since April 2008,
previously served as chief financial officer of  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  and CEO of Optum, a UnitedHealth affiliate in health-
care services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  