-- Parcells Won’t Coach Saints During Payton Ban, ESPN Reports
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-10T15:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/bill-parcells-won-t-coach-saints-during-payton-ban-espn-reports.html
Bill Parcells won’t coach the New
Orleans Saints while  Sean Payton  serves a one-year suspension
connected to a program that the  National Football League  says
paid the team’s players to hurt opponents, ESPN reported.  The Walt Disney Co. unit said it got the information from
unidentified people on the team. It said Parcells, who won two
Super Bowl championships as coach of the  New York Giants , would
remain retired.  Penalties for Payton, General Manager Mickey Loomis and
assistant coach Joe Vitt were upheld yesterday by NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell . Loomis was given an eight-game ban
and Vitt a six-game suspension, part of the harshest punishment
ever imposed on an NFL team and its leadership.  Saints spokesman Greg Bensel declined to comment on the
report in an e-mail. Jimmy Sexton, Parcell’s agent, didn’t
return a telephone message left at his office seeking comment.  Parcells, 70, has a close relationship with the 48-year-old
Payton, who was an assistant under Parcells for four years with
the  Dallas Cowboys . When Payton’s suspension was originally
announced, he contacted Parcells, calling him a mentor and
father figure.  There has been minimal communication between the two in the
past week, and Parcells told Payton over the phone that he
preferred to remain retired, ESPN said. The team may look within
the organization to find its interim coach, according to the
network.  Postseason Mark  Parcells has a 172-130-1 record and is the only coach to
lead four different NFL franchises to the playoffs, with the
Giants,  New England Patriots , New York Jets and Cowboys. He was
the Miami Dolphins’ executive vice president of football
operations from 2008 to 2010.  Goodell said yesterday that he would consider whether to
reinstate the punished coaches and executive when their
suspensions end. Payton, Loomis and former Saints defensive
coordinator  Gregg Williams , who received an indefinite ban that
he did not appeal, have all apologized for their roles in the
bounty program. Williams is now defensive coordinator for the
St. Louis Rams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  