-- BNY Sees Transneft Leading Offshore Listings: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-10T15:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/bny-sees-transneft-leading-offshore-listings-russia-overnight.html
OAO Transneft and OAO Sovcomflot
are among Russian companies seeking to list abroad this year as
delays in lender OAO  Sberbank (SBRCY) ’s secondary share offering free up
investors, according to  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.   American depositary receipts of state-run Sberbank slid to
a two-month low in  New York  today after Chief Executive Officer
 German Gref  said a report that  Russia ’s biggest bank will sell
$6 billion of shares in  London  in the next two weeks is
incorrect, according to the RIA Novosti newswire.  Futures (VEA) 
expiring in June on Moscow’s RTS Index slipped 0.5 percent to
154,715 by 11:18 a.m. in New York.  Transneft , operator of Russia’s oil pipelines, and shipping
company Sovcomflot may join iron ore explorer  OAO Metalloinvest ,
petrochemical producer  ZAO Sibur Holding , and diamond miner OAO
Alrosa in listing depositary receipts outside of Russia in 2012,
said Azat Nougumanov, a Moscow-based vice president for new
business development at  BNY Mellon . Oil producer  RusPetro Plc (RPO)  is
the only Russia-based company to hold an initial public offering
of shares this year, from five IPOs last year and 13 in 2007,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If Sberbank sells its shares there won’t be enough cash
for others,” Nougumanov said in a phone interview yesterday.
“I expect a new wave of share sales outside of Russia in
October or November.”  The Russian companies, seeking to raise at least $300
million each from selling shares, will probably consider issuing
global depositary receipts in London or New York because “it’s
hard to raise that much in Moscow,” he said.  Russia ETF Slips  Anna Bokina, a spokeswoman for Sovcomflot, and Rashid
Nureyev at ZAO Sibur both declined to comment on prospective
share sales. Officials in the media divisions of Metalloinvest
and Alrosa, the world’s largest diamond mining company by
output, didn’t respond to e-mails or phone calls to their
offices.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 1.2 percent to $29.57 in New York,
poised for the lowest closing price since Jan. 24 in a second
day of declines. The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures
expected swings in the index futures, rose 0.7 percent to 32.60
today.  Preferred shares  of state-controlled Transneft jumped 2.8
percent to 57,538.00 rubles on Moscow’s Micex Index, or the
equivalent of $1,933.22.  A decision on whether to sell depositary receipts is “yet
to be made,” Igor Dyomin, head of Transneft’s press service,
said by phone from Moscow yesterday.  ‘Better to Wait’  “It’s the government, the owner of the company, that has
to approve the decision and we will do what it says to do,” he
said. “It would be better for us to wait another year or year-
and-a-half until the markets recover from the crisis.”  Russia floated the possibility of selling stakes in state-
run companies in the wake of the global credit crisis, before
delaying the plan as  Europe ’s debt problems again roiled
international markets. The Micex has climbed 6.7 percent this
year, after sliding 17 percent in 2011. The  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies traded in New York dropped 1.2
percent to 103.82 today, trimming its advance to 15 percent in
2012.  The government will approve an expanded asset sale plan in
the next six to eight weeks, RIA Novosti reported yesterday,
citing First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov . Stakes in OAO
Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port, Sovcomflot, Sberbank and VTB
Group, Russia’s second-largest bank, as well as Moscow’s
Sheremetyevo and Vnukovo airports may be included in the sale,
the news service reported.  Sberbank Slumps  The Micex slipped 0.9 percent to 1,496.81 in Moscow, while
the RTS gauge fell 0.3 percent to 1,602.58.  Mirny, Russia-based  Alrosa (ALRS)  was little changed at 29.88
rubles, or $1. Metalloinvest has had a listing pending on the
RTS since August, according to company filings.  ADRs of Sberbank, which have been listed in New York since
June last year, slid 1.1 percent to $12.72 today, set for the
lowest closing price since Feb. 10. The ADRs trade at a 1.5
percent discount to the bank’s Micex-listed shares, after the
Moscow stock slid 0.3 percent to 95.61 rubles, or $3.21.  Sberbank plans to start marketing about $5.7 billion of
shares on April 16, people with knowledge of the process who
declined to be identified said last month. The central bank,
Sberbank’s chief shareholder, may sell some of its controlling
stake when the stock price moves “closer to 100 rubles,” Bank
Rossii First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in Davos in
January.  Presidential Order  Any secondary sale of Sberbank shares will depend on the
market, Gref said, according to RIA Novosti. Officials in OAO
Sberbank’s press service declined to comment on whether the bank
will sell shares this year or delay the sale until 2013. The
Micex shares have fallen from a 2012 high of 103.85 rubles
reached on March 14.  Russia’s President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered the government
and central bank last month to formulate proposals by Sept. 1 on
lowering state stakes in lenders to less than 50 percent. Bank
Rossii holds 60.3 percent of Sberbank, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The nation will accelerate the privatization
process in the coming weeks,  Arkady Dvorkovich , Medvedev’s chief
economic aide, told reporters in Moscow today.   “It would make every sense for Sberbank to delay the sale
until at least November or even early 2013 when market
conditions improve,” BNY Mellon’s Nougumanov said. “The pool
of investors focused on Russian markets is relatively narrow.
Sberbank is a must-have stock and every fund will want to have
it in its portfolio, and that means there won’t be enough money
for others to raise.”  Oil Slides  Crude oil for May delivery dropped 1.1 percent to $101.43 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Brent oil for May
settlement fell 1.4 percent to $121.01 on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude , Russia’s chief export
blend, slipped 0.4 percent to $119.03.  ADRs of  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the world’s largest natural gas
producer and Russia’s biggest company, tumbled 2.8 percent to
$11.72 in New York, headed for their lowest close since Jan. 20.
Trading volumes slid to 293,155 yesterday, almost 67 percent
below the three-month average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russia may link the state-run company’s mineral extraction
tax rate to gas prices, resulting in the government getting as
much as 80 percent of Gazprom’s additional income from rising
prices starting from July 2013, Moscow’s Kommersant newspaper
reported yesterday, citing Finance Minister Anton Siluanov. That
could translate into 50 billion rubles ($1.7 billion) of extra
 tax revenue  for Gazprom in the second half of 2013, the
newspaper said.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
was unchanged at HK$5.76 in Hong Kong trading. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  