-- Brazil Housing Boom Forcing Switch to Private Market: Mortgages
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-04-10T15:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/brazil-housing-boom-forcing-switch-to-private-market-mortgages.html
Brazil ’s five interest rate cuts
and the use of 2.5 billion reais ($1.4 billion) of workers’
compensation funds to buy mortgage bonds are breathing life into
the home loan market as the government seeks to address a
shortage of 6.3 million homes.  The central bank’s plan to lower the benchmark lending rate
this year to 9 percent would help drive investor demand for
higher-yielding mortgage securities and increase the role of the
private market, according to Brazilian Finance & Real Estate SA,
the country’s biggest issuer of real-estate backed securities.
The government needs the home-loan  bond market , which currently
provides just 2 percent of mortgage funding, to expand as it
seeks to build 2 million homes for low-income families by 2014.  “The market adapts to necessity,” said Max Lima, founder
of Sao Paulo-based real estate private equity firm Prosperitas,
which oversees $2 billion in equity investments. “If subsidized
funding disappears, the market will have to fund itself in some
other way. The natural way to go would be securitization.”  Brazil’s mortgage market has grown to 211 billion reais
since 1964, when the government began requiring banks to use a
portion of savings deposits to originate home loans. About 60
percent of funding comes from savings deposits that pay a
subsidized rate set by the government, according to  Banco
Bradesco  SA.  Foreign Investors  Once the base of subsidized savings deposits runs out,
foreign investors’ participation, now almost non-existent, will
be needed to grow a private mortgage market capable of meeting
the needs of the country’s expanding middle class, said Brandon
Kidd, Chief Investment Officer at Centaurus Realty Group, a Sao
Paulo-based investment company.  “Demand is always going to be there,” Kidd said in a
telephone interview. “Foreign institutions have to come into
Brazil.”  Mortgage lending equals 4.7 percent of gross domestic
product in Brazil, compared with 67 percent in the U.S. The
government wants to raise that ratio to 10 percent by 2014.  Brazil’s association of mortgage and savings companies,
Abecip, forecasts the savings deposit base could run out by as
early as the end of 2013. Moody’s Investors Service predicts it
could be exhausted by the end of 2014.  Long-term funding in Brazil has remained scarce because
high  interest rates  and a history of inflation have fostered an
investment preference for short-term  government bonds . Brazil’s
target for the benchmark overnight lending rate, known as the
DI, is 9.75 percent, the second-highest real rate among the
Group of 20 nations.  45 Percent Rate  Those dynamics are beginning to change as falling interest
rates spur investors to take on credit risk to boost returns,
according to Fabio Nogueira, founder and director of Brazilian
Finance and Real Estate, the biggest issuer of mortgage-backed
securities by number of issues in 2011.  Today’s overnight  rate target  is down from a high of 45
percent in 1999 and 19.75 percent in 2005.  “We’re going to leave behind the dictatorship of the
CDI,” Nogueira said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .
Securitization “will have a much more important role than it
has today.”  Abecip forecasts lending this year will grow by about 30
percent, though slower than the last two years in Brazil, when
home loans grew by 118 percent.  Much of that growth is being fueled by the government’s
low-income housing program known as “My Home, My Life.” Brazil
will spend 126 billion reais through 2014 on subsidies and
targeted credit by state-run bank Caixa Economica Federal,  Latin
America ’s biggest mortgage lender, President  Dilma Rousseff  said
in June.  Workers Compensation  The Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Serviço, as the workers’
compensation fund is known, also plans to invest 2.5 billion
reais per year in mortgage securities through 2015, the fund
said March 22. It also helps finance 29 percent of mortgage
lending by subsidizing loans to low-income borrowers, according
to Bradesco.  Rousseff is doubling the goal of her predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , who announced cash incentives to build 1
million low-income dwellings in less than three years.  While the government is ramping up public resources to fund
its housing push, it’s also discussing how to encourage the
growth of other debt instruments before the savings deposit base
is exhausted, said Octavio de Lazari Junior, President of Abecip
and executive director at  Banco Bradesco, (BBD)  Brazil’s second-
biggest lender by market value.  Covered Bonds  “Everything that has to be done to provide resources for
real estate credit has been thought of, discussed, and put on
the table,” Lazari Junior said by phone from Sao Paulo. “Banks
still have resources to continue financing real estate credit.”  In addition to real estate investment funds targeted at
retail investors and asset-backed receivables funds that have
also grown in the past eight years, legislation to create
covered bonds in Brazil has been discussed with the central bank
and the government, according to Lazari. He said it should be
ready by the fourth quarter of this year.  The Brazilian  Finance Ministry  declined to comment.  Mortgage securitization rose 60 percent in 2011 to 13.6
billion reais, according to Rio de Janeiro-based research
company Uqbar. Residential mortgage-backed securities occupied a
bigger role in the market relative to commercial and corporate
credit, representing 37 percent of overall issuance, compared
with 13 percent in 2010.  Zell Investments  Foreign investors, thwarted by limited debt markets and
unfavorable  tax policy , have largely overlooked mortgage-backed
securities in Brazil even as they’ve invested as much as $3
billion in real estate, according to Thomas Shapiro, President
of New York-based real estate investment company GTIS Partners.  “Foreign investments in Brazil are predominantly direct
investments in real estate versus debt because the mortgage
market is still pretty nascent,” said Anthony Myers, senior
managing director in the real estate group at  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  in  New York . “The returns on debt people are looking for,
especially foreign investors, in Brazil are difficult to achieve
because the ultimate cost to the borrowers would be
prohibitive.”  Billionaire investor  Sam Zell ’s Equity International, which
already has more than half of its portfolio concentrated in
Brazil, is expanding its investments outside the major cities to
the northeast and south of the country. GTIS Partners has $1
billion of committed investments in Brazil, with another $600
million it’s looking to invest.  Foreign direct investments in Brazil climbed to $67 billion
last year from $49 billion in 2010 and less than $20 billion
five years ago, according to central bank data.  Consumer Demand  While some sectors of Brazil’s economy have been hit by
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and a three-year currency rally
that’s undermined exports, consumer demand has been buoyed by
record-low unemployment and an expansion in credit. Outstanding
consumer loans grew 15.3 percent last year to 633 billion reais.  “There are 36 million people that have moved into Brazil’s
middle class. And they all want an apartment and a car,” said
Shapiro of GTIS. “Mortgages are growing exponentially in
Brazil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  