-- Brazil Real Tumbles on Mantega Comment, Global Growth Concern
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-04-10T22:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/brazil-rate-futures-rise-as-tombini-reiterates-9-rate-level.html
Brazil ’s real fell the most in
three weeks as the government warned it may take further steps
to weaken the currency and concern mounted that global economic
growth is slowing.  The real fell 0.9 percent to 1.8336 per  U.S. dollar  at 6
p.m. in Sao Paulo, from 1.8179 yesterday, the biggest decline
since March 19. The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures
contract due in January 2014 fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 9.15 percent.  The real extended losses after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said during an event today in Sao Paulo that Brazil will
keep taking steps to prevent its currency from strengthening
against the dollar and hurting manufacturers. Slower imports in
 China  and lower-than-forecast job growth in the U.S. fueled
speculation global growth is flagging.  “ Europe  is not getting better and China is slowing down,”
 Reginaldo Galhardo , head of currency trading at Treviso
Corretora de Cambio, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “Foreign
investments in Brazil could become weaker.”  China, Brazil’s biggest trading partner, reported a  trade
surplus  for March as import growth trailed forecasts. U.S.
employers added 85,000 fewer jobs in March than economists
projected, the Labor Department said April 6. Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in a speech yesterday that the
 U.S. economy  is still “far from having fully recovered.”  Government Measures  Brazil’s real has traded weaker than the 1.80 level since
mid-March, when the government expanded financial taxes to
discourage capital inflows and protect Brazilian exporters from
what President Dilma Rousseff called a “monetary tsunami”
created by developed nations seeking to undervalue their
currencies.  “One of our difficulties competing is the  exchange rate ,”
Mantega said today in Sao Paulo. “If needed, we’ll take
measures so there’s not an appreciation of the currency.”  Economists expect Brazil’s economy to grow 3.2 percent this
year, following a 2.7 percent expansion last year and 7.5
percent in 2010, according to a weekly central bank survey of
economists published yesterday.  Yields on most Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts
declined as global growth concerns overshadowed comments by
central bank President Alexandre Tombini that he will end
interest-rate cuts when the benchmark reaches about 9 percent.
Policy makers have reduced the Selic rate five times since
August, bringing it to 9.75 percent.  Historical Low  Tombini repeated yesterday that policy makers will end cuts
to the benchmark rate at a level “slightly above” the
historical low of 8.75 percent. Tombini’s comments, in a Globo
News television interview, quelled speculation the central bank
could lower rates to as low as 8.75 percent after annual
inflation in March was the slowest since 2010, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco West LB in  Sao Paulo .  “Tombini’s comment was very clear,” Rostagno said by
phone. “Even with positive inflation numbers, the data didn’t
change the central bank’s mind.”  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2014 tumbled 26 basis points last week, the biggest drop
in a month, after data showed consumer prices as measured by the
IPCA index rose 0.21 percent in March, less than the forecasts
of all 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The annual inflation rate fell to 5.24 percent.  Brazil targets annual consumer price rises of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  