-- Budweiser Is Luxury in China Where Beer Costs 30 Cents
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-10T01:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/budweiser-is-luxury-in-china-where-beer-costs-30-cents.html
Cheap beer.  For consumers in  China , it’s a fact of life. Brew in China,
the world’s biggest market, sells at one-third the price in the
U.S. Now foreign brewers are wooing the Chinese to pay more for
brands that are popular worldwide.  The idea is to get increasingly affluent  Chinese (CHHH1)  to switch
from local beers that sell for as little as 1.87 yuan (30 cents)
for a 330-milliliter bottle to foreign lagers such as Budweiser,
which costs about 6.13 yuan. To achieve that, overseas companies
are acquiring or setting up new breweries across the country to
widen the reach for their premium brands.  The four biggest players --  China Resources Enterprise
Ltd. (291) , the partner of  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ,  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ,
 Tsingtao Brewery Co. (168) , which partners  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502) ;
and  Beijing Yanjing Brewery Co. (000729)  -- already account for 59
percent of the beer sold, according to Euromonitor
International. They have gained market share as they increased
scale. Now they want to boost profitability in the 360 billion
yuan market.  “Consuming foreign premium beer has become more and more
popular, especially among youngsters who have higher education,
higher income and higher acceptance of exotic goods,” said
Olive Xia, an analyst with Core Pacific-Yamaichi International
Ltd. in  Shanghai .  In 2011, consumption of beer rose 4.8 percent to 47.5
billion liters in China. That’s estimated to reach 61.4 billion
liters in 2016, with sales growth of premium and standard lagers
set to outpace economy brews, according to London-based
Euromonitor.  Low Consumption  Chinese drink about 35 liters of beer a year. That is less
than half the consumption in the U.S. and a third of that in
 Germany .  Overseas beermakers entered China initially through
partnerships with local companies. London-based SABMiller formed
a joint venture with  China Resources  in 1994 and then bought
rivals and set up new plants, according to the company’s
 website . AB InBev entered China in 1984 by providing technology
transfers to Zhujiang Brewery in Guangzhou and from 1998 started
forming partnerships, according to its  website .  Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev, which in January added to
two  purchases  it made last year, will increase China sales by
boosting volumes of its premium brands including Budweiser, and
expand geographically through acquisitions and new plants, Karen Couck, a company spokeswoman, said.  Gaining Share  “We estimate that we gained share during 2011, with our
premiumization strategy leading to a favorable brand mix and
growth in net revenue,” said Couck. “The premiumization trend
continues with double-digit growth and Budweiser is further
consolidating its leading position within this segment.”  Budweiser’s market share in China rose to 1.2 percent in
2011 from 1 percent in 2008, according to Euromonitor data.
Share of Double Deer, a local brand InBev  acquired , fell to 0.6
percent from 0.9 percent in the period.  Brewers are making their packaging more attractive to win
higher-spending customers. Budweiser started selling in cans
topped with a gold-colored aluminum foil to protect the lid from
dust and give it a premium image.  Foreign beermakers put a lot of effort in promoting their
brew at restaurants and bars, said Doreen Wang, head of branding
at  WPP Plc (WPP) ’s Millward Brown.  “On the bar streets, you see more Budweiser and Carlsberg
logo shops,” Wang said. “Premium beer is mainly for gatherings
of friends and family. On these occasions, consumers are willing
to pay more on brands that would give them status.”  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , which is organizing an event in Beijing next
week to unveil a new premium product, said its 2011 sales in
China outpaced that of the industry, helped by its premium
portfolio.  Price to Rise  Tokyo-based Asahi Group, which entered China in 1994 and in
2009 bought a stake in Tsingtao, plans to support local partners
to compete at the lower end and itself focus on the premium
segment.  “As the market matures, the price will go up, and profit
will expand,” said Takayuki Tanaka, an Asahi Group spokesman.  The average retail price of beer in China was 7.6 yuan
($1.2) per liter last year, compared with $3.7 in the U.S., 687
yen ($8.4) in  Japan  and 2.9 euros ($3.8) in Germany, according
to data from Euromonitor.  The Japanese brewer will widen its reach in restaurants in
Shanghai, Beijing and the Pearl River Delta areas, Tanaka said.
It’s also counting on consumption patterns to change.  “Diversification of preference for beer and how people
drink beer will proceed further,” said Tanaka. “And
suggestions such as how to drink beer more delectably will be
positive factors.”  Pay More  On a recent evening, Lu Yizhi, 32, a tour guide, was
watching the UEFA Champions League soccer game between AC Milan
and FC Barcelona with friends at a sports bar in central
Shanghai.  “I like the heavy taste of imported beer, especially the
European ones,” said Lu, sipping a mug of Heineken. “I don’t
mind paying a few yuan more.”  Consumers such as Lu have seen incomes rising as  China’s
economy  has on average expanded 10.5 percent in the past five
years, prompting intense competition among overseas brewers to
acquire and grow.  In the past two years, Chinese breweries were the fourth
most targeted by buyers worldwide, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 18 brewery acquisitions in China, including AB
InBev’s purchase of Dalian Daxue Beer Co., totaled $1.7 billion
in the two years through April 9, compared with 39 deals valued
at $1.5 billion in the previous two years, the data shows.  “In the next five years, we’ll see more consolidation in
the sector with industry leaders stepping up acquisitions,”
said Li Yun, an analyst at Guodu Securities Co. in Beijing.  Bid for Kingway  AB InBev, Yanjing Brewery and China Resources Snow Brewery
Co., SABMiller’s local joint venture, have been invited to make
a final offer as early as mid-April to buy six breweries owned
by  Kingway Brewery Holdings Ltd. (124) , controlled by the Guangdong
provincial government, two people with knowledge of the matter
said in March.  Kingway’s profit fell 4.1 percent last year amid rising
competition and higher production costs. Its  profit margin  in
2011 was 1.98 percent, compared with AB InBev’s 15 percent and
Yanjing Brewery’s 8.4 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  There is room to raise prices of Snow this year and the
company’s average selling price could improve as it shifts focus
to more premium beer, Frank Lai, chief financial officer of
China Resources, said last month. Snow, China’s largest selling
brew made by China Resources and partner SABMiller, had a 19.9
percent share last year, according to Euromonitor.  Slowdown Impact  Still, the slowing pace of economic expansion in China may
damp consumer demand. China’s Premier Wen Jiabao has set an
economic growth target of 7.5 percent this year, the lowest goal
since 2004.  “If China’s economy is trending downward this year and
next, high-end beer may see sales drop more than local ones as
people might be tightening their belt on discretionary goods,”
said Jason Yuan, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian in Shanghai.  Beermakers such as Japan’s  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503)  said there is
price competition in the main segment and it will increase
profitability by deploying brands such as Ichiban Shibori in the
premium segment, Kan Yamamoto, a spokesman, said.  They should be encouraged by consumers such as Lu.  “The first time I drank a foreign beer was about 10 years
ago and it was expensive for me at that time,” said Lu, as he
watched the soccer game projected on a large screen. “Nowadays,
I make more money. Why don’t I treat myself better?”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  