-- Buffett Rule Targets Can Pay More Tax, Obama Adviser Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-10T19:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/buffett-rule-targets-can-pay-more-tax-obama-adviser-says.html
President  Barack Obama  promoted his
proposal to set a minimum tax rate for top earners as a matter
of fairness as he sought to emphasize differences with his
Republican opponents.  Obama framed the election-year debate over the tax, named
for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , as a part of a choice
for voters between “two very different visions for our future”
during a stop in the swing state of Florida a week before the
deadline for Americans to file their federal returns.  Without naming Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  or critics in Congress, Obama said the contrast is
demonstrated in approaches to the budget and taxes.  “Right now, the share of our national income flowing to
the top 1 percent has climbed to levels we haven’t seen since
the 1920s,” Obama said in a speech to students and faculty at
 Florida  Atlantic University in Boca Raton. “And yet those same
people are also paying taxes at one of the lowest rates in 50
years.”  “That’s not fair,” he said.  As the president turns more attention to his re-election
bid, the so-called Buffett rule is getting a push from White
House policy officials and his campaign advisers. Obama’s speech
today is bracketed by fundraisers. Florida, with 29 of the 270
electoral votes needed to win the presidency, has gone to the
winning candidate in 12 of the last 14 elections, including
Obama in 2008.  Tax fairness will be a central theme in the election, Obama
campaign manager  Jim Messina  told reporters yesterday.  Targeting Romney  He said Romney, Obama’s likely opponent in November, has
been a beneficiary of the current tax system and his proposals
are based on protecting special tax rates for Wall Street
investors and looking out for “people just like him.”  Romney, the co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, earned $21.6
million in 2010 and paid 13.9 percent of that amount in income
taxes, according to tax returns he released in January.  Gail Gitcho , Romney’s communications director, called Obama
“the first president in history to openly campaign for re-
election on a platform of higher taxes.”  “He has already raised taxes on millions of Americans, but
he won’t stop there,” Gitcho said in a statement.  Romney’s main opponent in the Republican race, former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , announced today he’s
suspending his campaign, clearing the path to the nomination.  Tax Rates  The tax measure was inspired by Buffett, who has said that
the preferential tax rates on investment income should be
increased. It would boost tax rates paid by households with
incomes between $1 million and $2 million, phased up to a 30
percent minimum tax rate for those making more than $2 million a
year. Taxpayers would be able to deduct charitable
contributions.  The new rate would increase U.S. tax revenue by $47 billion
over the next decade, assuming that income tax cuts enacted in
2001 and 2003 are allowed to expire at the end of the year as
scheduled.  The Senate is scheduled to hold a procedural vote on the
proposal April 16.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
traveling with Obama that winning the vote in the Senate will be
a “challenge.” While Democrats have a majority in the chamber,
Republicans have enough votes to block legislation. Republicans,
who control the  House of Representatives , have vowed to oppose
any tax increases.  ‘Uphill Battle’  “It may be an uphill battle but it’s not an impossible
battle,” he said. The administration wants lawmakers to go on
record with a vote.  According to a White House report released today, 22,000
households made more than $1 million in 2009 and paid less than
15 percent in income taxes.  The report cited an Internal Revenue Service study on the
400 U.S. taxpayers with the highest incomes in 2008, at $110
million or higher. Those people paid an average tax rate of 18.1
percent, excluding payroll taxes, down from 29.9 percent in
1995. Families in the middle 20 percent of the  income
distribution  paid 16 percent in federal taxes in 2010, according
to the report.  Under current law ordinary income, including profits from
small businesses, is taxed at rates up to 35 percent. Capital
gains and dividends are taxed at no more than 15 percent.  Multiple Breaks  The proposal isn’t designed with the average high-earning
household in mind,  Jason Furman , deputy director of Obama’s
National Economic Council, said. Instead, he said, the goal is
to raise taxes for the relatively few taxpayers who can use
multiple tax breaks to lower their rates.  Obama’s three fundraising events in Florida today will
raise money for the Obama Victory Fund, a joint committee to
benefit his re-election campaign, the  Democratic National
Committee  and state Democratic parties.  The first fundraiser was a 60-guest luncheon in  Palm Beach
Gardens  at the home of Hansel E. Tookes II, former president of
Raytheon International Inc. Ticket prices started at $10,000. An
850-donor event at the Westin Diplomat Hotel in Hollywood is to
include a musical performance by  John Legend , with a limited
number of tickets at $250 for youth voters. A 60-donor nighttime
event at a private home in Golden Beach is $15,000 per person.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Boca Raton , Florida at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  