-- Byzantium Glows in Subtle Show at Met Museum: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/byzantium-glows-in-subtle-show-at-met-museum-review.html
“Byzantium and Islam: Age of
Transition” begins with a gorgeous 17-by-20-foot eighth-century
floor mosaic from Jordan that establishes the motifs --
cityscapes, inscriptions, leaves, vines and trees -- used
throughout the Byzantine Empire.  The exhibition of some 300 works concludes the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art’s four-show series devoted to the region.  Though exotic in its own right, it is not as opulent as
“The Glory of Byzantium” in 1997 and “Byzantium: Faith and
Power” in 2004. There are no gilded icons and bejeweled book
covers to dazzle you.  Meditative, scholarly and low-lit, the show’s strength is
its reserve. “Byzantium and Islam” is as much a feast for the
mind as for the eyes.  It focuses on the cultural and artistic clash -- the
adaptations, struggles and innovations -- that resulted during
the initial contact between the southern provinces of the
Christian Byzantine Empire and the emerging Islamic world as it
spread westward from Mecca and Medina along the Red Sea trade
route between the seventh and the ninth centuries.  Tiny Tunics  This was a time when images, ideas and artistic conventions
were carried as much by faith as by commerce. It was a time when
customs, forms and iconographies were thrown, sometimes
violently, into the cultural melting pot.  The greatest works here generally are small, often well-
worn, modest and earth-toned.  Of special note are children’s tunics recovered from
gravesites and a Hebrew alphabet primer from  Egypt , illustrated
with a polychromatic carpet page, a lighted menorah and the Star
of David.  In the small Egyptian ivory panel depicting the Raising of
Lazarus (7th-8th century), believed to have been given to the
Cathedral of Amalfi in 1460 by Pope Pius II, the dead man twists
and swells, ready to burst his basket-weave cocoon of burial
bandages.  In contrast are elaborate, secular Muslim objects inspired
by Greco-Roman traditions, such as the modern reconstruction of
an eighth-century bathhouse brazier found in the Umayyad
residence in al-Fudayn.  It is decorated with highly erotic Dionysian scenes,
including panthers, satyrs and semi-naked nymphs,  Pan  pouncing
on a nude Maenad and couples engaged in sexual congress.  Christian Blessings  The show’s subtitle is “Transition,” and it illustrates a
crossroads. On clay lamps, we see both Christian blessings in
Greek and Islamic ones in Arabic.  One of the heated topics of debate among Christians, Jews
and Muslims alike involved the depiction of creatures into which
God has breathed life.  Two manuscripts, by Saint John Damascus and Abu Qurrah,
support icon veneration. Yet also on view are two floor mosaics,
including one in which a feline has had its torso, tail and hind
legs replaced by flowers and trees.  Inventive transmutations such as these were commonplace.  This is a subdued yet determined pilgrimage that takes you
deep into its subject -- the budding of Islamic art during the
original Arab spring.  The show does not just illumine a period long-passed. In
its subtle way, it brings to life the birth, cross-pollination
and development of various Byzantine and Islamic art forms.  In the fluttering surface decorations of artworks such as a
pair of large, intricately carved Islamic wood doors, seen in
the exhibition’s last gallery, the naturalistic, Byzantine
aesthetic has been subsumed.  Here the forms and rhythms of stylized fans, vines, scrolls
and acanthus leaves, Greco-Roman naturalism and Eastern
eroticism are fused, re-imagined and reborn.  Islamic art, free from its influences, takes on a spirited
life of its own.  The exhibition runs through July 8 at the  Metropolitan
Museum of Art , 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today's highlights: Amanda Gordon's Scene Last Night 
featuring Dimons,  Victor Cruz ; Krista Giovacco meets bankers 
setting up a new wine trust; Martin Gayford reviews U.K. design; 
 Craig Seligman  on Nadine Gordimer's “No Time Like the Present.”   To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 