-- California High-Speed Rail Spending Probed by U.S. House
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-04-10T18:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/california-high-speed-rail-spending-probed-by-u-s-house.html
A U.S. House of Representatives
committee said it will investigate reports of conflicts of
interest at  California ’s high-speed rail authority when it
received federal money to start construction.  The Oversight and Government Reform Committee contacted all
current and former executive leaders at the California High-
Speed Rail Authority seeking information on how federal money
has been spent on the planned San Francisco-to-Los Angeles
connection, said Jeffrey Solsby, a spokesman for the panel. The
letter also went to all current and former board members, Solsby
said.  “California high-speed rail was sold to voters as a grand
vision for tomorrow but in practice appears to be no different
than countless other pork-barrel projects -- driven more by
political interests and consultant spending than valid cost-
benefit analysis,” Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican who chairs the committee, said in a  statement  today.  Congress must understand “the appropriate role of
financiers, consultants, board members and other state officials
in crafting and implementing an infrastructure plan of this
scope,” he said in the letter to authority officials dated
yesterday.  Happy to Help  The probe will focus on the uses of U.S. funds,  allegations 
of conflicts of interest and mismanagement, and how these
factors may affect taxpayers, according to the statement.  “Any project of this size should be subject to overview,”
Dan Richard, the authority chairman, said today in a statement.
“We, of course, will cooperate with the committee, but do not
believe any conflict of interest has occurred.”  Gil Duran , a spokesman for California’s Democratic Governor
 Jerry Brown , declined to comment, referring inquiries to the
authority.  California last month reduced its cost estimate for the
project to $68.4 billion from $98.5 billion. It’s the only U.S.
state near construction on tracks to allow speeds as fast as 220
miles (354 kilometers) per hour.  Issa’s letter asks the authority to preserve documents and
e-mails relating to U.S. Transportation Department funding. Issa
also said the authority should notify former employees,
contractors and consultants to safeguard their records.  It’s too soon to say whether the committee will have
hearings, Solsby said.  State Auditor Elaine Howle criticized the rail project in
January as  lacking specifics  about it would be paid for.  California has received commitments for $3.5 billion in
federal funds. State officials have said they will rely on
government and private investment to complete the line,
including as much as $9.95 billion in bonds voters approved in
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  