-- Cameron Says It’s Increasingly Likely He’ll Publish Tax Returns
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-04-11T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/cameron-said-ready-to-be-first-premier-to-publish-tax-returns.html
David Cameron  said it’s
“increasingly likely” he’ll publish his tax returns, becoming
the first British premier to do so as he seeks to defuse
accusations that he’ll benefit personally from an income-tax cut
next year.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in his
March 21 budget that he’s reducing the top rate to 45 percent
from 50 percent starting in 2013, arguing that the higher levy
generated little revenue and encouraged avoidance.  Cameron, who’s in Jakarta today on a four-day trip to  Asia ,
has spoken to Osborne about publishing their tax submissions to
prove that they won’t profit from the change. The prime
minister’s salary is 142,500 pounds ($226,500), below the
150,000-pound top-rate threshold. The premier said no decision
had been taken yet.  “I won’t say for all politicians but, if you are running
for the highest office, I think it is a legitimate question for
people to ask,” Cameron told Sky News television in Jakarta.
“It’s important to weigh up the pros and cons. I don’t want to
put people off going into politics and there are arguments that
need to be made, but personally I’m very relaxed.”  Cameron’s Conservative Party is suffering a backlash from
voters who see the  tax cut  on the highest earners as unjust at a
time when  living standards  for most families are falling and the
government is scaling back services in the biggest public-
spending squeeze since World War II.  ‘Advantages and Disadvantages’  Osborne told the Daily Telegraph newspaper last week that
he favors publishing his tax statements and is looking at
whether it is feasible, given that it would mark a break with
long-established principles of keeping the tax affairs of
individuals private. Business Secretary Vince Cable said he is
also in favor.  “When it comes to publishing tax returns personally, I
don’t set my face against it,” Osborne told the Telegraph.
“But we have to think through the issues. You have to think
through the advantages and disadvantages.”  Politicians’ tax records have also become an issue in the
campaign for the May 3  London  mayoral election. The Conservative
incumbent,  Boris Johnson , and his Labour challenger  Ken Livingstone  agreed to publish some of their tax records after
trading accusations during a live radio debate that they were
paid through companies to minimize their income-tax liability.  Osborne said in the budget that he will squeeze tax
avoiders in return for having cut the top rate. Cameron said
today he had not knowingly avoided tax.  ‘I’ve Always Tried’  “No, I don’t think I have,” he said. “The issue I think
for lots of people has been, have you paid VAT on things and all
the rest of it. I’ve always tried to pay all my taxes and I
think it’s very important that people do.”  Cameron defended moves to limit tax relief for the highest
earners, a change that charities say threatens to cut their
income from donations.  “There do need to be some limits because there is no doubt
in my mind that some people are abusing the system, using
allowances to drive their effective  tax rate  right down so it is
not 50 percent, or 40 percent, or 30 percent or even 20
percent,” the premier said. “Some very rich people are paying
single-digit tax rates.”  Osborne said after the budget that he won’t benefit from
the lowering of the 50 percent tax rate because his ministerial
salary is 134,565 pounds a year, below the top-rate threshold.
He hasn’t commented on whether he is receiving an income from
the rental of his house in Notting Hill in west London since
moving to the chancellor’s official residence in Downing Street.  ‘All Astonished’  Angela Eagle , a senior Labour lawmaker, told the House of
Commons the day after the budget that “we were all astonished
to learn from the chancellor this morning that he was not a top-
rate taxpayer. The hunt is now on for the name of his
accountant, who will surely find himself in spectacular
demand.”  She called for lawmakers to be told “which members of the
Cabinet have benefited from the cut in the 50p rate.”  Conservative support has dropped since the budget, also
reflecting voters’ opposition to moves to tax pensioners more
and allegations that  Conservative Party  officials offered rich
donors the ability to influence policy in return for cash.  A poll by Survation for the Mail on Sunday newspaper
published April 8 showed 35 percent of voters would back Labour
in a general election while 30 percent would back the
Conservatives. Survation interviewed 1,039 people online on
April 5 and 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Jakarta on  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  