-- Cameron Says U.K. Set to Resume Arms Exports to Indonesia
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-04-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/cameron-says-u-k-set-to-resume-arms-exports-to-indonesia.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
Britain is ready to resume arms exports to Indonesia after
former governments used British jets to crush rebels.  Cameron said the U.K. had learned from past mistakes and
that Indonesian generals no longer meddle in politics, creating
conditions for new agreements to supply British arms. Cameron is
in Jakarta today on the second day of a visit to  Asia  where he
is leading a business delegation with companies including  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  and AgustaWestland, a unit of  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   “We have to be honest and straightforward about the
problems in the past,” Cameron told Kompas daily ahead of his
arrival in Jakarta. “But both Britain and Indonesia have made
significant changes since then.”  The previous Labour administration stopped sales of arms to
 Indonesia  after Hawk aircraft were used to bomb rebels in Aceh.
Cameron is looking to boost exports as he seeks to prevent the
U.K. from slipping into its second recession in three years.  “Indonesia has transformed itself in the past decade into
one of the world’s most important democracies, with a free media
and elections,” Cameron said. “The military no longer plays a
role in politics, but fulfills its proper role defending the
country from external attack.”  Cameron said Britain now has “what is one of the most
rigorous and careful arms licensing systems in the world” to
make sure “that arms do not fall into the hands of those who
might misuse them.”  “But at the same time, we believe that democratic and
responsible countries like Indonesia have a right to defend
themselves, and to buy the equipment needed to do so,” Cameron
said. “Britain makes some of the best defense equipment in the
world and it is right that it is available to Indonesia, under
the very same criteria that we apply to all our partners around
the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  