-- Canadian Dollar Falls to Six-Week Low Against Greenback
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-10T21:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/canadian-dollar-falls-to-month-low-against-japan-s-yen.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped to a six-
week low versus its U.S. counterpart as speculation the European
debt crisis is getting worse and concern America’s recovery is
slowing sapped risk demand.  The Canadian currency fell below parity as crude oil
touched a level lower than $101 a barrel. The so-called loonie
is down 1 percent in the past month, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, falling along with its commodity-
linked peers of  Australia ,  New Zealand  and  Norway . Canadian 10-
year bond yields dropped below 2 percent for the first time in
almost a month.  “We have to remain focused on the potential for
disappointment that the second quarter holds in terms of U.S.
economic metrics,” said  Stewart Hall , senior currency
strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit, in a telephone interview.  Canada’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to C$1.0045 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, the weakest level since Feb.
27. One Canadian dollar buys 99.55 U.S. cents. Since mid-
February, the loonie has traded in a range of 98.42 cents to
C$1.0052.  The area around C$1.0050 “has been a point of significant
resistance for the pair,” Hall said. Resistance refers to the
upper boundary of a trading range, where sell orders may be
clustered. “You get through that, and you’re talking about an
area of the chart that we haven’t seen since mid- to late-
January,” he said. RBC predicts the Canadian dollar will weaken
to C$1.02 versus the greenback by mid-year.  Bond Rally  Canadian 10-year  government bonds  rose for a second day,
pushing the yields lower by as much as 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 1.96 percent. The yields were below 2
percent for the first time since March 13. Canadian yields were
about the same as U.S. counterparts after they were 10 basis
points lower April 3.  Five-year  swap  spreads were the widest in almost two years
as homeowners locked in historically low  mortgage rates  on bets
the central bank will lift borrowing costs in the face of a
strengthening housing market.  The difference between five-year interest-rate swaps -- the
rate to exchange floating- for fixed-interest payments -- and
the equivalent Government of Canada bond  yield  reached 34 basis
points on April 5, the widest since May 2010. The spread was 32
basis points today.  Crude oil for May delivery decreased 1.2 percent to $100.90
a barrel in  New York  today. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
tumbled 1.7 percent. The S&P/TSX Composite Index fell 0.7
percent.  Loonie’s Range  “Offsetting drivers” are keeping the loonie in its 10-
week range,  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients
today. He cited Canadian-dollar positive factors such as
domestic employment, inflation and business confidence data, set
against negative factors such as lower equities and commodities
and widening sovereign bond spreads.  Several days of higher closing levels in the U.S. dollar
versus the Canadian currency indicate “a move higher” for the
greenback, Spitz wrote.  The Canadian currency will strengthen to 98 cents per  U.S.
dollar  by year-end, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Cox at 
 pcox16@bloomberg.net  