-- Carlyle’s Owners Said to Keep Stakes in Public Offering
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-04-10T16:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/carlyle-s-owners-said-to-keep-stakes-in-public-offering.html
Carlyle Group (CG) ’s current owners,
including the three founders, plan to keep their stakes when the
private-equity firm holds its initial public offering, according
to a person with knowledge of the IPO.  William Conway,  Daniel D’Aniello  and  David Rubenstein  won’t
sell any of the shares in the firm they founded in 1987, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Other owners, including partners, the
California Public Employees Retirement System, and Mubadala
Development Co., an investment company controlled by Abu Dhabi,
also plan to keep their stakes, the person said.  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Washington-based
Carlyle, declined to comment on the plans.  Carlyle follows New York-based rivals  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in seeking to become a publicly traded company.
In Blackstone’s 2007 IPO, co-founder  Peter G. Peterson  sold
most of his stake to fund his philanthropic efforts and his
foundation; his partner, Stephen Schwarzman, sold some shares.
Henry Kravis and George Roberts, the cousins who are KKR
co-founders and managing partners, have yet to sell stock in
their firm, according to KKR’s regulatory filings.  Carlyle, which has contemplated an IPO since at least 2007,
signaled in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission this month that it may sell a 10 percent stake in the
IPO, saying existing owners would retain 90 percent of a Carlyle
holding entity. Carlyle said it intends to use the proceeds of
the offering to repay debt as well as for acquisitions and
strategic investments.  Carlyle’s owners paid themselves a $398.5 million dividend
in December 2010, nine months before the firm filed to go
public, by borrowing $500 million from Mubadala. Carlyle repaid
the remaining balance to Mubadala last month, refinancing it
with new debt, according to a regulatory filing.  The firm’s three founders earned a combined $413 million
last year, mainly from distributions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  