-- Carlyle Is Said to Seek Value of Up to $8 Billion in IPO
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-04-11T21:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/carlyle-said-to-seek-value-of-up-to-8-billion-in-ipo.html
Carlyle Group , the second-biggest
U.S. private-equity firm, will seek a valuation of $7.5 billion
to $8 billion in its initial public offering, according to
people with knowledge of its plans.  Carlyle plans to sell a stake of about 10 percent in the
IPO and will start marketing the deal to investors as early as
next week, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. The Washington-based firm,
which has been gauging public interest since last year, is
targeting its share sale in early May, said another person.  At $8 billion, Carlyle would fetch less than half the
market value of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest
private-equity firm, which has led an industry push into  hedge
funds  and real estate to reduce its reliance on buyouts. Carlyle
had initially sought to convince analysts it deserved a
valuation comparable to Blackstone’s because its steadier
earnings would provide investors with a more stable dividend
than most peers’, people briefed on the matter said last year.  “The strategy in these cases often is to initially go out
at a valuation that they think is very doable and then plan to,
if there’s demand at that valuation, walk up the price,”  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business, said in a telephone interview. “They view that
psychologically as creating positive momentum for trading.”  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment.  Losing Value  Carlyle has $147 billion under management, according to the
IPO prospectus, and Blackstone had $166 billion as of Dec. 31,
its filings show. Co-founded in 1987 by  David Rubenstein ,
 William Conway  and  Daniel D’Aniello , Carlyle would be at least
the fifth buyout firm to go public since  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG)  in 2007.  The amount Carlyle is seeking is as much as 25 percent less
than the $10 billion implied valuation the firm used when
selling debt to Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co. in December
2010. The difference in part reflects the firm’s desire to
attract investors with a price sweetener known as an IPO
discount, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
information is private.  At the end of last year, Carlyle had an implied enterprise
value of about $9.4 billion, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. The amount was based on fair value estimates of
equity interests tied to Carlyle’s 2010 purchase of a majority
stake in hedge-fund manager Claren Road Asset Management LLC.
Enterprise value calculations include debt as well as market
capitalization.  Blackstone, KKR  Blackstone, which went public at a market value of $33.5
billion in 2007, has since shrunk by half. The stock has risen
4.4 percent this year.  KKR (KKR)  & Co., which gained a New York
listing by combining with its publicly traded European fund and
moving the company to the NYSE from Amsterdam in July 2010, has
climbed 32 percent since then.  “We’re sort of a leveraged play on growth,” Blackstone
Chairman Stephen Schwarzman said yesterday at a Captains of
Industry event in New York. “When the economy is not as robust,
when people are worried about the economy all the time, they get
less optimistic about us and about themselves.”  Carlyle, which has been weighing a public offering since
2007 and put those plans on hold because of the global financial
crisis, may delay the roadshow if investors aren’t receptive to
Oaktree Capital Group LLC’s IPO, scheduled for today, and if the
stock market continues to decline, said one of the people. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index fell for a fifth straight day
yesterday, its longest losing streak since November.  Assets Triple  Oaktree, the world’s largest distressed-debt investor, is
seeking to raise as much as $517.5 million, offering 11.3
million shares at $43 to $46 each. Chairman  Howard Marks  and
President Bruce Karsh, two of Oaktree’s co-founders, are set to
get almost 40 percent of the proceeds from the firm’s share
sale.  Carlyle’s assets under management have more than tripled
since 2006. The 25-year-old firm and rivals such as Blackstone
and KKR are lowering fees or offering deals as they vie for
investors for their buyout funds.  They’re also diversifying. Blackstone has expanded into
hedge funds, a business that grew to $40.5 billion at the end of
last year.  Carlyle’s revenue rose 1.7 percent to $2.85 billion last
year, according to a regulatory filing dated March 14. Net
income fell 11 percent to $1.36 billion from a year earlier.  Fund Gains  The firm said yesterday that its carry funds gained 9
percent in the first quarter. Carlyle’s corporate private-equity
funds, which include buyout and growth funds, rose 8 percent,
while its energy funds climbed 14 percent and its real estate
and infrastructure funds grew 6 percent. The firm’s global
market strategies segment advanced 12 percent, Carlyle said in a
filing.  Carlyle’s owners, unlike Oaktree’s, have no plans to sell
stock in the IPO, a person briefed on the plans said earlier
yesterday. The owners paid themselves a $398.5 million dividend
in December 2010, nine months before the firm filed to go
public, by borrowing $500 million from Mubadala. Carlyle repaid
the remaining balance to Mubadala last month, refinancing it
with new debt, according to a regulatory filing. The firm’s
three founders earned a combined $413 million last year, mainly
from distributions.  Carlyle’s stock will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbol CG. Carlyle hasn’t set a price range or the number of
shares it plans to offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  