-- Champagne and Hot Dogs on the Menu at London Gourmet Restaurant
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-04-10T09:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/champagne-and-hot-dogs-on-the-menu-at-london-gourmet-restaurant.html
James Knappett, one of the U.K.’s
most talented young chefs, is to open his own restaurant in
 London  -- serving Champagne and hot dogs.  Bubbledogs will offer a choice of 10 hot dogs, including
the BLT, with bacon, truffle mayo and caramelized lettuce; and
the Jose, with guacamole, sour cream, salsa and jalapenos.
Diners seeking more sophisticated fare will be seated at a
separate kitchen table where Knappett will cook for them.  Knappett, 30, was formerly head chef at Marcus Wareing at
the Berkeley, and before that worked at Per Se, in New York. He
spent two years at Noma, in Copenhagen, which has held the title
of  World’s Best Restaurant  for two years. Most recently, he was
with chef  Brett Graham  at the Ledbury in London. Bubbledogs is
scheduled to open on Charlotte Street, Fitzrovia, in June.  “This means everything to me because it’s what you are
thinking about from the moment you start as a young chef,”
Knappett said today in a telephone interview.  The restaurant will be managed by Knappett’s wife, Sandia
Chang, who joins from Roganic and previously worked at Marcus
Wareing. She and Knappett were both part of the team at the
French Laundry at Harrods last October. Knappett has also worked
at  Gordon Ramsay  and at Rick Stein Seafood Restaurant.  Chang, who was born in  Saudi Arabia  to Chinese parents and
went to high school in  Los Angeles , will serve grower Champagnes
as well as sparkling wines from around the world, including
 Gruet , from  New Mexico . Prices will probably start at about 6
pounds ($9.52) a glass and the same for a hot dog.  Comfortable Feel  “I’m trying to get people to drink grower Champagnes and I
want somewhere that’s accessible, where people feel comfortable,
without too much pomp and ceremony,” she said.  She cited as her inspiration Crif Dogs in New York’s East
Village, a hot-dog joint with a cocktail lounge reached through
a secret door. She also cited Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare, a
 New York  restaurant where chef Cesar Ramirez prepares meals for
diners seated at a counter around his kitchen.  At the Kitchen Table, Knappett will prepare and serve
contemporary European dishes and discuss them with diners. The
plan is for three- or five-course lunchtime menus, starting at
25 pounds, and an evening menu costing 50 pounds.  Sample dishes include: Beetroot, fennel and garlic scapes;
chicken skin, grilled onion and burrata milk; beef, dead nettle
and carrot; and hay, strawberry, malt and sweet cicely. The wine
list will consist of 100-150 bins, mainly lesser-known fine
wines and small producers.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Today's highlights: Amanda Gordon's Scene Last Night 
featuring Dimons,  Victor Cruz ; Krista Giovacco meets bankers 
setting up a new wine trust; Martin Gayford reviews U.K. design; 
 Craig Seligman  on Nadine Gordimer's “No Time Like the Present.”   To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 