-- Chevron Says First-Quarter Profit Rises From Fourth Quarter
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-10T22:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/chevron-says-first-quarter-profit-rises-from-fourth-quarter-1-.html
  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy producer, said first-quarter profit exceeded the
prior quarter because of rising oil prices, widening refining
margins and the sale of fuel-marketing assets in  Spain .  Oil and natural-gas production from company-operated wells
averaged the equivalent of 2.63 million barrels a day during
January and February, 4.9 percent lower than the daily average
for the full first-quarter of 2011, the  San Ramon , California-
based company said in a statement today. Results for the full
three-month period will be announced on April 27.  After spending $3.2 billion last year to acquire
Appalachian gas producer Atlas Energy Inc., Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman John Watson is shifting the company’s focus
to finding crude and natural-gas liquids such as ethane that
sell at a premium to gas. Chevron will spend $32.7 billion this
year, a 12 percent increase from last year, on capital projects
including oil platforms, gas-export plants and refinery
equipment, the company said in December.  Brent crude futures, the benchmark for two-thirds of the
world’s oil, averaged $118.45 a barrel during the January-to-
March period, an 8.6 percent increase from the first-quarter
average and 12 percent higher than a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. gas prices, weighed down by a glut of supply from
shale formations, tumbled to an average of $2.503 per million
British thermal units during the quarter, a 28 percent decline
from the prior period and 40 percent lower than a year earlier.  Chevron recorded a $200 million gain from the sale of so-
called downstream assets in Spain, according to the statement.  Exxon Mobil Corp., based in Irving,  Texas , is the largest
U.S. energy producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  