-- Chilean Peso Depreciates After China Imports Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-04-10T18:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/chilean-peso-depreciates-after-china-imports-less-than-expected.html
Chile ’s peso plunged after copper
fell on data that showed  China , the world’s biggest buyer of the
metal, imported fewer goods than forecast last month.  The peso slid 0.8 percent, the most in a month, to 489.05
per  U.S. dollar . The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency
Index  declined  0.7 percent to a three-month low.  Chinese imports  rose 5.3 percent last month, less than the
9 percent median estimate among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
China imported $4.3 billion of Chilean copper in the last
quarter of last year, more than twice as much as the U.S. and
 Japan  combined. Prices for the metal fell as much as 2 percent
in  New York , barreling lower after it sank below $3.70 a pound
for the first time since January.  “That triggered stop losses,” said Ronald Volpi, head of
spot currency trading at EuroAmerican Corredores de Bolsa SA.
“And it’s likely that copper closes below $3.70 and confirms
the breach.”  Copper makes up half of Chile’s exports.  Foreign investors in the peso forwards market trimmed their
short peso position to $6.5 billion on April 5 from a two-year
high of $7 billion on April 4, according to central bank data
published today. Local investors had a $16.3 billion long peso
position, down from a nine-month high of $17.5 billion on March
30, a sign that Chile’s private pension fund managers have
reduced hedges of their foreign currency holdings.  The two-year swap rate fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to a two-week low of 5.35 percent. The five-
year rate fell nine basis points to 5.66 percent.  The two-year rate has fallen 23 basis points since April 4,
the day before the National Statistics Institute announced
inflation slowed in March to 3.8 percent. Monthly inflation was
0.2 percent, less than the 0.5 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Swap spreads are contracting a lot, in line with what is
happening overseas and helped by the 0.2 percent CPI number,
which the market wasn’t expecting,” said Felipe Alarcon, an
economist at  Banco de Credito e Inversiones (BCI)  in Santiago.  The U.S. five-year swap rate fell four basis points to a
one-month low today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  