-- China’s March Iron Ore Imports Fall From Previous Month on Rains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-10T04:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/china-s-march-iron-ore-imports-fall-from-previous-month-on-rains.html
China , the world’s biggest buyer of
 iron ore , reduced imports by 3.2 percent in March from the
previous month as heavy rains and flooding in  Brazil  caused
supply disruptions.  Imports (CNMVIROM)  were 62.87 million metric tons in March, General
Customs said today on its website. That compares with 64.98
million tons in February and 59.48 million tons in March last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s first-quarter iron ore exports plunged 27 percent
from the previous three months to the lowest level since June
2009 as rains in January delayed production, trade ministry data
show.  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest iron ore producer, sells
about 45 percent of its production to China, and shipments take
45 days to reach, according to the company.  “Weather is the main reason that caused imports to fall,”
said Chen Zhenxing, a Shanghai-based analyst with researcher
Mysteel.com. “We expect shipments to increase in the coming
months because of seasonal demand, and the start of  India ’s
fiscal year may trigger trading activities.”  The spot price for 62 percent-iron ore arriving at China’s
Tianjin Port, an industry benchmark, reached $147.6 a ton as of
April 5, according to the Steel Index. Prices have gained 6.7
percent this year.  Steel consumption in China, the world’s biggest producer of
the alloy, may rise in the second half as the government eases
liquidity and policy restrictions,  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) 
General Manager Ma Guoqiang said on April 6.  China’s growth outweighs inflation as the main concern for
policymakers, and the government may reduce the reserve ratio
for banks by 100 basis points this quarter, HSBC Holdings Plc
said yesterday in an e-mailed note.  China’s iron ore imports gained 6 percent to 190 million
tons in the first three months of this year from a year earlier,
General Customs said today.  Steel-product exports  by China were 5.03 million tons in
March, according to General Customs. For the first quarter, the
exports climbed 16 percent to 12.15 million tons, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  