-- China Unexpectedly Reports Trade Surplus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-10T06:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/china-unexpectedly-reports-trade-surplus.html
China  reported an unexpected trade
surplus last month as import growth trailed forecasts,
underscoring risks of a deeper slowdown in the world’s second-
largest economy.  Inbound shipments rose 5.3 percent, the customs bureau said
today, below the 9 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Exports increased 8.9 percent from a year earlier, more
than forecast, leaving a trade surplus of $5.35 billion,
compared with a median projection for a $3.15 billion trade
deficit.  Asian stocks fell amid renewed concern about growth in
China, fiscal woes in Europe and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke’s comment that the  U.S. economy  was far from a full
recovery. Premier Wen Jiabao may need to balance gains in
external demand with a slowdown in domestic consumption in
deciding whether to add monetary or fiscal stimulus.  “The sluggish import growth shows weakening domestic demand
and investment growth while exports are stabilizing,” said Chang Jian, economist at  Barclays Capital  in Hong Kong who formerly
worked for the  World Bank . “Policy makers need to strike a
delicate balance between preserving growth and containing
inflation at this stage, yet they may tilt more toward
sustaining growth in the second quarter.”  In Japan, the central bank refrained from expanding
monetary easing to counter deflation, resisting pressure from
lawmakers who five days ago rejected a nominee for the policy
board. The  Bank of Japan  kept the key  interest rate  between zero
and 0.1 percent and left its 30 trillion yen ($368 billion)
asset-purchase fund and 35 trillion yen credit-lending program
unchanged.  Stocks Fall  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell after the trade
report, dropping 0.2 percent at 3:22 p.m. in  Tokyo . China’s
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index pared losses to trade 0.2
percent lower at 2:20 p.m. local time.  China Cosco Holdings Co. led declines for shipping
companies, while Tianjin FAW Xiali Automobile Co. dropped the
most in two weeks after sales slumped last month.  China reported a trade deficit of $31.5 billion in February,
its first shortfall in a year and the biggest since at least
1989, as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimped exports and imports
rebounded after a weeklong Chinese holiday.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 29
economists was for a 7 percent gain in exports from a year
earlier, after an 18.4 percent increase in February. Import
growth, which compared with a 9 percent median estimate, slowed
from 39.6 percent the previous month.  Iron, Steel Drop  The value of oil imports rose 26 percent in March from a
year earlier to $20 billion, customs data show. Iron ore
purchases fell 9.1 percent to $8.69 billion and steel product
imports declined 20 percent to $1.68 billion. The value of goods
imported for processing rose 2.6 percent to $33.8 billion.  “This should increase the chance of further loosening, as
it reflects very weak import demand, thus weak domestic
demand,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Greater China economist for
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , who previously worked
for the  International Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank .  Joy Yang, chief economist for Greater China at Mirae Asset
Securities (HK) Ltd., said the trade surplus may delay any
additional cut in the required reserves banks must hold. At the
same time, a slump in imports and the domestic economy call for
an interest-rate cut to support growth, a move that’s likely to
happen around midyear as inflation drops, said Yang, who
previously worked for the IMF.  Ensuring Growth  Speaking in southern China last week, Wen pledged to take
measures including export tax rebates to ensure “steady
growth” in trade this year and aid exporters hit by rising
costs and weak demand, state media reported.  At the same time, the government is taking measures to
stimulate imports and reduce the trade surplus that amounted to
$155 billion last year. The State Council announced on March 30
cuts in import duties on some commodities and daily necessities.  China is countering a slowdown in exports to Europe by
boosting sales to  emerging markets . Carmakers including Geely
Automobile Holdings Ltd. and Chery Automobile Co. will probably
boost overseas shipments by about 50 percent this year,
according to a February forecast from the China Chamber of
Commerce for the Import & Export of Machinery & Electronic
Products.  In  Japan , the central bank may be preserving its ammunition
for later in the month. Companies from Morgan Stanley to Mizuho
Securities are predicting an expansion of easing at the BOJ
meeting on April 27, when the price outlook is expected to show
a gap between the 1 percent inflation target and actual price
growth.  Australia Construction  Among other reports, a gauge of  Australia ’s  construction
industry  held near a four-month low in March as housing and
apartment building slumped, reflecting the highest benchmark
interest rates among major developed nations.  Malaysian exports climbed 14.5 percent in February from a
year earlier, the fastest pace in four months, while industrial
production growth accelerated to a 20-month high of 7.5 percent,
exceeding analyst forecasts.  In Europe,  Germany  said exports unexpectedly increased for
a second month in February as the trade surplus widened to 14.7
billion euros ($19.3 billion). Finland, the Netherlands,  France 
and  Sweden  are among European nations scheduled to release
industrial production figures today.  The yuan had its first quarterly decline since December
2009 in the first three months of 2012, sliding 0.06 percent to
close at 6.2980 per dollar March 30 in  Shanghai , according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Inflation rose a more-than-forecast 3.6 percent in March as
gains in food prices quickened, the statistics bureau reported
yesterday.  China can pursue a “moderately loose” fiscal policy as
growth slows yet can’t “substantially” ease monetary policy
because of inflation, Tang Min from the Counsellors’ Office of
the State Council said in today’s People’s Daily, the Communist
Party’s mouthpiece.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore ,
Sunil Jagtiani in  New Delhi  and Nerys Avery and Li Yanping in
Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Brendan Murray  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  