-- Bo Suspended After Wife Suspected in British Man’s Murder
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-11T12:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/china-s-bo-xilai-ousted-from-top-party-committees-reuters-says.html
China ’s Communist Party moved to
show unity after suspending Bo Xilai from the ruling Politburo
and declaring his wife a murder suspect, ordering the nation’s
more than 80 million party members to back the decision.  China’s central television station read the charges against
Gu Kailai, Bo’s wife, every hour on the hour, detailing how she
had been arrested on suspicion of murdering British businessman
Neil Heywood in Chongqing. A commentary on the front page of
today’s  People’s Daily (PEODOZ) , the party’s mouthpiece, urged cadres to
“firmly support the correct decision” to investigate Bo.  “The death of Neil Heywood is a serious criminal case
involving the family and close staff of a Party and state
leader,” the commentary said. “Bo has seriously violated the
Party discipline, causing damage to the cause and the image of
the Party and state.”  Bo’s downfall, which comes as China prepares for a once-in-
a-decade leadership change this year, is the biggest political
upheaval in the country’s top ranks since Communist Party
General Secretary Zhao Ziyang was purged in the wake of the 1989
Tiananmen protests. Removal from the Politburo and  Central
Committee , which would come at a formal party meeting, is often
a precursor to prison or detention. Among four other men removed
from the Politburo outside regular Communist Party congresses
since 1989, two were imprisoned and a third, Zhao, lived out
most of the rest of his life confined to his home.  ‘Greatest Fear’  “They’ve struggled with how to portray this,” said
Christopher K. Johnson, a senior adviser at the Washington-based
Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former
China analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency. “Their
greatest fear is to show any inkling that the leadership is
anything but totally unified.”  The People’s Daily commentary said the decision to suspend
Bo “highlights the Party and the government’s apparent attitude
of firmly maintaining discipline and laws” that will
“certainly get the wholehearted support from the whole party
and all of the nation’s people.”  Party newspapers across the country, including Chongqing,
where Bo served as the top official until last month, reprinted
the commentary. The evening news featured a series of party
leaders from Shanxi, Shandong and other areas voicing their
support.  Contracts to insure China’s sovereign debt against non-
payment for five years rose 2.5 basis points to 118 as of 5 p.m.
in  Tokyo , erasing an earlier increase of 3.8 basis points on the
day, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Political Downfall  Gu and a personal attendant are “highly suspected” of
killing British businessman Neil Heywood, who died in Chongqing
in November, the official Xinhua News Agency reported late
yesterday. The U.K. was originally told that Heywood died of
alcohol poisoning.  Bo’s wife and the attendant, Zhang Xiaojun, “have been
transferred to judicial authorities on suspected crime of
intentional homicide,” Xinhua said yesterday. Bo has been
suspended from his party posts and is “suspected of being
involved in serious discipline violations,” Xinhua said in a
separate report.  Bo’s political downfall comes ahead of a party congress
scheduled for later this year that will pick a new generation of
Chinese leaders. Before his lieutenant Wang Lijun, who Xinhua
said made the murder allegations, spent a night in February at
the U.S. consulate in  Chengdu , Bo, 62, was seen by many analysts
of Chinese politics as being a top contender for membership in
the elite Politburo Standing Committee. That panel, now with
nine men, exercises supreme authority in China.  Orderly Transition  “It’s another step toward putting him in jail on a very
serious charge,” said  Li Cheng , an analyst of Chinese politics
at  Washington ’s  Brookings Institution . “It reflects the unity
of the party leadership and their plan to resolve this problem
in a relatively short period of time, and move on to make sure
the party congress will be held in an orderly and institutional
way.”  The U.K. embassy in Beijing had asked earlier this year for
an investigation into Heywood’s death based on increasing rumors
and suspicions, spokesman  John Gallagher  said on March 26. Gu
Kailai and her son were on “good terms with Heywood” and then
had “a conflict over economic interests, which had been
intensified,” Xinhua reported.  ‘Tragic Case’  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said his government wants
to “get to the bottom” of the case involving the death of a
British national.  “We did ask the Chinese to hold an investigation,”
Cameron told a news conference in Jakarta today. “We are
pleased they are now doing that and I stand ready to cooperate
in any way we can. It is very important we get to the bottom of
what has happened in this very disturbing and tragic case.”  Heywood and the son of Bo and Gu, Bo Guagua, both attended
 Harrow school  in the U.K., with Heywood attending in the 1980s
and Bo from 2001 to 2006, Luke Meadows, information officer for
the Harrow Association, said in a March 27 e-mail. Heywood, 41,
lived in Beijing with his wife and had two children, according
to U.K. birth records. Bo Guagua is a student at Harvard
University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  Bo’s troubles became public in early February, after his
former police chief Wang Lijun spent the night of Feb. 6 at the
U.S. Consulate in Chengdu, an event confirmed by both the U.S.
and Chinese governments. On Feb. 8, Wang was booked with a
first-class seat on an  Air China (753)  flight from Chengdu to Beijing
accompanied by a vice minister for state security, Bloomberg
reported on Feb. 10.  Crime Crackdown  Bo won national attention for his success in cracking down
on organized crime with Wang as police chief and for his
“Chongqing Model” of emphasizing state-led investment to ease
wealth gaps between urban and rural residents. Bo also
reintroduced songs and slogans from the era of Chairman  Mao Zedong  to re-instill a socialist spirit.  Meeting with reporters on March 9 in Beijing, Bo revealed
China’s wealth gap as measured by the Gini coefficient was at a
level that social scientists say sparks unrest. He evoked Mao in
vowing to reverse it.  ‘Slide Into Capitalism’  “As Chairman Mao said as he was building the nation, the
goal of our building a socialist society is to make sure
everyone has a job to do and food to eat, that everybody is
wealthy together,” Bo said. “If only a few people are rich,
then we’ll slide into capitalism. We’ve failed. If a new
capitalist class is created then we’ll really have turned onto a
wrong road.”  Chongqing led the other three municipalities directly under
the central government -- Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin -- in
growth in per capita economic output after Bo took the helm in
2007.  Bo is the son of Bo Yibo, one of the founders of the
People’s Republic of China and one of the eight “immortals”
who helped shape Chinese politics after Mao’s death in 1976.  The younger Bo rose from being the mayor of Dalian to
become governor of northeastern Liaoning province before
becoming commerce minister, where he oversaw trade ties with the
U.S. from 2004 through 2007. In 2007, Bo secured a spot on the
Politburo and became the top official in Chongqing, according to
his official biography.  Violent Protest  A violent demonstration took place in Chongqing yesterday,
according to Zhang Beiping, a spokesman for the city’s Qijiang
district. Zhang didn’t say why people were protesting. Postings
on Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo microblogging service said
the protests were over the merging of two local districts. The
posts included photos of people allegedly injured in the
demonstrations.  On March 14, the day before Bo’s firing was announced,
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  told reporters in Beijing’s Great
Hall of the People that China in the late 1970s had taken a
decisive turn away from the politics of the Cultural Revolution.
Wen said China risked a return of the Cultural Revolution --
where millions of people were persecuted by Chairman Mao’s Red
Guards -- unless the country continued to pursue political
change.  Murder Allegations  Allegations of murder and treason among top officials is
reminiscent of Cultural Revolution politics, said Nicholas Howson, a law professor at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann
Arbor  and a former managing partner at  Paul Weiss Rifkind
Wharton & Garrison LLP (1178L)  in Beijing. Mao’s top lieutenant Lin Biao
was killed when his British-made jet crashed in Mongolia in 1971
as he was apparently trying to flee the country after a failed
coup attempt against Mao.  Bo’s case goes beyond those of two other Politburo members
jailed in the past two decades -- former Beijing party boss Chen
Xitong and former Shanghai party boss  Chen Liangyu  -- whose
cases centered around corruption, not murder, Howson said.  “Ironically, given the fact that Bo Xilai is accused of
fanning Cultural Revolution-type flames, the case now apparently
being made against Bo’s wife is reminiscent of the one made
against Chairman Mao’s appointed revolutionary successor Lin
Biao and his family after Lin Biao’s political demise and at the
height of the same Cultural Revolution,” Howson said in an e-
mail. “Complete with tales of moral turpitude, sexual
impropriety and murder.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  