-- China’s Stocks Rise in Last Hour as Trade Data Spurs Easing Bets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-10T08:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/china-s-stocks-drop-to-lowest-level-this-month-before-trade-data.html
China’s stocks  rose for the third
time in four days after slowing growth in imports and exports
fueled speculation the government will take steps to bolster the
world’s second-biggest economy.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 20.09 points, or 0.9
percent, to 2,305.86 at the close, reversing a loss of as much
as 1.2 percent in the last hour of trading as some investors
said measures may be introduced at tomorrow’s regular meeting of
the State Council, or cabinet.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and
Poly Real Estate Group Co. climbed at least 1.5 percent, leading
gains for lenders and property developers.  “There’s speculation that the central government will have
a meeting to review the economy in the first quarter and may
fine-tune policies to spur growth,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-
based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management
Co., which manages about $120 million.  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 1 percent to 2,519.79 today. The
Bloomberg China-US 55 Index, the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 1.1 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  The Shanghai index has gained 4.8 percent this year on
speculation the government will cut lenders’ reserve
requirements and possibly interest rates to boost the economy.
Stocks in the gauge are valued at 9.7 times estimated earnings,
compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to
weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 17.8
today, the lowest level this month. About 6 billion shares
changed hands in the gauge yesterday, 31 percent lower than the
daily average this year.  Trade Slump  Equities fell earlier today after a customs bureau report
showed the nation’s inbound shipments increased 5.3 percent in
March, below the 9 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey and the 39.6 percent jump in February. Exports rose 8.9
percent from a year earlier, more than economists’ forecast,
leaving a trade surplus of $5.35 billion, compared with a median
projection for a $3.15 billion trade deficit. Overseas shipments
jumped 18.4 percent in February.  Slowing import growth “suggests that domestic demand is
weakening and may revive hard-landing concerns,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole SA,
said in a report. “It is also likely to convince policy makers
to ease monetary policy to stimulate the domestic segment of the
economy.” He expects a cut in  interest rates  or lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios in April even as a report yesterday
showed inflation quickened in March.  Economic Data  The statistics bureau is due to report the nation’s first-
quarter gross domestic product and other March data including
industrial production on April 13. The  economy  probably grew 8.4
percent in the first three months of the year, according to the
median estimate of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
economy expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, the
least in 10 quarters.  China plans to release fine-tuning measures “soon,”
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on April 3, according to China National
Radio.  Construction Bank, the country’s second-largest bank, rose
1.5 percent to 4.74 yuan.  Huaxia Bank Co. (600015) , partly owned by
Deutsche Bank AG, climbed 3.2 percent to 10.93 yuan. China Citic
Bank Corp., the banking unit of the nation’s largest investment
company, advanced 2.6 percent to 4.30 yuan.  Mizuho Securities Co. recommended investors buy banking
stocks after Central Huijin Investment Ltd., the state-backed
shareholder in China’s biggest banks, raised its stakes in some
of the nation’s biggest lenders. Huijin move is significant as
it supports big banks in same week Wen called for breakup of
“monopoly,” Mizuho said.  Developers Advance  Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer by
market value, gained 3.3 percent to 11.66 yuan after contracted
sales jumped 47 percent in March. China Vanke Co., the biggest,
rose 2.4 percent to 8.42 yuan.  China  Merchants Property
Development Co. added 1.5 percent to 21.20 yuan.  “It’s time to buy property developer shares,” Dorris Chen, head of China research at BNP Paribas SA, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s offices in Shanghai today. “They are
raising funds. There is a possibility the larger companies will
acquire smaller developers.”  Chen’s comments came after the  Securities Times  reported
Hangzhou Glory Real Estate became the first developer to file
for bankruptcy on cash-flow issues since China imposed real
estate curbs.  A measure of consumer discretionary stocks in the CSI 300
gained 1.4 percent, the biggest advance among the 10 industry
groups. SAIC Motor Corp., China’s largest carmaker, rose 2.1
percent to 14.95 yuan after sales increased 10 percent in March.
Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., the Chinese partner of Ford
Motor Co. and Mazda Motor Corp., advanced 2.6 percent to 4.70
yuan.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  