-- China Inland Cities Power New Growth Offsetting Slowing on Coast
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/china-inland-cities-power-new-growth-offsetting-slowing-on-coast.html
Don’t talk to Tobias Kerle about
 China ’s slowing growth, the general manager of Continental AG’s
12-month-old tire factory in the city of Hefei is too busy
planning to double output.  “We’ve been ramping up the plant at a speed more than
double what we knew before,” said Kerle, 42, at the factory in
the capital of Anhui province, 400 kilometers (250 miles) inland
from Shanghai. “Five years ago this city had small roads.
They’ve been bulldozing things left and right, putting in
flyovers, a new subway and an airport.”  As rising wages and costs sap growth in the coastal centers
that led China’s 30-year  export  boom, Hefei’s 15.4 percent
expansion last year puts it in the vanguard of a new tier of
inland powerhouses. Cities including Wuhan,  Zhengzhou  and Wuhu
are drawing capital and factories from the east and abroad as
companies such as Continental, the world’s fourth-largest
tiremaker, and  Unilever (ULVR) , the world’s No. 2 consumer-products
maker, bet they will underpin the nation’s next decade of growth.  “Cities in central China and even some in the west are
becoming a new driving force for  China’s economy ,” said Zeng Xiwen, vice president for North Asia at Unilever in Shanghai.
“Hefei’s got all the attributes investors need: land, energy
and labor resources, rich education, ports nearby, talented
workers and a huge consumer market on its doorstep.”  Unilever (UNA) , headquartered in  London  and Rotterdam, has
shifted seven factories to Hefei from Shanghai and plans to make
the city its largest global manufacturing center.  Faster Growth  At least 25 more of the world’s 500 biggest companies,
including Zurich-based  ABB Ltd. (ABB)  and  Japan ’s Hitachi Ltd., have
factories in the city. That’s helped give Hefei a growth rate
almost 70 percent higher than the 9.2 percent average for the
country and almost double the 8.2 percent in Shanghai, China’s
financial capital.  While Premier Wen Jiabao has set a national growth target
of 7.5 percent this year, Hefei is aiming for 15 percent.
Chongqing, China’s wartime capital on the Yangtze River, expects
13.5 percent, while Henan provincial capital Zhengzhou, Changsha
in Hunan and Chengdu in Sichuan all predict growth of 12 percent
or higher.  “Forget about national GDP,” said  Ben Simpfendorfer ,
founder of Hong Kong-based consulting company Silk Road
Associates. “It’s time to focus on the inland city clusters
that will drive China’s future growth.”  Doubling Exports  Successfully shifting manufacturing inland could more than
double China’s share of global exports to 23 percent in a decade,
said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  Hong Kong . That would give more time to reduce the economy’s
dependence on investment, which investors in a Bloomberg poll
forecast could cut growth to less than 5 percent by 2016.  Companies moving to Hefei from Shanghai can lower costs
while still retaining access to the coast via the nearby Yangtze
River, new highways, and a rail link that cuts the journey time
to China’s business capital to as little as 2 hours and 23
minutes.  Unilever’s (UNA)  move slashed manufacturing costs by at least 25
percent and was necessary because coastal locations in Shanghai,
Zhejiang and Jiangsu provinces are “struggling with lack of
energy, labor and land resources,” said Zeng.  Continental and Unilever also cite the quality of 
Hefei’s colleges, such as the  University of Science and
Technology of China , ranked the third best in the nation by
Britain’s Times newspaper in 2011-2012.  Cheap Land  “You get cheap labor, you get cheap land and then you
utilize the highway and the high-speed train and you can easily
shift exports to  Europe , the U.S. and Japan,” said Huang Haizhou, chief strategist in Hong Kong for Beijing-based China
International Capital Corp. “The rapid customs clearance system
means that, even from Hefei, they can reach the Shanghai port
within eight hours. Many developing countries, including  India ,
can’t compete with that.”  Hefei’s 5.7 million population is bigger than  Singapore ’s
while the surrounding province is home to almost 60 million,
more than  Spain . About half of China’s economic output and more
than 40 percent of its consumer market are within 500 kilometers
of Hefei, according to consulting company  KPMG .  The city’s appeal helped foreign investment rise 16 percent
last year to $1.8 billion while overall investment, mostly from
eastern coastal areas, surged 30 percent to 170.3 billion yuan
($26.9 billion), according to the Hefei Investment Promotion
Bureau. Exports leapt 34 percent to $7.82 billion, exceeding
nationwide  growth  of 20.3 percent.  Breast Meat  “China’s map is in the shape of a rooster and Hefei is
in the front, the breast area, the place with the most good
meat,” said bureau director Sun Lianghong. Hefei’s economy,
about the size of Ecuador’s at $57 billion last year, is
expected to double by 2015, he said.  Shanghai-based shipping and logistics company  SITC
International Holdings Co. (1308)  is among those poised to gain from
the shift inland, said Diane Lin, a  fund manager  with Sydney-
based Pengana Capital Ltd., which manages about $1.1 billion.
She owns SITC in part because its fleet of small ships are well
suited to serve river ports inside China. “A lot of inland
cities typically have smaller ports and can only park smaller
ships,” said Lin. “Logistics will be important.”  Anhui province’s 20,888 yuan  per-capita income  in 2010 was
less than one-third of Shanghai’s and less than half that in
neighboring coastal provinces Jiangsu and Zhejiang.  Lower Wages  Wage costs in Hefei are about 20 percent lower than on the
east coast and land, water and utility charges save another 10
percent to 20 percent, said Yang Ming, Shanghai-based vice
president at  JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO) , the world’s largest maker of
solar cells. The company began building a plant last year that
by 2015 will be its biggest, employing as many as 10,000 workers,
said Yang.  JA Solar chose Hefei out of five locations, including
Chengdu in the western province of Sichuan, Yang said. The city
enabled better collaboration with the company’s plant at
Yangzhou, a three-hour drive toward Shanghai, while Chengdu was
deemed too far from China’s ports.  Hefei’s local government visited JA Solar in Shanghai to
lobby for the plant, said Yang. A company affiliated with the
Hefei government and domestic banks are expected to provide
financing of 13.5 billion yuan for the facility, according to a
JA Solar statement in March 2011.  Provincial governments inland are hungrier for foreign
investment than the central government or wealthy provinces such
as Jiangsu, said Beijing-based Joerg Wuttke, former president of
the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China.  Getting Attention  “Whatever you do in these cities, you get the attention of
the leaders, and leaders’ attention does matter in China,” he
said.  Hefei is not the only inland city trying to draw companies
and investors from the coast.  Taiwan’s  Foxconn Technology Group (2354) , China’s biggest exporter,
is the highest-profile manufacturer to shift some production
inland. The maker of Apple Inc.’s iPhones and iPads opened a
factory in Zhengzhou in August 2010, and said it will invest
more than $330 million in new facilities, including one in
Chengdu.  The government of Zhengzhou will help Foxconn recruit more
than 100,000 workers this year for its local factory, matching
the number it helped hire last year, Deputy Mayor Xue Yunwei
said in an interview in December.  City Choice  In the summer of 2007 Continental, headquartered in Hanover,
 Germany , was about to select the city of Wuhu, 55 miles north of
Hefei, for its first China factory after it researched sites in
about 10 cities, said Kerle, who runs marathons in his spare
time.  “Hefei wasn’t on our list,” he said. “In terms of
education for expat kids and living conditions we ranked it
relatively lowly.”  Then a delegation from the Hefei city government approached
the  Continental  team at the airport and persuaded them to
reconsider, said Kerle. A year later the company began
construction of a plant to make 4 million tires a year for an
investment of 185 million euros ($243 million).  “The number one strength of Hefei was its government,”
said Kerle. “They were really trying to understand what we need
in order to trigger our decisions and help us understand the
local government and navigate through the regulatory process.”  In cities where local governments aren’t so focused on
investment, it may take two or three years to gain high-
technology certifications needed to qualify for a lower tax rate
that in Hefei probably will take only a year, JA Solar’s Yang
estimated.  Victim of Success  Hefei may become a victim of its own success as it sucks in
investment, pushing wages higher and prompting companies to move
further inland.  Still, Continental Tire has already begun construction on a
134 million euro expansion that will double output to eight
million tires a year. JA Solar’s Yang says “we’ll be OK here
for the next five years” and predicts “more and more companies
will relocate inland from Shanghai” over that period.  Unilever’s Zeng says Hefei’s labor market isn’t tight and
that in any case a rise in wages would boost local consumption,
which would also increase sales of products his company makes in
Hefei that include Lipton tea, Omo washing powder and Pond’s
skin care lotions.  “There are 200 to 300 million consumers within 500
kilometers,” he says. “We plan to double our production
capacity in Hefei by 2020.”  --Kevin Hamlin. With assistance from Victoria Ruan, Li
Yanping, and Lifei Zheng in Beijing. Editors: Adam Majendie,
Nerys Avery.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  