-- Christie Killing Tunnel Slows Commute, Costs Jobs, GAO Says
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-04-10T19:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/christie-wrong-on-federal-estimates-for-n-j-tunnel-gao-says.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  commuters will continue
to suffer workday delays, miss out on job opportunities and
forgo $4 billion in personal income thanks to Governor Chris Christie’s decision to kill a rail tunnel to New York,
independent congressional investigators said  Christie, a first-term Republican, inflated cost estimates
when he stopped construction of the Access to the Region’s Core
project, known as ARC, in October 2010, saying his state
couldn’t afford it, according to a report from the U.S.
Government Accountability Office.  The report was requested by  New Jersey ’s U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a Democrat who chairs the transportation
subcommittee. Lautenberg, 88, has called the Hudson River tunnel
cancellation “one of the biggest public policy blunders in New
Jersey history,” saying it would cripple New Jersey’s growth
for decades by limiting access to Manhattan.  “ARC was critical to the future of New Jersey’s economy
and it took years to plan, but Governor Christie wiped it out
with a campaign of public deception,” Lautenberg said in a
statement today. “The future of New Jersey’s commuters was
sacrificed for the short-term political needs of the governor.”  Cost Differences  The project was estimated by the Federal Transportation
Administration to cost as much as $12.4 billion, with New Jersey
paying 14.4 percent, according to the report. Christie, 49, had 
said state officials estimated the price could reach $14 billion,
with New Jersey responsible for 70 percent of the total cost.  “Current tunnel, bridge and rail infrastructure serving
this corridor is already at or near capacity,” the GAO said in
its introduction to the study. “This increase in  travel demand ,
fueled by  population growth  in the region west of Manhattan and
employment within Manhattan, could result in more congestion and
greater delays for commuters.”  Christie’s cancellation freed $4 billion earmarked for the
tunnel to help replenish New Jersey’s highway fund, which is
running out of money for new projects, said Assemblyman Joseph Cryan, a Union Democrat. It also helped Christie avoid breaking
a campaign promise that he wouldn’t raise the state’s gasoline
tax, which goes into the fund, Cryan said in a statement.  ‘Massively Overstated’  “The ARC tunnel project would have brought thousands of
jobs to our region and increased capacity and provided long-term
stability to our severely aging transportation infrastructure,”
Cryan said. “The governor put together a team to exaggerate the
price tag on the project and then massively overstated the
state’s share of the costs. These latest details are more
evidence of the governor’s continued pattern of distorting the
facts to suit his agenda.”  Christie is among Republican governors, including  Florida ’s
 Rick Scott , who have rejected Obama administration funds for
rail projects. Governors  John Kasich  of  Ohio  and  Wisconsin ’s
 Scott Walker  also have spurned federal rail funding.  New Jersey and federal officials began planning for the ARC
tunnel in 1995, and work began in 2009. It was the largest U.S.
mass-transit project when Christie canceled it.  “I abandoned the getting-everything-you-want thing a long
time ago but I refuse to compromise my principles,” Christie
said today during a  speech  in Manhattan. “When they want to
build a tunnel to the basement of Macy’s and stick the New
Jersey taxpayer with a bill of three to five billion over, no
matter how much the administration yells and screams, you have
to say no.”  Commuter Trips  The 8.8-mile (14.2-kilometer) conduit linking northern New
Jersey suburbs and Manhattan was meant to double the number of
commuter trains to  New York  during peak times. It would have
reduced round-trip commutes by as much as 30 minutes, and
boosted the value of homes near transit stations by $18 billion,
according to the  Regional Plan Association , a New York-based
transit-advocacy group.  The ARC project also would have added flexibility during
service interruptions, the GAO report said. Currently, one 15-
minute train disruption in the existing tunnel can delay as many
as 15 other trains, according to the report.  “ New Jerseyans  who commute into  New York City  already face
near-daily struggles with an overburdened rail system and jammed
highways, bridges and tunnels,” Lautenberg said. “We are at
capacity, and our only hope for relief in this decade was ARC.”  State’s Share  The federal report found that cost estimates grew to $12.4
billion in October 2010 from $7.4 billion in August 2006. As of
April 2010, when the estimate was $8.7 billion, about half the
cost would have come from federal sources, and the remainder
from the  Port Authority  of New York and New Jersey and the  New
Jersey Turnpike Authority (26526MF) , the report stated.  The GAO findings were reported earlier today by the  New
York Times. (NYT)   Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said the report
didn’t account for all the costs associated with the project,
including a $775 million bridge that would have had to be built
in conjunction with the tunnel. New Jersey would have been
responsible for any cost overruns, Drewniak said.  “The GAO report simply bears out what we said in the fall
of 2010, and say to this day: The ARC project was a very, very
bad deal for New Jersey,” Drewniak said in an e-mail. “The
taxpayers of New Jersey are fortunate that the governor showed
strong leadership by putting them first. The ARC project is
still dead and it’s not coming back.”  The report cited studies that estimated that New Jersey
communities served by the ARC project would have had an average
increase in home value of $19,000, or 4.2 percent, in part
because of improved access to high-paying jobs in  Manhattan .  Jobs Created  Other studies cited by the GAO estimated that the project
would have provided about 59,900 jobs directly on site during
construction and total employment of about 98,300 in the region.
Ten years after completion, the project wold have added 44,000
new jobs and almost $4 billion in personal income, according to
the report.  New Jersey ranked 40th among U.S. states in economic health
in the fourth quarter, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States index.  Bob Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, said
the “one viable option” now is  Amtrak ’s proposed Gateway
commuter-rail tunnel, with tracks shared by  New Jersey Transit .
Gateway, with a projected cost of $13.5 billion, would be
completed in 2020.  “We desperately need new capacity under the Hudson, and
it’s an even greater need since ARC was canceled,” Yaro said by
telephone from his New York City office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  