-- Colombian Peso Falls to One-Week Low on Interest-Rate Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-04-10T20:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/colombian-peso-falls-to-one-week-low-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso fell to a one-week
low amid speculation the central bank will leave interest rates
unchanged after inflation unexpectedly slowed in March.  The peso declined 0.6 percent to 1,793.90 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1,783.88 yesterday. Earlier it touched 1,799, its weakest
level since March 29. The peso has jumped 8.1 percent this year,
the best performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  “Traders are pricing in a prolonged pause in rates after
the surprise in inflation and as inflation expectations drop,”
said Daniel Escobar, head analyst at Global Securities brokerage
in Bogota. “That is helping the peso weaken as fewer hikes mean
less incentives to bring in dollars.”  Colombian policy makers meeting last month were divided
over the need to raise  interest rates  in the future to keep
inflation in check, minutes of the meeting, published April 4,
showed. The seven-member board voted unanimously March 23 to
keep the overnight rate at 5.25 percent, the minutes showed.
Banco de la Republica has raised the benchmark rate nine times
since February 2011 from a record-low 3 percent. The next
monetary policy meeting is scheduled for April 30.  Speaking to lawmakers today, Finance Minister Juan Carlos
Echeverry said the government and the central bank want to avoid
job losses stemming from the peso’s rally and that Colombia
needs to consider “all the alternatives” to help stem gains.  The currency has reached a “worrying” level, Echeverry
wrote in an April 8  opinion column  published in El Tiempo
newspaper.  Dollar Purchases  Colombia needs to weigh a “strategy that is richer in
objectives and instruments” that combines the inflation target
with a “more intensive sterilized intervention,” Echeverry,
who is also president of the central bank’s board, wrote.  The central bank has said it will purchase a minimum of $20
million daily in the  spot market  until at least Aug. 4 in a bid
to stem the peso’s rally.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in March, the
national statistics agency said in an April 4 report, down from
3.55 percent in February and less than the 3.63 percent median
estimate among economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Banco de la
Republica targets inflation between 2 percent and 4 percent this
year.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.15 percent, according to the central bank. The price
fell 0.179 centavo to 122.736 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  