-- Confidence at U.S. Small Companies Fell in March on Jobs, Sales
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-10T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/confidence-at-u-s-small-companies-fell-in-march-on-jobs-sales.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses dropped in March for the first time in seven months
as companies grew concerned about the outlook for sales and
tempered plans to take on additional employees, a survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
 index  declined to 92.5 from a one-year high of 94.3 in February,
the Washington-based group said today in a statement. Nine of
the measure’s 10 components fell.  Company leaders may be growing concerned that rising fuel
costs will again slow the economic recovery, calling into
question whether hiring will pick up after payrolls climbed less
than forecast last month. The world’s largest economy added
120,000 in March, the fewest in five months.  “The March survey results were bad news, ending what
promised to be a steady, albeit glacial, improvement in the
small business sector of the economy,”  William Dunkelberg , the
group’s chief economist, said in the statement. “The mood of
owners just can’t shake off the uncertainties out there.”  A net zero percent of small-business owners said they
planned to hire over the next three months, down four points
from February, the report showed. The share of owners projecting
higher sales, adjusted for inflation, dropped four points to 8
percent, and a net minus 23 percent said earnings trends were
positive, also decreased four points.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  Less Optimistic  The gauge of expectations for improved business conditions
six months from now fell two points to a net minus 8 percent. A
net 7 percent of businesses thought it was a good time to
expand, decreasing one point from the prior month.  A measure of inventory levels was the only component to
increase in March. A net 3 percent of respondents said
stockpiles were too low, up 1 percent from the prior month.  Rising input costs loom as the biggest obstacle for 9
percent of the companies polled, the second-highest share since
2008.  The NFIB report was based on responses from 757 small-
business owners through March 30. Small companies represent more
than 99 percent of all U.S. employers, according to the U.S.
Small Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise employing as many as 500 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  