-- Consumer Stocks Slump as Import Growth Stumbles: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-10T21:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/consumer-stocks-slump-as-import-growth-stumbles-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  in the U.S. slid
to a two-month low, led by consumer stocks, as import growth
that trailed economists’ estimates added to concern that the
world’s second-largest economy is faltering.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. sank 2.5 percent to 99.44 yesterday
in New York, the lowest level since Jan. 31. Online book
retailer  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  and budget hotel
operator  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN)  dropped the most in
more than a month.  Semiconductor Manufacturing (SMI)  International
Corp. rose after lifting its first-quarter sales forecast,
narrowing the New York shares’ discount to  Hong Kong .  Imports into  China  in March increased at almost half the
pace predicted by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, with the rate
of growth more than seven times less than in February, customs
data released yesterday showed. The nation’s economy probably
expanded 8.4 percent in the first quarter, according to the
median estimate of 41 economists before data due on April 13.
That would be the slowest pace of growth since 2009.  “Economic growth seems to be near its bottom,” said Jeff Papp, a senior analyst in Lisle,  Illinois  at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million of assets including
Chinese stocks. The slump in Chinese equities, fueled by revived
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis, will be temporary, and “the
government will ease monetary policy further to stimulate
consumption, which will help boost company profits,” Papp said.  China ETF Sinks  China’s central bank has cut reserve requirements ratios
for banks twice since November and has kept benchmark  interest
rates  on hold since July. Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc., expects policy makers to reduce interest
rates this month and to decrease the reserve ratio twice more
this year starting in May, according to a report released
yesterday.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 1.7 percent yesterday in
its second day of declines to a three-month low of $35.75. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell for the fifth day, the longest
losing streak since November, as a surge in Spanish and Italian
bond yields fueled concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  Home Inns, which runs budget hotels in China, tumbled 3.9
percent to $25.63 yesterday in New York, the biggest one-day
drop since March 9. Sales for the Shanghai-based company may
have slipped to 1.15 billion yuan ($180 million) in the first
quarter, from 1.31 billion yuan in the previous three months,
according to the  median  of three analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with Home Inns’ forecast of as much as
1.24 billion yuan in sales issued on March 8.  Slowest Pace  American depositary receipts of E-Commerce, known as
Dangdang, slid 4.9 percent to $10.18, the steepest daily loss
since March 5. The ADRs rose to an eight-month high of $10.70 on
April 9 and have surged 131 percent this year.  Five out of 12 analysts  recommend  that investors buy
Dangdang stock while five rate it hold and two recommend selling
the shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China’s  imports  rose 5.3 percent in March, the customs
bureau said yesterday, below the 9 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey and down from a 39.6 percent jump in February.
Exports increased 8.9 percent from a year earlier, more than
forecast, leaving a trade surplus of $5.35 billion, compared
with a median projection for a $3.15 billion trade deficit.  Semiconductor Discount  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.9 percent yesterday
to 2,305.86, reversing a loss of as much as 1.2 percent in the
last hour of trading amid speculation measures to bolster growth
may be introduced at today’s meeting of China’s State Council,
or the cabinet. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong slid 1.4 percent to 10,596.91, the
lowest level since March 29 after being closed for a holiday
since April 5.  ADRs of Semiconductor Manufacturing, based in  Shanghai ,
jumped 2.9 percent to $2.47 in U.S. trading, the biggest one-day
rally since March 23, after the company raised its forecast for
first-quarter sales and gross margin.  Semiconductor’s revenue for the first quarter of this year
will rise between 14 percent and 15 percent from the previous
three months, the company said in a statement yesterday, up from
a Feb. 8 forecast for growth of 7 percent to 9 percent.
Semiconductor also increased its estimate for gross margin, a
measure of profitability, to as much as 12 percent from a
previous forecast of 7 percent.  The Shanghai-based company’s ADRs, each representing 50
common shares in Semiconductor, traded 4.1 percent below its
Hong Kong stock, which climbed 2.6 percent to 40 HK cents, the
equivalent of 5 U.S. cents. The discount was 4.4 percent on
April 9.  Muddy Targets Fushi  Fushi Copperweld Inc. (FSIN) , a maker of copper-clad metal wire
based in Beijing, gained 5.4 percent to $6.10 by the close of
trading in New York, snapping a four-day decline. The stock,
which was listed on the Nasdaq Composite Index in August 2007,
earlier surged as much as 38 percent to $8, the biggest intraday
advance since Sept. 8, 2006. Trading volumes reached 6.6 million
shares, 16 times the three-month daily average.  Short-seller research firm Muddy Waters LLC  said  the
company presents “a high risk of fraud” in an online posting
yesterday. Fushi was prepared for its U.S. listing by a “fraud
school” run by investment banks, law firms, accountants and
consultants, according to the posting.  Thomas Horton, global marketing director for Fushi,
declined to comment when contacted by phone. Jolin Qiao, Fushi’s
investor relations officer, didn’t reply to an e-mail.  The Chinese  economy  expanded 8.9 percent in the last three
months of 2011, the slowest pace for 10 quarters. The government
last month lowered this year’s economic growth target to 7.5
percent, after keeping the goal at 8 percent over the past seven
years.  Inflation (CNCPIYOY)  quickened last month to 3.6 percent, from 3.2
percent in February, official data released on April 9 showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  