-- Consumer Bureau Plans Broader Rules for Mortgage Servicers
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-04-10T20:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/cordray-says-consumer-bureau-to-go-beyond-mortgage-servicer-deal.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau will propose rules for the mortgage servicing
industry that go beyond the March 12 agreement among state and
federal authorities and major banks.  The servicing settlement was “an important step forward on
the road to renewal,” CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  said today
in a Washington speech. “But it was only a partial step, as it
covered only certain financial institutions and only certain
categories of the  mortgage loans  that they service.”  The consumer bureau would require servicers to disclose key
information on monthly statements, give clear warnings before
 interest rates  adjust, warn consumers before taking out hazard
insurance on their homes, and credit payments immediately, the
agency said in a fact sheet posted on its website. The rules
will be formally proposed “this summer,” and completed by
January, according to the fact sheet.  The $25 billion settlement with five banks, including  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , was filed in federal court
in Washington on March 12. The agreement, which ended a joint
federal-state investigation that began in 2010, doesn’t cover
mortgage loans backed by government-sponsored enterprises, such
as  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac.  Cordray, who was Ohio attorney general when the inquiry
began, said the settlement didn’t cover “the many independent
servicers that specialize in the servicing of subprime or
delinquent loans.” Those servicers include companies such as
 Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)   Exceeding Dodd-Frank  The bureau will also propose regulations on mortgage
servicing that go beyond the requirements in the Dodd-Frank law
that created the agency, according to the fact sheet.  “We envision a world where homeowners can expect fair and
reasonable treatment when they fall behind in their payments,
and genuine efforts are made to help them stay in their homes,”
Cordray said. “Simply put: We intend to require mortgage
servicers to put the ‘service’ back into servicing.”  Beyond Dodd-Frank, the rules would require servicers to
make “good faith” efforts to inform borrowers about options to
avoid foreclosure, establish “reasonable policies” to minimize
and resolve errors, and provide borrowers “direct, easy,
ongoing access” to employees who help borrowers.  Kellie Geressy-Nilsen and Nathan Flanders of  Fitch Ratings 
said it is unclear what effect the new rules would have on
future mortgage performance.  “For example, if mortgage holders were given notice of
increased payment amounts, they could begin budgeting for the
additional cost sooner or shift to alternative products,” the
New York-based analysts wrote in a note today. “Of course, if
the borrower is already experiencing financial hardship any
advance notice or better disclosure could be deemed
irrelevant.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Carter Dougherty in
Washington at   cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds43@bloomberg.net . 