-- Cosco Sees ‘Big Chance’ China Insurer Will Cover Iran Oil
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-04-10T16:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/cosco-sees-big-chance-china-insurer-will-cover-iran-oil.html
China Ocean Shipping Group Co. (COSCZ) , the
nation’s biggest sea-cargo carrier, said a government-backed
insurer will probably cover oil shipments from  Iran  so
deliveries aren’t disrupted by European trade sanctions.  “There is a big chance the government may get a state-
owned insurer to underwrite the ships,” Meng Qinglin, managing
director at Cosco Group’s tanker unit, Dalian Ocean Shipping Co.,
said in a phone interview yesterday. It’s not clear when plans
will be finalized, he said.  A number of government departments are discussing the issue,
Meng said, as China, the biggest buyer of Iranian crude, seeks
to ensure that EU sanctions coming into force July 1 don’t
interrupt supplies. The EU embargo, prompted by Iranian nuclear
plans, affects shipments to China and other countries as 95
percent of  oil tankers  are insured by the 13 members of the
London-based International Group of P&I Clubs.  “The government will definitely carry out measures to deal
with the situation,” Meng said. “Replacing Iranian oil imports
wouldn’t be easy.”  China  Shipping Group Co., the nation’s No. 2 vessel
operator, similarly said last month that it expects the
government will act to safeguard shipments. China buys about 22
percent of Iranian oil exports, according to U.S. Department of
Energy estimates.  China P&I Club  China Shipowners Mutual Assurance Association , known as the
China P&I Club, will also probably continue covering tankers
carrying Iranian oil, said Meng, who is a director at the ship-
insurance co-operative. Reuters said last week that the group
may halt coverage, citing an unidentified official.  “I don’t believe China P&I would make such a hasty
decision,” Meng said. Dalian Ocean hasn’t received any notice
about coverage being halted, he said. The company operates more
than 50 oil and liquefied petroleum gas tankers, including at
least 20 very large crude carriers, according to its  website .  China P&I, which isn’t part of the  International Group  of
P&I Clubs, didn’t reply to faxed questions from Bloomberg News
yesterday.  China urges “flexibility” and “sincerity” in nuclear
talks between Iran and the five permanent United Nations
Security Council members and  Germany  on April 14, according to a
 statement  posted on the Chinese foreign ministry’s website
yesterday. Iran has said its nuclear project is just for
civilian use.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  