-- Cotton Planting in India Seen Lower First Time in Four Years
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-04-10T11:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/cotton-planting-in-india-seen-falling-first-time-in-four-years.html
Cotton planting in  India , the
second-biggest producer, will decline for the first time in four
years as a ban on exports may spur farmers to switch to other
crops, according to the  Cotton Association of India .  The acreage may fall about 15 percent in the season
starting this month, President Dhiren Sheth said in a phone
interview from Mumbai today. Farmers sowed cotton to a record
12.2 million hectares (30.12 million acres) in 2011-2012,
harvesting 34.5 million bales, according to the country’s Cotton
Advisory Board. Sheth’s forecast is more than the 10 percent
decline estimated by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  A smaller Indian harvest may potentially reduce exports
next year, and stem the 53 percent plunge in futures in  New York 
in the past year. The South Asian country won’t allow fresh
exports this season as it builds reserves for the domestic
 textile industry , Trade Minister  Anand Sharma  said yesterday.  “Due to the flip-flop in export policy, we believe that
the next season area might fall, and overall production may get
affected,” said Ajitesh Mullick, associate vice president for
agriculture research at  Religare Commodities Ltd.  “The
government may put in some limits for exports next year and the
total exportable quantity might be lower.”  India’s cotton crop in 2012-2013 may fall to 32.3 million
bales of 170 kilograms each from 34.3 million bales this year,
according to a USDA report on March 30. Sheth didn’t give a
production estimate.  Chinese Protests  India barred all exports on March 5 to secure domestic
supplies after shipments surged before the ban to about 9.5
million bales, more than the 8.4 million bale surplus the
government estimated. The curbs were partially ended a week
later after protests from growers, traders and  China , the
biggest buyer. The government is scrutinizing about 2.5 million
bales registered with the trade ministry prior to the ban,
Sharma said yesterday.  “We are very disappointed and we are going to urge the
government to open up fresh exports very soon,” Sheth said.
“Mills can buy cotton and stock it if they want. Why should the
government stop exports?”  Cotton Corp. of India, a state-owned company, will buy 2.5
million bales from farmers at market prices to help domestic
mills meet fiber demand, the textile ministry said on April 4.  The May-delivery contract gained as much as 1.4 percent to
90.76 cents a pound in on ICE Futures U.S. and was at 90.55
cents at 4:33 p.m. in Mumbai. Futures slumped 30 percent in the
past year on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange.  Lower domestic prices may prompt farmers in Andhra Pradesh
and Karnataka state to switch from cotton to spices such as
chilli because of higher prices, Religare’s Mullick said.  “Farmers are likely to switch to competitively-priced
alternative crops while seeking to diversify their crop mix and
risk in response to India’s topsy-turvy cotton export
policies,” the USDA said. High prices for peanuts, soybeans and
corn may encourage farmers to shift away from cotton in central,
western and northern India, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  