-- Fenwick, Covington, Cadwalader: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-04-10T19:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/covington-cadwalader-skadden-simpson-thacher-business-of-law.html
(Corrects spelling of Kelley Bierce in Skadden item.)  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s deal to acquire
Instagram, the mobile photo-sharing application, for about $1
billion in cash and stock, was done in a mere 54 hours said
Facebook’s lead partner on the deal, Greg Roussel of Fenwick &
West LLP.  Roussel got the call on April 6, which marked both Good
Friday and the first night of Passover. Fortunately, he said in
a telephone interview, “we were able to pull a team together
right before a few people disappeared for Seder,” referring to
the meal that begins the Passover holiday.  Fenwick has done about “20 or so deals” for Facebook,
Roussel said, and while this one was the biggest to date, “it
had the same interesting issues that come up in their deals.
They care about the team, the technology and the intellectual
property and privacy concerns that you would expect someone like
Facebook to care about.”  In addition to Roussel, the team included corporate
associates Christian Lymn, Matthew Karwoski and Morgan Sawchuk;
intellectual property partner Ralph Pais and associates Chris
Joslyn and Michael Riskin; executive compensation and employee
benefits partner Scott Spector and associates Gerald Audant,
Elizabeth Gartland and Adie Sherwood; tax partner Adam Halpern
and associates Natalie Pardo de Zela; securities partner Jeffrey
Vetter and associate James Evans; and antitrust partner Mark Ostrau.  Instagram was represented by Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliff.
On the team from the firm’s Silicon Valley office were emerging
companies partner Stephen Venuto, M&A and private equity partner
Mark Seneca, compensation and benefits partner Christine
McCarthy, emerging companies partner Daniel Yost, emerging
companies managing associate Joseph Perkins and associate Vivian
Lo. San Francisco tax partner Steve Malvey worked on the deal as
well.  Instagram lets users take pictures with smartphones,
retouch them with borders and filters, and then post the images
on social networks. Founded in 2010, it has become the most
popular free photo-sharing application on Apple Inc.’s App Store
and boasts more than  30 million  users.  The acquisition is expected to close this quarter,  Menlo
Park , California-based Facebook said yesterday. Facebook said
filed for an initial public offering in February. Roussel said
that the acquisition shouldn’t affect “the IPO process.”  Covington, Wachtell, Cadwalader, Finnegan on AOL-Microsoft Deal  For lawyers working on the  AOL Inc (AOL) .- Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  $1
billion patent deal, “there was still a lot of work to be
done” between April 5, when the deal was signed, and
yesterday’s announcement, said Bruce Deming, a lawyer in the San
Francisco office of  Covington & Burling (1175L)  who represented
Microsoft.  In addition to Deming, the other Covington lawyers on the
deal were partner Evan Cox and associates Ingrid Rechtin,  Andrew
Hall , Paula Domingos and Brad Chernin, all in the San Francisco
office. Miranda Cole, a partner in the firm’s Brussels office,
is advising on European Union antitrust issues and  New York 
partner Robert Heller and  Washington  associate Sarah Burnham
provided tax advice.  Partners Rick Rule and Jonathan Kanter and special counsel
Amy Ray of the Washington office of Cadwalader, Wickersham &
Taft, regular antitrust counsel for Microsoft, provided U.S.
antitrust advice. Deming said that the transaction was
“relatively straightforward since it’s a single party
purchase” unlike other patent deals that have had multiple
parties.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz advised AOL. The Wachtell
M&A lawyers on the deal were partners Martin Lipton, David C.
Karp, David E. Shapiro and associates Ronald C. Chen, Michael
Rosenblat and Lisa B. Schwartz; antitrust partner Damian G.
Didden and associate Nathaniel L. Asker and tax partner T. Eiko
Stange. Additionally, law clerks Mark Stagliano and Zachary S.
Polodolsky were involved. C. Gregory Gramenopoulos, a partner in
the Washington office of Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett &
Dunner, an intellectual property firm, also worked on the deal.  AOL said it had agreed to sell more than 800 of its patents
and related patent applications to Microsoft and grant the
software maker a non-exclusive license to its retained patent
portfolio for about $1.056 billion.  AOL said it intends to return a “significant portion” of
the sale proceeds to shareholders.  Capital Markets  Skadden, Cravath Work on Tumi’s Initial Public Offering  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom is representing luxury
travel-bag maker  Tumi Holdings Inc. (TUMI)  in its initial public
offering. Cravath, Swaine & Moore represented the lead
underwriters Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Skadden partner David Goldschmidt is leading the team that
includes Allan Murray-Jones, a partner in the firm’s London
office, New York partners Dwight Yoo and David Rievman and New
York associates Anna Denton and Kelley Bierce.  Cravath partner LizabethAnn Eisen, along with associates
Ankur Patel and John Sobolewski, all in the New York office,
were counsel to the underwriters.S  Tumi is seeking as much as $319.3 million in a U.S. initial
public offering. The company is currently owned by London-based
private-equity owner Doughty Hanson & Co. According to
yesterday’s filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the company will offer 18.78 million shares at $15
to $17 each.  Doughty Hanson bought for Tumi for $276 million eight years
ago, longer than buyout firms typically hold investments. Tumi,
whose backpacks retail for as much as $595, is seeking a
valuation of as much as 3.5 times 2011 sales, compared with the
median of 0.6 times for a basket of peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  New Ventures  Sean Coffey’s BlackRobe Startup Snags Simpson Thacher’s Chepiga  BlackRobe Capital Partners LLC, the litigation finance
company started by plaintiffs’ lawyer Sean Coffey, hired retired
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP partner Michael Chepiga to boost
the firm’s corporate-defense expertise.  Chepiga joins BlackRobe as a managing partner and will
share responsibilities for business development, case
underwriting and firm management, the company said in a
statement. Chepiga is a 30-year veteran of Simpson Thacher and a
former member of the firm’s executive committee.  “Mike brings unsurpassed credibility in management suites
and corporate boardrooms, and will greatly enhance BlackRobe’s
ability to assist companies as they seek creative ways to
address the escalating costs of civil litigation,” Coffey said
in a statement.  Coffey, a former partner at New York’s  Bernstein Litowitz
Berger & Grossman LLP (142230L) , won more than $6.15 billion in
settlements in 2004 and 2005 for WorldCom Inc. investors
following a collapse of the company in an accounting fraud. He
started New York-based BlackRobe last year with Timothy Scrantom, co-founder of Juridica Investments Ltd., after failing
at a run for New York Attorney General.  BlackRobe is one of a growing number of third-party
litigation financiers that fund lawsuits in exchange for a share
of the recovery. The company targets investments of $2 million
to $8 million in complex commercial litigation cases, including
intellectual property, antitrust and breach of contract
disputes, that have the potential for damages in excess of $50
million, Coffey said.  In addition to BlackRobe and Juridica, New York-based
Burford Group also operates in the space targeting commercial
deals. The global market for litigation financing has grown to
about $5 billion, Clive Ward, managing director for Tangerine
International Ltd., the promoter of a namesake lender to U.K.
law firms, said last month.  While the firm doesn’t provide legal advice, the three
partners plan to be more actively involved in cases than just
financing them, Coffey said. In addition to Chepiga, BlackRobe
has hired a handful of retired former litigators who help part-
time to evaluate cases. The firm, which is raising funds, has
looked at about 80 cases since last year and has closed
investments in two, Coffey said. He declined to identify the
investments.  Moves  Seyfarth Shaw Adds Employment Lawyers from Sidley Austin  Partners Cliff Fonstein and Nicholas H. De Baun and
associate Tara Conroy have joined the New York office of
Seyfarth Shaw in the labor and employment area. Since 2011, the
firm said in a statement that it has added more than 100
attorneys in the practice area. The new group comes from Sidley
Austin.  According to the firm’s announcement, Fonstein and De Baun
have particular experience advising financial services clients
and have extensive Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
arbitration and trial experience.  Gibson Dunn Hires New Employment Lawyer from Akin Gump  Catherine Conway, formerly a partner at Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld, has joined the Los Angeles office of Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher the firm has announced. According to the statement,
she focuses on employment class actions including wage and hour
litigation and also has experience in areas such as
discrimination, sexual harassment, wrongful discharge, unfair
competition,  trade secrets  and unfair business practice
litigation.  Kilpatrick Townsend Adds Counsel to Its Silicon Valley Office  Christian Nicholes has joined the electronics and software
team as counsel in the Silicon Valley office of Kilpatrick
Townsend & Stockton. According to the firm’s announcement,
Nicholes practices in the patent area and previously worked at
Hickman, Palermo, Truong & Becker in  San Jose ,  California .  News  Rothstein Lawyer Charged With Illegal McCain Campaign Gifts  A former associate of convicted Ponzi schemer Scott Rothstein was charged with illegally helping their  law firm 
become the largest contributor to the presidential campaign of
Republican  John McCain  in 2008.  Attorney Steven Lippman, 49, was charged yesterday with
conspiring to help Rothstein’s defunct law firm, Rothstein,
Rosenfeldt & Adler, illegally “bundle” contributions to
McCain’s losing campaign against President  Barack Obama . He’s
also accused of conspiring to draw checks on accounts with
insufficient funds and to evade taxes.  Lippman is the eighth person accused of helping Rothstein,
a disbarred attorney serving 50 years in prison for the $1.2
billion  Ponzi scheme  he ran out of his law firm in  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida . Rothstein pleaded guilty to racketeering,
 money laundering  and  wire fraud  in federal court in Fort
Lauderdale, where Lippman and the others were also charged.  “The breadth, scope, and sheer complexity of Rothstein’s
$1.2 billion Ponzi scheme is mind-boggling,” U.S. Attorney
Wifredo Ferrer said yesterday in a statement. “Its success
depended, in no small part, on the complicity of his colleagues
and associates, like Steven Lippman.”  Prosecutors charged Lippman, a shareholder at RRA with no
equity stake, with helping to “dramatically increase the
political influence and power” of the firm by serving as a
straw donor who was illegally reimbursed for his contribution.  “The charges speak for themselves,” Lippman’s attorney,
Bruce Zimet, said in a phone interview. “All of these acts do
not relate to the Ponzi scheme. Though they may have had some
effect on it, he was not a participant in the Ponzi scheme.”  The law firm reimbursed Lippman with money and by paying
for home renovations, patio furniture, a golf membership and a
$134,000 Maserati, according to a charge filed yesterday. He
faces as many as five years in prison.  In February,  Toronto Dominion Bank (TD)  agreed to settle a
lawsuit with investors who claimed it aided in the Ponzi scheme.
Barron’s and the Miami Herald reported that TD Bank would pay
$170 million.  The case is U.S. v. Lippman, 12-cr-60078, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 