-- Cracker Barrel Adopts Poison Pill as Defense to Biglari T
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-04-10T21:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/cracker-barrel-adopts-poison-pill-as-defense-to-biglari-t.html
Cracker Barrel Old Country Store
Inc. (CBRL)  will seek shareholder approval of a poison pill with a 20
percent threshold after Biglari Holdings Inc. won regulatory
clearance to buy as much as 49.99 percent of the stock.  A poison pill is a method used to discourage a takeover bid
by making a company less attractive to a potential raider. While
the measure would give shareholders rights to buy more stock at
half its value, the privilege would be void for investors making
a bid not endorsed by the board, according to a statement today
by Cracker Barrel, operator of more than 600 stores in 42
states.  The rights plan is designed to ensure that investors
receive fair treatment during a takeover or attempt to gain
control of the company, Lebanon, Tennessee-based Cracker Barrel
said in the statement. The plan, adopted yesterday by the board,
will terminate unless approved by shareholders at the annual
 meeting , according to the statement.  Last year, Cracker Barrel owners rejected a shareholder
rights plan with a 10 percent threshold.  Sardar  Biglari (BH) , chief executive officer of Biglari, said in
a December statement that Cracker Barrel was “in need of a
turnaround.” He has also criticized the company for not
reporting enough financial detail.  Steak ‘n Shake  Biglari increased its  ownership  to 16.9 percent, according
to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission today.
It last reported a 15.5 percent stake in the company on March
30.  Today, Sardar Biglari declined to comment, through his
assistant, on Cracker Barrel.  Cracker Barrel fell 1.1 percent to $54.80 at the close in
 New York . The shares have  gained  15 percent in the past 12
months.  Biglari, based in  San Antonio , has operations including the
Steak ‘n Shake and Western Sizzlin restaurant chains. Cracker
Barrel said Biglari, in September, received clearance under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Act to acquire as much as 49.99 percent of the
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  