-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Jump as Spain Borrowing Costs Rise
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-10T21:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-jump-as-spain-borrowing-costs-rise.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk touched the highest level in more than two months
and the cost to protect U.S. bank debt against losses climbed as
a surge in Spanish and Italian bond yields stoked concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed for a fifth day, adding 2.1 basis points to a mid-price
of 104.1 basis points at 5:17 p.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd. The swaps index, which typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves,
touched 105 basis points, the highest level since Jan. 25.  Spanish bonds tumbled as Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
declined to rule out a rescue for the nation after 10 billion
euros ($13 billion) of additional budget cuts failed to
alleviate investor concerns that the European financial crisis
will spread to  Spain . The contracts also climbed after  China 
reported an unexpected  trade surplus  last month as import growth
trailed forecasts. The U.S. payrolls report showed last week
that America’s employers added fewer jobs in March than
economists had forecast.  The widening of credit-default swaps tied to bank bonds is
“really a reflection of the macro environment and the concerns
the market has over Europe,” said Adam Steer, an analyst at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc., whose parent Brookfield
Asset Management Inc. oversees about $150 billion in assets.
“They’ve been very correlated with U.S. macro news as well as
Europe macro news it seems for a while now, and that’s what
we’re seeing today.”  Bank Swaps Jump  Credit-default swaps on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America Corp. added 25.3 basis points to 295 basis
points, the highest level since Feb. 15, and those on JPMorgan
Chase & Co. increased 8.5 basis points to 118.4 as of 4:30 p.m.
in  New York , according to data provider CMA. Contracts tied to
Citigroup Inc., based in New York, climbed 22.4 basis points to
272.9, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Yesterday the average of the six biggest U.S. banks reached
the most since Feb. 15, according to CMA data. Credit swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate  swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, climbed 2.86 basis points to 31.69
basis points, the widest since Jan. 30. The measure rises when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
falls when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in 東京 at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  