-- Czech Inflation Quickens to Fastest in 40 Months on VAT Change
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-10T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/czech-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-in-40-months-on-vat-change.html
Czech inflation accelerated to the
fastest in 40 months in March as an increase in the value-added
tax at the start of the year pushed up consumer prices,
including food costs.  The  inflation  rate rose to 3.8 percent, the highest since
November 2008 and up from 3.7 percent in February, the Czech
Statistics Office said in a statement posted on its website. The
reading matched the median estimate of 15 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent from the
previous month.  The government raised the lower bracket for VAT levied on
goods and services including food, drugs and public transport to
14 percent from 10 percent starting in 2012 to boost budget
revenue. The economy contracted for a second quarter in the
final three months of last year after state expenditures fell
and households and companies cut spending as the euro area’s
debt crisis threatens to infect eastern  Europe .  Six out of seven central bank board members voted March 29
to leave the  benchmark  two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent,
a quarter-point less than the  European Central Bank ’s main rate.
One policy maker demanded a quarter-point increase in the rate,
which hasn’t changed since May 2010.  The central bank forecasts the inflation rate will stay
above 3 percent this year and before falling to 1.5 percent in
the first quarter of 2013.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for the primary impact of changes in indirect
taxes, will “move near” the inflation target of 2 percent by
the third quarter of next year, the central bank said in its
forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  