-- Death, Taxes Collide as Fatal Crashes Mount on Filing Day
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-04-11T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/death-and-taxes-collide-as-fatal-crashes-mount-on-irs-filing-day.html
Death and taxes aren’t only
certain, they also seem to share a same deadline in the U.S.,
according to a study that points to the role of stress in fatal
accidents.  Deaths from traffic accidents around April 15,
traditionally the last day to file individual income taxes in
the U.S., rose 6 percent on average on each of the last 30 years
of tax filing days compared with a day during the week prior and
a week later, according to research published in the Journal of
the  American Medical Association .  Even allowing Americans to file their taxes electronically
hasn’t negated the crash trend, lead researcher Donald
Redelmeier said. The findings suggest stress, lack of sleep,
alcohol use and less tolerance to other drivers on tax deadline
day may contribute to an increase in deaths on the road,
Redelmeier said.  “An increase of risk in this magnitude is about the same
as what we observe on Super Bowl Sunday, a time notorious in the
U.S. for drinking and driving,” said Redelmeier, a professor of
medicine at the  University of Toronto  in  Canada , in an April 6
telephone interview.  The research showed that there were 226 fatal crashes for
each of the 30 tax days and 213 fatal accidents for each of the
60 control days.  Stressful Deadlines  “Our research suggests that stressful deadlines can
contribute to driver error that can contribute to fatal
crashes,” Redelmeier said. “People have, for a long time,
speculated that psychological stress may contribute to real
world crashes, but this is the first study to pin that down.”  The study, which appears as a research letter in the
medical journal, looked at tax deadline data from the  Internal
Revenue Service  and fatal traffic accident data from the
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  from 1980 to
2009. The researchers then used a database to identify crashes
that led to deaths. For every tax day, they also identified a
day one week before and one week after as a comparison.  Redelmeier said drivers who are stressed should remember to
buckle their seat belts, obey the speed limit, avoid alcohol,
minimize distractions and refrain from driving recklessly.  “Under normal circumstances, everyone nods their heads
agreeable,” he said. “Under stressful circumstances, it’s when
you tend to forget these pieces of advice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  