-- DeMarco Says Principal Writedowns May Save FHFA $1.7 Billion
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-10T21:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/demarco-expected-to-release-new-mortgage-forgiveness-analysis.html
Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac could
save $1.7 billion if they forgave principal on some troubled
mortgages, the companies’ regulator said today in  Washington .  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  may make a decision “in
the next few weeks” about whether to change its policy barring
the two taxpayer-owned companies from performing such loan
modifications, Edward J. DeMarco, the agency’s acting director,
said in a speech at the Brookings Institution. DeMarco said he
remains concerned that debt writedowns could be an incentive to
default for some so-called underwater homeowners, who owe more
than their properties are worth, offsetting any cost savings.  “Will some percentage of borrowers who are current on
their loans be encouraged to either claim a hardship or actually
go delinquent to capture the benefits of principal reduction?”
DeMarco said.  The FHFA, which began overseeing Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
when they were taken into U.S. conservatorship in 2008, has come
under pressure from the Obama administration and consumer
advocates to cut principal for underwater borrowers.  DeMarco has barred the companies from reducing principal on
the seriously delinquent loans they own or guarantee on the
grounds that it would hurt their bottom line.  Treasury Incentive  The new FHFA analysis cited by DeMarco takes into account
incentives from the  U.S. Treasury  that would pay Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac as much as 63 cents for every dollar of principal
they forgive. The Treasury would provide the money to the
companies under its expanded Home Affordable Modification
Program, using leftover funds from the Troubled Asset Relief
Program.  Even though Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will save $1.7
billion because of the payments of as much as $3.8 billion from
the Treasury, the net cost to taxpayers of the writedown will be
about $2.1 billion, DeMarco said.  Fewer than 1 million households would be eligible, out of
11 million underwater borrowers nationwide, and the savings from
principal writedowns could also be offset by increased cost of
implementing such a program, DeMarco said.  “All these cost factors would have to be carefully
considered in coming to a decision on whether to employ
principal forgiveness or not,” he said.  Additional Measures Coming  The FHFA will announce additional measures to help troubled
homeowners in the next few weeks, and is considering ways to
structure a program that would include some money offered by
Treasury, said a person familiar with the discussions. Other
measures may include a program that would allow delinquent
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac borrowers to continue to live in
their houses as renters after turning over the deeds, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Shaun Donovan, secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development, has urged DeMarco to change the policy.  “The issue here is about the numbers and the analysis and
whether this is not only good for homeowners but also good for
the taxpayer,” Donovan said during an April 8 television
interview.  DeMarco has been publicly lowering expectations that the
Treasury incentives will lead to a large-scale principal-
reduction proposal. He has been touting the companies’  existing 
mortgage-modification programs, which often involve reducing
monthly payments by charging zero interest on a portion of a
loan and deferring its repayment.  More Effective Efforts  The use of existing programs instead of principal
forgiveness was endorsed today by the head of the  American
Bankers Association . “The taxpayers’ cost for principal
reductions generally exceeds the benefit created,” ABA
President  Frank Keating  said in statement issued by the industry
group. “Modifying loans in ways other than reducing principal
has proven to be more effective for troubled borrowers.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have completed 1.1 million loan
modifications since the end of 2008, and have engaged in more
than 1 million other transactions to avert foreclosures,
including short sales or repayment plans.  FHFA at the end of last year expanded the Home Affordable
Refinance Program to make more underwater borrowers eligible to
refinance into loans at lower  interest rates .  Even with the additional Treasury payments, FHFA analysts
are considering whether loan forgiveness would create new costs
by encouraging defaults among underwater borrowers who kept
making payments on their mortgages, DeMarco said last month.  About 3 million borrowers are underwater on loans backed by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Of those, three in four are current
on their payments, DeMarco said.  Encouraging Payment  “This should be recognized and encouraged, not dampened
with incentives for people not to continue paying,” he said
during a Boston speech last week.  In a January analysis sent to Congress, FHFA said it would
cost Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac an additional $100 billion to
write down all 3 million underwater loans to the value of the
homes securing them.  Far fewer loans would actually be candidates for principal
forgiveness, even if FHFA changes its policy.  Economist  Dean Baker  of the Center for Economic and Policy
Research, who supports debt reduction, estimates that at best
the tactic would help an additional 200,000 to 300,000 families
keep their homes.  “You just want it to to be a tool in your toolbox,” Baker
said. “To say you’re not going to have it as a tool just seems
crazy. On the other side, to say that it’s a huge game-changer,
that the housing market is going to go booming is crazy.”  Not All Helped  Finance professor  Anthony Sanders , who spoke on a panel
today after DeMarco’s speech at the  Brookings Institution , said
reducing debt would not help many borrowers who have seen a
long-term decline in their economic circumstances.  “The only fraction of the population it might help are
households that have a temporary decline in income due to either
job loss of one of the members or they’ve had to cut back in
hours,” said Sanders, who teaches at  George Mason University  in
Fairfax, Virginia.  While FHFA tries to decide what to do, private investors
are increasingly finding that principal writedowns work, said
Andrew Jakabovics, senior director of policy development at
Enterprise Community Partners, who was also on the panel.  “If the GSEs aren’t willing to do it, there are plenty of
investors who are buying these notes,” he said.  One solution might be a  pilot program  that would reduce
principal by as little as 5 percent to 10 percent on some loans,
while giving the government-sponsored lenders a share of the
upside if the value of the home increases, said John Griffith, a
policy analyst at the Center for American Progress, a
Democratic-linked Washington organization. So-called “shared
appreciation” agreements are being used by servicers such as
 Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)   Protecting Taxpayers  The U.S. government has spent $190 billion to shore up
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac since they were taken into federal
conservatorship in 2008 after their investments in risky loans
soured.  “From the perspective of FHFA, the main goal is to protect
taxpayers,” Griffith said. “We need to make sure this
principal reduction strategy is appropriate. We believe it is,
for certain types of loans.”  A loan writedown program that would include some form of
shared appreciation “is being talked about,” DeMarco said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  