-- Dewey Loses Two More Partners to DLA Piper, Reed Smith
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-04-10T19:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/dewey-loses-two-more-partners-to-dla-piper-reed-smith-1-.html
Two more  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP (1151L) 
partners in London left the  law firm , this time for  Reed Smith
LLP (1157L)  and  DLA Piper LLP (1191L) .  Nicholas Rock, co-head of Dewey’s environmental litigation
practice group, handed in his notice last week to join  Reed
Smith , Dewey spokesman Duncan Miller said today in a phone
interview. Partner Prakash “PK” Paran left for DLA Piper,
bringing the total partner departures from the firm’s London
office to four this year, Miller said.  Since January, 49 partners have left New York-based Dewey
amid complaints about compensation and the restructuring
process. The largest contingent to leave was a group of 12
insurance and regulatory lawyers who went to  Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP (1179L)  last month.  Some partners left at the firm’s insistence while others
“didn’t feel they fit in with the new structure,” Dewey said
in a statement last week. The firm, which reorganized its
chairman’s office to include the heads of its most-profitable
practice groups, said in the statement that it expects
additional departures.  Paran’s hire continues  DLA Piper ’s expansion of its London
insurance industry practice, the firm said today in a statement.
In addition to Paran, DLA Piper hired former Dewey lawyers Roger
Loo and Melanie James, who will join the firm as counsel, DLA
said.  ‘Premier Insurance Markets’  “London is one of the world’s premier insurance markets
and the hire of PK will enable us to further our strategic goal
of establishing DLA Piper’s London corporate group as a leading
City practice,” Charles Severs, head of DLA Piper’s U.K.
corporate group, said in the statement.  Eight lawyers have left Dewey for DLA since January,
including four partners, Melissa Mandel Kvitko of Rubenstein
Associates, a spokeswoman for the firm, said in a phone
interview. The hires include Bill Marcoux, formerly the co-head
of Dewey’s insurance sector group, who now heads DLA’s insurance
sector transactions and regulation practice, and mergers-and-
acquisitions partner John Altorelli, who left Dewey last week
with three other lawyers to serve as co-chairman of DLA’s U.S.
finance practice.  The announcement of Altorelli’s departure on April 3 was
followed the next day by news that Washington-based Patton Boggs
LLP hired four of the firm’s insurance lawyers, including John Nonna, chair of Dewey’s insurance dispute resolution group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  