-- DirecTV’s Buyback Plan Pleases Investors as Growth Slows
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-04-10T20:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/directv-s-buyback-plan-pleases-investors-as-growth-slows.html
DirecTV (DTV)  Chief Executive Officer
Mike White calls himself a strategy guy, a trait earned from
years working for future Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  at Bain & Co. in the early 1980s.  “The first thing I did when I got to DirecTV was say,
‘Let’s take a fresh look at strategy,’” White said in an
interview. White is entering his third year at DirecTV, the
largest U.S. satellite provider, after a six-year stint as the
CEO of  PepsiCo International. (PEP)  “I’m constantly evaluating all of
our options,” he said. “We look at everything.”  Still, White has a dilemma. DirecTV had $27.2 billion in
sales last year, and the business has grown steadily since its
introduction almost two decades ago. Then, it was a hot new
technology marketed as an appealing alternative to monolithic
cable providers. Now, the satellite market has matured to just
another means of providing content. Finding new pockets of
growth is increasingly hard to do.  With its $5.2 billion in  annual operational cash flow ,
DirecTV has the muscle to acquire a content aggregator like
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  or Hulu LLC, two companies he says he’s considered,
or make a bid for another satellite company or wireless
provider. Yet White is reluctant to invest billions in a deal or
gamble with a  Department of Justice  that has been unfriendly to
telecom deals. That’s led him to his current strategy of choice:
buying back DirecTV shares with a vengeance.  ‘Too Cheap’  Investors aren’t complaining.  “At the rate at which DirecTV is buying back stock, even
with our relatively bearish forecasts, DirecTV simply looks too
cheap,”  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in
 New York , said in a note to clients.  The shares have gained 13 percent this year, outperforming
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which is up 8 percent. DirecTV
fell 1.5 percent to $48.41 at the close in New York.  Moffett boosted his  recommendation  on the stock from
“market perform” to “outperform” earlier this year, even
though he’s bearish on the U.S. satellite-TV industry.  Buying back stock will get DirecTV only so far, though.
White will need to come up with a new strategy to keep profits
rising. With programming costs escalating and margins shrinking,
that’s going to be tough. DirecTV’s 2012 programming costs --the
amount of money the company will pay to content providers such
as  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  -- will rise
in the high single digits, Chief Financial Officer Pat Doyle
said in the company’s fourth-quarter conference call.  Bundled Offerings  That’s about twice as fast as DirecTV can pass on those
costs to customers on an annual basis, said Doyle in a March
interview. While those rising costs are also hitting cable and
phone companies, DirecTV’s biggest content delivery competitors,
they all have one distinct advantage over El Segundo,
California-based DirecTV: They can bundle in broadband  Internet
service  with their television signal.  Cable operators,  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS services offer video and broadband
service, which can be bundled in with land-line voice for a so-
called triple-play offering. DirecTV’s inability to compete with
that has made some investors skittish about the stock.  “We’re fully aware of the bear case,” Moffett said.
“Flagging subscriber growth. Shrinking margins. Creeping
obsolescence.”  White says his “dream acquisition” would be to acquire a
large cable company that would enable DirecTV to offer both TV
and broadband service, but that such a combo “would never be
approved.” Instead, he may seek to combine with the second-
largest satellite provider,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)   Still a Possibility?  White acknowledges Dish has strategic value and says an
acquisition would make sense in a different regulatory
environment. The government’s rejection of AT&T’s deal for T-
Mobile USA Inc. has made him reluctant to pursue a deal “under
this administration,” he said.  Dish CEO Joseph Clayton said last year he wouldn’t discount
the possibility of trying a merger with DirecTV if it would
“help enhance  shareholder value .” Dish is trying to transform
itself into a wireless company and is waiting for regulators to
allow it to use satellite spectrum acquired from DBSD North
America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc. for voice and data
transmission over land-based towers.  DirecTV’s best prospect for future growth is  Latin America ,
where it has a flourishing business with 12 million customers.
But there aren’t many  acquisition options  for DirecTV in the
region because TV competition is limited there, White said.  Instead, DirecTV may look to acquire spectrum in Latin
America to improve its broadband offering, he said. White
doesn’t expect to spin off or sell the Latin American business,
which made up about 18 percent of the company’s  fourth-quarter
revenue .  “It’s a gem of a business opportunity,” White said. Latin
American revenue has more than doubled since 2008.  Shifting South  Latin America revenue grew 42 percent in 2011 from a year
earlier. U.S. revenue increased 7.9 percent in the same period.  “As cautious as we are on the U.S., we’re bullish on Latin
America,” said Moffett, the Bernstein analyst. “It’s not hard
to envision a day when Latin America is perceived to be the core
of DirecTV, and where the U.S. is an afterthought.”  For now, White’s attention is on the stock buyback
strategy. DirecTV bought back $5.5 billion in stock in 2011 and
authorized a new $6 billion repurchase program in February. The
company says it will continue to repurchase shares at a pace of
about $100 million a week.  Investors clamor for share buybacks and White won’t make
any enemies if he sticks with his plan, said Judah Rifkin, an
analyst at ISI Group in New York.  “DirecTV is a business that’s returning cash to its
rightful owners,” Rifkin said. “Management is making a
conscious decision not to buy spectrum or do something out of
their core competency in the U.S., and they’re using Latin
America to grow. That’s a story investors like.”  The ultimate service to investors may yet come in the form
of a sale of the company. White says the company isn’t on the
block. Still, he cut his teeth at Bain, where finding value and
selling at a profit was the name of the game. And White says he
wouldn’t mind hearing from, say,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  CEO  Tim Cook .  “It would be a lot easier for Tim to call me up and offer
me $80 a share to buy DirecTV,” White said with a chuckle.
“And I’ll take that phone call, you can tell him I said that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  