-- Disney Partners With Tencent, China Group for Animation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-10T12:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/disney-partners-with-tencent-china-group-for-animation.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s
largest entertainment company, formed a partnership with  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700)  and a Chinese state group to develop animation
content for the country and the international market.  Andy Bird, chairman of Walt Disney International, signed an
agreement in Beijing with Tencent,  China ’s biggest Internet
company, and the Ministry of Culture’s China Animation Group,
the Burbank, California-based company said in a statement today.
Disney will help train local talent and develop original content
for television, movies and digital platforms, it said.  In February, the U.S. and China reached an agreement that
gives U.S. filmmakers improved access to a $2.1 billion box-
office market in the world’s most populous nation. Tencent may
be able to benefit from the partnership by strengthening its
existing businesses such as online gaming, according to Bill Huang, a Shanghai-based analyst at DBS Vickers Securities.  “One of the things Tencent can do through this cooperation
is to foster animation-related intellectual property on its own
platforms,” said Huang. “But I can hardly see any meaningful
near-term earnings contribution.”  China is one of the world’s fastest growing film markets.
In 2010, the Asia Pacific box office grew by 21 percent with
China accounting for 40 percent of the growth, the  Motion
Picture Association  of America said in February 2011.  Under today’s agreement, Disney will provide its expertise
in storytelling from concept creation and story development to
market research, the company said.  China said in December it will give tax breaks to emerging
‘cultural’ industries and has provided preferential tax policies
to animation and digital television companies. Greater
development of the media and cultural industries was set as a
national target in the government’s 12th five-year plan that
covers the period from 2011 through 2015.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  