-- Don’t Tell Obama and Ryan, But Their Budgets Are Similar
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-10T23:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/don-t-tell-obama-and-ryan-but-their-budgets-are-similar.html
Here’s a surprise: The budget
proposed by President  Barack Obama  and the one by House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  aren’t as far apart as you might
think.  Let us stipulate that Ryan’s  budget  includes more deficit
reduction, larger tax cuts and higher defense spending, and is
paid for with big cuts in domestic  discretionary  programs. In
contrast, Obama  offers  somewhat less deficit reduction, less
defense spending, significantly higher taxes on the rich and
smaller cuts to programs for the poor.  But clear that away (and clear away the election-year
demagoguery while you’re at it), and the 10-year numbers tell a
more interesting story. According to the  Congressional Budget
Office , the 2022 deficit under Obama’s plan would be about 3
percent of gross domestic product, down from about 8.1 percent
this year. Ryan would bring the deficit to 1.25 percent of GDP
by 2023.  Obama would bump tax  revenue  to 19.8 percent of GDP, up
from 15.5 percent now, mostly by letting the Bush tax cuts
expire on upper-income households. Ryan would extend all the
Bush tax cuts and reduce the number of tax brackets from six to
two -- 25 percent and 10 percent. Still, revenue under his plan
would rise to 18.75 percent of the economy, more than the
historical average of 18 percent.  Rebalance Spending  Both budgets rebalance spending on health care. Obama,
through his health-care reform law, establishes state-based
exchanges for insurance plans that compete for the business of
individuals and small-business owners, some of whom get a
premium subsidy. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, would ditch the
Affordable Care Act, but establish exchanges in which health
plans compete for the business of  Medicare (USBOMDCA) -eligible seniors, who
get a premium subsidy.  It’s not hard to see the compromise: Competitive exchanges
under which health plans market themselves to one and all, with
the government setting minimum coverage standards and offering
subsidies to the poor, disabled and elderly.  Obama and Ryan would also rebalance spending away from the
rich and toward lower-income earners. Obama uses his  “Buffett
Rule,”  which would push up tax rates on households with incomes
of more than $1 million. Ryan would recover some of the $10
trillion in lost revenue over the next decade (the cost of
extending the Bush tax cuts and lowering the top tax bracket to
25 percent) by cutting tax breaks for the wealthy. He would
mostly target so-called tax expenditures, the popular deductions
taken for mortgage interest, charitable contributions, state and
local taxes, and employer-provided health benefits.  Ryan has declined to offer specifics, but in an April 10
meeting with the Bloomberg View editorial board, he said he
would “income-adjust entitlement programs” and “circumscribe”
tax expenditures for the wealthy. In plain English, that
translates to means-testing Medicare and Social Security so the
rich lose some benefits and the poor get more. It also means not
letting the wealthy take full advantage of tax breaks like the
mortgage-interest deduction.  It’s an idea he and Obama already agree on. For years,
Obama has sought to limit the benefit of tax expenditures for
the wealthy to the value that those breaks have for people in
the 28 percent tax bracket. Lawmakers in both parties have never
given the concept, modest as it is, serious consideration. They
should.  Outlier on Taxes  The blueprint by Ryan, which has the strong support of
Republican presidential frontrunner  Mitt Romney , is roughly in
line with the Simpson-Bowles plan and the one developed by  Alice Rivlin , a budget director under President  Bill Clinton . Both of
these proposed to lower the top individual income-tax rate from
today’s 35 percent. The outlier on taxes is Obama, who would
push the top federal bracket to about 40 percent.  That’s not to say Ryan’s budget is flawless. The  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities  estimates that 62 percent of his
cuts would come from programs for low-income Americans (too
much) and 37 percent of the tax benefits would go to those
earning more than $1 million (also too much). The  Tax Policy
Center  found that cutting tax expenditures (not including
investment income like  capital gains  and dividends) almost in
half would generate just $2.6 trillion over a decade, far less
than the $10 trillion Ryan needs. Moreover, the study found that
middle-income taxpayers would be hit slightly harder than those
in the top 1 percent. Clearly, Ryan has more work to do.  Obama’s budget is also flawed, for different reasons. The
president claims he would achieve $4.3 trillion in savings
through 2021, slightly more than the Simpson-Bowles commission’s
$4 trillion -- the national benchmark. But he counts $1.6
trillion of already enacted savings; $740 billion from the
drawdown of the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan ; and $830 billion
from letting the Bush tax cuts expire for upper-income
taxpayers. The Simpson-Bowles plan didn’t rely on such gimmicks
to get to $4 trillion. Clearly, Obama also has more work to do.  Recent news stories reveal that Obama and House Speaker
 John Boehner  got about 80 percent of the way toward a grand
deficit-cutting bargain in last summer’s secret debt-ceiling
negotiations. The last 20 percent shouldn’t be insurmountable.
It could be a blend of Obama’s and Ryan’s plans to limit tax
expenditures for the rich. If they taxed capital gains and
dividends as ordinary income, they could pull in trillions more
in revenue over the decade. Lowering the top  tax rate , perhaps
to 30 percent, would probably produce more revenue than it would
lose because the rich pay, on average, substantially less than
that now.  A new bargain could include means-testing entitlements. And
it should include competitive health-insurance exchanges for
seniors, much like those for uninsured individuals and small
businesses under Obama’s health-care reform law.  Compromises like these would allow Republicans to claim
they lowered tax rates and spending on entitlements. Democrats
would be able to say they preserved Medicare and social programs
for the poor. Americans would get less debt and an end to the
incessant pettifoggery over federal budgets. Who’s not for that?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on what a  nuclear deal  with
 Iran  should look like. Clive Crook on why the  Federal Reserve 
needs a new, simpler  mandate .  Margaret Carlson  on why there
always will be  waste, fraud and abuse  in government.  Peter
Orszag  on how  index funds  are boosting aluminum prices. William
Pesek on growth in the  Philippines  reducing the  appeal of
emigrating . Gary Shilling on why U.S.  employment gains  are
linked to stagnating productivity and Bernard Donefer on the
merits of  high-frequency trading .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 