-- The Fed Needs a New, Simpler Mandate
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-04-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/the-fed-needs-a-new-simpler-mandate.html
Last Friday’s disappointing U.S.
jobs numbers came as less of a surprise to  Ben Bernanke  than to
many others. The Federal Reserve chairman had warned that the
earlier pace of improvement in the labor market might tail off.
Unfortunately, being right about that won’t make his job over
the coming months any easier.  In uniquely difficult circumstances, Bernanke has tried to
make  monetary policy  more effective by using new tools and
communicating the Fed’s thinking more fully. The first has
worked well but the second hasn’t. The problem is that the Fed’s
aims are opaque. That’s why greater transparency has done
nothing to clarify its actions.  The central bank’s dual mandate asks it to strive for two
things: full employment and price stability. At the outset,
those goals are ambiguous. Is full employment a  jobless rate  of
4 percent, or 6 percent, or what? Difficult to say. Does  price
stability  mean zero inflation? Some say it should, but the Fed
takes it to mean inflation of 2 percent.  Dual-Mandate Blues  The main thing, though, is the trade-off. Any effort to
boost employment with easier monetary policy risks pushing up
inflation. Curbing inflation once it has started accelerating
risks driving the economy into a recession. Balancing the two
isn’t easy. The dual mandate is like somebody promising to work
harder for promotion and to spend more time with his family. It
leaves the question of priorities hanging. As long as that’s
unresolved, further discussion is beside the point.  Lots of information telling you nothing is about where the
Fed now stands. Even if financial markets knew where the economy
was heading, they couldn’t be sure what the Fed will do.  According to the Fed’s  forecasts , the economy will grow at
a slowish rate this year -- more slowly than you would expect
given the depth of the recession. That was why Bernanke was
gloomier than some about employment. In March, the economy
created just 120,000 new jobs, far too few to get unemployment
down. The jobless rate did fall another notch, to 8.2 percent,
but only because of people dropping out of the workforce
altogether.  What about inflation? Right now, it’s drifting lower, and
that’s expected to continue. The Cleveland Fed  estimates  10-year
expected inflation each month from the yield on the Treasury’s
inflation-protected bonds. In March, 10-year expected inflation
was less than 1.4 percent.  Slow growth, high unemployment and less-than-target
inflation: On the face of it, an open-and-shut case for another
round of quantitative easing. The trouble is, nudging up
expectations of inflation is implicitly part of what QE is
intended to do. That shouldn’t be a problem when expected
inflation is running so low, but it is -- an aspect of the
policy that dares not speak its name. The Fed is reluctant to
look as though it’s taking chances with its goal of price
stability.  On this key point, commentators have noticed the contrast
between Professor Bernanke and Fed Chairman Bernanke. Advising a
depression-struck  Japan  10 and more years ago, the professor
called for monetary easing by any means necessary. Inflation is
too low, he said, so don’t hold back. Actually, make higher
inflation rates your goal. Caution and orthodoxy are destroying
your economy. Chairman Bernanke, critics say, is failing to
follow his own advice.  Vanishing Jobs  This is unfair, but the critics have a point. They are too
harsh because the U.S. in 2012 is not Japan in 2001. The economy
is growing and prices aren’t falling. The Fed’s decision is a
closer call.  Also, don’t entirely dismiss concerns about how soon the
economy will run into supply constraints. The main body of
research suggests that unemployment can fall a lot further
before higher wages start to press on inflation. But reports of
skills shortages and a newer strand of academic work raise
doubts. A  paper  by Nir Jaimovich and Henry Siu suggests that the
recession may have accelerated “job polarization” -- meaning
permanent losses in the middle of the  labor force , among workers
doing jobs that are skilled yet susceptible to automation. If
these positions aren’t coming back, new stimulus might raise the
inflation rate sooner than we think.  This gives the Fed’s inflation hawks one more reason to
urge caution. And Bernanke has to take their views into account.
Monetary policy isn’t his alone to make. He won’t want to find
himself in the minority on his own  Federal Open Market
Committee , the Fed’s policy-making panel. An unintended
consequence of FOMC transparency is that it strengthens
dissenters. Bernanke won’t argue as strenuously as he might wish
for new QE if he thinks he can’t carry a consensus.  A simpler mandate would cut through some of these problems.
I’m keen on an old idea that has recently attracted new support.
Tell the Fed to target not inflation and full employment but
growth in the money value of gross domestic product. A target
for growth in nominal GDP is no panacea. It wouldn’t make
central banking easy, and you could implement it in different
ways -- a further source of contention. But the basic approach
has big advantages.  In effect, it merges the two halves of the existing
mandate, allowing the Fed to be agnostic, as it should be, about
the underlying components. Suppose the target was medium-term
growth in nominal GDP of 5 percent a year. That might be
inflation of 2 percent and growth in output of 3 percent, or
stable prices with 5 percent growth, or zero growth with 5
percent inflation. Obviously those outcomes aren’t equally
desirable -- but the point is that the Fed can’t steer the
components, only the aggregate.  A Nominal Solution  Monetary stimulus adds to demand. How that demand breaks
down between inflation and output is beyond the Fed’s control.
The Fed shouldn’t be held accountable for outcomes it cannot
direct. And the presentational advantage really matters. At the
moment, nominal GDP is less than 4 percent. The Fed would say:
According to the mandate, it needs to be increased; in QE, we
have the means to increase it. End of discussion.  The argument between inflation hawks and doves isn’t
settled, but it’s suspended, which is fine. If the recession has
permanently undermined the economy’s capacity to grow, a 5
percent nominal GDP target might yield over time growth of, say,
2 percent a year with inflation of 3 percent, rather than vice
versa, as we’d like. Once that becomes clear, we can talk about
reducing the nominal GDP target to 4 percent. Meanwhile the 5
percent target keeps inflation within clear bounds without
choking off the possibility of faster growth.  With a simpler goal -- one it could actually achieve -- the
Fed would have less to argue about and less to explain. It would
be more accountable. And transparency would provide clarity,
which is stabilizing, rather than the current muddle, which
isn’t.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on the similarities of the
 budget plans  of President  Barack Obama  and Representative  Paul
Ryan  and what a  nuclear deal  with  Iran  should look like.
 Margaret Carlson  on why there always will be  waste, fraud and
abuse  in government.  Peter Orszag  on how  index funds  are
boosting aluminum prices. William Pesek on growth in the
 Philippines  reducing the  appeal of emigrating . Gary Shilling on
why U.S.  employment gains  are linked to stagnating productivity
and Bernard Donefer on the merits of  high-frequency trading .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  