-- The Most Outrageous Clowns Are in Congress
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-04-10T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/the-most-outrageous-clowns-are-in-congress.html
When a scandal like the GSA’s
 $823,000 trip  to Las Vegas comes along, you see that it takes
truly risible details, like an actual clown in attendance, to
move the outrage dial in  Washington .  I mean no disrespect to anyone else’s outrage about the
sushi bar, the mind reader, the commemorative coins or the
professional photographer to document it all. Feel free to
remain outraged over those details. What’s truly outrageous,
however, or at least depressing, is that in scandals like this,
too often we get all the maddening details but none of the
satisfying consequences.  In the case of this scandal at the  General Services
Administration , heads actually rolled. Your run-of-the-mill
boondoggle, of which there are hundreds in government, doesn’t
get anyone fired. It is normally done in plain sight:
Photographs of boondoggles and junkets decorate the walls of
many a bureaucrat’s office.  It’s almost enough to make you wonder whether government
buildings have meeting rooms or coffee carts. Consider these
conferences, every bit as expensive as the GSA’s,  highlighted by
Bloomberg .  Other Boondoggles  In 2008, after there were rumblings about a crackdown on
jaunts, the Drug Enforcement Administration hauled its employees
to Istanbul -- would Sin City have sent the wrong signal? -- for
$1.18 million. For two coffee breaks, the charge was $104 per
person. That makes the now-infamous  $16 muffin  for a conference
in Washington seem like a bargain -- after all, as organizers
later  pointed out , that amount included coffee, tea, juice,
fruit and even pastries.  Back in the U.S., the  Justice Department  decided that a
single-day conference on sex offenders could only be done
justice in  Palm Springs ,  California , at a cost of $90,201 -- or
$626 per person.  A shelf in the office of Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma
groans under the  dozens of reports  he has done on ridiculous
government expenditures (he has documented more than $200
billion in overlapping and duplicative programs) and more than
$200 million in silly conferences. Titles go from “Wastebook
2011” to “Subsidies for the Rich and Famous” to “Shooting the
Messenger: Congress Targets the Taxpayers’ Watchdog” (that’s the
Government Accountability Office, which does the spadework for
Coburn’s tomes).  Little happens, Coburn explains, because Congress is “numb
to stupidity and waste,” treating everything as just one more
Bridge to Nowhere (which was never built, by the way, but
 Alaska ’s politicians made sure the state still got its money).
Congress is bored by oversight. It prefers to plant flowers in
the form of new programs, not do the hard work of pulling weeds
in the old, bloated and frivolous ones.  Still, who wouldn’t want to put an end to a Community
Oriented Policing Services (COPS) networking conference that
spent $60,000 on cotton candy, popcorn, caramel apples, ice
cream and $4 meatballs over four days in 2005? The same year
Justice Department employees spent $42,000 to attend a
conference with a group that influences congressional and
administrative actions -- which meant, Coburn says, that
employees were spending taxpayers’ money to learn how to
influence themselves.  According to Coburn, 2006 was a lucrative year for
conference planners, with 2,199 events. One of them involved 15
employees of the Bureau of Prisons flying to  Hawaii  for a
seminar on how Congress works. Apparently an 11-block field trip
for some hands-on research in the House and Senate office
buildings would have been too tedious.  A Bipartisan Problem  No party owns this problem, although Republicans
traditionally make more of a fuss about waste, fraud and abuse.
Of eight particularly wasteful Justice Department conferences
documented by Coburn, four happened under President  George W. Bush  and four under Barack Obama. It’s a wonder politicians --
particularly the Tea Party members who came in on a platform of
ending out-of-control spending -- aren’t tripping over
themselves going after this low-hanging fruit.  Such a campaign would fit in with the proven “broken
window” theory of law enforcement: Fix what you can see and
ethics change. At the same time, a campaign like this would have
to deal with the congressional aphorism “No headlines, no
hearings”: The press is inured to this kind of stuff unless it
is truly shocking, like an $823,000 trip to  Las Vegas  with a
clown.  The other excuse for not doing anything is that chasing
waste, fraud and abuse is a small-bore diversion, since it’s
such a tiny fraction of the budget. Republicans use the same
argument about raising  tax revenue  from the top 10 percent.  It is undeniable that neither combatting waste nor raising
taxes on the wealthiest 1 percent will do very much to reduce
the deficit. So nothing is done. How is nothing working for you?  Coburn, the spiritual godfather of the Tea Party movement
who is leaving the Senate at the end of his term, points out
that his amendments to limit government trips are failing by
fewer and fewer votes. He finds this heartening. Maybe so.
Myself, I prefer outrage.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on the similarities of the
 budget plans  of President  Barack Obama  and Representative  Paul
Ryan  and what a  nuclear deal  with  Iran  should look like. Clive
Crook on why the  Federal Reserve  needs a new, simpler  mandate .
 Peter Orszag  on how  index funds  are boosting aluminum prices.
William Pesek on growth in the  Philippines  reducing the  appeal
of emigrating . Gary Shilling on why U.S.  employment gains  are
linked to stagnating productivity and Bernard Donefer on the
merits of  high-frequency trading .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  