-- Health Overhaul to Add to Deficit, Medicare Trustee Says
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-04-10T21:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/health-overhaul-to-add-to-deficit-medicare-trustee-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care overhaul will add as much as $530 billion to the  U.S.
budget deficit  over the next decade, according to a report by a
member of the Medicare board of trustees.  The analysis by Charles Blahous rejected estimates by the
 Congressional Budget Office  that the 2010 law will improve the
government’s finances. He said lawmakers are unlikely to enforce
many of its cost-saving provisions such as a tax on “Cadillac”
health-care plans that will begin taking effect in 2018.  The  report  also said lawmakers are double-counting savings
used to finance expanded coverage to the uninsured that would be
needed to shore up Medicare even without the health-care law,
known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  “Despite the fondest hopes of its supporters, the passage
of the ACA unambiguously darkens a dim fiscal picture,” said
Blahous, a former Bush administration economic adviser and now a
senior research fellow at the  Mercatus Center  at  George Mason
University .  The Obama administration rejected the analysis, saying it
relies on “new math” that ignores rules used to decide how
much legislation probably will cost.  ‘Refight the Battles’  “In another attempt to refight the battles of the past,
one former Bush administration official is claiming that some of
the savings in the Affordable Care Act are ‘double counted’ and
that the law actually increases the deficit,” Jeanne Lambrew,
deputy assistant to the president for health policy, wrote on a
White House blog. “This new math fits the old pattern of
mischaracterizations.”  Blahous urged lawmakers to repeal most of the health-care
overhaul, saying, “Its cost-increasing provisions must be
scaled back considerably” to avoid “severe damage to future
federal finances.”  The law, now being challenged in the  Supreme Court , would
expand health-care coverage to almost all of the nation’s
uninsured. It would be financed through a combination of new
taxes and reduced federal payments to Medicare providers. In
addition, a special committee would be charged with finding more
savings in the program.  The nonpartisan CBO said last month it  expects  the expanded
coverage to cost about $50 billion less than anticipated in part
because health-care costs are growing more slowly than forecast.  Blahous said many more people may qualify for federal
assistance than CBO anticipates, driving up costs. At the same
time, he said Congress may decide to weaken a new 3.8 percent
surcharge on couples earning more than $250,000 and a 40 percent
tax on high-end insurance plans.  “There is comparatively little likelihood, by contrast,
that these tax provisions will ultimately produce more revenue
than now projected,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this
story:
Brian Faler in Washington at +1-  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible
for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  