-- Heart Rhythm Stands by Study Linking St. Jude’s Riata to Deaths
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-04-10T19:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/heart-rhythm-stands-by-study-linking-st-jude-s-riata-to-deaths.html
The journal  HeartRhythm  said it
stands by a study released last month showing  St. Jude (STJ)  Medical
Inc.’s recalled Riata wires, used to connect life-saving
defibrillators to the heart, may fatally short-circuit.  St. Jude asked for a retraction of the paper on April 6,
saying the report undercounted the number of deaths tied to a
rival product from  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  Today,  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based St. Jude posted on its website its review of the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration’s safety database showing 377 deaths
among patients with Medtronic’s Quattro Secure leads.  St. Jude stopped selling the Riata wires, known as leads,
in December 2010 and recalled them a year later amid reports
they could break through the insulation coating and fail to work
properly. The paper from Robert Hauser, a cardiologist at the
Minneapolis Heart Institute, was reviewed by two independent
researchers before it was accepted and the findings stand, said
Douglas Zipes, editor-in-chief of HeartRhythm and a professor of
cardiology at Indiana University School of Medicine.  “We will be as fair as possible, knowing that there are
several people with a dog in the fight,” Zipes said in a
telephone interview. “At least at the present time, the only
thing that has been peer-reviewed has been Hauser’s manuscript
and that will stay in place.”  Zipes said he spoke with Mark Carlson, St. Jude’s chief
medical officer, last night and suggested the company write a
letter to the editor presenting their data. Such a letter would
also be sent to Hauser for a response, Zipes said.  St. Jude hasn’t yet sent anything to the journal, he said.  No Data  “I have no knowledge of their data and therefore cannot
accept a statement from them to contravene the results from the
peer review process,” Zipes said.  Hauser used the FDA’s Maude safety database, which includes
information from the companies and doctors about complications
that arise in patients with medical devices, to draw his
conclusions about the St. Jude and Medtronic leads. Because the
reports are in narrative form and don’t always directly tie a
device to a death or other adverse event, the work was
laborious, Hauser said in a telephone interview before the study
was released last month.  “You have to find the reports, read them, and extract the
data,” he said.  Hauser’s analysis turned up 133 deaths -- 71 in patients
with St. Jude’s Riata and 62 with Medtronic’s Quattro Secure.
Medtronic officials followed the methods detailed in Hauser’s
study and reached a similar conclusion, said Chris Garland, a
spokesman for the Minneapolis-based company.  St. Jude’s Review  St. Jude conducted an analysis, following the same search
criteria detailed in the study, and said it found 74 deaths
among Riata patients and 377 among Quattro Secure patients.  “Since the manuscript was published, the company has spent
more than 300 hours attempting to reach the same conclusions as
Dr. Hauser, but can find no way of analyzing the Maude database
that reproduces the same numbers reported in the manuscript,”
St. Jude said in its April 6 statement. “The company has
identified duplicate reports, inconsistent categorizations and
failures to include all available reports.”  Hauser said the safety reports, and therefore his study,
aren’t comprehensive and probably don’t represent the full
number of incidents stemming from both devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  