-- EDF May Benefit From Hollande Nuclear Back-Tracking, HSBC Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-10T12:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/edf-may-benefit-from-hollande-nuclear-back-tracking-hsbc-says.html
Electricite de France SA , at the
center of a debate over the future of nuclear power in  France ,
may not fare as badly as feared if presidential hopeful  Francois Hollande  is elected because the Socialist candidate will discard
promises to scale back atomic energy, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “We expect backtracking,” HSBC analysts wrote today in a
report. Hollande’s pledge to lower France’s dependence on
nuclear power is “unworkable” and lacks union as well as
public support, they said.  The two-round presidential election in France, which gets a
bigger proportion of its power from nuclear plants than any
other country, has for the first time opened up a divide on
atomic energy between two leading candidates. President  Nicolas
Sarkozy  has vowed to maintain support for nuclear power while
Hollande wants to get more energy from alternative sources.  “We do not pretend that business would be comfortable for
EDF under any left-leaning anti-nuclear administration,” HSBC
said. Electricity tariffs for consumers would rise “only very
slowly” and new rates for low-income households would be
announced, it said.  The bank raised its recommendation on EDF shares to
overweight from underweight, in part because a Hollande victory
is “priced in by the market,” according to the report.  EDF operates 58 reactors in France, which provide more than
three-quarters of the country’s power. It’s building a 59th at
Flamanville in Normandy and Sarkozy has pledged to push ahead
with another at Penly. Hollande, who has consistently led in
polls for a second-round win in the April 22 and May 6 vote, is
seeking to cut the share of atomic power to 50 percent of supply
by 2025, a move Sarkozy says would raise prices and cost jobs.  Fessenheim Reactor  Hollande wouldn’t push ahead with closing nuclear reactors,
HSBC said. He has already watered down an earlier commitment
reached last year with the Greens to shut 24 reactors by 2025,
declining to specify which plants and how many would be closed,
other than the Fessenheim reactor, EDF’s oldest. He has pledged
to close that plant within five years if he’s elected.  The nationwide nuclear debate follows moves by countries
including Italy and  Germany  to scrap atomic power in the wake of
the 2011 Fukushima reactor disaster in  Japan . Opposition to
Sarkozy’s nuclear ambitions is rooted in safety concerns.  EDF shares reached an intraday record low of 16.525 euros
on April 2, an 81 percent decline from their 86.45-euro closing 
high in November 2007, on concern that spending commitments and
political and regulatory uncertainty may hurt earnings.  The stock move “has gone too far,” HSBC said. “The brave
should take the plunge now” in anticipation of a post-election
bounce, the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  