-- EDF Will Spend Millions on Fessenheim Reactor Measures
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-10T16:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/edf-will-spend-millions-on-fessenheim-reactor-measures.html
Electricite de  France  SA, the
biggest nuclear operator, will spend about 18 million euros
($23.5 million) before the middle of next year on safety
measures at its oldest atomic plant in eastern France.  The Paris-based utility plans to spend 15 million euros
strengthening the concrete base under Unit 1 at Fessenheim and
about 3 million euros for added pumping capacity, EDF said today
in a presentation.  French Socialist Francois Hollande, who leads in the polls
for the May 6 second-round of the presidential election, has
pledged to close Fessenheim as he seeks to lower the country’s
dependence on atomic power. Fessenheim has been criticized by
environmental groups as not strong enough to resist earthquakes
because its base is thinner than other French reactors. French
reactor safety came under scrutiny following last year’s
accident at Fukushima in  Japan .  Fessenheim has two 900-megawatt reactors that started
operating in 1977. The atomic regulator has ruled Unit 1 is safe
to run for another decade as long as EDF reinforces its concrete
base by mid-2013 and bolsters defenses against any unexpected
loss of cooling systems. The watchdog hasn’t yet ruled on Unit
2, which resumed output last month after halting for almost a
year for safety checks.  EDF has spent more than 380 million euros since 2009 on the
reactors so they can pass the once-a-decade inspections,
according to today’s presentation, which was given at a press
conference at the plant. The utility replaced three vapor
generators on Unit 2 at a cost of 150 million euros.  EDF also has to boost measures to protect a reservoir under
the plant by the end of this year. The groundwater reservoir is
a few meters (yards) under the site and extends 2,800 square
kilometers (1,080 square miles), making it the biggest in
 Europe , according to documents on the regulator’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  