-- Centola Will Head Banco Modal Investment Bank After Leaving UBS
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-04-11T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/eduardo-centola-will-head-banco-modal-s-investment-bank.html
Eduardo Centola, the former head of
investment banking in Brazil for  UBS AG (UBSN) , said he will run that
business for Banco Modal SA, effective immediately.  Centola, who left UBS in January after 15 months at the
Swiss bank, said he has joined Modal as a partner and that the
Rio de Janeiro-based firm seeks to expand.  “We are restructuring the bank, and we don’t rule out
acquisitions and an international partnership,” Centola, 44,
said yesterday in an interview in  Sao Paulo .  Modal, which has about 200 workers, will open a brokerage
and hire more people as it plans to build a full-service
investment bank, he said. The firm at year-end had total equity
of 246.7 million reais ($135 million) and assets of 1.5 billion
reais, according to data on the website of  Brazil ’s central
bank. Its asset-management business oversees more than 4 billion
reais, Centola said.  Centola joined Zurich-based UBS in October 2010 from
Standard Bank Group Ltd., where he was chief executive officer
for the Americas. At UBS, he helped with Kirin Holdings Co.’s
buyout of Brazilian brewer Schincariol Participacoes e
Representacoes for 2.35 billion reais and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s
purchase of Brazilian cookie-maker Grupo Mabel. He is a former
managing director of New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Modal was in talks last year to be acquired by Plural
Capital Ltda. for 300 million reais, a deal that ultimately
collapsed. A surge in acquisitions and growing demand for
corporate financing boosted the  investment-banking  sector in
Brazil, the second-largest developing economy after China, and
the nation’s central bank is seeking to promote consolidation in
the financial industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Fabiola Moura at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  