-- Teen Birth Rate Dropped to Lowest Ever in 2010, CDC Report Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/teen-birth-rate-dropped-to-lowest-ever-in-2010-cdc-report-finds.html
The birth rate for teenagers in the
U.S. dropped to the lowest ever, with the fewest number of
babies born to the age group since 1946, as health-awareness
efforts paid off, U.S. officials said.  The rate fell 9 percent in 2010 from a year earlier, and 44
percent since 1991, according to the report from the Atlanta-
based  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  There were
34.3 births for every 1,000 15- to 19-year-old females in 2010.  Even with the decline, the U.S. has  one of the highest
birth rates  for teenagers in industrialized countries, the CDC
said. Teen childbearing is estimated to cost the public $11
billion a year, the agency said. Reducing the rate of growth in
costs was a central goal of President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul championed by the administration and congressional
Democrats.  “Most researchers would say it’s due to this magic
combination of less sex and more contraception,” said Bill
Albert, the chief program officer of the  National Campaign to
Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy . “It’s a combination of
both.”  Birth rates fell among all age groups, and racial and
ethnic groups. The CDC credited “strong pregnancy prevention
messages” with the declines, as well as an increase in
contraception. It’s also more common for teenagers to use two
kinds of prevention -- a condom in addition to birth control
pills, for example -- when they have sex, the report said.  ‘Public Concern’  “Childbearing by teenagers continues to be a matter of
public concern,” the CDC said in its report. There are
“elevated health risks for teen mothers and their infants.”  The rates dropped by at least 8 percent in 47 states and
the  District of Columbia , while not changing significantly in
 Montana ,  North Dakota  and  West Virginia , the CDC said. Teen
childbearing was least common in the Northeast and upper
Midwest, and more common in the South and Southwest.  If the decline from 1991 hadn’t occurred there would have
been an additional 3.4 million children born to teenagers over
the time period, the CDC said.  “Teen pregnancy is not in the interests of the mother, the
child, or society at large,” Albert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  