-- Egypt Court Rules Against Constitution Panel Composition
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-04-10T15:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/egypt-court-rules-against-composition-of-constitution-panel-1-.html
An Egyptian court ordered a
suspension in the work of the panel charged with drafting the
country’s new constitution, in a setback to the Islamists who
critics say dominate the body.  The court in Cairo decided “to halt the parliament
speaker’s decision to form the constituent assembly,” Judge Ali
Fikri said. The court referred the case to a panel of judges to
issue recommendations about the 100-member body’s fate.  The move today calls into question the operation of the
panel that was chosen by parliament to write the constitution
after the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  last year. At least 20 percent
of the committee’s members have said they are withdrawing from
it, with many saying it is dominated by Islamists, while
secularists and others are under-represented.  The ruling “will completely confuse matters,” Mahmud Ghozlan, a Muslim Brotherhood spokesman, said by phone. “Work
on the constitution was supposed to start, and now this puts
things on hold.”  The group’s political arm, the Freedom and Justice Party,
controls nearly half of the seats in parliament’s lower house
and is among those criticized for its strong presence on the
panel.  Another panel of judges within the administrative court
said it would rule tomorrow on two cases relating to the
nominations of Salafi cleric Hazem Abu Ismail and the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Khairat el-Shater for the presidency.  ‘Fuel Tensions’  The ruling concerning the constitutional panel appeared to
address complaints about the decision to evenly split the
committee between lawmakers and non-lawmakers. Critics argued
that with that division, the Freedom and Justice Party, the
Salafi al-Nour Party and Islamist sympathizers held about 60
percent of the seats.  The court’s decision may “fuel tensions and
polarization,” Ghozlan said.  What is needed now is for a national dialogue to end the
deadlock surrounding the panel, el-Shater said in a statement
posted on the Brotherhood’s website.  Egypt  “needs to write
constitution that will help establish a modern democracy and
pave the way for the desired renaissance,” he said.  Lack of Consensus  The ruling represents a win for “civic forces in the
country,” said Hafez Abuseada, president of the Egyptian
Organization for Human Rights, and one of those who filed a
lawsuit against the constituent assembly. “The Muslim
Brotherhood has been dealing in an arrogant way, reminiscent of
the former ruling party,” he said by phone.  The Islamists “must realize that the people revolted
against the former ruling party because it monopolized power,
and excluded the opposition,” he said.  Emad Gad, a political analyst and lawmaker, said “the
ruling proves that the criteria for the panel’s selection lack
consensus. Now the panel can be formed again based on objective
and agreed-upon criteria.”  Egypt has been struggling with an economy whose growth rate
dropped to 0.4 percent in the last quarter of 2011, while net
international reserves are down more than 50 percent in the span
of 15 months. In addition, a request for a $3.2 billion
International Monetary Fund loan in January has yet to be
completed.  Showdown  Such challenges and the ensuing unrest have only heightened
worries that have been amplified by the showdown between the
Islamists and Egypt’s military rulers -- a fight evidenced in
the entry of former intelligence chief  Omar Suleiman , who was
named vice president in the regime’s final days, into the race
for the presidency.  Islamists, who have entered several candidates in the race,
including el-Shater and Abu Ismail, saw Suleiman’s candidacy as
one backed by the military, a claim both he and the ruling
council have denied.  Abu Ismail has been under pressure after reports first
surfaced, and were later confirmed by the country’s election
commission, that his mother held U.S. citizenship, which could
render him ineligible to run for office. He has repeatedly
denied it and filed suit to compel the interior and foreign
ministries to provide evidence to back the claim about his
mother’s citizenship.  A lawyer representing the Egyptian government said the
 Interior Ministry  hadn’t submitted evidence that Abu Ismail’s
mother traveled on a U.S. passport, but that she had traveled on
an American travel document. The government representative, who
wasn’t identified in court, said Abu Ismail’s “dispute was with
the American government, and the Egyptian government was not
part of it.”  Missing Name  El-Shater also faced a legal challenge stemming from the
reported absence of his name from voter registration lists
because of earlier convictions during Mubarak’s regime. He
recently had the convictions dropped, according to the
Brotherhood’s lawyer, Abdel Monem Abdel Maqsoud.  Suleiman, who denied in an interview published yesterday
that he was seeking to recreate the ousted regime, could also
see his candidacy threatened by motions both in the court and in
a draft law that would either bar or restrict those linked to
the former government from holding office.  The hearing on his case was adjourned until April 24, Saber
Shalaby, the lawyer who filed the case against Suleiman, said in
a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  