-- Emerging Stocks Slide for Fifth Day on China Concerns
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-04-10T21:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/emerging-stocks-fall-to-2-month-low-on-chinese-economy-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fifth day, dragging the benchmark index to its lowest level in
more than two months, after less-than-forecast Chinese import
growth boosted concern the world’s second-largest economy is
slowing.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 1 percent to
1,016.17 at the close in  New York , the weakest since Jan. 30,
led by energy and consumer discretionary companies. Kiler
Alisveris Hizmetleri Gida Sanayi & Ticaret AS, a Turkish chain
of discount food stores, plunged the most in eight months after
its parent denied a report it may offer a stake in the unit.
Brazilian apparel retailer  Cia. Hering (HGTX3)  lost the most since Sept.
22 as the Bovespa touched a 12-week low.  China  reported an unexpected  trade surplus  last month as
import growth trailed forecasts. March exports rose 8.9 percent
from a year earlier, after an 18.4 percent increase in February,
the customs bureau said in a statement on its website today.
U.S. employers added 85,000 fewer jobs in March than economists
projected, the Labor Department said April 6, when most European
markets were closed.  “The Chinese economy is weakening, since domestic demand
is heading to the downside,” Daniel Lenz, chief emerging-market
strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said by phone. “It’s the
combination of a lot of negative things, first there is China,
secondly there is the U.S. after last week’s worse-than-expected
job data. Since markets were closed for a couple of days they
are now pricing this negative news in.”  Emerging-market stocks have advanced 11 percent this year,
 outperforming  developed-country shares on the MSCI World Index,
which has gained 6.5 percent. Developing-nation equities trade
for 10.4 times estimated earnings, compared with a 12.3 times
ratio for developed-market stocks.  Brazil, Turkey  The  IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
fell 1.9 percent to $41.30 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 8.4 percent to 30.31.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa stock index  fell 1.9 percent to the lowest
since Jan. 18. Hering retreated 5.6 percent, the biggest one-day
drop since Sept. 22.  BR Malls Participacoes SA (BRML3) , Brazil’s biggest owner of
shopping malls, gained 1.2 percent, after signing an agreement
with Indianapolis-based Simon Property Group Inc. to develop
shopping outlets in Brazil.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  declined 1.4 percent in
Istanbul. Kiler Alisveris fell 7 percent after parent Kiler
Holding AS denied a report it may offer a stake in the unit.  Mexico ’s  IPC (MEXBOL)  index slid 1 percent. The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  tumbled
1.6 percent in Warsaw and Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  retreated 0.9
percent.  Policy Speculation  Speculation the government will take measures to boost the
Chinese economy helped the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  reverse
early losses of as much as 1.2 percent to gain 0.9 percent.  Poly
Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  climbed 3.3 percent, leading gains for
property developers. The Hang  Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies traded in  Hong Kong  slid 1.4 percent in its
first day of trading since April 5.  “There’s speculation that the central government will have
a meeting to review the economy in the first quarter and may
fine-tune policies to spur growth,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-
based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management
Co., which manages about $120 million.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  increased 0.5 percent, cutting a 1.4
percent slump yesterday, after a government panel outlined two
options for investors to assess their taxable income under a
possible capital gains tax on stock trades, easing concerns over
how the levy would be calculated.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose five basis points to 366 basis
points, or 3.66 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 