-- Tencent-Backed U.S. Social Network Everyme Opens Doors
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-04-10T23:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/tencent-backed-u-s-social-network-everyme-opens-doors-correct-.html
(Corrects city where Riot Games is based in second-to-last
paragraph.)  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , already
 China ’s largest Internet company, is investing in Silicon Valley
startups with an aim of widening its reach in the U.S.  Everyme Inc., a social-networking service that received
some of Tencent’s earliest U.S. seed investing, is opening its
doors today, Bloomberg.com’s Tech Deals blog reported. Tencent
was the lead investor in the startup’s $1.5 million seed round,
which closed in October, Everyme Chief Executive Officer Oliver
Cameron said.  Tencent has funded about a half dozen startups, many from
business incubator Y Combinator, reflecting the company’s
ambition to establish beachheads outside China. Everyme, based
in  Menlo Park , California, lets people share messages and photos
with groups that are arranged automatically, based on a user’s
address book and activity on  Facebook Inc. (FB)   “We kind of agreed with their thesis that there’s a lot of
value in the address book,” David Wallerstein, a Palo Alto,
California-based senior executive vice president for Tencent,
said of his company’s interest in Everyme.  Other Everyme investors include Andreessen Horowitz,
 Greylock Partners , Ron Conway’s SV Angel and Michael Arrington’s
CrunchFund.  Wallerstein and Cameron, Everyme’s CEO, were introduced by
Paul Graham, the co-founder of Mountain View, California-based Y
Combinator.  Though it’s widely recognized in China, Tencent is still
unfamiliar to many in the U.S. Cameron said he had to do some
online research to brush up on Tencent after the meeting.  Possible China Partnership  Tencent’s influence in China can be attractive to
entrepreneurs aspiring to be the next Facebook or  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
companies that have struggled to break into the Chinese market.  In the future, Tencent could “publish our app in China as
a partnership,” said Cameron.  Everyme boasts five employees, who during a recent visit by
a reporter could be seen sporting hoodies and T-shirts bearing
the company’s logo as they typed away at big-screen Apple Inc.
iMac computers with a ping-pong table behind them.  Tencent began investing in U.S. companies’ initial rounds
last year, starting with Everyme in October and a photo-sharing
app called Waddle the following month.  The company had invested large amounts in later stages of
game developers. A year ago, Tencent purchased a majority stake
in Riot Games, based in Santa Monica,  California .  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  