-- Merkel Ally Fuchs Says Spain, Italy Are Doing What’s Needed
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-04-10T15:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/merkel-ally-fuchs-says-spain-italy-are-doing-what-s-needed-1-.html
Spain (GSPG10YR)  and  Italy  are doing enough to
curb deficits and investors are unreasonable if they expect
European governments to put up yet more money to combat the debt
crisis, according to a senior lawmaker from Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party.  The strengthened financial backstop agreed by euro-area
finance ministers in March is “big enough by far for the time
being,”  Michael Fuchs , an economic-affairs spokesman for
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said by phone today.  “I’m quite sure that both Italy and  Spain  are doing their
homework,” he said. “Why should we worry about Spain now? I
don’t think there’s anything that’s going to be a difficulty at
the moment.”  The comments by Fuchs, a member of the CDU executive board,
reflect German reluctance to consider further rescue commitments
by the biggest single country contributor to bailouts for
Greece, Ireland and Portugal. Germany’s parliament wouldn’t back
raising the firewall beyond what was agreed in March, he said.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond surged more
than 23 basis points to 5.99 percent today as the government
declined to rule out a rescue for  Europe ’s fourth-largest
economy. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  announced an extra 10
billion euros ($13 billion) of budget cuts in education and
health yesterday as he seeks to persuade financial markets he
can control Spain’s debt.  ‘Bit Ridiculous’  Spain and Italy “still need an instrument in place to help
them anytime,” Fuchs said. “But this instrument is now really
big enough. It’s a little bit ridiculous that whenever we have a
new instrument, somebody comes and says we have to raise the
amount of money. I don’t think it’s really reasonable.”  Finance ministers from the 17-member monetary union decided
on March 30 to place 500 billion euros in fresh money alongside
300 billion euros already committed, creating an 800-billion
euro defense against the debt crisis now in its third year.  European policy makers are counting on the strengthened
backstop to help sway the Group of 20 economies to increase the
International Monetary Fund’s anti-crisis funding at an April
19-20 meeting.  “They need to come up with something,” Fuchs said. “We
have done our homework in  Germany , so now it’s up to them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  