-- Messi’s Soccer League Fights TV Rules to Keep Superstars
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-04-11T16:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/messi-s-soccer-league-fights-tv-rules-to-keep-superstars.html
Spaniards hit by the debt crisis
can sideline their sorrows and watch the likes of  Lionel Messi 
and  Xavi Hernandez  in their local soccer league. Broadcasters
say they can’t finance that sort of therapy anymore.  Antena 3 de Television SA  and  Mediaset Espana Comunicacion
SA (TL5) , Spain’s biggest commercial TV stations, say when the rights
to broadcast next season’s top weekly games come up for sale in
June, they plan to bid only if prices fall by half. Rival La
Sexta, which is merging with Antena 3, paid about 60 million
euros ($79 million) for the last season, or 1.6 million euros
for each of the 38 matches, according to Antena 3.  Even as Spain dominates in the world’s favorite sport after
winning the European Championship in 2008 and the World Cup in
2010, its broadcasters are struggling to turn that success into
a profitable business. A 15-year Spanish law requiring one game
a week to be shown on free-to-air TV not only pushes the prices
for those matches to unacceptable levels, but also dilutes the
value of pay-TV offerings, the Spanish Soccer League said.  “The problem with sports events is that it’s good for
ratings but it’s a financial disaster,” said Antena 3 Chief
Executive Officer Silvio Gonzalez.  The standoff threatens the finances of clubs, potentially
triggering the departure of more players, especially to the
English Premier League, where clubs are bankrolled by Russian oligarchs, Middle East oil sheiks and Indian food companies.
Players are concerned whether Spanish teams can honor contracts,
said  Rodrigo Garcia , a lawyer at  Laffer Abogados  in  Madrid , who
handles negotiations for several players in La Liga.  Honoring Contracts  “You aren’t 100 percent certain of getting paid,” he
said. A collapse in the value of television rights would make
the situation “very worrying.”  Mediaset Espana rose 0.7 percent to 4.08 euros in Madrid
trading today while Antena 3 gained 1.7 percent to 4.11 euros.  As the Spanish league reaches this season’s climax with
Real Madrid one point ahead of Barcelona, the last winner of the
pan-European Champions League competition, and the final
matchday set on May 13, newspapers are carrying reports about
potential player transfers.  England Lure  Manchester City , owned by  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , may make a 42 million-pound ($67 million) offer
for Colombian striker  Radamel Falcao , who scored more than 25
goals for  Spain ’s  Atletico Madrid  this season, The Sun reported
March 29. Chelsea, controlled by billionaire  Roman Abramovich ,
may pay 80 million pounds to get Portugal’s Cristiano Ronaldo
and Argentina’s  Gonzalo Higuain , two key players of Real
Madrid’s squad, the  Daily Telegraph   said  on March 26.
Representatives for the clubs declined to comment.  Players who have left the country in past two years include
Spanish national-team players  David Silva  and  Juan Mata , who
left Valencia for Manchester City and Chelsea, respectively.  Spain’s clubs are suffering as revenue of TV stations and
newspapers decline. The number of people registering for jobless
benefits rose for an eighth month in March as the economy tipped
into its second recession since 2009. At 23.6 percent, Spain’s
jobless rate is the highest in the European Union.  Antena 3’s net income fell 14 percent last year to 93.4
million euros.  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the parent company of Mediaset
Espana, cut its dividend in March after profit dropped more than
estimated on lower ad sales.  BSkyB’s Success  In the English Premier League, La Liga’s biggest rival, no
games are shown live on free TV.  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY) , the pay-TV company which has held exclusive rights to
England’s top soccer games since 1992, has more than 10 million
subscribers and is one the most profitable businesses of Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)   In Spain, while most soccer games are offered through pay-
TV broadcasters such as Prisa TV, a unit of  Promotora de
Informaciones SA , the free-to-air rule means commercial
broadcasters including La Sexta and regional stations such as
 Catalunya TV3  and Telemadrid are also showing these matches.  “It’s not compulsory to put movies or theater on free
television in Spain,” said La Liga spokesman Juan Carlos
Santamaria. “So why should it be for soccer?”  Societal Importance  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest television market, local law
states that events of “significant societal importance” such
as the Olympics and the Soccer  World Cup  can’t be broadcast on
pay-TV channels alone and need to be shown on a free-TV station
as well. That rule doesn’t apply to live broadcasts of the
country’s Bundesliga top soccer league.  Garcia, the lawyer at Laffer Abogados, said there are also
concerns about whether Spanish pay-TV revenues are sustainable
and secure. Mediaproduccion SL, a unit of rights owner Mediapro,
sought protection from creditors in 2010. The company, which
says it met all commitments to Real Madrid and Barcelona among
other teams, agreed last year to pay back creditors through
2014.  While the Spanish League, which generates about 600 million
euros in annual TV revenue, trails the English league in overall
income, its superstars are the world’s best paid players.  France 
Football magazine this year estimated that Messi is soccer’s No.
1 earner with an annual income of 33 million euros, including
base salary, bonuses and endorsement deals. Ronaldo is No. 3
with 29 million euros, the publication said. Representatives for
the players declined to comment.  Superstar Salaries  The departure of more La Liga superstars would also make it
more difficult to increase revenue from selling the rights
abroad. Joan Bonareu, head of international TV rights at
Mediapro, which also sells the broadcasting rights to foreign
stations, says the league needs these superstars to close the
gap to the Premier League.  “The value for international TV rights to the Spanish
league has grown significantly,” he said in an interview. “For
example, France now prefers to pay more for the Spanish league
than for the Italian league.”  The price for free-TV matches is “unsustainable” as only
games involving either Real Madrid and  Barcelona , which have won
the last seven league titles between them, draw enough viewers
to make the broadcasts profitable, said Mediaset Espana Chief
Financial Officer Javier Uria. Whether Mediaset will bid will be
a “matter of price,” he said.  Sandalio Gomez , the chairman of the Center for Sport
Business Management at  IESE business school  in Madrid, said
moving all games to pay-TV will be difficult as debt-stricken
Spaniards will resist paying more for their national pastime.
Still, it’s the only solution, he says.  “The current model poses a risk for media companies and
the league itself,” Gomez said. “If media companies stop
paying for the rights, the league will collapse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  