-- EU Carbon May Rise to 7.42 Euros on Hammer: Technical Analysis
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-10T15:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/eu-carbon-may-rise-to-7-42-euros-on-hammer-technical-analysis.html
European Union carbon permits may
rise to test 7.42 euros ($9.72) a metric ton after last week’s
trading created a bullish hammer pattern on the weekly chart,
said OTC Europe LLP.  Allowances for December, the industry benchmark, may reach
that level after sustained trading above 6.86 euros, Brett Genus, a technical analyst and broker at OTC in  London , said
today by phone.  “Overall, the week gave strong bullish signals,” he said.
The hammer shape on a candlestick chart, formed by a short body
at the top of a lower wick, suggests the market was probably in
the process of forming a bottom and may reverse, he said.  Permits fell 1.5 percent today to 6.71 euros on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London as of 3:19 p.m. local time,
taking their loss in the past year to 62 percent. They were down
as much as 4 percent earlier today. Fundamentals are also
influencing the carbon market as EU lawmakers consider
responding to record-low prices reached Jan. 4, Genus said.  Daily candlestick charts showed a bullish-engulfing
formation on April 4 and April 5, he said. Carbon didn’t trade
on April 6 or April 9 because of the Easter holidays. The
engulfing candle also highlights the potential for a change in
investor sentiment, he said.  In an engulfing pattern, the high price and the low price
of a security on a given day are both higher and lower than the
top and bottom of the intraday range on the preceding trading
day, with the closing price rising or falling in the opposite
direction of the previous day’s move.  In addition, there was a bullish-harami-reversal pattern on
April 2 and April 3, he said. A harami pattern is formed if the
range between a security’s opening and closing prices falls
within the equivalent range from the preceding day. The name,
which is derived from the Japanese word for pregnancy, comes
about because the body of the second day’s candle would fit
within that created the day before.  “The picture looks rosy,” Genus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  