-- European Stocks Retreat After U.S. Jobs Trail Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-10T16:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/european-stock-futures-drop-as-u-s-jobs-trail-estimates.html
European stocks tumbled to a two-
month low amid mounting concern about the region’s debt crisis
and as a U.S. report showed employers in the world’s largest
economy added fewer jobs in March than forecast.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and  Banca Popolare Di
Milano Scarl (PMI)  dropped more than 6.5 percent.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
declined as Spanish bond yields rose and the country’s
government increased its efforts to bring the country’s deficit
under control.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  led a retreat in mining
companies as copper fell in London and the metal producer
reported lower iron-ore sales.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 2.5 percent to 252.57 at
the close in London, its lowest since Jan. 30. European markets
were closed yesterday for the Easter Monday holiday. The volume
of shares changing hands in the gauge’s companies was 7.6
percent higher today than the average of the last 30 days.  “Last week’s poor jobs report raises doubts about the
strength of the U.S. expansion,” Dan Morris, a global
strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in London, wrote in a
report to clients. “There are some uncomfortable parallels
between the current macroeconomic environment and that of July
last year when equity markets began their precipitous fall.
Investors are worried again about the euro-zone crisis.”  U.S. Jobs Report  Stocks dropped around the world after a report showed that
American employers added 120,000 jobs in March, the fewest in
five months and less than the median economist forecast of
205,000 in a Bloomberg survey. The amount had exceeded 200,000
for three straight months.  U.S. and  European (SXXP)  equity markets were shut for the Good
Friday holiday on April 6, when the Labor Department released
its employment report.  National benchmark indexes fell in every western-European
market except Greece, where the ASE Index jumped 3.2 percent,
and Iceland. France’s CAC 40 slid 3.1 percent, while the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 decreased 2.2 percent and Germany’s DAX slipped 2.5
percent. Spain’s  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  plunged 3 percent to its lowest level
since March 2009, while Italy’s FTSE MIB sank 5 percent.  The Stoxx 600 dropped 1.6 percent last week after minutes
from the  Federal Reserve  damped expectations for further
monetary stimulus and Spain sold fewer bonds at an auction than
it had targeted. The gauge  jumped 7.7 percent in the first
quarter  after the  European Central Bank  lent 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) to the region’s financial firms.  Italian Banks Tumble  Italian banks led a gauge of European lenders lower, with
UniCredit, the country’s biggest bank, dropping 8.1 percent to
3.04 euros and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  falling 7.9 percent to 1.14
euros. Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl slumped 6.8 percent to
32.82 euro cents.  A2A SpA declined 8.2 percent to 51.15 euro cents, its
lowest price since at least 1998, as it traded for the first day
after Standard & Poor’s cut the company’s long-term corporate,
senior unsecured ratings to BBB from BBB+ and kept its outlook
negative. Equita called it “bad news” as the company has to
refinance at the end of 2013 and in early 2014.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  dropped 8.2 percent to 5.33 euros
after the chipmaker cut its first-quarter gross-margin forecast.
The company said that an arbitration panel ordered it to pay $59
million to NXP Semiconductors Netherlands NV, a supplier.  Elsewhere, Santander lost 3.9 percent to 5.20 euros,  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  slid 3.6 percent to 5.40 euros and
Banco Popular Espanol SA retreated 3.5 percent to 2.50 euros.  Spain’s bond yields rose today, after surging the most
since January last week, amid concern that the country may join
Greece, Ireland and Portugal in requesting a bailout.  Rajoy Meets Ministers  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  met with his health and
education ministers yesterday to discuss cuts of more than 10
billion euros, according to an e-mailed statement. The
government reiterated its pledge to reduce the deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product next year and said it will
accelerate its sale of stakes in lenders under government
administration.  El Confidencial reported Spain’s government has proposed
that banks advance eight years of funds to the country’s
deposit-guarantee fund to pay for the sale of seized lenders.  Vedanta fell 6.5 percent to 1,155 pence as base metals
declined in London and the company said fourth-quarter iron-ore
sales fell to 5.2 million tonnes from 6.4 million tones a year
earlier because of a continued mining ban in Karnataka, India.  Copper retreated after a report showed that China imported
less metal in March than a month earlier, stoking concern that
demand may be weakening in the world’s largest user.  Xstrata, Rio Tinto  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  declined 4.1 percent to 1,066.5 pence and
Antofagasta Plc decreased 5.1 percent to 1,072 pence. Rio Tinto
Group, the  world’s third-biggest mining company , lost 4.5
percent to 3,306 pence.  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO)  tumbled 12 percent to 13.68 euros, for the
largest decline on the Stoxx 600, after the world’s biggest
supplier of floating oil and gas platforms said it has hired
forensic accountants to investigate sales practices that may
have been improper.  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s largest salmon farmer,
declined 7.5 percent to 2.77 kroner amid concern that salmon
supply is outstripping demand.  Henning Lund, an equity analyst at RS Platou Markets in
Oslo said that salmon supply may rise 25 percent year-on-year in
the second quarter as output in Chile rebounds and Norway
produces more of the fish than estimated.  Randgold, Eurobank Rally  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  jumped 5.2 percent to 5,425 pence,
its biggest rally since November, after the leader of Mali’s
military junta, Amadou Sanogo, said that he will honor an
agreement to hand over power to a temporary government. Randgold
welcomed the political settlement in a statement today and said
its production guidance for 2012 remained unchanged.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  led a rally in Greek banks,
surging 29 percent to 66.9 euro cents.  Greece’s second-biggest
lender  yesterday agreed to sell its Turkish unit for $357
million to increase its capital in the wake of losses on Greek
government debt.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the  Mediterranean
nation’s largest lender , climbed 24 percent to 2.05 euros, while
Piraeus Bank SA, Greece’s fourth-biggest lender, jumped 27
percent to 33.1 cents.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said on April 6 that
the lenders will announce their plans to recapitalize on April
20. The banks lost money when the country held a debt swap.  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  gained 4.2 percent to 219 pence, its
highest price in more than a month, after Mozambique set the
level of capital-gains tax on sales of natural-gas assets in the
country at 12.8 percent.  “The rate is very good and a lot less than the market was
expecting,” said Gerry Donnelly, an analyst at FirstEnergy
Capital in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  