-- Hewlett-Packard Takes On Amazon to Tap Demand for Cloud Services
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/hewlett-packard-takes-on-amazon-to-tap-demand-for-cloud-services.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is unveiling a
tool that will give companies access to computing power over the
Internet as an alternative to buying expensive servers, taking
on  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in the market for cloud services.  A test version of the so-called public cloud offering will
be available on May 10, the  Palo Alto , California-based company
said in a statement. Hewlett-Packard, the world’s biggest
personal-computer maker, didn’t disclose prices, though it said
small computing jobs may start at a few pennies an hour.  Hewlett-Packard is seeking to compete with Amazon and other
companies that have used data centers to make headway in cloud
computing, including  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,
 Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s Terremark
unit and  AT&T Inc. (T) , said Frank Gens, chief analyst at market-
research firm IDC. Cloud computing has become popular because of
its convenience and low cost, and Amazon is a leader, Gens said.  “Amazon’s now setting the benchmarks” in terms of pricing
and simplicity, Gens said. For established technology vendors
such as IBM and Hewlett-Packard, “if they can’t compete with
that toe-to-toe, they’re really boxing themselves out of a large
part of the market.”  Forrester Research Inc. has estimated that the market for
cloud-computing services will reach $61 billion by the end of
this year.  Public Versus Private  The difference between a public cloud and a private one is
that companies can buy chunks of time on a public cloud, sharing
computing resources. It’s similar to the way companies rented
time on mainframes decades ago, before computing power became
cheap and widespread.  “The market for public cloud is large and will continue to
grow,” Hewlett-Packard Chief Strategy Officer Bill Veghte said
in a telephone interview.  Hewlett-Packard’s “converged cloud” is a package of
software and other products that will let companies choose from
public, private and “managed” cloud services, Veghte said.  Seattle-based Amazon started its  Amazon Web Services 
business in 2006, and it has been a “blockbuster success,”
according to IDC’s Gens.  Cloud computing is used by application and website
developers to test their products, for example. It can also be
used by corporations and the U.S. government to crunch large
data sets, or by medical providers and other organizations that
have big data-storage needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  