-- Express Scripts Judge Weighs Bid to Block Medco Purchase
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-11T04:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/express-scripts-judge-withholds-ruling-on-medco-deal-lawsuit-1-.html
A federal judge is considering a
bid by pharmacy trade groups to halt  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s
$29.1 billion acquisition of  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)   U.S. District Judge Cathy Bissoon yesterday heard three
hours of arguments in a lawsuit filed by the National
Association of Chain Drug Stores, the National Community
Pharmacists Association and independent pharmacies that claim
the transaction approved by U.S. regulators violates antitrust
laws because it will reduce competition and lead to less
services available to retail pharmacy customers. The judge said
she will rule on the case later.  Bissoon is considering an emergency request by the trade
groups seeking an order to “hold separate Medco’s assets and
operations” while the lawsuit is pending. Bissoon, who asked
questions of both parties, ended the hearing without giving any
indication of how or when she may rule.  Express Scripts , which completed its purchase of Medco on
April 2 after receiving approval from the Federal Trade
Commission, asked that the lawsuit be dismissed because the
trade groups waited too long to file the challenge. The
companies agreed to the deal in July.  Information Shared  Clifford Aronson, a lawyer for Express Scripts, said more
than $230 million has already been spent on integration and
competitive information has already been shared. Halting the
acquisition now would lead to a loss of employees and customers
as health plan managers wouldn’t want to sign up companies with
such uncertainty, he said yesterday.  “The injury to Express Scripts would be huge,” Aronson
told Bissoon.  The groups, representing retail pharmacies, sued St. Louis-
based Express Scripts and Medco on March 29 and requested an
injunction to stop the companies’ integration the next day.  The case is National Association of Chain Drug Stores v.
Express Scripts, 2:12-cv-00395, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  