-- Express Scripts Hearing Begins in Medco Merger Challenge
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-10T18:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/express-scripts-hearing-begins-in-medco-merger-challenge-1-.html
A hearing on a bid by pharmacy
trade groups to halt  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s $29.1 billion
acquisition of Medco Health Solutions Inc. began in federal
court in Pittsburgh.  U.S. District Judge Cathy Bissoon today is hearing
arguments in a lawsuit filed by the National Association of
Chain Drug Stores, the National Community Pharmacists
Association and independent pharmacies that claim the
transaction approved by U.S. regulators violates antitrust laws
because it will reduce competition and raise consumer prices.  Express Scripts, which completed its purchase of Medco on
April 2 after receiving approval from the Federal Trade
Commission, have asked that the lawsuit be dismissed because the
trade groups waited too long to file the challenge. The
companies agreed to the deal in July.  The groups, representing retail pharmacies, sued St. Louis-
based  Express Scripts  and Medco on March 29 and requested an
injunction to stop the companies’ integration the next day.  The merging companies called their opponents’ delay
“inexcusable,” and said the trade groups had failed to support
their claim of irreparable harm.  Middlemen Among Drugmakers  The deal creates the largest pharmacy benefits manager in
the U.S. Express Scripts and  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based
Medco act as middlemen among drugmakers, pharmacies and health-
plan sponsors to manage patients’ benefits.  The FTC approved the purchase by a 3-1 vote on April 2.
Clearance was unconditional, with the majority of the
commissioners saying their eight-month review of the deal found
“a competitive market for pharmacy benefit management
services.”  The trade groups filed their emergency request to “hold
separate Medco’s assets and operations,” hours after the
acquisition closed.  The groups claim the Medco acquisition will force pharmacy
customers into filling prescriptions by mail and result in the
loss of “face-to-face pharmacy services that patients prefer,”
Steven C. Anderson, president of the National Association of
Chain Drug Stores, said in the conference call with reporters
the day the lawsuit was filed.  Market Power  Once the merger is complete, Express Scripts will use its
increased market power to shift business from retail pharmacies
to the company’s mail order and specialty pharmacies, the groups
argue in court filings.  The groups said the lawsuit was filed the day after Express
Scripts stated in public filings when it had planned to close
the deal. Bringing a challenge any earlier would have “run
afoul” of the so-called ripeness doctrine because the deal was
still being scrutinized by regulators, they said in an April 9
court filing.  They said Express Scripts moved to close the deal within an
hour after receiving FTC approval while aware of the pending
lawsuit should be viewed with skepticism by the court.  The case is National Association of Chain Drug Stores v.
Express Scripts, 2:12-cv-00395, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  