-- MF Global Can Use Insurance for Defense Costs, Judge Rules
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-10T21:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/mf-global-can-use-insurance-for-defense-costs-judge-rules-1-.html
Jon Corzine  and other former
executives of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , facing lawsuits over the
company’s collapse, can use insurance funds to cover their
defense costs.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn ruled in court papers
filed in  Manhattan  bankruptcy court today that the so-called
automatic stay that protects assets in a bankruptcy could be
lifted to let insurers advance as much as $30 million.  “The automatic stay should be lifted so that directors,
officers and employees may receive advancement or reimbursement
of reasonable defense costs,” Glenn said.  The judge said his ruling was made without determining
whether the proceeds of the insurance policies might belong to
customers of the failed MF Global brokerage or creditors of its
bankrupt holding company.  He also said MF Global customers are
qualified to object to the payment of defense costs.  The brokerage’s commodity customers objected to the
proposal at a hearing this month, saying money that could cover
funds missing from their accounts shouldn’t be used “to finance
the defense of the culprits of the MF Global disaster.”  ‘One Dollar Less’  “Every dollar that’s paid out of the policy is one dollar
less to satisfy clams against each of the debtors if the
commodity customers have tort claims against the parent
company,” Glenn said at the April 2 hearing.  He said at the time that he would consider a cap on the
outflow of money until further agreements could be reached by
trustees for customer and creditor assets. Glenn said today that
a cap of $30 million for defense costs is appropriate.  The insurance proceeds at issue total $375 million, Lorenzo Marinuzzi, a lawyer representing the trustee for MF Global
Holdings,  Louis Freeh , told Glenn on April 2. About 21 lawsuits
filed against MF Global executives are expected to be
consolidated.  A representative from one insurance company told the court
that 33 individuals have so far sought reimbursement for
$8.3 million from the company’s directors’-and-officers’ and
professional-liability insurance.  MF Global Holdings, once run by Corzine, filed the eighth-
largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after a $6.3 billion bet on
bonds of indebted European countries prompted regulatory
concerns, a credit downgrade and margin calls.  Customer Money  Corzine, a former New Jersey governor and once a co-
chairman of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., may face liability if
investigations show that he knew customer money might be used
when transfers were ordered to cover an overdraft with the
company’s biggest lender, JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Corzine testified before Congress that he asked for
overdrafts with JPMorgan to be corrected, and that he never gave
any instruction to misuse customer funds. He also said he didn’t
believe anything he said could reasonably have been interpreted
as an instruction to misuse customer funds.  James Giddens, the trustee unwinding MF Global’s brokerage
unit, estimates a shortfall of $1.6 billion in what former
customers are owed. He has said proceeds from the insurance
policies may make up for some of that. At the same time, Giddens
said he doesn’t oppose the payment of some necessary defense
costs and suggested they should be monitored.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  