-- MF Global Trustee to Return $685 Million to Customers
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-10T16:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/mf-global-trustee-to-return-685-million-to-customers.html
A trustee for the MF Global Inc.
brokerage, in response to customer objections to its plan to
distribute to them another $685 million, said the distribution
won’t force them to give up claims against unknown parties, or
hold them to other undefined conditions.  The trustee, James Giddens, said in court papers filed in
 Manhattan  bankruptcy court today that the agreement “does not
and will not alter or limit any rights a customer has” against
third parties other than specific individuals named in the
agreements, Giddens said.  He also addressed separate allegations from creditors of MF
Global Holdings Ltd. Creditors had said last week that Giddens
wasn’t helping with a global analysis of books and records, and
listed 13 items of value to the bankrupt estates.  “The allegations -- while wholly irrelevant to this motion
-- include references to meetings, discussions, and exchanges of
information from which the Chapter 11 committee has largely been
absent and are inaccurate,” Giddens said.  Own Trustee  While MF Global Holdings is unwinding in bankruptcy to
repay creditors, its former operating unit, brokerage  MF Global
Inc. (MFGLQ) , is liquidating under the Securities Investor Protection
Act to repay customers who are estimated to be out $1.6 billion.
The holding company and brokerage each have their own trustee,
and the two have disputed whether certain assets belong to
customers or creditors.  The planned distribution to customers will give some of
them a return of about 80 percent. Commodity customers who
traded futures on foreign exchanges will get their first
payments of about $50 million, while about $600 million will go
to customers who traded on U.S. exchanges, Giddens said today in
a statement. Holders of physical assets such as precious metals
are in line to get about $35 million.  MF Global Holdings Ltd. filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy on Oct. 31 with debt of almost $40 billion after
making $6.3 billion in bets on sovereign debt and getting margin
calls.  Jon Corzine , chairman of MF Global Holdings until his
resignation on Nov. 4, has said he didn’t authorize any misuse
of customer money that may have occurred. Corzine is a former
governor of  New Jersey  and former co-chairman of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)   The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 