-- F1 Owner Said to Seek More Than $2 Billion From IPO
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-04-10T06:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/f1-owner-said-to-seek-more-than-2-billion-from-ipo.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. may seek
more than $2 billion from an initial public offering of the
Formula One auto-racing series, according to four people with
knowledge of the matter.  The private equity firm may sell a stake of about 20
percent in Formula One, one person said, asking not to be
identified as the information is private. CVC wants to conduct
the sale in  Singapore  as early as June, though its plans aren’t
final, the people said.  Drawing on Formula One’s growing popularity in  Asia , a
Singapore listing would also be a boon for the city’s stock
exchange, which is vying with Hong Kong’s bourse to attract
companies from across the world. At $2 billion, the IPO would be
Singapore’s fourth largest ever, and the biggest since  Hutchison
Port Holdings Trust (HPHT)  raised $5.5 billion in March 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  CVC, which already hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to advise
it on the Formula One IPO, is expected to retain other
investment banks to help manage the offering in the coming
weeks, the people said. CVC’s London-based spokesman couldn’t be
reached for comment outside of normal business hours.  The IPO may value the sport at more than $10 billion, a
person with knowledge of the matter said last month. Formula One
Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  has no plans to sell
his 5.3 percent stake in the offering and will remain in his
position under CVC’s plans, he said last month.  Manchester United  Singapore granted soccer team  Manchester United Ltd. (MNU) 
permission to conduct an IPO of about $1 billion last year. That
sale, which was scuttled by stock market volatility late last
year, may be revived.  By listing in Singapore, where a Formula One race has been
held since 2008, the auto-race and soccer club would both be
drawing on their growing popularity in Asia. Formula One also
holds Grand Prix races in  China , Malaysia,  Japan , Korea, India
and Australia.  CVC, which owns 63.4 percent of Formula One, bought its
stake in a leveraged buyout using $2.5 billion of loans. Other
shareholders include the administrators of bankrupt Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. who hold 15.3 percent and Ecclestone’s
former wife Slavica who owns 8.5 percent through Bambino
Holdings Ltd.  The series has annual sales of 1.17 billion euros ($1.54
billion) and employs 200 people, according to CVC’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  