-- Fed Regional Bank Directors ‘Remained Cautious’ on U.S. Economy
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/fed-regional-bank-directors-remained-cautious-on-u-s-economy.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
regional banks last month were wary of risks to the outlook for
growth in the U.S. even as the economy strengthened.  Board members of the 12 banks “noted continued improvement
in economic activity but remained cautious about the outlook,
consistent with their expectations of growth at a moderate pace
over coming quarters,” according to minutes released in
 Washington  today that summarize discussions last month and in
February.  The minutes covered meetings on Feb. 6, Feb. 27 and March
12 by the  Fed’s Board of Governors  to discuss the discount rate,
which the central bank charges on emergency loans to banks. The
Fed kept the rate unchanged at 0.75 percent.  A different panel within the Fed, the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee , met March 13 and affirmed a plan
to hold  interest rates  near zero at least through late 2014 to
spur growth and reduce unemployment. The minutes of that meeting
were released last week. The FOMC next gathers in Washington on
April 24-25.  Many of the directors of the Fed’s regional banks, who are
mostly bankers and business executives, “pointed to downside
risks that included the potential for rising energy prices to
reduce consumers’ purchasing power while pushing up inflation
temporarily, as well as the still-significant strains in global
financial markets.”  Labor Market  The minutes said directors “generally had positive, though
uneven, reports on  consumer spending ” and most directors
“noted encouraging signs in labor markets,” while “the
elevated  unemployment rate  remained a concern.”  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were the same as in
meetings since December.  Members of the Boston Fed’s board of directors urged a
quarter-percentage point discount-rate reduction, to 0.5
percent, while the Kansas City Fed repeated its request for a
quarter-point rise. The other 10 banks did not request a change.  Each of the Fed’s 12 regional banks has a nine-member board
of directors that requests discount-rate changes. The requests
are subject to final review and determination by the  Fed Board ,
which consists of the central bank’s five Washington-based
governors. They review requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  