-- Fed’s Fisher Says Companies Voicing More Concern About Prices
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-10T19:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/fed-s-fisher-says-companies-voicing-more-concern-about-prices.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank’s $2.87 trillion
in assets has provoked anxiety among businesses that inflation
will accelerate.  “I’m just reporting what I hear on the street, which is a
real concern that with our expanded balance sheet, we are just a
little bit in an ember of what could become an inflationary
fire,” Fisher said today in Norman, Oklahoma. Small businesses
are especially worried “about cost-push pressures because they
don’t have pricing power that they would like but they are
feeling the squeeze on the cost-side.”  Crude  oil prices  have increased 2.2 percent this year and
the personal consumption expenditures index rose 2.3 percent in
the 12 months through February, above the Fed’s 2 percent goal.
Today, oil fell to an eight-week low on forecasts U.S. supplies
hit the highest level for this time of year since 1990. Crude
oil for May delivery fell $1.44 to $101.02 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since Feb. 14.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee last month
voted to maintain its plan to keep  interest rates  low through at
least late 2014 and called for additional stimulus only if the
economy loses “momentum” or if inflation stays below its 2
percent target, minutes from the March 13 meeting showed. Data
released since the last meeting have pointed to a mixed outlook
for the  U.S. economy , with manufacturing continuing to rebound
while job growth slowed.  Pessimistic Estimate  U.S. employers added 120,000 jobs in March, the fewest in
five months and less than the most pessimistic estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, Labor Department figures
showed April 6. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent from
8.3 percent as people stopped looking for work, bolstering Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s view that the declining jobless rate
overstates gains in the labor market.  Fisher said the jobs data hasn’t changed his outlook on the
economy. It “just means I’m going to be a little more watchful
but it’s an input,” he said, adding “you don’t make a decision
based on one data point.”  Fisher, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
reiterated his view that lower borrowing costs aren’t needed and
that fiscal uncertainty is weighing on growth.  Many business leaders are saying, “please, no more
liquidity,” Fisher said. “The cost of money” is “not the
issue,” he said.  Fisher, 63, has called the notion of another round of
quantitative easing a “fantasy.” He has been president of the
Dallas Fed since 2005 and his district includes  Texas , northern
Louisiana and southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  