-- First Quantum Takeover Turns on Anglo-Rio Talk
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-04-10T20:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/first-quantum-takeover-turns-on-anglo-rio-talk-corporate-canada.html
For mining companies seeking a deal
in copper, no producer in the industrialized world is offering
faster earnings growth than  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)   Canada’s second-largest copper producer, which jumped the
most in four months last week on  takeover  speculation, is
projected to boost  earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization by 84 percent over the next three years,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
more than any copper mining company based in developed markets
and three times the  industry  median, the data show.  First Quantum, which operates on four continents from
 Europe  to Africa, plans to more than  triple  copper production
within five years as it starts up mines in Peru,  Finland  and
 Zambia , and the company’s co-founder and president said last
month that the “only way” for the price of copper is up. The
Vancouver-based company could attract  Anglo (AAL)  American Plc, which
is entangled in a dispute with  Chile ’s state-owned copper
producer over ownership of its local unit, and help  Rio Tinto 
Group double  output  of the metal, Liberum Capital Ltd. said.  “First Quantum certainly has an attractive growth platform
in copper, which judging by the capital budgets of all of the
majors is where everyone wants to be right now,” Daniel Rohr,
an analyst with Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “Potentially a cheap way of buying into that market
is to go buy a company like First Quantum.”  Sharon Loung, a spokeswoman for First Quantum, which has a
market value of about $10 billion, didn’t respond to phone calls
and an e-mail requesting comment.  Zambian Copper Mine  James Wyatt-Tilby, a spokesman for London-based Anglo, and
Tony Shaffer, a spokesman for  Rio (RIO) , also headquartered in  London ,
declined to comment on whether the companies have considered
buying First Quantum.  Shares of First Quantum climbed 8.8 percent to C$21.11 at
today, the most since Nov. 30. The gain was the largest in the
 Bloomberg World Mining Index. (BWMING)   First Quantum operates the  Kansanshi  copper mine in Zambia,
which it’s expanding, and the smaller  Guelb Moghrein  copper and
gold operation in Mauritania. The company is planning a new
mine, Sentinel, in Zambia, and will build a copper smelter at
Kansanshi to process ore from the two mines in the country.
First Quantum said March 6 that it anticipates production of as
much as 290,000 tons of copper this year.  Outside of  Africa , First Quantum restarted the  Ravensthorpe 
nickel mine in Western Australia in October, almost two years
after agreeing to buy the asset from BHP Billiton Ltd. The
company is building a nickel and copper mine in Finland and is
also studying a copper project in  Peru .  ‘Focus in Africa’  Nickel production will rise to “well over” 100,000 tons a
year as projects in Australia and Finland ramp up, compared with
as much as 40,000 tons this year, according to estimates from
the company and Clive Newall, the president and co-founder.  First Quantum is appealing “because of its focus in
Africa,” said Larry Seruma, a New York-based portfolio manager
for Nile Capital Management LLC’s Nile Pan Africa fund, which
owns First Quantum  shares . “The company’s nickel assets are
also attractive, but I think the real attraction would be the
copper assets.”  As mining production increases, analysts project that First
Quantum’s Ebitda will reach $2.35 billion in 2014, an 84 percent
gain from 2011, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a median of 25 percent growth among copper mining
companies with market values of at least $1 billion, the data
show. It’s also the highest rate among companies operating in
developed markets.  Shares Rally  Shares of First Quantum rose 7.1 percent on April 5 after
 The Guardian  newspaper said on its website, without citing
anyone, that there was “talk” Rio,  Glencore (GLEN)  International Plc
and a company based in  China  may be looking at First Quantum.  The same day, Ash Lazenby, a London-based analyst at
Liberum Capital, said in a note that Anglo and Rio are among
probable bidders.  Anglo, which mines for everything from diamonds to platinum
and coal, is the most likely acquirer, according to Lazenby.
Buying First Quantum would restore some of Anglo’s copper volume
after it sold a 24.5 percent stake in its Anglo American Sur SA
unit, which includes the Los Bronces copper mine in Chile, to
Mitsubishi Corp. in November, he wrote. Codelco, based in
Santiago, is seeking to exercise an option dating from 1978 to
buy 49 percent of Anglo American Sur and says the stake sale to
Mitsubishi was an attempt to block its option.  With only $1.14 billion in  net debt , Anglo also has
“arguably the best balance sheet” among the larger U.K. mining
companies and First Quantum’s Ravensthorpe nickel mine would
complement the $46 billion company’s existing nickel business,
Lazenby wrote.  Rio Tinto, Glencore  Balance sheets at the largest mining companies are “better
than pristine,” Ken Hoffman, a Princeton, New Jersey-based
metals and mining analyst for Bloomberg Industries, said in a
phone interview. Those companies are “always out there looking
for the next big mine or good asset. Any good assets -- and, in
general, people believe these First Quantum assets are good
assets -- are highly valued. You’re going to see deals.”  Rio, the world’s third-largest mining company, also has
“adequate firepower to seek a deal” and would be able to
double copper production by acquiring First Quantum, Lazenby
said. Copper accounted for about  11 percent  of Rio’s more than
$60 billion in sales last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Glencore, the commodities trader seeking to acquire  Xstrata
Plc (XTA) , may also be interested in First Quantum, said Craig Macadam, a Toronto-based portfolio manager at Aurion Capital
Management Inc., which oversees C$5.5 billion ($5.5 billion),
including First Quantum shares.  Risks in Africa  “I’ve always thought Glencore was a natural buyer,” he
said in a phone interview. First Quantum owns a  minority stake 
in Glencore’s Mopani Copper Mines in Zambia.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment on whether the company is
considering a bid for First Quantum.  Kerry Smith, a Toronto-based analyst at Haywood Securities
Inc., and Morningstar’s Rohr said First Quantum’s operations in
risky areas may deter buyers. The stock dropped the most in four
months on March 6 after workers at its Kansanshi mine in Zambia
went on strike over pay demands.  Still, some mining companies, including Rio, are
increasingly looking for deposits in regions with high political
and security risk to help meet commodities demands from China
and  India , Michael Humphreys, managing director at strategic
consultancy Control Risks in Sydney, said in an interview last
month.  Copper Prices ‘Up’  At a March 15 conference in London, First Quantum’s Newall
said that “the only way, really, for copper prices is up” in
the coming years as demand for the metal expands in China, India
and  Brazil . Copper for delivery in three months on the London
Metal Exchange closed at $8,361 a ton on April 5.  The metal used in electric wire, roofing and plumbing may
average $8,377 next year before dropping to $8,000 in 2014,
according to the median of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  With an  enterprise value  of almost $9.4 billion as of
yesterday, First Quantum is valued at about $303 per metric ton
of its copper equivalent reserves and measured, indicated and
inferred resources, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries analysts Andrew Cosgrove and Hoffman. That’s based on
the median of analysts’ estimated prices for the metal in 2015,
and it’s less than the average of almost $521 per metric ton
among similar-sized companies primarily focused on copper
mining, the data show.  Takeover Premium  “There’s not many good operating copper companies out
there,”  Raymond Goldie , a Toronto-based analyst at Salman
Partners Inc., said in a phone interview. “It’s much cheaper to
go out and buy copper in the stock market than to buy it on the
London Metal Exchange or to go out and find it yourself.”  First Quantum could fetch between C$33 and C$37 a share in
a takeover, according to Seruma of Nile Capital, or as much as a
91 percent premium to yesterday’s closing price of C$19.40.
Macadam of Aurion Capital says a premium of about 35 percent may
be enough to close a deal, indicating a takeover price of more
than C$26 a share.  “First Quantum is really trading at a discount to its true
value,” Seruma said in a phone interview. “For a larger
player, they would see this as an opportunity to buy at a very
cheap price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 