-- Flaherty Says He’s Planning Changes on CMHC Rules
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-04-10T19:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/flaherty-says-he-s-planning-changes-on-cmhc-rules.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’s planning to make changes to reporting
requirements for Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., the country’s
housing agency, particularly with respect to securitization.  Flaherty, speaking to reporters in New York, said there has
been a moderation in the country’s  housing market , adding he
would prefer that the market correct itself, if needed.  “I would prefer the market itself to correct to the extent
that a correction is necessary,” Flaherty told reporters after
attending a conference organized by the Bush Center.  Policy makers, including Flaherty, have said that parts of
Canada’s housing market have become overvalued as households add
to record debt levels, encouraged by some of the lowest  mortgage
rates  in decades.  Canada ’s banking regulator, the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, said in a planning
document last week it will boost supervision of private mortgage
insurers while examining “emerging” risks to the financial
system in several areas, including residential mortgages.  Flaherty, who has resisted calls from lenders to tighten
mortgage rules to stem demand for new homes, said in his March
29 budget the government will enhance the governance and
oversight of CMHC to ensure “its commercial activities are
managed in a manner that promotes the stability of the financial
system.”  Reporting Changes  “We do intend to have some changes with respect to
reporting by CMHC, particularly with respect to
securitization,” Flaherty said today, adding the country’s
banking regulator is “engaged” on the matter.  British Columbia Finance Minister Kevin Falcon, also in  New
York  at a separate event, said he expects  home prices  in his
province to drift “downward,” which he said would be a healthy
development. He also said demand from  China  for high-end homes
in Vancouver will probably continue.  Flaherty today also said he expects to see moderate
economic growth in Canada amid a global recovery that remains
“fragile.”  “There are serious issues that persist in  Europe ,”
Flaherty said, citing investors concerns about  Spain ’s finances.
“They are not quite out of the woods yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in New York at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  