-- Florence in Catsuit Brings Art Deco, Pompous Rock to U.S.
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-04-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/florence-in-catsuit-brings-art-deco-glory-pompous-rock-to-u-s-.html
After conquering the U.K. pop
charts, Florence Welch is heading Stateside.  As her band Florence + the Machine starts touring this week
and releases a live album “MTV Unplugged,” it’s easy to see what
the fuss is about. Florence has a statuesque presence,
elephantine choruses and lavish art-deco staging.  Last year, critics lauded her second album “Ceremonials.”
It reached No. 6 in the Billboard 200 chart and scaled similar
heights in many polls at the end of 2011.  Some concertgoers will be blown away -- as were many of
those who saw her recent sold-out London shows at the  Royal
Albert Hall  and Alexandra Palace.  Others will be flattened by the hurricane of self-
importance, incessant bluster and vacuous pomp.  Welch will be touring relentlessly all year, starting with
 Santa Barbara ,  California , on April 14 and Coachella the next
day. She will win many more fans and “Ceremonials” will take
another step toward canonization as a classic album.  Yet “Ceremonials” is extremely dislikeable. Welch’s debut
“Lungs” mixed rousing piano-powered choruses and a steely
feminine perspective. Its peculiar instrumentation was played
with ramshackle abandon, held together with sharp charisma.  “Ceremonials” attempted to magnify this into flawless,
big-budget stadium rock wrought with meaning.  Twilight Histrionics  Welch’s 2010 contribution to a “Twilight” soundtrack
clearly gave her the taste for anodyne histrionics.
“Ceremonials” is like an unholy  union of  Meat Loaf and Enya
and horribly produced. It sounds as if the mixing desk was set
to the equivalent of CAPS LOCK BOLD.  Live, the two CDs remain painfully distinct. The huff and
puff of “Shake It Out” and “Never Let Me Go” fails to move.
“Heartlines” and “Leave My Body” add choruses and strings
for wholesale musical overstatement. U2, with whom Florence +
the Machine briefly toured, is like Samuel Beckett by
comparison.  Older songs provide a welcome contrast. “Dog Days Are
Over” retains a ragged glee that defies the newfound big
production. “Rabbit Heart (Raise It Up)” courses with a red-
blooded passion.  Welch comes on as the height of elegance with her copper
hair and a floor-length cape. She soon downsizes to a black
velvet bodysuit with outlandish gold shoulders that make her
look like one of Captain Kirk’s more challenging distractions.  Earlier in her career, she was famed for a wild vivacity.
The bigger platform, with its expensive staging, calls for
something more considered. Skipping frivolously then posing
awkwardly, Welch is unsure of what this should be.  It would be irresponsible to dismiss her on the basis of an
excruciating second album. For the time being, though, she is
best left to the company of “Twilight” fans.  Rating: *.  “MTV Unplugged” was released yesterday on Island Records
priced about $13 in the U.S. or 9 pounds in the U.K. Download
rates vary across services.  The band’s tour includes  New York ’s Radio City Music Hall
on May 8. The show moves to  Australia  later in May, with
European appearances including Rock Werchter,  Belgium , in July,
before returning to the U.S. Information:
 http://www.florenceandthemachine.net/live/upcoming .  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today's Muse highlights: Philip Boroff on “Wicked”’s 
profits; Katya Kazakina on New York women gallerists; 
Richard Vines on London restaurant Dabbous;  Greg Evans  on 
TV's “Girls” and “Trust.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 