-- Ford to Spend Less Marketing Electric Car on Yahoo Show
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-04-10T18:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/ford-to-spend-less-marketing-electric-car-on-yahoo-show.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  plans to spend less
to market its electric cars, choosing to reach consumers through
digital media with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  rather than television because of
uncertain demand.  Ford’s digital-media campaigns tend to cost less than $10
million compared with as much as $100 million for a traditional
marketing program, John Felice, general manager of Ford and
Lincoln sales, said in an interview in New York. The company
said it will market the Focus Electric on a reality television
show on Yahoo! Screen, or screen.yahoo.com, that will feature
celebrities and have teams competing to win the car.  “Because of the lack of awareness out there, people aren’t
sure what kind of car they want,” Felice said. “Electric is
going to grow, but we’re not sure what the consumer is going to
want, so we have to be flexible.”  Ford is making electric versions of models it already
produces, such as the Focus, with plans to triple output of
hybrids and electric vehicles to more than 100,000 in 2013.
Introducing a new electric or hybrid model would mean devoting a
plant and marketing outlays to establish the new vehicle,
something the company isn’t ready to do until demand is clearer,
Felice said.  Ford’s strategy comes after difficulties some competitors
had on new models, the executive said.  General Motors Co. halted Volt production for four weeks
because sales were hurt after a federal investigation into the
safety of the car was announced in November. The probe was
closed in January, with the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration saying the Volt posed no more of a fire risk than
other cars. Fisker Automotive Inc.’s $103,000 Karma sports sedan
shut down in a test by Consumer Reports magazine.  ‘Plugged In’  The reality show, called “Plugged In,” will include 10
episodes that will teach consumers how to use and charge an
electric car as contestants travel on a “scavenger hunt,” Ford
and Yahoo said in a joint statement. “Plugged In” won’t
mention Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s competitors, Felice
said.  Ford and Yahoo expect the show to spread virally among
Yahoo’s video audience, which included 61 million unique viewers
in February, said Erin McPherson, head of video at Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  