-- France Telecom Sticks to Dividend, Opposes Workers Plan
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-04-10T10:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/france-telecom-sticks-to-dividend-opposes-workers-plan.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  Chief Executive
Officer Stephane Richard is opposing a proposal by workers to
cut the 2011 dividend, saying that shareholders deserve an
unchanged payout of 1.40 euros ($1.83) a share.  “I see no logical reason, whether economic or political,
why we should deprive our shareholders of this return,” Richard
said in an interview in Paris. “Our results in 2011 have given
us the financial ability to pay 1.40 euros per share.” The
company, which operates the Orange mobile-phone service, paid
the same dividend a year earlier.  An investment fund representing workers which are also
shareholders of  France  Telecom, the country’s biggest phone
operator, has filed an resolution proposing to cut the dividend
to 1 euro per share. The Adeas group, which owns about 5 percent
of the company according to its website, said a lower dividend
would allow increased investments. Shareholders will vote on the
2011 dividend at the June 5 annual general meeting.  On Feb. 22,  France Telecom  cut its dividend forecast for
2012 by as much as 14 percent, abandoned a promise to buy back
shares and said it would shun acquisitions to hoard cash amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis. The payout for this year will be in a
range of 1.21 euros to 1.35 euros a share, the company said.  France Telecom is  predicted  to lower its dividend to 1.28
euros in 2012 and 1.20 euros in 2013, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  State Influence  France Telecom rose 0.2 percent to 10.65 euros as of 12:01
p.m., while the French benchmark  stock index , the CAC 40,
declined 1.2 percent. The stock has dropped 12 percent this
year.  European operators need to invest billions of euros in
upgrading networks across Europe to handle a surge in demand for
data transfer, putting pressure on how much cash they can return
to shareholders and the dividend yields of their stocks, among
the highest in Europe. Other phone companies that have announced
dividend cuts include  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Telecom Italia
SpA. (TIT)   France Telecom’s board of directors already approved the
2011 dividend proposal, Richard said in the April 6 interview.
The company’s board includes employee representatives as well as
French state representatives.  There are no plans to pay part or all of the 2011 dividend
in shares, Richard said. The French State, whose 27 percent
stake is split evenly between direct ownership and shares owned
by sovereign fund  Fonds Strategique d’Investissement , has not
brought up such an option, the CEO said.  Paying in Shares?  This scenario, which is being discussed at European
competitor  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , is deemed unlikely at France
Telecom as it could pose a problem if France was to cross the 30
percent mark of share ownership. Any shareholder passing that
level has to launch an offer for all the shares, according to
local market regulation.  Worker representatives at Deutsche Telekom are asking
 Germany ’s government to forgo at least part of its almost 1
billion euros in annual dividend payments in exchange for a
bigger stake in the former phone monopoly to help finance the
cost of faster networks. Germany owns a 32 percent stake in the
operator of the T-Mobile brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  