-- French Business Confidence Stalls, Factory Output Drops: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-04-10T10:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/french-business-confidence-stalls-factory-output-declines-1-.html
French business confidence
stagnated and factory output dropped, underlining the challenge
the victor in the country’s presidential election will face in
reviving economic growth.  A gauge of  sentiment among factory executives  was unchanged
at 95 in March after dropping in February, the Bank of  France 
said today.  Manufacturing production  fell 1.2 percent in
February, a third month of declines, the national statistics
office, Insee, said in Paris.  The data show how  Europe ’s second-largest economy is
struggling to grow in the face of the region’s sovereign debt
crisis, reducing the room for maneuver of President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and his Socialist challenger,  Francois Hollande , as they
seek to woo voters in the final weeks of the election campaign.
The Bank of France said its surveys suggest that gross domestic
product didn’t expand in the first quarter.  “The general message is this: the French economy is
practically stalled,” said Michel Martinez, an economist at
Societe Generale SA in Paris. “France doesn’t have the problems
of its southern neighbors, but its industry remains in recession
and we remain very far from a classic recovery scenario.”  The lack of growth at least partly reflects the impact on
demand of budget cuts in neighboring Italy and Spain, as well as
deficit-reduction efforts in France.  Deficit Pledge  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is stepping up efforts
to reassure investors he can bring the country’s deficit under
control and prevent Spain from becoming the fourth euro-area
country to require a bailout. Rajoy met with his health and
education ministers yesterday to discuss cuts of more than 10
billion ($13 billion) as the government reiterated its pledge to
trim borrowing to 3 percent of GDP next year.  European stocks fell to a two-month low and Asian equities
retreated on concern growth is slowing after  China ’s imports
missed economists’ forecasts. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
decreased 1 percent as of 10:14 a.m. in  London  as trading
resumed after most European markets were closed yesterday. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.3 percent. Gold climbed 0.5
percent.  China reported an unexpected  trade surplus  last month as
import growth trailed forecasts, highlighting the risk of a
deeper slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.  Inbound shipments rose 5.3 percent, the customs bureau said
today, below the 9 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Exports increased 8.9 percent from a year earlier, more
than forecast, leaving a trade surplus of $5.35 billion,
compared with a median projection for a $3.15 billion trade
deficit.  German Exports  In Europe,  Germany  also reported an unexpected increase in
exports driven by overseas demand. Exports rose 1.6 percent from
January, when they gained 3.4 percent, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said today. The figures are seasonally
adjusted.  The German performance represents a model that Sarkozy has
repeatedly held out as an example for France, while using the
fate of  Spain  as an example of what could happen if the country
doesn’t pursue economic reforms such as his proposal to cut
social charges on payrolls by raising  sales tax .  “It’s worked wonderfully in Germany,” he said on April 5.
At the same time, “Spain is today in the midst of a crisis of
confidence,” he said.  Hollande responded by saying that Sarkozy was in no
position to give lessons on the crisis at the end of a five-year
mandate in which jobless claims have jumped to a 12-year high
and France’s debt load has increased.  French voters will choose between 10 candidates in the
first round of the election April 22, and the two front runners
will face off on May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  