-- French Expatriates Courted in Campaign as Their Number Doubles
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-10T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/french-expatriates-courted-in-campaign-as-their-number-doubles.html
On March 15, President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s campaign office rushed out a two-minute video message
to French overseas voters, seeking to end a kerfuffle over his
proposal to tax citizens living abroad.  The message from Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, Sarkozy’s
campaign spokeswoman, sought to assure them that the new levy
he’d announced three days earlier would only affect a small
number of tax exiles.  “Expatriates don’t have to worry,” she said. “You
represent France abroad and the fruits of your labor won’t be
affected.”  Sarkozy isn’t the only one courting the 2.5 million French
living overseas. Socialist contender  Francois Hollande 
campaigned Feb. 29 in London, whose 300,000 French inhabitants
would make it France’s  sixth-largest city . Hollande followed in
the footsteps of Sarkozy, who visited “Paris-on-Thames” in the
2007 campaign. The number of overseas French has doubled in the
past decade, forcing candidates to pay them greater attention.  About 500,000 people have registered to cast their ballots
from outside  France  this year, up from 250,000 in the 2007 vote
and 125,000 in 2002, according to Herve Heyraud, the publisher
of LePetitJournal.com, an online publication for French expats.  The first round of the French election is set for April 22,
with the two leading contenders in the vote squaring off on May
6. An OpinionWay-Fiducial survey for lepetitjournal.com and
TV5Monde, the only poll taken of overseas voters, showed they’d
back Sarkozy over Hollande by 51 percent to 49 percent in the
decisive second round next month.  More Like France  Sarkozy won the overseas vote by 54 percent to 46 percent
against Socialist Segolene Royal in 2007. About 37 million
people voted in 2007, with Sarkozy winning by  a margin  of about
2.19 million votes.  The erosion of support for Sarkozy overseas is a sign that
the voting intentions of expats are beginning to resemble those
of mainland France, Heyraud said in a telephone interview.  All polls taken in France have shown Hollande beating
Sarkozy in the second round, with his lead at about six to eight
percentage points.  “Traditionally, the French overseas voted overwhelmingly
for the right because they’d gone abroad to work for big French
companies and had a traditional pro-business viewpoint,”
Heyraud said. “Now there are many more young people who go
abroad on their own to seek all sorts of new experiences. Plus,
with the Internet they stay much more informed and attached to
what’s going on in France.”  ‘Franco-French’  Any French citizen registering to vote at a consulate
leaves their e-mail address, and has to check a box if they
don’t want to receive electoral propaganda. Few do.  Fabienne Ottridge, 35, who has lived in Birmingham,  England 
for seven years and works in internal communications for a steel
company, says she got e-mails from Sarkozy, Hollande and
Communist Party-backed Jean-Luc Melenchon, asking for her vote.  She says she’s leaning toward voting  for Hollande . Ottridge
says she has the same interest in jobs and the French economy as
voters at home because she intends to eventually move back to
France.  Still, she said she finds it “disappointing but
understandable” that candidates have focused very little on
international affairs.  “It’s been a very Franco-French campaign,” she said.  Candidates have been sending a mix of targeted e-mails and
the same ones they’ve sent to voters at home.  Sarkozy Years  Anti-immigration candidate Marine Le Pen sent an e-mail
April 4 telling overseas voters that being “particularly aware
of France’s image abroad, you are conscious of a weakened France
that every year loses some of its economic, cultural and
military might, and no longer responds to your expectations nor
those you hope for your children.”  A March 27 e-mail from Hollande also claimed that France’s
standing in the world has declined under Sarkozy.  “You have suffered more than others from the degraded
image of France, hurt by the policies over the past five
years,” he wrote. “You, who represent the values of France,
have suffered from a president who doesn’t.”  During his visit to  London  in February to meet French
expats -- many of whom work in the City -- Hollande sought to
calm concerns about his stance on finance, which he’d called his
“greatest adversary,” by saying “I’m not dangerous.”  The U.K. has the biggest French overseas community, making
it a key location to rally voters. Sarkozy went to London in
2007 as he sought to mobilize the group of high-earning expats.  No Rally  This time around, Sarkozy’s wooing of overseas citizens has
been confined to mass messages.  Sarkozy’s e-mails list efforts he’s made for the overseas
French since 2007, including increasing by 40 percent to 31,000
the number of students receiving free education in French public
schools overseas, and creating 11 seats in parliament for
overseas constituencies.  Kosciusko-Morizet says Sarkozy decided against an overseas
campaign rally.  “The French are all over the world, so it’s not like you
can reach them with one visit,” she said in an interview.
“Plus, during his five years as president he’s had many
occasions to meet with French abroad.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  