-- Germany’s Pirate Party Siphons Opposition Support, Poll Shows
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-04-10T10:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/germany-s-pirate-party-siphons-opposition-support-poll-shows.html
Germany’s  Pirate Party , an
insurgent political force devoted to Internet freedom, gained
backing in a weekly poll that showed it siphoning off support
from opposition parties.  The Pirates climbed 1 percentage point to 13 percent,
displacing the  Green Party , which slid 2 points to 11 percent,
as the most popular force after the two main parties, according
to a Forsa poll commissioned by Stern-RTL. Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic-led bloc advanced 1 point to 36
percent, while the Social Democrats fell a point to 24 percent.  The Pirates, whose platform focuses on web privacy and
copyright issues, are gaining support from young voters
disenchanted with the more established parties. The emergence of
the party, which won its first seats in a state parliament in
Berlin last year, threatens to reshuffle  Germany ’s SPD-led
opposition as two more regional votes loom next month. Polls
show the Pirates may win seats in both elections.  “For many young people the Greens have become stale and
old,” Forsa director Manfred Guellner said in a statement.
“The anti-nuclear issue doesn’t pull them in anymore.”  The survey showed a gain for Merkel’s Free Democratic Party
coalition partner, which climbed 2 points to 5 percent, its best
showing since August. That result elevates the pro-business FDP
to the threshold of support needed to stay in parliament.  “The FDP is once again giving their classic base, small-
and mid-size businesses, the feeling that they’re on their
side,” Guellner said in the statement.  Polls still suggest that the FDP might be expelled from
state parliaments in elections in Schleswig-Holstein on May 6
and in North Rhine-Westphalia on May 13, where SPD-Green
coalitions are ahead.  Today’s Forsa poll surveyed 2,007 voters between April 2
and April 4 and has a margin of error of as much as 2.5
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  