-- Germany Grows Robust from Sick Man With Demand at Home
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-11T07:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/germany-grows-robust-from-sick-man-with-demand-at-home.html
Germany ’s economic expansion is
increasingly home-grown.  Unemployment at a two-decade low, wages accelerating out of
years of restraint and falling borrowing costs are spurring
consumers in Europe’s linchpin economy to spend more. Showcased
by rising property prices, that’s at odds with the rest of the
euro area, where austerity and the bursting of debt-fueled asset
bubbles are forcing households to cut back.  Economists from HSBC Holdings Plc to BNP Paribas SA are
responding by raising forecasts for German growth and declaring
that domestic demand is emerging as a rival to exports as the
economy’s driver. The rejuvenation may help strengthen and
rebalance the rest of the euro area, even as it makes it tougher
for the  European Central Bank  to set a one-size-fits-all
monetary policy.  “Ten years ago, Germany was the ‘sick man of Europe,’”
said  Holger Schmieding , London-based chief economist at
Berenberg Bank, Germany’s oldest bank. Now, “Germany will enjoy
a golden decade of more growth and employment with a healthy
fiscal balance.”  Consumer spending could grow more than 2 percent next year,
eclipsing the annual average of just 0.75 percent since 1999,
according to  David Owen , chief European financial economist at
Jefferies International Ltd. in London. Export growth averaged
about 2.25 percent a year and economic expansion 1.35 percent
since 1999, he estimates.  Upside Surprise  “When discussing prospects for Germany, the focus often
revolves around the outlook for exports,” Owen said. “However,
there is certainly scope for German domestic demand to surprise
on the upside.”  The improved domestic outlook is one reason Berenberg Bank
sees a “good chance” the  DAX Index (DAX)  of stocks will top 7,200
this year, a 22 percent gain since Dec. 31. The  DAXK Index (DAXK) , a
German equities gauge that strips out gains from dividends, has
jumped  11 percent  compared with an  8 percent  rise for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Profit at  Douglas Holding AG (DOU) , Europe’s largest retailer of
makeup and perfumes, rose 14 percent last year, with the Hagen-
based company’s Chief Executive Officer Henning Kreke calling
sales in its domestic market “particularly satisfactory.”
Revenue in Germany increased 5 percent to 990.4 million euros
($1.3 billion), while sales abroad fell by a similar margin to
888.2 million euros  Rising Clothing Sales  Gerry Weber International AG (GWI1) , the Halle-based maker of
women’s clothing, plans to open as many as 85 new company-
managed stores, about half of them in Germany, after sales rose
13 percent last year to 702.7 million euros. Germany accounted
for 60 percent of the sales total.  Challenges still remain after the economy contracted  0.2
percent (GRGDPPGQ)  in the fourth quarter. A more than 30 percent jump in
the price of oil since Oct. 4, 2011, threatens to sap purchasing
power and was cited by economists as a reason why retail sales
unexpectedly fell for a second month in February.  Factory orders increased less than forecast in February,
while industrial output fell more than economists predicted,
data showed this month. Budget-induced pain elsewhere in  Europe 
also could undercut export demand, and the debt crisis risks
reigniting.  A rallying German economy may further complicate the ECB’s
ability to set uniform monetary policy as it aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent, said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at UniCredit Group in Munich.  ‘Create Risks’  The inflation rate in Germany was  2.3 percent  in March,
compared with 1.4 percent in recession-hit  Greece . With the
euro-area rate at 2.6 percent last month, Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann already has warned that the ECB won’t hesitate to
raise  interest rates  if needed to contain price pressures.  The central bank has cut its benchmark rate to a record low
 1 percent  and expanded its  balance sheet  by about 30 percent
since President  Mario Draghi  took office in November, injecting
more than 1 trillion euros into the banking system.  While Draghi said on April 4 that talk of withdrawing the
liquidity measures is premature, he also said the central bank
has the tools required to tackle upside inflation risks in a
“firm and timely manner.”  Germany would “probably require higher interest rates if
you look at it on a unitary basis,” Koch said.  Real Estate Revival  One sign things may be changing for good in Germany is a
real estate revival in an economy where owner occupation is only
about 45 percent. The  Bundesbank  estimates the average price for
homes in 125 German cities jumped 5.5 percent last year, the
most since the country’s post-reunification boom of the early
1990s, and more than double 2010’s 2.5 percent advance. Prices
in  Spain  dropped 11.2 percent.  While the pace may ease, Berlin-based consulting company
 BulwienGesa AG  predicts average re-sale price for apartments
will rise about 4 percent through 2016 in the capital city, 4.8
percent in Munich and 3.5 percent in  Frankfurt . Cheap  mortgage
rates , low unemployment, increased urbanization and the need to
protect against inflation will drive prices up further, Martin Lueck, an economist at UBS AG, said in a report today.  “Prices will go up more for some time before they peak,”
Lueck said. “There is little reason to believe the bubble will
burst within the next two years.”  Domestic spending will provide the economy’s main source of
growth for the next two years as gross domestic product expands
1.2 percent in 2012, predicts BNP Paribas economist Evelyn Herrmann. HSBC economists Stefan Schilbe and Rainer Sartoris
project 0.8 percent growth, as a 0.9 percent increase in
household consumption helps outweigh the fallout from the debt
crisis. The German economy  expanded  3 percent last year.  Improving Domestic Demand  Declining unemployment and rising wages are helping to fuel
the improvement in domestic demand, as is investment, which is
nearing the pre-crisis level,  Dirk Schumacher , an economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Frankfurt, said in a March 1 report.  The jobless rate fell in March to  6.7 percent , a two-decade
low, compared with a 14-year high of 10.8 percent across the 17-
nation euro area in February. Heavy-machinery maker  Liebherr-
International Deutschland GmbH (LIEB)  may create 1,200 new positions in
the eastern state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania as it boosts
crane sales to Russia and  Brazil , Managing Director Thomas
Mueller said Feb. 27.  Other companies may follow, with German businesses
potentially adding as many as 250,000 jobs this year, including
80,000 in health and social services, 50,000 in information
technology and 40,000 in engineering, the DIHK national industry
and trade chambers group said in February, citing a survey.  The resulting  labor  shortage is pushing up wages after a
decade when wage restraint and rising taxes depressed  consumer
spending , even as consumption grew 15 percent in the rest of the
euro area, Schumacher said.  Higher Wages  Germany’s 2 million public-service workers may get 6.3
percent higher pay by the end of next year under an agreement
with the government, Ver.di labor union said March 31. IG
Metall, whose 3.6 million members make it the biggest union in
Europe, is demanding 6.5 percent more. That compares with an
average 2 percent yearly gain in nominal gross wages from 2000
to 2009, less than half Spain’s 4.7 percent.  That leaves Schumacher estimating wages will grow at an
annualized rate of as much as 4 percent, supporting inflation-
adjusted income growth of about 2 percent and a similar gain in
household spending.  While the outlook “would not qualify as a consumption
boom, it would imply a markedly larger contribution than seen in
the past,” he said.  Consumers also may get a lift from easier borrowing costs.
The average rate German banks charged on new-home loans fell to
3.5 percent in January from 4.81 percent before the credit
crisis began in 2007, according to the Bundesbank.  Avoid Budget Cuts  Unlike elsewhere in Europe, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government can avoid deep budget cuts. While Germany and  Italy 
each will run fiscal deficits of 0.8 percent of GDP in 2013,
Germany’s will be declining from 1 percent this year and last,
while Italy’s will be axed from 4 percent in 2011, economists at
Deutsche Bank AG estimate.  The revival of the consumer nevertheless draws concern from
some quarters. Fearful of asset bubbles, the Bundesbank said in
its study of property prices that while “the potential for
sudden price reversals still appears limited,” the “risk has
to be monitored.”  It noted that long-term demand for residences faces
demographic challenges: Germany’s fastest-declining population
group, according to research by UniCredit, is between 25 and 44
years old -- the age range typically most likely to establish a
household.  Encourage Shopping  More demand from Germany still may help even-out Europe’s
economy, said William White, a former chief economist at the
Bank for International Settlements. Germany’s previous
reluctance to spend and its reliance on exports for growth
sparked criticism it should do more to ease the crisis by
encouraging consumers to hit the shops, helping neighbors reduce
their trade deficits and offsetting austerity.  The International Monetary Fund estimates Germany ran a
current-account surplus of 5 percent of GDP last year, compared
with a shortfall of 8 percent in Greece.  “Anything that will get the Germans to spend more money at
home, and therefore reduce the external surplus, is a good
thing,” said White, who now advises the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  