-- German Exports Unexpectedly Rose for Second Month in February
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-04-10T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/german-exports-unexpectedly-rose-for-second-month-in-february.html
German exports unexpectedly
increased for a second month in February, led by demand from
outside  Europe .  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, rose
1.6 percent from January when they gained 3.4 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a drop of 1.2 percent, according to the median of 10
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports surged 3.9
percent.  The economy may avoid a recession in the first quarter as
 unemployment  at a two-decade low bolsters domestic demand,
offsetting the impact on foreign sales of the debt crisis in
Europe, Germany’s main export market. Business and investor
sentiment rose last month after Greece received a second bailout
and the  European Central Bank  pumped more than 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) into the banking system to stem the turmoil.  “German exports should benefit from a recovering global
economy,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro Bank
NV in Amsterdam. “Still, as the euro-area economy is the main
export market, domestic demand will be the main driver of growth
in the first quarter before foreign sales pick up again later in
the year.”  The  trade surplus  widened to 14.7 billion euros in February
from 13.2 billion euros in January, the report showed. The
surplus in the current account, a measure of all trade including
services, was 11.1 billion euros, up from 9.5 billion euros a
month earlier.  German companies are relying on faster-growing markets to
boost sales as European governments from Spain to  France  cut
spending to reduce budget deficits.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the single-
currency region will contract 0.5 percent this year, compared
with projected expansions of 1.8 percent in the U.S. and 7.3
percent in developing Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  