-- GM Sees New Models Staging Rebound From 90-Year U.S. Low
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/gm-sees-new-models-staging-rebound-from-90-year-u-s-low.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Vice Chairman
Stephen Girsky said last week the automaker wasn’t panicking
over its U.S. market share slide. Ohio dealer Robert Morris III
sees why.  “There’s a little bit of new-product lag involved and you
kind of have to wait it out,” said Morris, who sells Cadillac,
Buick and GMC brand vehicles in North Olmsted, about 25 minutes
southwest of  Cleveland . “I don’t perceive them as taking a
wait-and-see attitude or just taking it on the chin.”  At 17.5 percent, GM’s U.S. market share through March “may
have surprised some people,” Girsky, 49, told analysts April 4.
It’s below the 19 percent level that was the average full-year
estimate of five analysts Bloomberg surveyed in January. GM
finished 2011 with 19.6 percent of the U.S. market, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. The last time it ended a year with
17.5 percent market share or less was 1922.  The drop for GM, which retook the title of the world’s top-
selling automaker in 2011, is among the biggest surprises this
year in U.S. market share moves. Increased demand is spurring
analysts and automakers to boost 2012 sales estimates.  Chrysler Group LLC added 2.1 percentage points of market
share, showing up the five analysts that Bloomberg surveyed in
January. They estimated Chrysler, GM and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  would
cede share to the rebounding Toyota Motor Corp., which lost the
2011 world’s sales crown to GM, and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)   ‘Stale’ Product  “GM’s product is getting stale,”  John Wolkonowicz , an
independent analyst in  Boston  and former Ford product planner,
said yesterday in a phone interview. “Chrysler is having some
of the ‘Little Engine That Could’ phenomenon right now. They
were the real underdog that’s pulled themselves up by their
bootstraps and they’re hot stuff all the sudden.”  GM pulled back on incentive spending per vehicle by $405,
or 11 percent, this year in the first three months to an average
of $3,161 for every car and light truck it sold, according to
Autodata. The automaker’s sales still grew 2.7 percent through
March, and its total light-vehicle deliveries led Ford, No. 2 in
the U.S., by 70,498 and  Toyota (7203)  by 121,036.  In the first quarter, Detroit-based GM had five of the top
20 selling vehicles in the U.S., including the Silverado pickup
and Malibu sedan. The company last week unveiled a redesigned
Impala sedan at the  New York  auto show.  Morris, the Ohio dealer, is just ramping up sales of GM’s
new Buick Verano compact and will have the Cadillac ATS sports
sedan and XTS large sedan to sell by the end of the third
quarter. Those are among the new models that GM has said it’s
introducing in 2012 for segments representing 60 percent of U.S.
retail deliveries.  Chrysler Surprises  “We’re going to be competing in segments where we haven’t
been before,” Morris said in a telephone interview. “The fuel
economy is much better for something like ATS or Verano. We
didn’t have small entries like that, so we didn’t have a car to
compete.”  Chrysler deliveries climbed 39 percent through March to
398,051, boosting its share to 11.5 percent. Analysts estimated
that the automaker controlled by  Fiat SpA (F)  would end this year
with 10.5 percent share, down from 10.7 percent in 2011.  “We never really saw Chrysler increasing their share as
much as they have,” Alec Gutierrez, an analyst at Kelley Blue
Book in  Irvine ,  California , said in a telephone interview.
“Consumers are getting the sense that Chrysler is once again
producing higher quality products. The last couple years, people
shied away from Chrysler because there was still uncertainty
about their viability.”  Vanity Versus Sanity  New or redesigned models such as the Chrysler 200 and 300
sedans and Jeep Grand Cherokee sport-utility vehicle led the
automaker’s sales to outperform Kelley Blue Book’s estimates, he
said. Bloomberg also gathered estimates from analysts at
AutoPacific, LMC Automotive, Edmunds.com and TrueCar.com for the
January survey.  Chrysler is adding third shifts at plants in Illinois and
 Ohio  this year to meet demand, said Reid Bigland, head of U.S.
sales for  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler. That should
give the automaker enough capacity to maintain market share
gains if demand in the U.S. keeps accelerating, he said.  “But remember the old saying ‘market share is vanity and
profitability is sanity,’” Bigland wrote in an e-mail. “We are
going to continue to run a disciplined game plan first with our
market share numbers being secondary.”  Ford sees its share of the U.S. market falling this year,
 Mark Fields , the automaker’s president of the Americas, told
analysts last week at an industry conference in New York. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker previously forecast share to
be about equal with 2011’s 16.8 percent.  Ford’s Share  “Market share is important, but we also want to do that
profitably,” Fields told reporters last week at the New York
auto show. “We won’t engage in marginal business” through
deliveries to fleets or bigger discounts.  Ford light-vehicle deliveries rose 8.5 percent through
March. The automaker claimed 15.5 percent market share, down
from 16.2 percent a year earlier, according to Autodata. The
average estimate among five analysts Bloomberg surveyed in
January was for Ford to end the year with 16.3 percent share.  GM, Chrysler and Ford will be tested this year by Toyota
and Honda, which have rebuilt inventories after last year’s
tsunami in  Japan  and floods in  Thailand . Those natural disasters
disrupted the supply of parts and finished cars, leading to
vehicle shortages.  Toyota increased sales 12 percent, trailing the industry’s
13 percent gain, according to Autodata. That leaves Toyota City,
Japan-based Toyota with 14.1 percent market share, down from
14.2 percent a year earlier. Toyota is beating the 13.8 percent
average of five analysts’ estimates for full-year 2012 share.  Nissan Passes Honda  Honda deliveries rose 4 percent through March, giving the
Tokyo-based automaker a 9.2 percent share of the U.S. market,
down from 10.1 percent in 2011’s first quarter. Honda may end
the year with 9.5 percent of industry sales, according to the
five analysts’ average estimate.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  passed Honda in U.S. sales through March
to rank No. 5 among automakers in the market after increasing
sales by 13 percent. The Yokohama, Japan-based automaker had 9.3
percent market share, unchanged from a year earlier and ahead of
analysts’ estimates for 8 percent for 2012.  Ford and Toyota last week raised their forecasts for 2012
industrywide U.S. auto sales. Ford estimates deliveries of 14.5
million to 15 million, including medium- and heavy-duty trucks,
up from a previous range of 13.5 million to 14.5 million. Toyota
boosted its forecast for light vehicles only to the low- to
mid-14 million unit range from 13.6 million.  GM has left its estimate for 2012 sales unchanged at 13.5
million to 14 million. GM’s Girsky said at an April 4 conference
that the automaker won’t chase share with big incentives and
cited refreshed products such the Chevrolet Malibu sedan as
reason for optimism.  “No one’s panicking,” he said. “No one’s rushing, ‘Gee,
we got to throw a pile of money at the market.’ That’s not the
way we run the business these days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  