-- Goldman Dealmaker Zaoui Retires From Firm After 24 Years
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-10T17:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/goldman-sachs-says-mergers-co-head-zaoui-to-step-down-from-firm.html
Yoel Zaoui, named co-head of global
mergers and acquisitions at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  less than a
year ago, is leaving after 24 years at the bank, the eighth
management committee member to depart in 12 months.  Zaoui, a 51-year-old French citizen, will continue to
advise the firm as a senior director, according to an internal
memorandum obtained by Bloomberg. The London-based banker, who
joined in 1988, got his current post alongside Gene T. Sykes,
54, in May, according to the memo from Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn. Jo Carss, a
spokeswoman in London, confirmed the contents of the memo.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. based bank by assets,
is the fourth-ranked adviser on takeovers announced globally so
far this year after attaining the No. 1 position in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fees for takeover
advice and other financial advisory assignments fell 4 percent
last year and contributed 6.9 percent of the firm’s revenue,
according to the company’s results published in January.  Zaoui is credited with helping to “establish the firm’s
leadership position across many markets and leading some of the
region’s most important merger transactions,” according to the
memo. “Yoel has built strong relationships with many of our
significant clients and has helped to recruit, mentor and
develop many of our senior banking professionals.”  Zaoui and his older brother Michael, who ran European M&A
at Morgan Stanley before retiring in 2008 after a 21-year career
at the firm, became renowned in the late 1990s for their rivalry
on some of the biggest takeover battles. Among them were
TotalFina SA’s $58 billion purchase of Elf Aquitaine SA and
Vodafone AirTouch Plc’s $137 billion hostile bid for  Germany ’s
Mannesmann AG in 1999.  Zaoui’s Deals  Zaoui also advised on deals including the 2004 merger that
created French pharmaceuticals maker Sanofi and the 2006
combination of Arcelor and Mittal. He didn’t reply to an e-mail
and phone message seeking comment.  Takeover advice was a bigger portion of revenue a decade
ago, contributing 16 percent of Goldman Sachs’s top line in 2000
and 17 percent in 1999, according to company reports. Sales and
trading, which generated 39 percent of 2000 revenue, swelled to
60 percent of 2011 revenue, according to company reports.  Born in  Morocco , Zaoui grew up in Rome and Paris, where he
was educated at HEC Paris and Universite Paris-Dauphine, and
received a master’s degree in business administration from
 Stanford University ’s Graduate School of Business before joining
Goldman Sachs in  New York  in 1988. He moved to London one year
later, where he helped build the company’s European mergers-and-
acquisitions practice under the leadership of  John Thornton .  Moving Up  Zaoui was promoted to co-head of European mergers in 1999,
the year that Goldman Sachs became  Europe ’s top adviser on
hostile takeovers, and in 2006 was promoted to run all of
European  investment banking . In February 2008 he was among nine
Goldman Sachs executives named to the management committee. Five
of those partners including Zaoui are among eight committee
members who have left in the last 12 months.  Richard M. Ruzika, who joined in 1982, left the bank last
April and was followed later in the year by Yusuf A. Alireza,
Edward C. Forst and Kevin W. Kennedy. Edward K. Eisler, David B. Heller and Donald R. Mullen Jr.’s departures were all announced
earlier this year.  Excluding Zaoui, the  management committee  currently has 28
members.  The departures of Goldman Sachs bankers Luca Ferrari, who
advised Xstrata Plc on its proposed merger with Glencore
International Plc, and New York-based partners George Mattson
and Jeffrey Moslow were announced in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 