-- Mideast Oil Premiums Near Seven-Week Low: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-04-10T01:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/mideast-oil-premiums-near-seven-week-low-asia-crude-correct-.html
(Corrects time reference for premium level in first
paragraph in a story published April 9.)  Premiums for crudes from  Abu Dhabi 
fell to the lowest level in almost seven weeks.  Saudi Arabia 
will make all its contracted shipments to  Asia  next month,
according to buyers at four refineries in the region.  Abu Dhabi’s  Murban (PGCPMURB)  fell 2 cents to assessment 1 cent above
its own official selling price, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The emirate’s  Umm Shaif (PGCPUMSH)  crude was down 2 cents to a
discount of 15 cent to its OSP. Both are at the lowest prices
since Feb. 22, the data show.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the region’s largest supplier, will
provide full contracted volumes to customers in Asia during May,
according to four buyers at refineries in  South Korea ,  Japan  and
Singapore who were notified by the company. They declined to be
identified because the information is confidential.  The May  Brent-Dubai (PVMMDBSP)  exchange for swaps, which measures the
European marker grade’s premium against the Middle East oil,
rose 35 cents to $3.85 a barrel, according to data from PVM Oil
Associates Ltd., a London-based broker. The June EFS also
dropped 15 cents, to $3.97.  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when the price for delivery
now is  greater  than that for later, fell 8 cents. Swaps for May
were $1.72 a barrel more than July, according to PVM data.  Oman for June delivery was down $1.19 to $119.41 a barrel
at 4:57 p.m. Singapore time on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange,
with 1,561 contracts traded. The contract closed at $119.66 at
12:30 p.m. Dubai time.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. (5001)  suspended talks with Iran over
the renewal of a 10,000 barrel-a-day crude supply contract that
was scheduled to start in April, according to a company official
who declined to be identified because of internal policy.  Largest Buyer  Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. (5002) , Japan’s largest buyer of crude
from Iran, is finishing talks on reducing its oil purchasing
contract with the country for the fiscal year started April 1,
Satoshi Yoshida, company spokesman, said April 6 in  Tokyo .  Showa Shell plans to reduce the contract volume of about
100,000 barrels-a-day in accordance with an agreement between
the U.S. and Japan. The U.S. and its allies have accused Iran of
seeking to develop nuclear weapons and have imposed sanctions on
the country, including limits on oil purchases.  Taiwan , which imports more than 99 percent of its oil
needs, increased purchases of crude by 7.8 percent to 27.4
million barrels in March, the finance ministry said in Taipei
today.  No Dubai partial cargoes were sold for the fifth day,
according to a survey of traders who monitor the Platts pricing
window.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  