-- High-Speed Trading Is Progress, Not Piracy
-- B y   B e r n a r d   S .   D o n e f e r
-- 2012-04-10T23:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/high-speed-trading-is-progress-not-piracy.html
They steal from the rich and keep
it! That sums up the criticism of E-pirates, aka high-frequency
traders, the current bad boys of the financial markets. Many
retail and institutional investors believe that as much as $2
billion annually in high-frequency trading profits are coming
out of their own pockets.  High-frequency technology has also been wrongly blamed for
sudden instability in the markets, most recently when the Bats
equity exchange canceled its initial public offering after a
computer glitch caused chaotic trading in its own stock and
others.  But criticisms of HFT are overblown, and regulating
potential abuses isn’t as hard as many believe. In fact, more
regulation -- unless wisely applied -- is likely to do more harm
than good.  Critics are concerned that traders with “low-latency”
technology, who often pay to locate their servers near an
exchange’s systems to decrease messaging delays, have the
earliest access to market data and may front-run other market
participants.  But information-timing asymmetries have always existed.
Specialists, over-the-counter market makers and floor traders
have always had price information ahead of the rest of the
market. In the mid-1990s, the “SOES bandits” took advantage of
human market makers by using  Nasdaq (NDAQ) ’s Small Order Execution
System to place orders before humans could update their bids and
offers.  Speed of information and execution is everyone’s objective
in the marketplace -- and the current trading infrastructure is
no more than a logical extension of a long-term trend.  Benefits of HFT  That’s not a bad thing. If an investor plans to hold a
stock for weeks, months or years, it isn’t clear that he is
disadvantaged -- and, in fact, he may benefit from HFT.  In a study published March 19, Ana Avramovic of Credit
Suisse Group AG showed that intraday volatility has actually
been steadily decreasing since 2005, even as HFT has increased.
In 2008, of course, daily volatility shot to the highest level
since 1932, as traders responded to the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. But 2011 ranked only 16th in terms of
daily volatility in that period, and was less volatile than 2000
and 2002, years when HFT was less prevalent.  Avramovic also found tighter spreads and greater liquidity
for the national best bid and offer since 2004. She concluded
that, as far as HFTs were concerned, “at a minimum, markets are
not worse for their presence.” This has been corroborated by a
number of academic and industry sources.  The reason why is that automated market makers (or AMMs), a
subset of HFTs, are liquidity providers. Their quote-and-cancel
rates may be high, but unless they offer the best price in the
market, they won’t get order flow.  Some argue that AMMs are less reliable than traditional
market makers and that their liquidity evaporates in a crisis --
as in the May 6, 2010 “flash crash.” Some AMMs did indeed abandon
the market that day, and left the infamous, and now banned, stub
quotes (buy at $0.01, sell at $10,000) as evidence. But AMM
systems automatically stop trading when market data appear out
of normal bounds or when regulatory capital reaches prescribed
limits. These are reasonable actions. Had AMMs kept trading,
they would have been criticized for not having appropriate risk
systems in place.  More to the point, after a few minutes of analysis,
managers responded to the flash crash by quickly restarting
their systems and driving the market to a recovery within half
an hour -- as opposed to the year it took to recover from the
stock-market crash of 1987. A  report on the flash crash  by the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission notably did not place the blame with high-
frequency traders. Those who question the reliability of AMM
liquidity forget that liquidity itself has always been a
fleeting and fitful commodity in our markets.  Further Scrutiny  Do esoteric quant models, which also require little human
interaction, pose a threat? It depends on the model. Models
based on momentum strategies may exacerbate volatility. But
quants are most often based on arbitrage strategies, which I
believe smooth markets and lower volatility. In examining many
of the models, it is clear that they use techniques similar to
the technical analysis I learned decades ago -- only now
exploiting access to real-time data. This is neither illegal nor
unexpected. It’s merely a consequence of technological advances.  Some HFT practices do require further scrutiny. Momentum
ignition (in which traders take a position and then start rumors
or place orders to quickly drive the market up or down) and
layering (where traders place orders in the market-order books
to imply substantial buying or selling pressure without the
intention of executing) could both open the door to market
manipulation.  But we need specificity in identifying such strategies,
rather than cracking down on high-frequency traders as a
homogenous class.  Regulators worldwide are responding to calls to address
perceived market abuses. Studies have been undertaken by an
alphabet soup of organizations: the FSA, IOSCO, SEC, CFTC,
FINRA, FRB and others. All these studies suffer from the same
problems -- too much anecdotal information and insufficient
relevant data. We still can’t tell if a 300-share buy order
originated as a market-maker quote, my aunt’s retail order, a
quant trade or part of an institutional algorithm programmed to
buy 500,000 shares.  There is a good solution to this problem. As I’ve
previously argued, all market orders should be coded by trading
strategy. This information would be available only for use by
regulators, who could analyze trading trends or a problematic
market event. However, since all order-management systems,
financial-information exchange (or FIX) messages and execution
systems would need to be modified to carry the data, many in the
industry reject this suggestion as too costly. Hopefully that
attitude will change.  Structural Reforms  In January 2010, the SEC identified a number of other
problem areas that need to be addressed in its excellent
“ concept release ” on market structure. Most important, we need
to direct attention to broad structural issues. For example, we
should consider creating new trading venues exclusive to
institutional block investors, and perhaps allowing block
traders to opt out of the SEC’s “trade-through rule,” which
requires buying shares at the best available price, even when
that’s a hindrance to large trades. A new call market limited to
small and mid-cap stocks might increase liquidity and tighten
spreads for stocks with low average  daily volume .  Finally, we need to ensure that all markets and asset
classes are regulated in a consistent way. That means, for
example, uniform rules across exchanges on circuit breakers,
trading collars, trade-cancellation rules and systemic-risk
models.  Let’s regulate to ensure fairness and not to hinder
technological advance. Perhaps high-frequency traders are the
more useful privateers -- and not the pirates.  (Bernard S. Donefer is a distinguished lecturer and
associate director of the Subotnick Financial Services Center of
 Baruch College , CUNY. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on the similarities of the
 budget plans  of President  Barack Obama  and Representative  Paul
Ryan  and what a  nuclear deal  with  Iran  should look like. Clive
Crook on why the  Federal Reserve  needs a new, simpler  mandate .
 Margaret Carlson  on why there always will be waste, fraud and
 abuse  in government.  Peter Orszag  on how  index funds  are
boosting aluminum prices. William Pesek on growth in the
 Philippines  reducing the  appeal of emigrating . Gary Shilling on
why U.S.  employment gains  are linked to stagnating productivity.  To contact the writer of this article: Bernard S. Donefer at
 bernard.donefer@baruch.cuny.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Timothy
Lavin at  tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 