-- Milton Friedman Proved Wrong by Aluminum Market
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-04-10T23:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/milton-friedman-proved-wrong-by-aluminum-market.html
Commodity prices have fluctuated
substantially over the past few years. The controversial
question is, are financial speculators to blame?  In general, prices are determined by underlying forces of
physical supply and demand. But with regard to at least one
commodity -- aluminum -- and at least for brief periods of time,
new research suggests that financial flows can indeed influence
prices significantly.  Over the past decade, commodity prices have risen by an
average of 9 percent a year, according to the composite index
assembled by the Commodity Research Bureau. Aluminum prices,
which have been through some dramatic ups and downs, have gained
a bit less rapidly over that time. The average closing price for
aluminum on the London Metal Exchange went from less than $1,500
per metric ton in 2001 to almost $2,400 in 2011 -- an increase
of about 5 percent a year. (Disclosure: I have clients involved
in both the production and use of aluminum.)  The vast bulk of the aluminum price changes can be
explained by physical supply-and-demand factors, such as the
cost of energy, opening of new supply basins at higher marginal
costs and the increase in demand from  China . At the same time,
however, financial markets have become significantly more
interested in aluminum. Over the past five or so years, trading
in the material has roughly doubled. Daily volumes on financial
markets are now 10 to 20 times the physical consumption of
aluminum -- and market participants hold contracts that
represent about half of world consumption, a large share even
compared with other commodities.  Interest in Aluminum  The rapid “financialization” of this market has been driven
partly by the entry of institutional index investors. Index
funds, which currently amount to about a quarter of total
financial-market holdings of aluminum, allow an array of
investors to put money in the commodity without having to worry
about physically owning it.  The question is whether expanded financial interest in
aluminum has driven up the level and volatility of prices. The
dominant academic perspective suggests that market prices will
be determined by physical supply and demand, and that financial
trading can, if anything, only drive them more rapidly toward
balance.  The first prong of this argument applies to speculation in
general. As  Milton Friedman  wrote in 1953 regarding the
exchange-rate market, “People who argue that speculation is
generally destabilizing seldom realize that this is largely
equivalent to saying that speculators lose money, since
speculation can be destabilizing in general only if speculators
on the average sell when the currency is low in price and buy
when it is high.” In other words, trading should drive market
prices toward equilibrium because successful traders -- the only
ones who will survive -- must “buck the trend” by buying cheap
while selling dear.  In the aluminum market, however, a number of the conditions
necessary for the Friedman principle to hold appear to be
absent.  J. Bradford DeLong, a professor of economics at the
 University of California , Berkeley, and colleagues have  shown ,
for example, that if other market participants tend to follow
“positive feedback” strategies by buying when prices rise and
selling when prices fall, financial speculators may destabilize
prices even as they turn a good profit.  Daniel P. Ahn, a colleague of mine at Citigroup Inc., says
that may be precisely what happens when index funds buy
aluminum. Even though the funds typically have no information
that is unknown to traders, the anonymity of their trades causes
the market to misinterpret an index purchase as coming from
someone with superior information. Furthermore, index positions
are large and most often long. The result is that the initial
investment, which causes the price to rise, generates further
increases as other traders jump on the bandwagon.  Supply and Demand  A second prong of the academic argument about speculation
applies specifically to physical commodities, such as aluminum.
It says that if financial-market participants drive prices above
equilibrium levels, consumers will cut back on their demand and
suppliers will step up their production -- leading to an
observable increase in inventory levels and a decline in prices.  In the case of aluminum, though, things may not work so
smoothly -- which is why financial flows can raise prices and
volatility for a period of time. For one reason, within certain
price ranges, supply and demand are relatively inelastic. On the
supply side, that’s because existing smelters are limited in how
much additional production they can handle -- and opening new
smelters is expensive and takes time. On the demand side, many
end users, such as auto manufacturers, are reluctant to switch
from aluminum to other materials unless the price increase is
extreme. So prices can move a lot without much change in supply
or demand.  Inelastic supply and demand also mean that even relatively
large price increases generate relatively modest changes in
inventory levels. And given how difficult it is to obtain
accurate information about inventory in the aluminum business,
small changes may be difficult for the market to detect. So
trying to use inventory levels to measure how far the market is
out of whack may not work that well. As a result, “multiple
equilibriums” of plausible market prices can persist over a
surprisingly long period before supply-and-demand fundamentals
finally exert themselves.  Ahn’s statistical analysis suggests that a surge in index
investments in aluminum has tended to precede a gain in prices.
For example, the increase in index investment from the beginning
of 2006 until July 2008 appears to have raised aluminum prices
by 25 percent. At that point, the prices were roughly 30 percent
above the level that could be explained by production costs --
and the implication is that the index investments can explain a
significant share of the difference.  After the summer of 2008, index funds rapidly left the
market, with total index investment falling by about 70 percent
from 2008 to 2009. Aluminum prices promptly plunged, from a bit
over $3,000 per metric ton in July 2008 to $1,400 in January
2009, before recovering to $2,100 in January 2012.  At the same time as the aluminum price decline, though, a
variety of commodity prices plummeted -- so it is difficult to
disentangle the broader macroeconomic effects from the index-
fund fluctuations. And within the aluminum market, prices
continued to be influenced by factors such as the financing of
inventories and new projects.  A reasonable conclusion from all of this is that
fundamental supply and demand drive aluminum prices most of the
time, but that financial flows (including index funds) can, over
brief periods, exert a noticeable destabilizing effect --
especially when inflows change rapidly.  The aluminum market thus suggests a broader conclusion,
which other evidence indicates also holds for the price of food
and other commodities: The Friedman principle of stabilizing
speculation is not always right.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on the similarities of the
 budget plans  of President  Barack Obama  and Representative  Paul
Ryan  and what a  nuclear deal  with  Iran  should look like. Clive
Crook on why the  Federal Reserve  needs a new, simpler  mandate .
 Margaret Carlson  on why there always will be  waste, fraud and
abuse  in government. William Pesek on growth in the  Philippines 
reducing the  appeal of emigrating . Gary Shilling on why U.S.
 employment gains  are linked to stagnating productivity and
Bernard Donefer on the merits of  high-frequency trading .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  