-- IMF Said Ready to Cut China Current-Account Surplus Forecast
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-11T06:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/imf-said-ready-to-cut-forecast-for-china-current-account-surplus.html
The  International Monetary Fund  is
set to lower its forecasts for  China ’s medium-term current-
account surplus, according to two officials who have seen the
draft report.  The Washington-based IMF in September estimated surpluses
of more than  7 percent  of gross domestic product for 2015 and
2016. The new forecasts for the broadest measure of trade will
be published April 17 in the IMF’s World Economic Outlook,
according to the officials, who spoke on condition they wouldn’t
be named because the figures haven’t been made public.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, amassed $3.18
trillion of foreign reserves at the end of last year, provoking
accusations from U.S. lawmakers that it was keeping its currency
weak to promote exports. The lowered forecasts for China’s
current account may reduce pressure on the nation to allow its
currency to appreciate, said  Eswar Prasad , a former head of the
China division at the IMF.  The new IMF outlook “definitely implies that the estimates
of under-evaluation are going to be reduced,” said Prasad, a
senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington. “The
big question is whether” it will be “enough to eliminate the
sense of substantial undervaluation,” he said.  The prospective reduction of the forecasts was reported
earlier by the Wall Street Journal. IMF spokesman  William Murray 
declined to comment on the story.  Near ‘Equilibrium’  The IMF staff, in its assessment of  China’s economy  last
year, estimated that the yuan was “substantially below the
level consistent with medium-term fundamentals,” a conclusion
disputed by Chinese authorities, who cited faulty current-
account projections among other arguments.  The yuan may be near an “equilibrium” and policy makers
will allow greater exchange-rate volatility, Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said on March 14.  China’s current-account surplus was 2.7 percent of GDP last
year and will, over three to five years, “go to about 3
percent,” according to estimates by  Wang Tao , an economist with
UBS AG in  Hong Kong . Credit Agricole SA projects it will fall to
1.4 percent this year and 1.1 percent in 2013.  “The case that the yuan is not that undervalued is
becoming a mainstream economic view,” said Yao Wei, an
economist with Societe Generale AG in Hong Kong. “Confirmation
from the IMF provides political support for China in its
dealings with the U.S. and other economies.”  Unexpected Surplus  China’s current-account excess has shrunk from more than 10
percent of GDP in 2007. The nation yesterday reported an
unexpected  trade surplus  for March as import growth trailed
forecasts, underscoring the risks of a deeper slowdown in an
economy that has powered global expansion.  Inbound shipments rose 5.3 percent, the customs bureau said,
below the 9 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Exports increased 8.9 percent from a year earlier, more than
forecast, leaving a trade surplus of $5.35 billion, compared
with a median projection for a $3.15 billion deficit.  The yuan had its first quarterly decline since December
2009 in the first three months of 2012, sliding 0.06 percent to
close at 6.2980 per dollar on March 30 in Shanghai, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Still, the currency remains “substantially undervalued, by
about 30 percent against the dollar,”  Arvind Subramanian , a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in  Washington  and a former assistant director of
research at the IMF, wrote in the Financial Times on April 9.
“The mercantilist juggernaut is alive and well,” he wrote.  The current account shows trade and income transactions,
including investment income, between residents and nonresidents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  