-- India Stock Futures Gain as Funds Continue Record Buying
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-04-10T10:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/india-stock-futures-gain-as-funds-continue-record-buying.html
Most shares on India’s benchmark
stock index declined.  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the nation’s biggest
natural-gas supplier, tumbled after the regulator cut tariff at
one of its subsidiaries.  GAIL India dropped to a one-month low.  Indraprastha Gas
Ltd. (IGL) , which sells natural gas in New Delhi, lost as much as half
its value after the regulator cut rates for carrying the fuel in
the nation’s capital. GAIL owns 22.5 percent of Indraprastha.
 Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the largest truckmaker and owner of Jaguar
Land Rover, rallied the most in a month.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, gained 0.1
percent to 17,241.98, according to preliminary closing prices at
3:30 p.m. in Mumbai. Three shares fell for every two that
climbed on the 30-member stock gauge.  The gauge has risen 11 percent this year as foreign funds
have  poured  a net $9.2 billion into stocks amid optimism the
central bank will ease monetary policy to spur growth. Net
inflows into emerging-nation equity funds have totaled $25.63
billion in 2012, compared with outflows of $18 billion in the
year-ago period, EPFR Global said April 4.  India will be a “beneficiary of benign capital flows to
 emerging markets , although it will remain volatile because there
will be some data point which will not be as expected,” Nirmal Jain, chairman of brokerage IIFL Ltd., told Bloomberg UTV today.
“Unless something goes extra-ordinarily wrong with India we
will see a continuous flow of money but it will not be as
bullish as it was a few weeks ago.”  Expectations for interest-rate cuts that helped fuel this
year’s rally have been tempered after Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  projected record government borrowing to fill a gap in
finances. He missed his deficit target by the most in three
years and forecast the fiscal gap would narrow to 5.1 percent of
GDP in the year from April 1, Mukherjee said in his budget
speech on March 16. The central bank left the key  interest rate 
unchanged at 8.5 percent at meeting on March 15. It next meets
on April 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  