-- India’s President to Seek Clarity on Phone Permit Cancellations
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2012-04-10T18:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/india-s-president-to-seek-clarity-on-phone-permit-cancellations.html
India ’s cabinet decided to invoke a
constitutional provision under which President Pratibha
Devisingh Patil can ask the  Supreme Court  to clarify some parts
of its Feb. 2 order canceling 122 mobile-phone licenses.  The cabinet “cleared referring certain questions” to the
top court, Telecommunications Minister  Kapil Sibal  told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday. He declined to elaborate
further.  The Supreme Court in its February verdict said the
government’s policy of granting permits without auctions in 2008
was “flawed” and had been influenced by those with “money
power.” On April 4, the court rejected review petitions of
seven companies to reconsider its judgment. It accepted for
hearing on April 13 the government’s plea questioning the
court’s jurisdiction over policy matters.  The February ruling forced companies such as  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , known as Etisalat, to start winding up
its operations. Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and Etisalat wrote down
their investments in India. Telenor and  Russia ’s AFK Sistema
threatened to invoke bilateral trade treaties to protect their
businesses and said they may seek international arbitration. The
closures will affect 69 million customers.  Article 143 of the Indian constitution says “if at any
time it appears to the President that a question of law or fact
has arisen, or is likely to arise, which is of such a nature and
of such public importance that it is expedient to obtain the
opinion of the Supreme Court upon it.”  Curative Petition  Uninor, the joint venture between Telenor and India’s
 Unitech Ltd. (UT) , said April 4 it will file a curative petition and
ask the court to keep its order in abeyance until a new bench
hears the case afresh.  If the Supreme Court’s response to the president “is
positive, it will favor the government in fighting the case
before the court,” said Davendra B. Goswami, a constitutional
lawyer, who practices in the top court in New Delhi.  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja  is in
jail after the nation’s chief auditor in 2010 reported that the
sale of the airwaves lacked transparency and ineligible bidders
bought them at “unbelievably low prices.” The auditor also
said the policy chosen by Raja may have deprived the exchequer
of as much as $31 billion, sparking the nation’s biggest graft
probe. Raja and the other accused have denied any wrongdoing.  The mobile-phone license scandal contributed to an 18-month
slowdown in policy making by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s
government. In local elections last month, Singh’s ruling
Congress party suffered defeats, two years before a national
election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  