-- India Money-Market Rates Drop From Highest in 38 Months
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-04-10T05:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/india-money-market-rates-drop-from-highest-in-38-months.html
India ’s money-market rates are
dropping from the highest in 38 months as Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  accelerates spending to revive growth in  Asia ’s
third-biggest economy.  Three-month commercial paper  yields  slumped 80 basis points
in April to 10.45 percent after touching 11.9 percent in March,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar rates in the
 U.S. (DCPB090D)  fell six basis points and were unchanged in  China (CNMPA025) . Lenders
in India borrowed 786 billion rupees ($15.4 billion) on April 4
to meet funding shortages, the least in three months.  Cash availability will improve as the government kickstarts
this year’s 15 trillion rupee spending plan that includes paying
for pensions, road-building and phone services, according to
Deutsche Bank AG. Global investors have boosted rupee debt
 holdings  for 12 consecutive quarters after policy makers
estimated the economy would grow 7.6 percent this fiscal year,
from 6.9 percent last year.  “The expectation is that cash conditions should improve as
the government boosts spending,” K. Ramanathan, the Mumbai-
based chief investment officer at ING Investment Management
Pvt., a unit of the largest Dutch financial services company
that oversees $305 million, said in an interview yesterday.
“That should help bring down money-market rates quite a bit.”  The three-month rate will slide to 9.25 percent in the next
two months, he said.  Cash Balance  Banks are relying less on the central bank to meet their
funding shortages. Lenders  borrowed  1.1 trillion rupees on
average per day from the central bank this month, according to
 Reserve Bank  of India data. They sought a record 1.5 trillion
rupees in March as companies prepared to pay taxes.  Fiscal spending, set to increase 13 percent this year, is
often frontloaded because the government uses up the previous
year’s tax income. The federal administration’s cash  balance  was
1.2 trillion rupees as of March 23, equivalent to 1.2 percent of
gross domestic product, Deutsche Bank estimated in a note to
clients on April 5. “This would also improve the liquidity
position in April substantively,” according to the note.  Yields on three-month commercial paper fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, yesterday to the lowest since
Feb. 10. Still, the 10.45 percent rate is almost 10 percentage
points more than in the U.S. and compares with  China ’s 4.2
percent.  Reserve Requirements  Indian  government bonds  rallied for a third day today, with
the yield on the benchmark 8.79 percent notes due November 2021
dropping one basis point to 8.62 percent. The central bank may
buy federal securities worth as much as 2 trillion rupees in the
current fiscal year after purchasing 1.3 trillion rupees in the
prior 12 months, according to IndusInd Bank Ltd.  Three-month money-market rates could drop to 8.5 percent by
the end of June as the Reserve Bank injects cash into the
financial system by cutting lenders’ reserve requirements, J. Moses Harding, the Mumbai-based executive vice president at
IndusInd Bank, said in an interview yesterday. The central bank
will  reduce  the amount of cash needed to be set aside by 125
basis points in the current fiscal year, he predicted.  The government’s record borrowing plan will keep money-
market rates elevated, according to Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. The
 finance ministry  intends to borrow 5.69 trillion rupees this
fiscal year, 12 percent more than in the 12 months through
March.  Money supply , which comprises currency in circulation,
 bank deposits  and investment in other savings plans, rose 13
percent in the year through March 23, according to central bank
data. That was the slowest pace of growth since April 2005.  Bond Risk  “Government borrowing is strong, which is curbing the
availability of cash,”  Indranil Pan , the Mumbai-based chief
economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, said in an interview
yesterday. “Short-term rates will continue to be under pressure
for at least a couple of months.”  India’s bond risk has climbed since Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  unveiled his borrowing plan in parliament on March 16.
Credit-default swaps that protect the debt of  State Bank  of
India have increased 30 basis points to 335 points, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in privately negotiated markets. Some investors
consider the lender, the nation’s biggest, a proxy for the
sovereign. The swaps pay face value should a company fail to
adhere to its agreements.  The yield premium that investors seek to hold rupee-
denominated debt has dropped as global funds boost holdings of
Indian bonds. The  difference  in yields between the government’s
10-year notes and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries has shrunk to
669 basis points from a record 697 basis points reached in
November.  Call Rate  International investors raised their ownership of local
 bonds  by $3.9 billion in the three months through March to $30
billion, according to the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  India’s bonds returned 5 percent in the past year, compared
with the 23.2 percent earned by Indonesian securities, according
to a debt-market index monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The call-money  rate , at which lenders borrow from another,
has slumped 605 basis points, since reaching a three-year high
of 15 percent on March 30.  “Cash conditions should remain fairly comfortable in the
near term as the government starts spending in the fiscal
year,” Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based fixed-income strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an interview on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  