-- Indian Bonds Gain a Third Day on Speculation RBI Will Cut Rates
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-04-10T04:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/indian-bonds-gain-a-third-day-on-speculation-rbi-will-cut-rates.html
India ’s bonds rose for a third day,
pushing yields to this month’s lowest level, on speculation the
central bank will cut borrowing costs as the economy cools.  The  Reserve Bank of India , which has held the  repurchase
rate  at 8.5 percent since October after last year’s seven
increases, will review monetary policy on April 17. Government
data may show this week that annual gains in  factory output 
slowed to 6.6 percent in February from 6.8 percent the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Bonds also
gained on optimism the central bank will buy debt to support a
record sovereign borrowing program.  “A token rate cut is probably on the cards given growth
concerns,” said  Paresh Nayar , head of money-market and currency
trading in Mumbai at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  “There could also be an
open-market operation to buy bonds after the lukewarm response
to last week’s auction.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.62 percent as of
9:40 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate is the lowest since March 30.  Primary dealers, who underwrite federal debt sales, had to
pick up 6.6 percent of the 180 billion rupees ($3.5 billion) of
bonds offered at an auction on April 3, according to the central
bank. India plans to sell 150 billion rupees of bonds on April
13 as part of a plan to borrow 5.69 trillion rupees in the
fiscal year that started April 1.  The  Reserve Bank  bought 1.3 trillion rupees of securities
via open-market auctions in the year ended March 31.  One-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, was little
changed at 7.98 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  