-- Instagram’s Systrom Builds $1 Billion Application in Two Years
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/instagram-s-systrom-builds-1-billion-application-in-two-years.html
Silicon Valley is one of the few
places where a 27-year-old Web entrepreneur can parlay a photo-
sharing application with no known source of revenue into $1
billion -- in two years.  Evidence of that came yesterday, when  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
announced plans to buy Instagram, a startup co-founded in 2010
by Kevin Systrom, a Stanford University graduate and former
Google Inc. employee.  The Instagram app, owned by Burbn Inc., fetched $1 billion
in cash and stock after building an audience of more than 30
million people, mostly users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. That kind
of growth was enabled by the spread of social networking and
smartphones, and the plummeting costs required to build an
 Internet company . Instagram has just 13 employees, up from four
a year ago, when the app was used by 4 million consumers.  “It’s a massive accomplishment,” said Shervin Pishevar, a
managing director at Menlo Ventures in  Menlo Park ,  California .
Pishevar backs social-media companies, though he didn’t invest
in Instagram. “This is an indicator of what great teams and
great products with amazing execution can accomplish in historic
amounts of time,” he said.  While the deal may raise concerns about another technology
bubble, the price tag is only about 1 percent of Facebook’s
projected valuation when the world’s largest social-networking
site sells shares to the public. And Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg , who founded the company in a Harvard University
dormitory, understands the model of establishing an audience
before generating sales. That’s how he built Facebook.  Bigger Deal  Prior to the Instagram deal, Zuckerberg had only  purchased 
smaller companies, including e-book publisher Push Pop Press
Inc. and mobile-messaging app Beluga Inc. Nothing came close in
size to Instagram, an app used by smartphone owners to upload
photos, color them with vintage effects and other filters, and
then share them with friends.  “This is an important milestone for Facebook, because it’s
the first time we’ve ever acquired a product and company with so
many users,” Zuckerberg said in a  statement  yesterday.  Unlike Zuckerberg, who dropped out of Harvard after
starting Facebook in 2004, Instagram CEO Systrom finished
college. He graduated from Stanford in 2006 with a degree in
management science and engineering and was part of the school’s
Mayfield Fellows Program, a nine-month course for future
entrepreneurs.  Early Projects  Systrom also was in the  Sigma Nu Fraternity , where he was
routinely showing off his design skills, said Tommy Leep, one of
Systrom’s fraternity brothers. Systrom produced a video for the
frat and worked on a college marketplace that worked like
Craigslist, said Leep, who now works at venture firm  Floodgate 
in  Palo Alto , California.  “Kevin was a constant tinkerer, always working on
interesting technology products,” Leep said. “He was one of
those guys that it would just make sense to put a bet on.”  Systrom didn’t respond to a request for comment.  After Stanford, Systrom worked as an intern at podcasting
startup Odeo, whose early team included Evan Williams, Biz Stone
and Jack Dorsey, the trio who later started Twitter Inc.  He then worked at  Mountain View , California-based  Google (GOOG)  on
the Gmail and Google Reader products, as well as in the
company’s corporate-development unit. In early 2010, he teamed
up with Mike Krieger, a fellow Stanford grad who would become
his Instagram partner.  Andreessen Horowitz  Right off the bat, they raised a $500,000 seed investment
from Andreessen Horowitz and Baseline Ventures. They introduced
the Instagram application seven months later in October and had
almost 200,000 users within the first week, according to a New
York Times report at the time.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  By February 2011, membership had soared to 1.75 million,
with users uploading 290,000 photos a day. That growth attracted
a $7 million  investment  from  Benchmark Capital  and prominent
angel investors, including Twitter’s Dorsey, Chris Sacca and
Quora Inc.’s Adam D’Angelo.  In the next three months, the user base more than doubled
to 4 million, all while the company still employed only four
people. Systrom said in a May 2011 interview on “Bloomberg
West” that “we have many late nights.”  Since then, the number of Instagram users has jumped more
than sevenfold. Last week, the app became available for phones
running Google’s Android operating system, expanding on its
inroads with the iPhone.  ‘Dopamine Effect’  After a week in the Android store, Instagram is the top-
ranked free app not made by Google and No. 3 overall, behind
Google voice search and maps. Facebook is eighth.  The app’s success stems in part from how many users give
feedback on Instagram photos, Sacca said. A large percentage of
pictures get “liked” by other users, he said.  “That engagement creates the dopamine effect that leaves
users feeling fantastic and coming back for more,” Sacca said.  Investors, meanwhile, have been lining up to get in the
door. That culminated last week in a $60 million financing
round, led by  Sequoia Capital , which valued the company at $500
million, according to people with knowledge of the funding.  That means Systrom built Instagram’s valuation from zero to
$500 million in two years, then doubled it to $1 billion in a
week. Despite the odds, Systrom and Krieger always knew they
would reach this point, Sacca said.  “They never once doubted that they were building a
billion-dollar company,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  