-- Investor Advisory Committee, JPMorgan, Icahn: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-04-10T11:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/investor-advisory-committee-jpmorgan-icahn-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission announced formation of a new investor advisory
committee. The committee, required by the Dodd-Frank Act, has 21
members and will, according to the statement, advise on
regulations, trading and the effectiveness of disclosure, as
well as other issues.  Among the members are  Joseph Grundfest , a former SEC
commissioner who is now a professor at Stanford Law School;
Joseph Dear, the chief investment officer at the  California 
Public Employees Retirement System; and Ann Yerger, the
executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors.  For a complete list of the members of the new committee,
 click here.   Compliance Policy  JPMorgan’s Iksil Fuels Prop-Trading Debate With Swaps Bets  JPMorgan Chase & Co. trader Bruno Iksil’s outsized bets in
credit derivatives are drawing attention to a little-known
division that invests the company’s reserves and fueling a
debate over whether banks are taking excessive risks with
federally insured and subsidized money.  Iksil’s influence in the market has spurred some
counterparts to dub him Voldemort, after the Harry Potter
villain. He works in  London  in the bank’s chief investment
office, which has assembled traders from across  Wall Street  to
its staff of 400 who help oversee $350 billion in investments.
While the firm describes  the unit ’s main task as hedging risks
and investing excess cash, four hedge-fund managers and dealers
say the trades are big enough to move indexes and resemble
proprietary bets, or wagers made with the bank’s own money.  The trades, first reported by Bloomberg News April 5,
stirred debate among U.S. policy makers over the Easter-holiday
weekend as they wrangle over this year’s implementation of the
so-called Volcker rule, the portion of the Dodd-Frank Act that
sets limits on risk-taking by banks with government backing. The
law passed after the collapse of the subprime mortgage market
triggered the worst financial crisis since the  Great Depression. (INDU)   “I wouldn’t be surprised if the pro-Volcker folks used
this as a test case,” said Douglas Landy, a partner at  law firm 
Allen & Overy LLP who is representing Canadian banks in opposing
a current draft of the rule.  Senator  Jeff Merkley  criticized the transactions in a
statement that called for the rule’s prompt implementation,
while Representative Brad Miller said they show why related U.S.
laws should apply internationally.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on Iksil’s specific transactions, and Iksil
didn’t respond to phone messages and e-mails seeking comment.
Neither Iksil nor JPMorgan have been accused of wrongdoing, and
the full extent of his trading and the bank’s total risk of
loss, or total gain, on his investments isn’t known.  Authorities will need more information from JPMorgan, the
biggest U.S. bank by assets, to discern the precise purpose of
Iksil’s transactions, said Clifford Rossi, an executive-in-
residence at the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School
of Business.  “It clearly calls attention to the Volcker issue,” said
Rossi, who previously was a managing director at Citigroup Inc.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Rothstein Lawyer Charged With Illegal McCain Campaign Gifts  A former associate of convicted Ponzi schemer Scott Rothstein was charged with illegally helping their law firm
become the largest contributor to the presidential campaign of
Republican John McCain in 2008.  Attorney Steven Lippman, 49, was charged with conspiring to
help Rothstein’s defunct law firm, Rothstein, Rosenfeldt &
Adler, illegally “bundle” contributions to McCain’s losing
campaign against President Barack Obama. He’s also accused of
conspiring to draw checks on accounts with insufficient funds
and to evade taxes.  Lippman is the eighth person accused of helping Rothstein,
a disbarred attorney serving 50 years in prison for the $1.2
billion  Ponzi scheme  he ran out of his law firm in  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida . Rothstein pleaded guilty to racketeering,
money laundering and wire fraud in federal court in Fort
Lauderdale, where Lippman and the others were also charged.  “The breadth, scope, and sheer complexity of Rothstein’s
$1.2 billion Ponzi scheme is mind-boggling,” U.S. Attorney
Wifredo Ferrer said yesterday in a statement.  Prosecutors charged Lippman, a shareholder at RRA with no
equity stake, with helping to “dramatically increase the
political influence and power” of the firm by serving as a
straw donor who was illegally reimbursed for his contribution.  “The charges speak for themselves,” Lippman’s attorney,
Bruce Zimet, said in a phone interview. “All of these acts do
not relate to the Ponzi scheme. Though they may have had some
effect on it, he was not a participant in the Ponzi scheme.”  In February,  Toronto Dominion Bank (TD)  agreed to settle a
lawsuit with investors who claimed it aided in the Ponzi scheme.
Barron’s and the Miami Herald reported that TD Bank would pay
$170 million.  The case is U.S. v. Lippman, 12-cr-60078, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Royal Bank Chooses Court Battle With CFTC Over Wash Trades  Royal Bank of Canada  has chosen to challenge the  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  in court instead of settling over
allegations it engaged in illegal futures trades because it said
it didn’t break any rules.  “It was a conscious decision to defend ourselves
vigorously and we made that decision because we believe we
didn’t do anything wrong,” said Arthur Hahn, a Chicago-based
lawyer defending  Canada ’s biggest bank.  Royal Bank is being sued by the regulator over claims it
engaged in illegal futures trades worth hundreds of millions of
dollars to garner tax benefits tied to equities. The Toronto-
based lender made false and misleading statements about “wash
trades” from 2007 to 2010 in which affiliates traded among
themselves in a way that undermined competition and price
discovery on the  OneChicago LLC  exchange, the CFTC said in a
complaint filed April 2 in Manhattan federal court.  “All of the transactions in question here were within
standard rules and the guidances put out by the commission,”
Hahn said in an interview. “We don’t think we did anything
wrong, it’s that simple.”  Royal Bank enlisted affiliates to help carry out hundreds
of futures transactions done off-exchange and then reported to
OneChicago as block trades between independent affiliates,
according to the CFTC.  “These were legitimate block trades, these were legitimate
trades between affiliates,” said Hahn, a partner with  Katten
Muchin Rosenman LLP (1161L) .  Julie Dickson, who heads Canada’s Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, which is monitoring
the RBC case, declined to comment.  “The only thing I’ll say about the Royal Bank case is,
when you look at the press releases, both sides are pretty
convinced that they’re right, so we’ll see how that plays out in
court,” Dickson told reporters after giving a speech in Toronto
April 5.  She said while solvency regulators such as OSFI cooperate
and communicate with one another, securities regulators such as
the CFTC operate differently.  “In my experience, you don’t get warning,” Dickson said.
“If you do get advance notification, it’s virtually close to
the hour when something’s being announced. And that’s not
unusual. Securities regulators operate under a different
framework.”  Royal Bank has 60 days to file its statement of defense in
the U.S. court.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  Icahn Sues Amylin Pharmaceuticals Over Board Election Rule  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  was sued by billionaire
investor Carl Icahn over a corporate bylaw that hamstrings
investors from pursuing a proxy fight over a rejected a $22-per-
share takeover offer by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  Icahn contends that Amylin’s directors should be barred
from enforcing a rule requiring advance notice of candidates for
board seats since the drugmaker failed to make Bristol-Myers’s
bid public before the filing deadline. Amylin officials turned
down the $3.5 billion offer in February, two people familiar
with the bid told Bloomberg News on March 28. The company has
never confirmed the offer.  Amylin directors have unfairly “rejected a request to
reopen the time for stockholders to provide notice” that they
seek to nominate candidates for board seats, Icahn, Amylin’s
third-largest shareholder, said in the lawsuit filed yesterday
in Delaware Chancery Court.  Icahn, who has targeted at least seven drug companies in
the past five years, threatened to start a proxy fight over the
Amylin board’s rejection of the Bristol-Myers offer and urged
the drugmaker to pursue a sale.  “We believe Mr. Icahn’s lawsuit is without merit,” Alice
Izzo, an Amylin spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Amylin’s board is fully aware of its fiduciary duties and is
committed to always acting in the best interests of all
stockholders.”  The case is Icahn Partners LP v. Amylin Pharmaceuticals
Inc., CA 7404, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  UBS Likely to Win Ouster of Billionaire’s Suit, Judge Says  UBS AG (UBSN)  will probably win dismissal of a lawsuit by
billionaire  Igor Olenicoff  over his claim that the bank bears
blame for his failure to declare $200 million in offshore
accounts on U.S. tax returns, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Andrew Guilford in  Santa Ana ,
California, yesterday issued a “tentative” opinion rejecting
Olenicoff’s lawsuit against Zurich-based UBS, the largest Swiss
bank. Olenicoff claimed it traded excessively in his accounts,
engaged in racketeering and committed fraud by not telling him
he owed U.S. taxes. He sought as much as $1.7 billion in
damages.  “Olenicoff’s claim that he justifiably relied on UBS tax
advice is entirely inconsistent with his plea agreement,”
Guilford wrote in a 28-page opinion. “The tension between these
two inconsistent statements can be felt throughout Olenicoff’s
case.”  Olenicoff pleaded guilty in 2007 to filing a false tax
return, admitting he didn’t tell the  Internal Revenue Service 
about his offshore accounts for seven years. He was sentenced to
two years’ probation and ordered to pay $52 million in back
taxes, fines and penalties.  Guilford said at a hearing yesterday that he expected to
issue a final ruling after considering further arguments from
Olenicoff’s attorney, Thomas Newmeyer. After the hearing,
Newmeyer declined to comment.  The case is Olenicoff v. UBS AG, 08-cv-1029, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  Speeches  Bernanke Calls on Regulators to Limit Risks of Shadow Banking  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke called for new
steps to curb “shadow banking” operating beyond standard
oversight while saying the economy has far to go before fully
recovering from the credit crisis.  “The heavy human and economic costs of the crisis
underscore the importance of taking all necessary steps to avoid
a repeat of the events of the past few years,” Bernanke said
yesterday in a speech in Stone Mountain, Georgia.  Bernanke supported efforts to increase the “resiliency”
of money market funds, referring to Securities and Exchange
Commission proposals to require firms to maintain capital
buffers or to redeem shares at the market value of underlying
assets rather than at a fixed price of $1. He also called for
efforts to monitor financial innovation and backed curbs on
intraday credit in tri-party repo markets.  An average of more than $2.8 trillion in securities was
financed during the market peak in 2008 through tri-party
transactions, many of which had short-term maturities. During
the first quarter of 2010, the value of securities financed by
tri-party repo had fallen to an average of $1.7 trillion,
according to  New York  Fed calculations based on Bank of New York
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  data and cited in a May 2010 Fed paper.  Following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2008, Bernanke flooded the financial system with liquidity by
opening facilities that provided credit to money market funds,
primary dealers, commercial paper markets, banks and other
borrowers.  “About three and a half years have passed since the
darkest days of the financial crisis, but our economy is still
far from having fully recovered from its effects,” Bernanke
said in his only reference to the economy’s current condition.
He didn’t refer to current monetary policy.  For more on Bernanke’s speech, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  