-- Lira Falls to Three-Week Low on Syrian Violence, Spain’s Bailout
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-04-10T14:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/lira-weakens-to-almost-three-week-low-as-syria-violence-spreads.html
The lira weakened to the lowest
level in almost three weeks and bonds dropped after violence in
 Syria  spilled across its borders into Turkey and Lebanon and as
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos declined to rule out a
bailout.  The Turkish currency depreciated 0.6 percent to 1.8107 at
5:06 p.m. in Istanbul, the lowest level since March 23. The
yield on two-year benchmark debt climbed for a second day, up 13
basis points, or 0.13 percentage points, to 9.48 percent.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime spurned today’s
United Nations deadline for a cease-fire. Turkey is considering
options, including a buffer zone, as it prepares for a possible
influx of Syrian refugees who have already almost doubled in
number in less than a month, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
said. If  Turkey  acts against Syria, it will be because President
Bashar al-Assad forced its hand, Erdogan said. Two Syrian
civilians who sought refuge in Turkey were injured by gunfire
from Syria yesterday.  “Syria and what is happening in the  Middle East  is a real
factor and we face several unknowns if things go for worse and
Turkey intervenes,” Suha Yaygin, deputy head of  emerging
markets  at Toronto Dominion Bank in  London , said in e-mailed
comments.  Spain’s efforts to calm investors with an additional 10
billion euros ($13 billion) of budget cuts in education and
health failed to stem concerns the nation may be the fourth euro
member to need a bailout.  The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year benchmark bond surged almost
20 basis points to 5.94 percent today as Guindos declined to
rule out a rescue for Spain and Bank of Spain Governor Miguel
Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said the nation’s lenders may need
additional capital if the economy weakens more than expected.  European stocks tumbled to their lowest level in more than
two months after a U.S. report showed employers in the world’s
largest economy added fewer jobs in March than forecast.
Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index fell 1.4 percent, down for a
fifth day, the lowest level in almost a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  