-- Iranian Moshiri Becomes Billionaire Helping Russia’s Richest Man
-- B y   M i k h a i l   K o z y r e v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-04-11T12:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/iranian-moshiri-becomes-billionaire-helping-russia-s-richest-man.html
In 1989, Farhad Moshiri was an
émigré in London pulling a paycheck at Deloitte & Touche when he
met Alisher Usmanov. Now, after a two-decade alliance with
Russia’s current richest man, the Iranian-born accountant is a
billionaire himself.  Moshiri, who owns 5 percent of Usmanov’s  Metalloinvest
Holding , Russia’s largest miner of  iron ore , and 15 percent of
Arsenal Football Club, is worth at least $1.1 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Usmanov, 58, rewarded Moshiri, 56, for years of service as
an adviser and confidant in 2008, granting him a 10 percent
stake in Gallagher Holding Ltd., through which Usmanov controls
Metalloinvest.  “He was consulting me for decades on different deals and
exercised his option, fairly getting the stake,” Usmanov said
in a telephone interview from Moscow. Usmanov and Moshiri both
declined to elaborate on the terms of the option.  Metalloinvest accounts for the bulk of Usmanov’s fortune,
which has swelled to more than $20 billion through timely bets
on technology companies including  Facebook Inc. (FB) , according to
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, a daily ranking of the world’s
richest people. Metalloinvest is worth at least $16 billion,
valuing Moshiri’s share at a minimum of $800 million. The
company values itself at as much as $20 billion, Chief Executive
Officer Eduard Potapov said in February.  For Moshiri, the road to riches started with a revolution.  Iranian Revolution  “My parents fled  Iran  in February 1979, just before the
Iranian Revolution,” Moshiri, now a British citizen, said by e-
mail. “My father was an army doctor who trained as a
pathologist and later became a senior military judge. My mother
came from Iran’s leading publishing house, Kayhan, which is now
based in  London .”  The billionaire studied accounting at the University of
London and worked at Ernst & Young and Pannell Kerr Forster
before joining Deloitte & Touche. He said he met Usmanov through
a mutual friend, Masoud Alikhani, when Usmanov was in London as
part of a “high-level delegation” seeking ways of setting up a
political risk insurance company to encourage foreign investment
in the  Soviet Union .  ‘Friends at Once’  “I was very taken at the time by his intelligence and the
speed at which he absorbed complex ideas,” Moshiri said.  The feeling was mutual, said Usmanov, who was born in the
former Soviet republic of  Uzbekistan , which, like Iran, borders
 Afghanistan .  “We became friends almost at once,” Usmanov said.  One of Moshiri’s accounts at  Deloitte & Touche  was
Middlesex Holdings, a London-registered  investment company  in
which Usmanov and Alikhani held shares. In 1993, Middlesex hired
Moshiri and within a few years made him an  executive director .
Through the years, he began earning Usmanov’s trust by analyzing
-- and challenging -- his investment ideas.  Middlesex, among other things, bought and sold aluminum
produced at the TadAZ smelter in Tajikistan, said Alexander
Vladislavlev, a former deputy foreign minister for the Soviet
Union who sat on the company’s board.  “It was basically the first London-listed company that had
Russians as shareholders,” Vladislavlev said in an interview in
Moscow.  ‘Financial Mentor’  Middlesex brought in Lord David Anthony Owen, the former
U.K. foreign secretary and co-founder of the Social Democratic
party, as board chairman from 1995 through 2006. He replaced
Phil Edmonds, the former English cricketer who founded Central
African Mining & Exploration Co., the copper and cobalt miner
that was later bought by Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.  Middlesex was also acquiring assets in the former Soviet
Union, including by 2000 about 8 percent in the Oskolskiy steel
mill in central  Russia , which is now a Metalloinvest unit.
Middlesex was renamed GNE Group Plc and later sold.  “With time, Moshiri actually became my financial mentor,”
Usmanov said in the telephone interview. “I appreciate his
honesty and his encyclopedic knowledge of finance and
investments, although some of my most successful investments I
did contrary to his opinion.”  In 2003, for example, Usmanov said when he started buying
shares in Corus Group Plc, a British steelmaker now part of Tata
Steel, Moshiri was “strictly against” the move. Even so,
Moshiri “brilliantly led this deal through,” Usmanov said.  Under Moshiri’s management, Usmanov’s Gallagher spent about
$300 million to gain 13.4 percent of Corus before selling the
stake in 2005 for more than $600 million.  Facebook, Groupon  “Moshiri also didn’t believe in the prospects for
investments in Facebook and Groupon,” said Usmanov, who
controls stakes in both companies through DST Global, a fund run
by Yuri Milner, another billionaire.  Moshiri has been chairman of Metalloinvest since 2006 and
represents Usmanov on the boards of some of the other companies
Usmanov owns shares in, including OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel,
Russia’s largest mining company, and OAO Megafon, the second-
largest mobile-phone operator in the country.  Not all of Moshiri’s investments involve Usmanov. He bought
9.9 percent in 2007 of  Panmure Gordon & Co. (PMR) , one of Britain’s
oldest stockbrokers, without Usmanov’s help. Now he holds 4.99
percent in the company.  Still, the partners share a love of soccer, particularly
Arsenal. Their Red and White venture bought 15 percent of the
London club in 2007 and have since increased that stake to 30
percent. Moshiri is an equal partner in the investment,
according to Arsenal’s website. A 15 percent stake in the club
has a market value of about $238 million, based on the April 3
closing price on the London Stock Exchange.  “I love Arsenal, that’s why I’m a shareholder,” Usmanov
said in an interview last year.  Moshiri said he was attracted to Arsenal’s “position as a
top London club” that had just moved into a “purpose-built”
stadium that can seat 65,000 fans.  It’s one asset they may never sell.  “We’re keen to invest further to secure the future success
of the club on the playing field,” Moshiri said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mikhail Kozyrev in Moscow at 
 mkozyrev@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  