-- Iran Talks Must Yield a Deal Even Reagan Could Accept
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/iran-talks-must-yield-a-deal-even-reagan-could-accept.html
Apologies to  Ronald Reagan  as we
mangle his catchphrase, but what the U.S. and other world powers
need to do in negotiations with Iran later this week is to
“accept, but verify” an Iranian nuclear-fuel program that’s
limited to producing low civilian-grade fuel.  Only the most reckless gambler would bet on a breakthrough
in the talks, due to take place in Istanbul on April 14. Ten
years of abject diplomatic failure, distrust and Iranian
filibustering have fed a justifiable cynicism. Nor is an
election year a good time to ask President Barack Obama to make
the kinds of compromises that any negotiated deal would have to
include.  Still, some important facts surrounding the nuclear debate
have changed since the two sides last met -- disastrously --more
than a year ago, again in Istanbul. Both  Iran  and the Obama
administration should seize the opportunity to use these
changes, because the alternatives to a deal are far worse.  The most important development is the pressure that harsh
U.S.-led economic sanctions have placed on Iran, severely
crimping the oil revenues on which the government budget relies
and halving the real value of the currency. For the first time,
Iran now faces clear and imminent costs and penalties should it
refuse to engage with negotiators from the so-called P5+1 -- the
U.S.,  Russia ,  China ,  France , the U.K. and  Germany  -- as it did
last January. Were it not for the ramped-up sanctions, Iran
would probably not have agreed to discuss its nuclear program
this weekend at all.  The U.S. and the P5+1 meanwhile, also for the first time,
will go into this weekend’s talks ready to drop the demand that
Iran freeze all  uranium enrichment , distinguishing instead
between the low enriched fuel used for power generation, and
higher grades of uranium that could be processed more quickly
for use in a weapon.  To understand why these new facts might be important, it
helps to remember how we got here. For the decade since Iran’s
covert nuclear-fuel program was  first exposed  to the general
public, diplomats have sought to span an unbridgeable divide:
The goal of the U.S. and its European allies was to persuade
Iran to abandon, or in more recent years to freeze, all
enrichment of uranium, a process that can be used to make either
civilian or weapons-grade fuel. Iran’s goal was to confirm its
right to enrich uranium, enshrined in the  Treaty  on the Non-
Proliferation of  Nuclear Weapons , to which it’s a signatory.
There wasn’t, in reality, a whole lot to talk about. To put it
mildly, there was zero trust.  Instead, negotiators spent the years discussing so-called
confidence-building measures, such as a temporary suspension of
enrichment that Iran agreed to in 2004-2005, and a 2009 proposal
to ship most of the country’s stock of enriched uranium abroad,
in exchange for ready-made fuel rods. But these measures
generally involved the Iranians making concessions aimed at
slowing its enrichment program. With no significant penalty if
they refused, after 2005 the Iranians just continued enriching.  So, we would rather not hear about any further confidence-
building measures at the Istanbul talks. What’s needed now is an
agreement that offers a better chance of stopping Iran from
acquiring a bomb -- with lower risks of unintended consequences
-- than military action.  A recent New York Times report suggests the U.S. and its
allies will focus on getting Iran to halt the enrichment of
uranium to 20 percent, the level required for a medical reactor
in Tehran, and transferring out of the country the roughly 100
kilograms (220 pounds) of the fuel that Iran has already
produced in exchange for ready-made fuel rods. An initial
response from the Iranian Atomic Energy Organization head,
Fereydoun Abbasi, suggests Iran could be open to such a deal.  This would be a concession on previous U.S. negotiating
positions -- and our own previous recommendations -- as it
would, in effect, allow Iran to go on enriching fuel for power
generation at 3.5 percent to 5 percent. But the goal of ending
all enrichment was to prevent Iran from mastering the technology
that would allow it to create fuel for a bomb, should it decide
to build one. That technology has been mastered and can’t be
unlearned. Focusing instead on intrusive monitoring is the right
move. Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  also endorsed the
concession in a  CNN interview  last weekend, though he saw it as
an initial step before returning to a demand for a total ban on
enrichment.  To make this work, the P5+1 would need to demand Iran’s
full implementation of the  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s
 additional protocols ; comprehensive monitoring of all Iranian
nuclear sites; and full cooperation with the IAEA in
investigating unexplained evidence that suggests Iran sought to
develop nuclear-weaponization technologies. Iran has repeatedly
failed to live up to its legal duties in this area, utterly
undermining trust in its claims to be running a purely civilian
program. No deal is possible without Iran’s complete commitment
to transparency.  But here comes the hard part: U.S. officials have also
indicated they will demand the closure and dismantling of the
enrichment facility Iran has built under a mountain near the
city of Qom, in order to immunize its nuclear program against
potential Israeli or U.S. air strikes. There’s no prospect that
Iran would agree to the facility’s closure so long as the threat
of attack persists. Provided the Qom facility is fully monitored
by the IAEA, the site’s existence shouldn’t be allowed to
obstruct a deal. Closure should be left to future negotiations,
when the threat of attack may have been lifted and tensions with
 Israel  reduced.  From Iran’s point of view, the purpose of making any
concessions will be to get sanctions lifted. Any deal would have
to involve a staged easing of sanctions that would progress in
parallel with Iran’s carrying out the agreement. That could
prove a hard sell to the  U.S. Congress , which legislated some of
the most important sanctions, and a week ago proposed to expand
them further.  Congress shouldn’t use its sanctions to block a deal that
the administration is ready to make. The purpose of sanctions,
after all, is to be traded away to secure goals. If Republican
legislators are worried that Obama may emerge with a diplomatic
coup to boost support in November’s elections, they should
relax. Any agreement will be a long time coming, and none that
can be reached will make Obama look much like a victor.  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on the similarities of the
 budget plans  of President  Barack Obama  and Representative  Paul
Ryan . Clive Crook on why the  Federal Reserve  needs a new,
simpler  mandate .  Margaret Carlson  on why there always will be
 waste, fraud and abuse  in government.  Peter Orszag  on how  index
funds  are boosting aluminum prices. William Pesek on growth in
the  Philippines  reducing the  appeal of emigrating . Gary Shilling
on why U.S.  employment gains  are linked to stagnating
productivity and Bernard Donefer on the merits of  high-frequency
trading .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 