-- Iran Doesn’t Need Oil Exports, President Says Ahead of Talks
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-04-10T14:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/iran-does-not-need-oil-exports-ahmadinejad-says-ahead-of-talks.html
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ,
speaking days ahead of a new round of talks on  Iran’s nuclear
program , said his country can last for years without exporting
oil.  “Some want to create problems for  Iran  by sanctioning
oil,” Ahmadinejad said during a visit today to the southern
Hormozgan province. “I should say that we have so much funds
that even if we don’t sell for two, three years the country will
still be managed easily.”  Iran and the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council plus  Germany  are scheduled to hold talks on
April 14 after a 15-month hiatus. Failure to reach tangible
agreements may lead to stricter sanctions against Iran, which is
already grappling with restrictions by the U.S. and the European
Union on its trade, financial and energy sectors. An EU ban on
oil purchases from Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, will come into
force in July.  Iran’s Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said today that the
country has stopped exporting oil to  Greece , according to state-
run Press TV. The channel reported on April 5 that Iran halted
oil sales to two Greek companies,  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE)  and
Motor Oil Hellas SA, after they failed to pay.  Press TV also said today that Iran  stopped  crude supplies
to Spain and was considering extending the measure to Germany
and Italy, citing unidentified persons. The Oil Ministry cut
exports to France and the U.K. in February, according to state
media, pre-empting the EU ban.  EU nations  bought  18 percent of Iran’s exports of crude and
condensates, or 452,000 barrels a day, in the first half of
2011, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Iran rejects accusations by the U.S. and its allies that
its nuclear activities are aimed at building weapons and
maintains that its intentions are peaceful.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 