-- IRS Conducted 36 High-Wealth Program Audits, Report Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-10T19:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/irs-conducted-36-high-wealth-program-audits-report-says.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
collected $48 million in 36 audits completed under its Global
High-Wealth initiative, according to a report by the
Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at  Syracuse
University  in  New York .  The report , which uses internal IRS reports obtained
through a court order, said that 12 of the 36 finished audits
resulted in no additional taxes being imposed.  “We’re now 2½ years into the program and have very little
to show for it,” said Susan Long, co-director of the research
center and a statistician at Syracuse University. “It does seem
to be rather surprising. And they’ve become very silent this
past year about it.”  Terry Lemons, an IRS spokesman, said the agency disputes
the findings. Taxpayers with incomes over $1 million have much
higher audit rates than the rest of the population, he said.  “We do have a lot going on,” he said. “They do not paint
a complete picture of what’s going on.”  Lemons said that looking at completed audits is misleading
because cases with no recommended changes are typically the ones
that are finished quickly. Other cases are complex and can take
more than a year to complete, he said.  The IRS is examining more than 100 enterprises under the
program, encompassing more than 500 tax returns, Lemons said.
The unit is in the early stages of looking at another 200
individuals, he said.  Highest-Earning Taxpayers  The IRS  announced  the Global High Wealth program in 2009 in
an effort to examine the interconnected businesses of the
highest-earning U.S. taxpayers.  In a 2009 speech, IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  said the
group would look at people with tens of millions of dollars in
assets or income.  “We want to better understand the entire economic picture
of the enterprise controlled by the wealthy individual and to
assess the tax compliance of that overall enterprise,” he said.
“We cannot do this by continuing to approach each  tax return  in
the enterprise as a single and separate entity. We must
understand and analyze the entire picture.”  Because top earners sometimes file multiple returns
associated with their businesses, the 36 audits completed in the
program may represent only 12 to 18 people, the report said.  Audits in the high-wealth program are labor intensive,
according to the report. The 101-person unit spent an average of
262 hours per audit in fiscal year 2012, according to the
report. That’s more than 16 times the time spent on a typical
audit of a taxpayer with $1 million in income, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  