-- Carroll Lifts Liverpool to Win at Blackburn Before Cup Semifinal
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-11T02:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/liverpool-beats-blackburn-3-2-in-premier-league-on-carroll-goal.html
Andy Carroll’s stoppage-time goal
gave 10-man Liverpool a 3-2 win at Blackburn and kept the home
team in the Premier League’s relegation zone.  Carroll’s winner capped a match in which Liverpool
goalkeeper Alexander Doni was red-carded for a foul and
substitute ‘keeper  Brad Jones  saved the subsequent penalty kick
from Ayegbeni Yakubu, who scored twice last night after  Maxi Rodriguez  got two goals in the first 16 minutes.  “We just about deserved to win,” Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  told his club’s website. “We’re delighted for the
players. It’s not been the best of times for them recently. That
doesn’t mean to say we’ve turned any corners but it certainly
gives everyone a lift.”  Liverpool’s first victory in five Premier League games
leaves it eighth in the 20-team standings with 46 points, one
behind city rival Everton, which it faces in the first F.A. Cup
semifinal on April 14.  Blackburn remains in 18th place with 28 points through 33
of 38 games after its fourth straight loss. The bottom three are
relegated to the Championship at the end of the season.  Rodriguez struck in the 13th and 16th minutes before Doni
upended Blackburn’s Junior Hoilett in the area in the 25th
minute, resulting in a straight red card for the Brazilian.
Australian goalkeeper Jones came on as replacement for right-
back Jon Flanagan to make his league debut for Liverpool and
saved Yakubu’s weak penalty with his first touch.  Goalkeeping Shuffle  With Doni’s red card ruling him out of the F.A. Cup
semifinal, Jones will start against Everton with teenagers Danny
Ward and Tyrell Belford among the backup options. First-choice
goalkeeper Pepe Reina is serving a three-game ban.  “We’ll see what we’ve got for the weekend,” Dalglish
added.  Yakubu’s 36th-minute header made it 2-1 at halftime. The
Nigerian striker tied it in the 61st minute when he converted a
spot-kick after being pushed to the ground by Jones as the pair
attempted to get to the ball near the goal. The referee showed
Jones the yellow card.  Jones was forced to tip Carroll’s backward header over his
crossbar to avert an own goal before Carroll, whom Liverpool
signed for 35 million pounds ($55 million) last year, connected
with a powerful header at the other end to win the game.  “We have been a bit unlucky in the past few games, but the
luck will come on our side sooner rather than later,” Carroll
said. “This is a great lift for all the lads before we go to
Wembley on Saturday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  