-- J&J’s Marketing of Risperdal Violated Law, Arkansas Jury Rules
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   E r i c   F r a n c i s
-- 2012-04-11T04:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/j-j-s-risperdal-marketing-violated-law-arkansas-jury-rules-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  officials misled
Arkansas doctors and patients about the risks of the
antipsychotic drug Risperdal, and the company’s marketing
campaign violated consumer-protection laws, a jury ruled.  Jurors in state court in  Little Rock , Arkansas, deliberated
about three hours yesterday before finding J&J and its Janssen
unit engaged in “false or deceptive acts” by sending a 2003
letter touting  Risperdal  as safer than competing drugs to more
than 6,000 doctors across the state. The state is seeking more
than $1.25 billion in penalties over the Risperdal marketing
campaign, and a judge will decide later whether to fine J&J.  It’s the third jury verdict against J&J, the  second-biggest 
maker of health products, in cases where states alleged the
drugmaker hid Risperdal’s risks and tricked Medicaid regulators
into paying more than they should have for the medicine.
Louisiana and South Carolina juries also found the company’s
Risperdal marketing violated consumer-protection laws.  “Three losses in a row means the company needs to become
more realistic about its exposure and come up with an exit
strategy in the form a settlement,”  Carl Tobias , who teaches
product-liability law at the  University of Richmond  in  Virginia ,
said in a phone interview.  Teresa Mueller , a spokeswoman for J&J’s Janssen unit, said
the drugmaker was disappointed with the Arkansas jury’s ruling.  “It is our position that an individual state should not
penalize a pharmaceutical company for using an FDA-approved
package insert or decide for itself whether a company complies
with FDA rules,” Mueller said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Lied To Patients’  Arkansas Attorney General Dustin McDaniel said in an e-
mailed statement that he filed the suit because he believed
Arkansas residents deserved to be protected from “fraud and
deceptive practices.”  He said that jurors found “Johnson & Johnson and  Janssen
Pharmaceuticals  lied to patients and doctors because they cared
more about profits than people.”  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. The drug
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s  revenue , according to company
filings. Sales of the drug fell to $527 million in 2010,
according to earnings reports.  Safer, Better  Along with contending that J&J and Janssen defrauded the
Medicaid program by failing to properly outline the
antipsychotic medicine’s risks, Arkansas officials alleged J&J
officials deceptively marketed the drug as safer and better than
competing medicines.  The state also argued the companies marketed the drug for
“unapproved uses, including various symptoms in children and
the elderly” after being warned by federal authorities to halt
such sales.  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations that the company marketed the
drug for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  filing  last year.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is demanding that J&J pay about
$1.8 billion to resolve the civil claims by federal regulators
and some state attorneys general, people familiar with the
settlement talks said this month.  Side Effects  Arkansas officials asked jurors to find J&J’s Risperdal
marketing campaign violated the state’s deceptive-trade
practices law by making false and deceptive statements about the
drug in the letter to doctors.  They also argued J&J and Janssen executives made false
statements about the drug’s diabetes risks and other side
effects in its warning label  The state will now ask Judge  Tim Fox  to fine J&J at least
$5,000 for each prescription affected by the Risperdal marketing
campaign. Arkansas said at least 250,000 prescriptions may have
resulted from illegal marketing. That would amount to a fine of
at least $1.25 billion.  The state said it also will seek damages over the
misleading statements in the so-called “Dear Doctor” marketing
letter the company sent to  Arkansas  doctors in 2003.  Arkansas officials also will also seek penalties for more
than 19,000 sales calls in which J&J representatives allegedly
used the letter or made other deceptive statements about the
drug.  Public Funds  Fox said he’d hear arguments today about the state’s
requests for penalties, but didn’t say whether he’d issue his
ruling at that time. “Let’s get this matter resolved,” he told
lawyers for both sides after the jury verdict.  J&J and Janssen have been sued by 11 states seeking
reimbursement for Medicaid or other public funds paid on
Risperdal prescriptions. The lawsuits allege that J&J promoted
the drug for dementia, mood and anxiety disorders and other
unapproved uses, or downplayed risks.  In June 2010, a judge threw out  Pennsylvania ’s suit over
the Risperdal marketing campaign in the middle of a trial. An
appeal of that ruling is set to be heard next month.  Four months later, jurors in  Louisiana  ordered the
drugmaker to pay almost $258 million to state officials for
making misleading claims about the drug’s safety. J&J has
appealed.  In June 2011 a South Carolina judge ordered J&J to pay $327
million in penalties for deceptively marketing the medicine. The
company has appealed that ruling. J&J ended the most recent
trial in  Texas  with a $158 million settlement in January.  The case is State of Arkansas v. Ortho-McNeil-Janssen
Pharmaceuticals Inc., CV07-15345, Pulaski County Circuit Court
(Little Rock) Arkansas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Francis in Little Rock, Arkansas, at
 eric.francis@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  