-- J&J Hid Risperdal’s Risks From Arkansas Doctors, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   E r i c   F r a n c i s
-- 2012-04-10T19:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/j-j-hid-risperdal-s-risks-from-arkansas-doctors-lawyer-says-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  officials hid the
risks of the antipsychotic drug Risperdal to boost sales and
should be held liable for misleading  Arkansas  doctors and
patients, a lawyer said.  J&J’s Janssen unit made misleading claims about  Risperdal’ s
effectiveness in a letter to more than 6,000 Arkansas doctors
and downplayed its diabetes risks on warning labels,  Fletch
Trammell , one of the state’s lawyers, told a jury in  Little Rock 
today. Arkansas is seeking more than $1.25 billion in penalties
over the Risperdal marketing campaign.  “They hid those risks, they buried them in the label,”
Trammell told jurors in closing arguments of the state’s lawsuit
over the marketing campaign. Janssen officials “had a lot at
stake. If Risperdal went down, the company went down, too.”  It’s the fifth  jury trial  over states’ claims that J&J, the
 second-biggest  maker of health products, hid Risperdal’s
diabetes risks and tricked Medicaid regulators into paying
millions of dollars more than they should have for the medicine.
J&J ended the most-recent trial in  Texas  with a $158 million
settlement in January.  J&J’s lawyers countered that jurors hadn’t heard testimony
from a single Arkansas resident who claimed to be harmed by the
drug and state officials never warned consumers about
Risperdal’s alleged health threats.  Deceptive Marketing  “They didn’t run off and sound the alarm at the time this
suit was filed,”  James Simpson , a lawyer for the companies,
told jurors today. Arkansas officials never said “Whoa, whoa,
whoa, this stuff is dangerous.”  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. The drug
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s  revenue , according to company
filings. Sales of the drug fell to $527 million in 2010,
according to earnings reports.  Along with contending that J&J and Janssen defrauded the
Medicaid program by failing to properly outline the
antipsychotic medicine’s risks on the warning label, Arkansas
officials allege J&J officials deceptively marketed the drug as
safer and better than competing medicines.  The state also argues that the companies marketed the drug
for “unapproved uses, including various symptoms in children
and the elderly” after being warned by federal authorities to
halt such sales, according to the state’s suit.  2004 Investigation  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations that the company marketed the
drug for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  filing  last year.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is demanding that J&J pay about
$1.8 billion to resolve the civil claims by federal regulators
and some state attorneys general, people familiar with the
settlement talks said last month.  The case is State of Arkansas v. Ortho-McNeil-Janssen
Pharmaceuticals Inc., CV07-15345, Pulaski County Circuit Court
(Little Rock).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Francis in Little Rock, Arkansas, at
 eric.francis@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  