-- Job Openings in U.S. Increase as Hiring Accelerates
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-10T21:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/job-openings-in-u-s-increased-to-3-5-million-in-february.html
Job openings  in the U.S. increased
in February and hiring climbed to the highest level in more than
three years, signaling employers turned more optimistic about
the economic outlook.  The number of positions waiting to be filled  totaled  3.5
million in February, up from a revised 3.48 million the prior
month that was higher than previously estimated, the Labor
Department said today in a statement posted on its website. More
people were added to private payrolls than at any time since
October 2008, while the pace of firings was little changed, the
report showed.  Better employment prospects may mean the setback in hiring
in March will be short-lived, helping restore some of the 5
million jobs yet to be recovered in the aftermath of the 18-
month recession that ended in June 2009. The pickup in the labor
market may ease concerns raised by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last month that much of the improvement stems from
fewer firings instead of new additions.  “There is a pretty strong, solid uptrend in job
openings,” said Michael Gapen, a senior U.S. economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  New York . “The labor market is gradually
getting better when you continue to look across a broad swath of
indicators.”  Help Wanted  Landry’s Inc. (LNY) , which owns more than 400 restaurants, hotels
and casinos, can’t find enough workers, Chief Executive Officer
Tilman J. Fertitta said during an interview at Bloomberg News
headquarters in New York on April 4. The closely held company is
looking for about 40 employees for its corporate office in
Houston and thousands to fill roles at its U.S. properties, he
said.  “Business is good,” he said. “The consumer is spending
money.” The company is having trouble finding workers “at all
levels,” Fertitta said.  Another report showed confidence among small businesses
dropped in March for the first time in seven months as companies
grew concerned about the outlook for sales and tempered plans to
take on additional employees.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
 index  declined to 92.5 from a one-year high of 94.3 in February,
the Washington-based group said in a statement. Nine of the
measure’s 10 components fell.  Shares Fall  Stocks fell, extending the longest slump for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index since November, as bond yields in  Spain 
continued to surge and concern grew that growth in U.S.
corporate earnings has stalled. The  S&P 500  dropped for a fifth
straight day, losing 1.7 percent to 1,358.59 at the close in New
York.  Elsewhere, French business confidence stagnated and factory
production dropped, underlining the challenges faced by
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in his bid for re-election. China
reported an unexpected  trade surplus  for March as imports
trailed estimates, indicating domestic demand may be slowing.  The number of people hired rose to 4.39 million in
February, today’s U.S. job openings report showed. Excluding
government agencies, those finding new jobs climbed to 4.08
million, the most since a month after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed in September 2008.  The  hiring rate  increased to 3.3 percent, the report
showed, the first increase since August and the fastest pace
since March 2011.  Firings Ease  Total firings, which exclude retirements and those who left
their jobs voluntarily, decreased by 11,000 to 1.67 million,
today’s report showed, leaving the rate little changed at 1.3
percent.  About 2.09 million people quit their jobs in February, up
from 2 million in January and the most since November 2008. The
increase may signal workers are gaining confidence they can find
other jobs as the economy improves.  “A higher volume of quits leads to a higher number of
hiring” as companies need to replace workers, said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey . “The quit rate is usually a sign that people are
finding better jobs. This is an important component of any self-
sustaining expansion.”  The increase in job openings was paced by retailers,
followed by health care and social assistance. Government
agencies also put up more help-wanted signs.  Bernanke’s View  “In any given month, a large number of workers are being
hired or are leaving their current jobs, illustrating the
dynamism of the U.S. labor market,” Bernanke said in a March 26
speech. “The recent history of these flows suggests that
further improvement in the labor market will likely need to come
from a shift to a more robust pace of hiring.”  Payrolls rose in March by a five-month low of 120,000 after
a 240,000 gain the prior month, Labor Department figures showed
on April 6. The  jobless rate  fell to 8.2 percent in March, a
three-year low, as the  labor force  shrank by 164,000.  In the 12 months ended February, the economy created a net
2 million jobs, representing about 50.6 million hires, compared
with about 48.6 million separations.  Considering the 12.8 million Americans who were unemployed
in February, today’s figures indicate there were about 3.7
people vying for every opening, compared with about 1.8 when the
recession began in December 2007.  “The declines in aggregate payrolls during the recession
stemmed from both a reduction in hiring and a large increase in
layoffs,” Bernanke said in last month’s speech. “In contrast,
the increase in employment since the end of 2009 has been due to
a significant decline in layoffs but only a moderate improvement
in hiring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  