-- Jordan Says SNB Currency Policy Intact After Cap Breaches
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-04-10T13:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/jordan-says-snb-currency-policy-intact-after-cap-breaches.html
Swiss central bank interim chief
Thomas Jordan said the bank will continue to enforce the limit
of 1.20 francs per euro after temporary breaches of the ceiling
raised doubts about its willingness to defend it.  “The  Swiss National Bank  is enforcing the minimum exchange
rate with all the means at its disposal,” Jordan  told  reporters
at a press briefing today. “We are prepared to buy foreign
currency in unlimited quantities for this purpose. In this
respect, our policies are totally unchanged.”  The Swiss currency on April 5 breached the limit for the
first time since the measure was introduced seven months ago,
reaching 1.19995. Jordan today said that the trade occurred in
“what is known as a segmented market” and that the situation
“was remedied within very few seconds, however, by means of
arbitrage.”  “The SNB cannot fully control the market,”  David Kohl ,
deputy chief economist at Julius Baer Group in  Frankfurt , said
by telephone. “Given the high market transparency, small
deviations from the ceiling immediately attract attention.”  The franc was little changed after Jordan’s remarks and
traded at 1.2026 at 2:12 p.m. in Zurich, above the level it was
before the first breach occurred. Against the dollar, it traded
at 91.68 centimes.  ‘Below Best Price’  In the foreign exchange market, the SNB accepts more than
100 banks with more than 700 trading desks as counterparties,
according to the SNB statement. “Thanks to this network of
contacts, the global foreign exchange market is almost
completely covered.”  The exchange rates below 1.20 francs per euro were set by
banks which don’t have such an agreement with the SNB,
constituting a market in which trades “below the best price
were concluded”, the SNB said.  The SNB was at all times prepared to buy unlimited
quantities of euros at 1.20 francs per euro. “All market
participants were at all times aware of this SNB purchase offer,
including the banks without an agreement” with the central
bank, Jordan said.  “Consequently, banks which sold euros for less than 1.20
francs did not receive the best market price and had --
relatively speaking -- to accept losses,” he said.  The SNB interim chairman declined to give reasons when
asked why market participants would sell the euro at less than
what the SNB was offering.  “We can’t say these market anomalies won’t happen again,”
Jordan said. “However, they can only be maintained for a very
short period.”  The SNB introduced its limit on Sept. 6 to fight deflation
threats and help Swiss exporters. Since then, the central bank’s
governing board members have repeatedly stressed their resolve
to defend the ceiling, saying that the franc is overvalued.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  