-- JPMorgan Restricts New Student Lending to Bank Customers
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-04-12T16:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/jpmorgan-restricts-new-student-lending-to-bank-customers.html
(Corrects JPMorgan’s 2011 student lending in the fourth
paragraph of a story originally published April 10.)  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank, will stop providing private student loans to people
who aren’t customers of the company beginning July 1.  “The private student-loan market has continued to decline
and government programs have expanded to help more students and
their families,” Steve O’Halloran, a spokesman for the New
York-based bank, said today in an e-mail.  Customers must have a Chase deposit, loan or credit-card
relationship to apply, he said. The company will continue to
service existing education loans and work with financial aid
offices at schools to certify loans for students, he said. The
 American Banker  reported the bank’s decision on March 30.  JPMorgan has been paring back student loans, which comprise
a small part of the estimated $1 trillion market and the
company’s $2.27 trillion  balance sheet . The student-lending
portfolio shrank 15 percent since 2009 to $13.4 billion as of
Dec. 31 as bad debts almost doubled. Uncollectible loans climbed
72 percent since 2009 to $434 million last year, according to
the bank. JPMorgan made $300 million of student loans last year,
down from $1.9 billion in 2010 and $4.2 billion the prior year.  As of July 2010, private lenders like JPMorgan could no
longer originate government-backed education loans. Student
loans are now the largest source of unsecured  consumer debt  in
the nation, according to the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, and rising delinquency rates have spurred speculation
about a possible bubble.  The agency is studying the private-loan market and last
month began accepting complaints about providers.  Sallie Mae  is
the largest private student lender with a portfolio of about $36
billion, according to the  Newark , Delaware-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  