-- Kazanci Plans $3 Billion Power Investment on Goldman Deal
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-04-10T13:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/kazanci-plans-3-billion-power-investment-on-goldman-deal.html
Kazanci Holding AS, a Turkish group
with interests in energy and building, will invest as much as $3
billion in energy production by 2017 after agreeing to sell 13.3
percent of its  Aksa Enerji Uretim AS (AKSEN)  to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The investment will help Istanbul-based Aksa Enerji,
 Turkey ’s biggest non-government power producer, raise capacity
to 4,500 megawatts by 2017 from 2,036 megawatts at the end of
2011, Kazanci Deputy Chairman Cemil Kazanci said at a news
conference today in the Turkish city. About 60 percent of the
investment will be financed by loans, he said.  Kazanci signed an agreement today for a syndicated loan of
$400 million from Goldman Sachs,  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  and
 Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS. Goldman will provide $150 million of the
loan while Garanti and Isbank will supply equal amounts of the
remainder, the companies said in a joint statement.  “We will use almost half of the loan to strengthen the
investment capability of Aksa Enerji,” Kazanci said. The rest
of the funds will repay a $192 million bridge loan that the
family-owned, Istanbul-based holding company received from
Goldman last year, he said.  Goldman will initially own 5.82 percent of Aksa Enerji
after paying $105 million, and the New York-based lender has
committed to buy another 7.48 percent for $135 million, Kazanci
said.  Loan Terms  The syndicated loan, for which Kazanci’s 65.5 percent and
Goldman’s 13.3 percent stakes in Aksa Enerji will be used as
collateral, will mature in six years, with no payments required
during the first three years, Kazanci Holding said in a stock
market filing on April 6. Goldman may sell the Aksa Enerji
holding at any time during the maturity period, it said.  Aksa Enerji fell as much as 2.6 percent to 3.82 liras and
was trading down 1.8 percent at 4:18 p.m. in Istanbul.  The stake purchase will strengthen Aksa Enerji’s position
among international power producers, Dalinc Ariburnu, a London-
based board member of Goldman Sachs International, said at the
news conference.  Kazanci Holding is looking at bidding this year when the
government revives canceled power-grid auctions, the deputy
chairman also said.  Aksa Enerji’s electricity sales to  Syria  will continue
under the contract it signed with Turkey’s southern neighbor
last year to provide 2 billion kilowatt-hours of power from a
500-megawatt capacity, Kazanci said. His comments came as
violence in Syria spilled across borders into Turkey and Lebanon
as President Bashar al-Assad’s regime spurned today’s  United
Nations  deadline for a cease-fire.  “This is a humanitarian matter and we have the contract
until June, so our sales will continue until then,” Kazanci
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  