-- Kelley Drye Settles EEOC Suit Over Attorney Age Bias Claim
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-10T23:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/kelley-drye-settles-eeoc-suit-over-attorney-age-bias-claim-1-.html
Kelley Drye & Warren LLP (1223L) , a New
York  law firm , agreed not to fire lawyers because of their age
as part of a settlement of a lawsuit brought by the U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission.  The law firm entered into a consent decree on April 3 with
the EEOC to resolve the agency’s 2010 lawsuit, according to a
judgment filed today in federal court in Manhattan. The EEOC
enforces U.S. anti-bias laws.  The agency claimed that the firm, which has 350 lawyers and
other professionals in offices in the U.S., discriminates
against attorneys who continue to work there after they turn 70.
The agency also said the firm retaliated against a lawyer,
Eugene D’Ablemont, who complained to the EEOC.  Kelley Drye, while denying allegations of bias, agreed not
to terminate any employee or to maintain “any formal or
informal policy or practice requiring involuntary retirement of
a partner” because of age, according to the consent decree.  James Kirk, managing partner of Kelley Drye, said in a
statement that the firm changed its retirement policies “long
ago” and that it settled because “continuing the case would
have far exceeded the cost of settlement.”  “We were surprised that this case was continued by the
EEOC for the benefit of a single partner,” Kirk said in the
statement. “The firm has not discriminated or done anything
wrong.”  ‘Very Happy’  Jeffrey Burstein, an EEOC attorney, said in an interview
that the agency is “very happy” with the accord. “They
changed their policy a while ago, after the litigation started,
but it wasn’t until recently that we reached a settlement,” he
said.  D’Ablemont didn’t immediately return a message left at his
office after business hours. U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Dolinger in  Manhattan  today signed the accord.  According to the agency, Kelley Drye required partners age
70 and older who continued to practice at the firm to relinquish
their ownership interest, surrender most authority over firm
affairs, and to be compensated solely through a discretionary
annual bonus.  As part of the settlement, Kelley Drye said it wouldn’t
reduce partner pay due to age and would require partners to sit
for two hours of training on the requirements of the U.S. Age
Discrimination in Employment Act.  The firm agreed to pay D’Ablemont more than $570,000,
according to court records.  The EEOC claimed in its lawsuit that the firm
“significantly undercompensated” attorneys “solely on the
basis of their age,” according to the complaint.  The case is EEOC v. Kelley Drye, 10-cv-655, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 