-- Kenya Shilling Weakens Most in a Week on Increased Liquidity
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-04-10T10:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/kenya-shilling-weakens-most-in-a-week-on-increased-liquidity.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened the most
in more than a week as the central bank injected money into the
market by buying foreign exchange to boost its reserves.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.2 percent, the most on a closing basis since April
2, to 83.25 per dollar and traded at 83.10 as of 12:54 p.m. in
Nairobi.  “The money market liquidity improved” during the week
ended April 4, supported by government payments and foreign
exchange purchases by the central bank from the  interbank
market , the Central Bank of Kenya said in its weekly bulletin on
April 5. The average  interbank rate  declined to 19.89 percent
from 23.13 percent in the previous week “reflecting increased
money market liquidity,” the bank said.  The monetary policy committee retained the central  bank
rate  at 18 percent on April 4 to ensure that inflation continues
to decline toward the government target while maintaining
exchange rate stability.  The bank will offer 5 billion shillings ($60 million) of
seven-day  repurchase agreements  today, Godfrey Putunoi, an
official at the bank, said by phone.  “The increased  money supply  has forced the central bank to
come in and remove money from the market, a situation that is
likely to support the shilling in the short term,” Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa
Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  The  inflation rate  declined for a fourth month to 15.61
percent in March from 16.69 percent in the previous month, the
Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said last month.  The Ugandan shilling weakened the most in more than a week,
depreciating 0.6 percent to 2,495 to the dollar. A close at this
level will be the lowest since April 2. Tanzania’s shilling
remained unchanged at 1,584 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  