-- Kenyans Almost Dead on Worst Roads Getting New Highways: Freight
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-04-10T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/kenyans-almost-dead-on-worst-roads-getting-new-highways-freight.html
Exasperated by a half hour of
gridlock in downtown Nairobi last month, a bus driver jumped the
median and headed toward oncoming traffic. As cars, trucks and
hawkers jostled for space, he raced ahead, almost colliding with
a motorcycle courier, before pulling back into his lane.  It’s a frequent scene in the Kenyan capital, where
commuters compete with trucks ferrying cargo between  East
Africa ’s biggest port of  Mombasa , on the Kenyan coast, and
landlocked neighbors Uganda and Rwanda, all on a road that runs
through the middle of Nairobi.  To end the jams, Kenya is building more roads than it has
since independence half a century ago as the government
forecasts the economic growth rate will double over the next two
decades, to about 10 percent. At least 80 billion shillings
($970 million) is being spent over five years on more than 500
kilometers of new roads and on widening existing ones.  “The investment committed to roads around Nairobi in the
past five years is in multiples of what was invested in Kenya’s
history,” Transport Minister Amos Kimunya said in an interview.
“The government believes that once you open up infrastructure
other investment will follow.”  That may boost profits for the East African franchise of
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , which is spending $62 million increasing capacity
in Kenya; Del Monte Fresh Produce Inc.’s local unit that
produces and processes fruit from farms; and  Unilever (UNA) , whose
Kenyan tea plantations turn out 30,000 tons a year.  Infrastructure Bonds  The government’s growing ability to borrow to pay for road
and energy projects is fueling the country’s debt market,
with almost $1.4 billion infrastructure bonds sold since the
first such sale in 2009, said  Razia Khan , head of African
research for Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  Kenya also is securing a $600 million loan, arranged by
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  South Africa ’s  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and
London-based  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , to finance roadway, energy
and irrigation projects in the fiscal year through June.  “One of the main problems holding Kenya from embarking on
such an expansive road-building program in the past has been the
issue of funding,” Marc Mercer, an  Africa  analyst with London-
based Eurasia Group Ltd., said an e-mailed response to
questions. “These projects are now materializing and improved
transportation links will be a big plus for the economy.”  Kenya’s B+/B rating was affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s  in
December, with a stable outlook. The central bank’s fight
against inflation has pushed up yields: The yield on the five-
year benchmark bond rose to 13.9 percent at an auction on August
24, the highest since at least May 2006, compared with 12.5
percent at the previous sale on June 22. Two-year borrowing
costs climbed to 22.8 percent on Nov. 23, from 16.5 percent the
month earlier, according to central bank data.  Lock in Now?  “Kenyan bonds are high-yielding due to government monetary
policy,” said Olivier Vojetta, the London-based head of
research at asset managers FM Capital Partners Ltd. “It makes
sense to lock in now as high rates won’t persist indefinitely.”
He said the new infrastructure bonds “may be of interest.”  A broadening base of taxpayers and greater efforts to
tackle tax evasion have helped boost state revenue. Expenditure
on highway, railway and power projects have almost doubled in
the past three years, to 221 billion shillings in 2011-2012.  While  Kenya  is starting to show it can spend borrowed money
effectively, in the past funds intended for infrastructure have
sometimes been lost to corruption, Mercer said.  The  World Bank  de-barred two companies and a business owner
in 2003 after an investigation in Kenya revealed a former World
Bank employee and government official were paid kickbacks in a
project funded by the Washington-based lender to lay down roads,
according to a  statement .  Tea and Flowers  Kenya is among the world’s 30-most graft-prone countries,
alongside Zimbabwe and Paraguay, according to Transparency
International’s latest  corruption perception index .  The flagship road project is the 27 billion-shilling
upgrade of a route that connects Nairobi to the industrial town
of Thika and onward to Kenya’s tea and farming heartland. Kenya
is the world’s biggest exporter of black tea and supplies one-
third of the flowers sold in the European Union.  The freeway will be expanded to as many as 12 lanes from
two. Rehabilitating the road network, which carries 80 percent
of Kenya’s cargo and passenger traffic, may also curb the
economic damage caused by road accidents, the country’s third-
biggest killer after HIV/AIDS and malaria.  At 34.4 deaths per 100,000 people, Kenya’s traffic
mortality rate is the 16th highest in the world. Countries
including Afghanistan,  Egypt  and the United Arab Emirates have 
higher rates, according to 2007 figures from the  World Health 
Organization .  Time and Money  Rob Holtrop, managing director of a 50-hectare (124-acre)
 calla lily farm  near Limuru, 20 kilometers northwest of Nairobi,
said a recently built bypass there saves him time and money.  His driver, who ferries 10 metric tons of flowers each day
from that farm and three neighboring ones, now spends two hours,
instead of six, plying the route from Limuru to Nairobi’s
international airport. Even so, he hits the road by 4 a.m. to
avoid getting stuck in morning rush hour.  “The improvement is 100 percent; it has really lowered our
shipping costs,” Holtrop said in a phone interview.  Road expansion accelerated after President Mwai Kibaki, a
former finance minister, was elected in 2002. He pledged to fix
transportation bottlenecks, end power shortages and enact
changes that have drawn private investment and interest from
donors including the African Development Bank, the World Bank,
 China ,  Japan  and the European Union.  Fewer Breakdowns  “It is difficult to be competitive if you cannot move your
goods or raw materials around cheaply,” Bob Okello, a Nairobi-
based spokesman for Coca-Cola, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Improvements to Kenya’s transport network over the
past seven years reduced vehicle breakdowns by 5 percent and led
to a 10 percent savings on fuel costs, he said.  Nairobi, Africa’s 12th-largest city with a population of 3
million, has grown from its founding in 1899 as a supply depot
along the railway from Mombasa, on Kenya’s southern coast, to
Kampala, the capital of neighboring Uganda.  Rapid urbanization spurred by migrants seeking jobs in a
city that generates as much as 60 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product may push Nairobi’s population to 5 million by
2020, according to the World Bank. The current road network is
only adequate for a city a 10th of its size, according to the
 United Nations ’  Human Settlements Programme .  Improved transport links in and around Nairobi mean “we
will be able to reach more of our customers and farmers,”
Caesar Mwangi, managing director of  Sasini Ltd. (STCL) , Kenya’s largest
publicly traded tea and coffee grower, said in an interview.  Matatu Drivers  Apart from the central business district, Nairobi has few
working traffic lights and police officers direct vehicles at
the busy junctions. The city’s mass transit system is comprised
mainly of privately owned minibuses, known as matatus, whose
drivers routinely flout traffic safety laws.  “Matatu drivers are to blame for most of the traffic jams
in Nairobi. They cause problems with their carelessness,
overlapping sometimes on the wrong side of the road, and always
bumping into us,” George Thuo, a 50-year-old taxi driver whose
cab is pockmarked by nicks and dents, said on March 29 as he
waited at his regular downtown parking spot for customers. “We
would be able to earn twice as much if Nairobi had better roads
and there were no matatus slowing us down.”  The Thika freeway, being built by three Chinese engineering
contractors, including  Sinohydro Group Ltd. (601669) , is running a year
behind schedule and is expected to be completed in July.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  expects
infrastructure development to help Nairobi improve its ranking
on the so-called  IBM Global Commuter Pain Survey . The report,
which measures the toll traffic takes on work, family and
health, showed the city is the world’s fourth-worst for
workplace commuting, after Mexico City, Shenzen and Beijing.  “In the next five to 10 years Nairobi will be a completely
different city,” said Tony Mwai, general manager for IBM East
Africa. “People will spend less time in their cars, and be
doing a lot more productive activities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  