-- Khodorkovsky Wants U.S. Visa Ban Over Yukos Lawyer Death
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-10T13:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/khodorkovsky-wants-u-s-visa-ban-over-yukos-lawyer-death.html
Former Yukos Oil Co. owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  is pressing the U.S. to impose a visa ban and
freeze the assets of some 30 officials involved in the
imprisonment of a company lawyer who died after being denied
medical care in prison.  Vasily Aleksanyan, who had AIDS and developed cancer while
in jail, was imprisoned for more than 2 1/2 years until December
2008. The European Court of Human Rights had demanded his
release, saying that Russia violated several articles of the
European Convention on Human Rights by denying him specialized
treatment for AIDS. He died in October 2011 at the age of 39.  A group of U.S. senators last year proposed a  bipartisan
bill  that would impose a visa ban and asset freeze on 60 Russian
officials implicated in the death of anti-corruption lawyer
Sergei Magnitsky in a Moscow jail, as well as others guilty of
human-rights violations. Four senators last month said they
wouldn’t support an Obama administration effort to repeal trade
restrictions against  Russia  without support for the legislation.  “To ensure the deaths of both Aleksanyan and Magnitsky
were not in vain, actions must be taken against those
responsible for the abuses of their human rights,”
Khodorkovsky’s defense team said in an e-mailed statement from
 New York . “This is the only way to achieve some justice for
victims and to dissuade further tragedies in Russia.”  Bill ‘Redundant’  President  Barack Obama ’s administration in July implemented
a visa ban on several Russian officials involved in the
Magnitsky case. The U.S. ambassador in Moscow,  Michael McFaul ,
who’s pursuing Obama’s “reset” policy of improving ties with
Russia, last month said the visa ban made the Magnitsky bill
“redundant,” according to a  Foreign Policy report  posted on
the envoy’s Twitter Inc. account.  Magnitsky, a lawyer for London-based Hermitage Capital
Management Ltd., said he was abused and denied medical care in
an effort to force him to drop fraud allegations against
Interior Ministry officials before his death in November 2009
after almost a year in pretrial detention. He was facing
fabricated  tax-evasion  charges when he was beaten to death,
President Dmitry Medvedev’s human rights commission said in a
report last year.  Bill Browder, head of Hermitage Capital, said in an
interview that the Aleksanyan case reinforced arguments for the
Magnitsky legislation, which describes the prosecution and
imprisonment of Khodorkovsky and other Yukos officials as
“politically motivated.”  Yukos Bankruptcy  Khodorkovsky, 49, whose fortune was once estimated at $15
billion by Forbes magazine, was convicted of fraud and tax
evasion in 2005 and oil embezzlement in December 2010, charges
he says were revenge for his financing of opposition parties.
The tycoon, arrested in 2003, is serving 13 years in prison.  Yukos, once Russia’s biggest oil exporter, was declared
bankrupt in 2006, facing $30 billion of tax claims, and sold off
in pieces. State-owned OAO Rosneft controls most of its former
oil production and refining assets.  A bipartisan group of senators on March 16 said in a letter
they were prepared to support repeal of the 1974 Jackson-Vanik
amendment, passed to punish the communist  Soviet Union  for
restricting Jewish emigration, if new legislation includes
“targeted sanctions on individuals who perpetrate gross
violations of human rights in Russia.”  Repeal ‘Unconscionable’  Republican Senators John McCain of  Arizona  and  Roger Wicker 
of  Mississippi , Democrat Benjamin Cardin of  Maryland  and Joseph Lieberman, an Independent from  Connecticut , signed the letter.
It was sent to Max Baucus, a Democrat who is chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, and Orrin Hatch, the top Republican on
the panel.  The Senate may take up legislation “within a couple of
months” to repeal Jackson-Vanik, Baucus said in a March 15
interview. Maintaining the law after Russia joins the  World
Trade Organization  later this year will penalize U.S. companies
doing business in Russia.  “The Aleksanyan case, the Magnitsky case and hundreds of
others like it are now all widely accepted in  Washington  as good
reasons why it would be unconscionable to repeal Jackson-Vanik
without putting some other strong human-rights legislation in
place against Russia,” Browder said by phone yesterday from
 London . “There is a preponderance of evidence that he was
deliberately and systematically denied medical care over a long
period of time.”  Last September, Russian human-rights activists and
opposition politicians called on the  U.S. Senate  to blacklist
305 officials in Russia involved in the prosecution of Yukos and
Khodorkovsky. Two of 31 judges, investigators and prison
officials in the Aleksanyan case also feature among the 60
people linked to Magnitsky’s death.  Aleksanyan was arrested on April 6, 2006, just six days
after being appointed executive vice president of Yukos to
handle relations with the court-appointed bankruptcy manager.
Embezzlement charges against him were dropped in June 2010.  His death “was not an accident, but the product of cruel
and inhuman treatment he received at the hands of Russian
prosecutors and prison officials during a prolonged unlawful
imprisonment,” Khodorkovsky’s defense team said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  