-- Kocherlakota Says Rate Increase May Be Needed This Yeas
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-10T20:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/kocherlakota-says-rate-increase-may-be-needed-this-yeas.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank may need
to begin raising interest rates as soon as this year as
inflation may exceed its 2 percent target next year.  “My own belief is that we will need to initiate our
somewhat lengthy exit strategy sometime in the next six to nine
months or so, and that conditions will warrant raising rates
sometime in 2013 or, possibly, late 2012,” Kocherlakota said
today in Nicollet,  Minnesota .  Federal Open Market Committee members expressed no
sentiment for increasing monetary accommodation unless the U.S.
economic expansion falters or prices rise at a rate slower than
its 2 percent target, according to minutes of their March 13
meeting. U.S. employers added 120,000 jobs in March, the fewest
in five months, a report showed April 6.  Kocherlakota said that he sees inflation, as measured by
the personal consumption expenditures index, of around 2 percent
this year, rising to 2.3 percent in 2013. He expects the
 unemployment rate  to fall to 7.7 percent at the end of 2012 from
its current level of 8.2 percent. By the end of 2013, he expects
an unemployment rate of around 7 percent, he said.  The regional bank chief said he wouldn’t rule out that
higher rates may be warranted as early as the first half of
2013. He also said accelerating the policy change involves risks
to the recovery.  ‘Policy Levers’  “If the sense of the committee was to move the date to
early 2013 I would be open to that possibility,” Kocherlakota
told reporters after his remarks to the Southern Minnesota
Initiative Foundation. ““That’s something I’d be happy to talk
about and interested in thinking about but I think there’s
always a danger in moving policy levers too much too fast.”  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Kocherlakota next voting in 2014. The Minneapolis Fed chief
dissented from two decisions of the FOMC last year to increase
monetary stimulus.  “The outlook for the unemployment rate has improved, and
the outlook for inflation has risen since January 2011,”
Kocherlakota said. “Since the beginning of last year, the FOMC
actually added more monetary accommodation. I would say that I
see no need for still more accommodation at this time.”  The FOMC saw the strengthening economy reducing the need
for more stimulus even as it planned to hold the benchmark
 interest rate  near zero at least through late 2014, the March 13
minutes showed.  Economic Growth  The world’s largest economy probably expanded 2 percent in
the first quarter of this year and will accelerate to 2.2
percent growth in the second quarter, according to the median of
74 economist estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Unemployment
fell to 8.2 percent last month, the Labor Department reported
last week.  Kocherlakota said he saw evidence that the economy’s
productive capacity has been damaged by the collapse in
household wealth and this, as well as a drop in demand, is
restraining the recovery. The loss of wealth from the collapse
of the housing bubble deprived households of capital that could
have been used to start new businesses while also making
existing firms more reluctant to hire.  Productive Capacity  Both of these forces “reduce the productive capacity of
our economy by making it harder for destroyed jobs to be
replaced by created jobs,” he said.  If weak demand were to blame for the low levels of output,
then “inflation should be well below the Fed’s target of 2
percent, and possibly falling,” Kocherlakota said. “This has
not been the case. Hence, it does not appear that demand is
significantly below the productive capacity of the  United
States ,” he said.  The economy will grow “only moderately,” at around 2.5
percent to 3 percent over the next two years, Kocherlakota said.  The Minneapolis Fed chief dissented from a FOMC pledge in
 August  to keep interest rates near zero through mid-2013, and a
decision in  September  to sell $400 billion of short-term
Treasuries and buy $400 billion of longer-term securities. He
opposed the central bank’s decision to increase accommodation at
a time when the economy was showing signs of healing.  Kocherlakota, 48, was an economics professor at the
 University of Minnesota  before becoming head of the regional
bank in October 2009. He was an economist at the  Minneapolis Fed 
from 1996 to 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Nicollet, Minnesota at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  