-- Koch Brothers File Second Lawsuit Against Cato Institute
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-10T20:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/koch-brothers-file-second-lawsuit-against-cato-institute-1-.html
Billionaire brothers Charles G. Koch, co-founder of the Cato Institute, and David H. Koch sued
the free-market advocacy group, seeking reversal of what they
called a “board-packing scheme” to weaken their influence.  In a complaint filed yesterday in a  Kansas  court,  a copy  of
which the institute posted on its website, the brothers claimed
Cato Chairman Robert Levy, President Edward Crane and seven
other directors last month improperly added four more directors
to the board to dilute the Kochs’ voting power.  “The primary purpose of the board-packing scheme was to
disenfranchise certain of Cato’s shareholders -- namely Charles
and  David Koch  -- and prevent them from being able to elect a
percentage of board members proportionate to the Kochs’ voting
shares,” the brothers alleged.  This is the second lawsuit Charles and David Koch filed
against the Washington-based group, which has been a supporter
of litigation challenging President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-
care reform legislation.  The Koch brothers, principals of the closely held refining
and chemical company Koch Industries Inc., have been active in
Republican Party fundraising. The company headquarters is in
Wichita, Kansas.  The Johnson County, Kansas, court where the cases are
pending is located in Olathe, about 22 miles southwest of  Kansas
City ,  Missouri .  Share Offer  The brothers on March 1 sued Cato and the widow of Chairman
Emeritus William Niskanen seeking enforcement of a shareholders
agreement provision they say compels Niskanen’s estate to offer
his shares to the institute and, if it declined to buy them, to
the surviving shareholders: the Kochs and Crane.  The Kochs sought no money damages in that suit, only a
declaratory judgment that Niskanen’s widow -- as personal
representative of his estate -- must carry out her alleged
duties under the shareholders’ agreement.  Niskanen died in October. The institute filed an answer to
the original lawsuit today, according to the court’s electronic
docket. In a copy of that document posted to its website, the
institute disputed the Kochs’ characterization of the agreement
and saying the document speaks for itself.  Copies of the institute’s answer and the second Koch
complaint posted to its website couldn’t be independently
verified in court filings.  ‘Multiple’ Filings  “Our board acted wholly within its authority at the March
22 special directors meeting,” Levy said today in an e-mail in
response to a request for comment on the new lawsuit’s
allegations.  “These multiple legal filings are intended to
intimidate,” Levy said. “They do not have that effect, but
they will, sadly, harm the pro-liberty movement and cause the
 Cato Institute  to expend resources on activities that are wholly
removed from our institutional mission.”  The new case is Koch v. Cato Institute, 12cv2830, Johnson
County, Kansas, District Court (Olathe). The original lawsuit is
Koch v. Washburn, 12-cv-01749, Johnson County District Court,
10th Judicial District (Olathe).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  