-- N.Y. Renews Opposition to BofA $8.5 Billion Mortgage Accord
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-10T23:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/n-y-renews-opposition-to-bofa-8-5-billion-mortgage-accord-1-.html
New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  renewed his opposition to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement, saying the deal
covers “a small fraction” of investor losses.  Schneiderman’s office asked a New York state judge today to
allow it to intervene in the case, saying in a court filing that
there are “serious questions about the fairness and adequacy of
the proposed settlement.”  “The proposed cash payment represents only a tiny
percentage of the losses investors have faced and will continue
to face,” the attorney general said.  Schneiderman’s request comes after litigation over the
settlement was sent back to state court from federal court for
consideration. He previously raised objections to the agreement
and won approval from a federal judge to intervene and
participate in the case.  The settlement would resolve claims from investors in
 Countrywide Financial Corp. (CFC)  mortgage bonds. Bank of America
acquired the mortgage lender in 2008.  Bank of New York Mellon 
Corp., as trustee for investors, is seeking approval of the deal
in state court.  Removed Claims  The attorney general’s office said in a letter today to New
York State Justice Barbara Kapnick, who is overseeing the case,
that it has been unable to reach an agreement on the
intervention with other parties in the case.  In its court filing, the attorney general removed claims
first filed last year against  BNY Mellon  over its role as
trustee and will no longer pursue them as part of the
Countrywide settlement, Danny Kanner, a spokesman for
Schneiderman, said.  “We have separated our affirmative claims from our
intervention motion, and intend to aggressively pursue the
state’s interest through every means available, including
further investigation and litigation if necessary,” Kanner
said.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the attorney general’s filing. Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for BNY Mellon, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The case is In the application of the Bank of New York
Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 