-- National Soccer Teams Said to Get $1.5 Billion Promise From UEFA
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-10T13:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/national-soccer-teams-said-to-get-1-5-billion-promise-from-uefa.html
European soccer’s governing body
promised its 53 national affiliates record broadcasting revenue
of about $1.5 billion for rights to qualification matches to
Euro 2016 and the 2018  World Cup , two people familiar with the
matter said.  UEFA  is scheduled this month to issue an invitation to
tender to broadcasters and rights agencies for the qualifying
matches that begin in September 2014. The European body
convinced national federations to allow it to sell the games for
the first time centrally by offering them record income.  The Nyon, Switzerland-based organization decided to sell
the rights to boost demand for national team competition and to
promote greater financial stability for smaller associations,
according to its president  Michel Platini . The officials said
they couldn’t be identified because the figures are private
agreements. UEFA’s press office declined to comment.  UEFA may have to dip into its 500 million-euro ($657
million) cash reserve to fulfill its revenue commitments to the
national federations.  “Most of the sports rights agencies that we’ve spoken to
think the difference is pretty big between market value and what
 UEFA ’s commitment is,” Frank Dunne, editor of TV Sports
Markets, said in a telephone interview. “It could be in the
region of 300 million euros and 400 million euros even allowing
for the usual bit of public negotiation.”  Sell Home Games  Currently nations have the rights to sell their home games,
while broadcasters buy away games from host federations or media
agencies. Under the new program UEFA will be the sole point of
sale for the games, giving broadcasters an opportunity to buy
the whole set of a national team’s fixtures from one place.  Matches will be spread out on six consecutive days between
Thursday and Tuesday as part of the governing body’s new “Week
of Football” concept.  “Here we will create a story with consistent branding,”
Guy-Laurent Epstein, UEFA’s marketing director, said in an
interview.  Niall Sloane, controller of sport at ITV Plc, which
broadcasts  England ’s home matches, said UEFA’s efforts to raise
the money it promised in rights sales “will be an interesting
task.”  “They will press us,” Sloane said in an interview.
“It’ll be a negotiation. They will value it up and we will
value it down. If they ask too much and we can’t afford it we
won’t buy it.”  One factor that may hurt UEFA is the continuing
difficulties that have gripped most European economies. In
almost all countries, national team matches must be broadcast
free to air and are often done so by the state broadcaster, many
of which have had their budgets cut in recent times.  Spain ’s
government in January said it was cutting 200 million euros from
RTVE’s annual 1.4 billion-euro budget  Take Control  “From a time of say 18 months ago when this project was
first tabled there’s been a progressive worsening of the
economic situation in a lot of European markets,” Dunne said.  UEFA’s move to take control of the rights came after
complaints from smaller federations that they were being
squeezed by agencies that pay money up front and profit if teams
draw nations such as England,  Germany ,  Italy  and European and
world champion Spain, according to Epstein. Dunne said while
some federations may double their income from qualifiers as a
result of the new deal, UEFA had to promise the biggest nations
even more.  “The pot will be bigger, that’s for sure,” Epstein said
in an interview.  UEFA makes 1.3 billion euros from its quadrennial European
Championship, which will be staged in Ukraine and  Poland  this
year. It makes a further 1.2 billion annually from the Champions
League, European soccer’s elite club competition. For the year
ended June 30, 2011, it had 494 million euros in cash, according
to its annual financial statement.  Bundled Together  Gianni Infantino, UEFA’s general secretary, said the
agreement won’t put the non-profit organization in financial
danger. He said experience from centralizing the sale of
 Champions League  rights has proven that revenue can increased
when broadcast and marketing are bundled together and sold by
the governing body.  “When you create such a new centralized model you benefit
from the creation of a new product with new branding,” he said.  Infantino said UEFA was confident it would “generate a lot
of money” but “will have to see if where we have to dip in”
to its reserve if it fails to break even. He predicted
additional funds could be raised through the 2016 tournament in
 France  because it will be expanded to 24 teams from the current
16.  “Let’s not forget the final tournament for 2016 is with 20
more matches, eight more teams,” he said. “So the revenues
there will be higher than the revenues generated for 2008 and
2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in the London newsroom on 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 