-- Nazarbayev Tells Government to Stabilize BTA, Alliance Bank
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-04-10T16:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/nazarbayev-tells-government-to-stabilize-bta-alliance-bank-1-.html
Kazakh President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  told government and central bank officials to steady
 BTA Bank (BTAS)  and  Alliance Bank (ASBN) , two of the defaulted lenders brought
under state control in 2009.  “Together with the government, it’s necessary to stimulate
and intensify the work of domestic banks,” Nazarbayev said at a
meeting today in the Kazakh capital, Astana, according to a
 transcript  of his remarks published on the president’s website.
“Also the situation needs to be stabilized in the banks that
underwent restructuring -- that’s BTA Bank and Alliance Bank.”  The two lenders issued new bonds and offered shares and
cash to creditors in 2010 after writing off and extending
payments on some of their debt. The state now holds an 81.5
percent stake in BTA and 67 percent in Alliance.  Kazakhstan ’s state-owned fund Samruk-Kazyna injected 883
billion tenge ($6 billion) to raise BTA’s equity capital in 2009
and 2010, the equivalent of about 4 percent of gross domestic
product. BTA, which failed to make an interest payment on its
July 2018 dollar bonds in January, is seeking to restructure its
debt for the second time.  BTA’s capital shortfall may reach about $6 billion by the
end of 2012, according to a presentation published on its
website. The bank in January predicted the gap would reach $5.1
billion by the end of the year.  Alliance Merger  Kazakhstan is discussing a possible merger of Alliance with
state-controlled AO Temirbank, according to their parent,
Samruk-Kazyna. Under international accounting standards,
Alliance had a capital shortage of 23.5 billion tenge as of
Sept. 30, compared with 105 billion tenge at the end of 2010,
the Almaty-based bank said Nov. 24.  BTA and  Halyk Savings Bank (HSBK) , the nation’s largest by assets,
welcome “any steps that aim to strengthen Kazakhstan’s banking
system,’ according to a joint statement issued on April 6. Halyk
Chief Executive Officer Umut Shayakhmetova on April 3 called on
the Central Asian nation’s government to abandon BTA’s debt
restructuring and forbid the lender from attracting deposits.  Kazakhstan must find ‘‘internal resources” to bolster its
banking system, Nazarbayev said today.  The meeting with the president was attended by officials
including Samruk-Kazyna’s head,  Umirzak Shukeyev , Deputy Prime
Minister  Kairat Kelimbetov , central bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko and Finance Minister Bolat Zhamishev.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  