-- Newark’s Booker Says Devils Owner Vanderbeek Betrayed City
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-04-10T21:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/newark-mayor-booker-says-devils-owner-vanderbeek-betrayed-city.html
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  says the
 New Jersey  Devils betrayed the city by failing to fulfill
commitments that helped the National Hockey League team get $200
million in taxpayer money for a new arena.  Booker last week called Devils owner Jeff Vanderbeek, a
former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  executive, a “high-
falootin, high-class huckster and hustler” who came to Newark
with “a mouthful of promises and a pocketful of lies” after an
independent arbitration panel granted the team $2.7 million a
year in disputed parking revenue.  Booker told Bloomberg Television today that his city has
made painful financial sacrifices while Vanderbeek has dodged
promises to pay for job training, youth organizations and a
recreation center.  “This was a very difficult decision for  Newark  to put
hundreds of millions of dollars into an arena,” Booker said.
“There’s a sense of betrayal of the city, on just a moral
level, during the worst economy, when the unemployment lines
right down the street from his office were getting longer and
longer.”  Booker previously called Vanderbeek “a mensch” and a
“straight shooter” before the city lost the arbitration,
according to a statement from Devils Arena Entertainment, the
holding company for the hockey club.  Devils’ Statement  “The mayor is playing fast and loose with the facts,” the
company said in the statement, noting that the Newark Housing
Authority initiated the litigation and arbitration. “Now that
the mayor doesn’t like the resulting rule of law he is looking
to change the rules -- it’s Booker’s law, not constitutional
law. That should be of great concern to any business considering
investing in Newark.”  The city in 2004 sold about $200 million in bonds in 2004,
backed by airport and marine-terminal revenue, to pay for the
arena, with the Devils saying they put in about $185 million.
The team relocated to Newark’s Prudential Center from the Izod
Center in  East Rutherford , New Jersey, in 2007 and is set to
begin a first-round playoff series with the  Florida Panthers  on
April 13.  Booker called the Newark arena “an engine for economic
opportunity,” that was built primarily with public money, even
though he opposed the deal when it was implemented by the
previous administration. Vanderbeek has been a beneficiary,
after selling everyone from community groups to local ministers
on his team’s commitment to the city.  ‘Shortchange City’  “Now everybody’s asking these questions: ‘Hey, whatever
happened to that recreation center you said you were going to
build?’” Booker said. “What he’s done over the last three or
four years is find every creative legal strategy, negotiating
strategy, to try to shortchange what is clearly owed to the
city.”  The New York Post  reported in March  that a deal to
restructure the team’s debt had fallen apart, and Vanderbeek had
about three months to find another investor or risk banks
foreclosing. The newspaper cited an unidentified person close to
the talks.  Booker, who detailed some of his complaints against
Vanderbeek today in  an editorial  in Newark’s Star-Ledger
newspaper, said he doesn’t regret using strong language in his
attack on the team and its owner.  “I was tired of being a Jeff Vanderbeek apologist,” he
said. “He’s called on me to help them sell suites, to help them
land sponsors. I’ve been personally involved in helping to
support them. Now after six years, he’s really shortchanged the
city.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Trish Regan in New York at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  