-- Fox Sports Objects to Dodgers’ Plan for Bankruptcy Exit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-04-11T04:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/news-corp-s-fox-sports-objects-to-dodgers-bankruptcy-exit-plan.html
News Corp.’s Fox Sports objected to
the Los Angeles Dodgers’ bankruptcy reorganization plan, which
hinges on a $2 billion sale of the baseball team, over the
broadcaster’s rights to renegotiate a contract to televise
games.  “The plan does not contain sufficient information” to
allow Fox to ascertain whether its telecast rights are being
impaired, it said in court papers filed yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Fox seeks a written affirmation that  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
or an affiliate isn’t part of the group buying the equity
interest of the Dodgers. The broadcaster wants the omitted
portions of the plan and sale agreement disclosed to determine
if its telecast rights have been violated. Fox also wants
confirmation that the buyers don’t have formal or informal
agreements with Time Warner Cable or any other media outlet that
could harm its rights.  Fox “looks forward to continuing its positive and
productive relationship with the Dodgers under their new
ownership” if the team complies with the information requests,
lawyers for the broadcaster said in court papers.  Frank McCourt , the team’s owner, put the Dodgers into
bankruptcy in June, claiming  Bud Selig , the Major League
Baseball commissioner, forced the team into a cash crisis by
rejecting a new contract with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports, which
holds the club’s television rights through the 2013 season.  New TV Deal  Once under court protection, McCourt lost the support of
the network when he tried to solicit bids for a new television
deal earlier than allowed under the Fox Sports contract.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington is
scheduled to consider approval of the plan at a hearing April
13. The sale must be completed by April 30, the day McCourt is
required under a divorce settlement to pay his ex-wife.  Fox argues that although the Dodgers have filed papers
stating “that Time Warner Cable is not purchasing” the team,
the possibility remains, and needs to be disclosed, that it may
be an investor in the purchasing group “or is otherwise
indirectly funding the purchase.”  “The  Los Angeles Dodgers  anticipate confirmation of the
debtors’ plan of reorganization on schedule,” Robert Siegfried,
a spokesman for the Dodgers, said in an e-mail. “The Debtors
view Fox’s objection as without merit.”  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 