-- Nike Suit Ends With Reebok Recalling Tim Tebow Jerseys
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-10T20:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/nike-suit-ends-with-reebok-ordered-to-recall-tebow-jerseys-1-.html
Adidas AG (ADS) ’s  Reebok International (RBK) 
will recall New York Jets jerseys and T-shirts with quarterback
 Tim Tebow ’s name on them as part of a settlement of a lawsuit
with  Nike (NKE)  Inc., a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan yesterday
signed an order closing a suit filed by Nike and ordering that
Reebok offer to buy back jerseys in retail stores and recall any
jerseys under its control.  Reebok’s licensing agreement with the  National Football
League  ended March 31, and Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike this
month became the official supplier of licensed NFL apparel. Nike
sued March 27 to block Reebok from selling the jerseys, which
were sold after Tebow’s trade to the Jets.  “We’re pleased to have reached a mutually agreeable
resolution,” Nike spokeswoman Mary Remuzzi said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Castel’s order was issued with agreement of both sides.
Castel had previously issued rulings blocking Reebok from
selling the jerseys.  “We’re pleased to have reached a mutually agreeable
resolution,” Daniel Sarro, a Reebok spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Lawyers for Canton, Massachusetts-based Reebok had argued
that the company had the right to sell the jerseys and T-shirts
under a sell-off provision of its licensing agreement with
 Players Inc. (MMMS) , the marketing affiliate of the National Football
League Players Association.  Tebow, 24, helped lead the Denver Broncos to the NFL
playoffs after taking over as the team’s starting quarterback
last year. He was traded to the Jets on March 21.  Tebow, a Christian who prays on the field after his team
wins, was named the most popular professional athlete in the
U.S. in an ESPN poll this year. His Broncos jersey was the
second-highest selling of all NFL players last season, Nike said
in the complaint.  The case is Nike Inc. v. Reebok International Ltd., 12-cv-
2275, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  