-- Clinton Joined by Gemba in Warning North Korea on Launch
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-11T01:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/north-korea-preparing-for-nuclear-test-south-korea-says.html
The Group of Eight foreign
ministers meeting in Washington this week should deliver “a
very strong message” against North Korea’s plans to launch a
satellite within days, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said.  “We share a strong interest in stability on the Korean
peninsula,” Clinton told reporters after meeting in Washington
with Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  yesterday. “And
we believe that strength and security will not come from more
provocations but from North Korea living up to its commitments
and obligations.”  North Korea has completed assembling a rocket, and
officials of the country’s Space Development Department told
reporters in Pyongyang that work is on target for a launch
between April 12 and April 16, the  Associated Press  reported.
Concern that the event is a cover for a missile test drew
warnings from the U.S. and allies.  “It’s necessary for us to issue a really strong message,”
Gemba said in a press conference with Clinton. A launch by North
Korea “would obviously be a violation of United Nations
resolutions,” he said.  Later in the day, Clinton said she expected this wouldn’t
be the last provocative act by North Korea. “Recent history
strongly suggests that additional provocations may follow,”
Clinton said in an address to the U.S. Naval Academy in
Annapolis,  Maryland .  Nuclear Test Prospect  China  and South Korea also have expressed concern over
North Korea’s plan to put a satellite into orbit with a long-
range rocket. The launch, which will mark the 100th anniversary
of the birth of state founder  Kim Il Sung , comes less than four
months after Kim Jong Un succeeded his father as head of state.  Debate also has centered on the prospect that North Korea
may follow any launch with a nuclear test. Activity at North
Korea’s Punggye-ri atomic testing site is consistent with
preparations for previous detonations in 2006 and 2009,
according to a South Korean intelligence report obtained April 9
by Bloomberg News.  Analysts said the totalitarian state may be seeking to sway
the outcome of today’s parliamentary elections in  South Korea 
across the demilitarized zone.  “The timing is impeccable,” said Park Young Ho, senior
research fellow and director at the Korea Institute for National
Unification. “Kim Jong Un is taking advantage of the domestic
North Korean celebrations of Kim Il Sung to aggressively
influence South Korean elections.”  Control of Parliament  Polls indicated South Korea President  Lee Myung Bak ’s party
may lose control of parliament to an opposition coalition that
has pledged to improve ties with its northern neighbor.
Opposition lawmakers accused the government of using the
intelligence report to influence the elections.  North Korea’s ruling Workers’ Party meets today and may
appoint Kim Jong Un the new party chief in one of the final
steps marking his succession after the Dec. 17 death of his
father,  Kim Jong Il .  The Obama administration has said firing the rocket would
breach a February agreement with  North Korea  to halt nuclear and
missile tests and end uranium enrichment at its facility in
Yongbyon, which was to be followed by 240,000 tons of U.S. food
aid.  “It would be impossible to imagine” the U.S. would follow
through on the food aid if North Korea proceeds with the launch,
 Jay Carney , President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman, told reporters.  ‘Serious Violations’  Launching the missile “would represent clear and serious
violations” of UN resolutions and the U.S. will work with its
partners in negotiations with North Korea on a response, Carney
told reporters traveling with Obama yesterday to an event in
 Florida .  North Korea’s government says it is putting a “peaceful”
satellite into orbit and that doesn’t violate the deal. Ryu Kum
Chol, a North Korean space official, dismissed as “nonsense”
assertions that the satellite launch is aimed at developing
missile technology, the AP said. Ryu said the communications
satellite is fitted with a camera to monitor weather conditions.  Kim’s government may be using the prospect of a follow-up
nuclear test as a bargaining chip to keep the food-aid deal from
falling apart, analysts including Koh Yu Hwan said.  Food Aid  “The likelihood of a third nuclear test depends on whether
the U.S. decides to keep the Feb. 29 food-aid deal following the
missile launch,” said Koh, a professor of North Korean Studies
at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul . “With the nuclear preparations,
North Korea is waving its nuclear card at the U.S. and telling
them to make a choice.”  The North Korean rocket is expected to fly south over the
 Yellow Sea  toward the  Philippines , South Korea’s transportation
ministry said in a March 20 statement on its website. The first
stage of the fuselage is expected to fall 180 kilometers (112
miles) away from the South’s western coast and the second stage
near the Philippines’ northeastern-most island, the ministry
said.  Following the 2009 test, the UN Security Council passed a
 resolution  condemning the move and strengthening sanctions that
include letting cargo suspected of containing weapons be
inspected. It also ordered the regime to admit International
Atomic Energy Agency inspectors, something North Korea agreed to
in February.  Yongbyon Facility  In November 2010, North Korea showed its Yongbyon facility
to visiting U.S. scientists, including  Stanford University ’s
Siegfried S. Hecker, who said he saw more than  1,000
centrifuges . While North Korea claims its nuclear facility is
intended to generate electricity, it can be easily converted to
produce highly enriched uranium for bombs, Hecker wrote in a
 report  on the university’s website after his North Korea trip.  South Korea’s main opposition Democratic United Party said
intelligence officials may have leaked the information about
potential nuclear-test preparations to influence the
parliamentary elections.  “It is questionable as to why the intelligence service is
pointing this out to the people and the press now,” Park Yong
Jin, spokesman of the DUP, said in an e-mailed statement.  The DUP, which calls for greater engagement with the North
and has yet to issue its position on the satellite plan, is
fatally “weak on national security” at a time when threats of
a third nuclear test loom, ruling National Frontier Party
spokesman Jeon Kwang Sam said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  