-- Northrop CEO Sees U.S. Role in Crafting Cybersecurity Standards
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-04-10T04:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/northrop-ceo-sees-government-role-in-cybersecurity-standards.html
The U.S. Homeland Security
Department should work with companies in setting cybersecurity
standards, said Wes Bush, chief executive officer of  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC) , one of the nation’s largest defense contractors.  “The notion of having DHS involved with industries in a
partnership approach to ultimately lead to standards setting, I
think that’s the right idea,” Bush said yesterday at an event
in  Washington .  Standards can help companies focus their investments on
cybersecurity measures that work, Bush said in response to
questions after a speech at George Washington University.  The role of the Homeland Security Department is central to
a debate in Congress over how to shield U.S. infrastructure from
digital attacks. U.S. lawmakers are considering cybersecurity
measures following assaults last year on companies including New
York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by
assets, and Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
world’s largest defense company.  Senate Democrats and President  Barack Obama  support a bill
unveiled on Feb. 14 that would let the Homeland Security
Department set regulations for operators of critical networks to
improve cyber defenses.  Under the measure, introduced by Senator  Joe Lieberman , a
Connecticut independent, companies would have to prove their
networks are secure or face penalties.  Information Sharing  A series of competing bills favored by Senate and House
Republicans would avoid creating new regulations while
encouraging companies to share information on cyber threats with
each other and the government through voluntary incentives, such
as protection from lawsuits.  Bush said he also favors information sharing and said
legislation should help make such data exchanges easier for
companies.  “Sharing threat information between businesses and of
course between government and business is absolutely necessary
in the fight to defend a company’s digital information,” he
said.  Northrop Grumman participates in the Defense Industrial
Base initiative, a government test program for sharing
classified data on cyber threats with defense contractors.  Companies including AT&T Inc. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  have also
said they support voluntary sharing of information on digital
threats while opposing new government regulations for
cybersecurity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  