-- Oaktree Tests Private-Equity IPO Appeal as Carlyle Looms
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-04-10T13:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/oaktree-tests-private-equity-ipo-appeal-as-carlyle-looms.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, is seeking to sell as
much as $517.5 million in an initial public offering this week
that will test investor appetite for private-equity firms before
 Carlyle Group (CG)  LP’s planned IPO later this year.  Oaktree and some of its existing stakeholders are offering
11.3 million shares at $43 to $46 each, the Los Angeles-based
firm said in a filing last month. Underwriters have the option
to purchase an additional 1.69 million shares, which would bring
the total raised to $595 million.  Carlyle Group , the second-
biggest U.S. private-equity firm, indicated in a filing this
month that it may sell a 10 percent stake in its own IPO.  In seeking to allow their owners to sell some of their
stakes, both firms face a legacy of poorly performing stock
deals by private-equity firms starting in 2007, when  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  became the first big buyout manager to go public.
Blackstone is trading at about half its IPO price, while
 Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  is down 80 percent and  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  has lost a fourth of its value. KKR & Co.
has gained 35 percent since the New York firm listed its shares
in the U.S. in July 2010.  “Oaktree will be a test for alternative-asset firms
entering the public market, and I think ultimately public
investors are going to view both Carlyle and Oaktree in a
similar fashion,” Douglas Kelly, a  Santa Monica , California-
based analyst at IBISWorld Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“It will be a difficult test because  hedge funds  and
alternative assets, relative to their fees, have not performed
well over the last two to three years.”  Founders’ Stakes  Chairman  Howard Marks  and President Bruce Karsh, two of
Oaktree’s co-founders, are set to get almost 40 percent of the
proceeds from the firm’s share sale, which may come as early as
April 11. Marks and six partners from TCW Group Inc. started
Oaktree in 1995. He and Karsh will each be paid about $101.9
million from the IPO, according to the March 30 filing.  Carlyle, which has contemplated an IPO since at least 2007,
signaled in an April 3  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, that it may sell a 10 percent stake in the
IPO, saying existing owners would retain 90 percent of a Carlyle
holding entity. Carlyle’s founders don’t plan to sell shares in
the IPO, according to a person briefed on their plans who asked
not to be named because the information is private.  Carlyle, based in  Washington , manages about $147 billion.
Oaktree oversaw $74.9 billion as of Dec. 31, including $24.1
billion in distressed debt.  ‘Want to Liquefy’  “When you create value, ultimately you want to liquefy and
get the benefit of that,” Carlyle co-founder  David Rubenstein 
said in February.  In Blackstone’s case, co-founder  Peter G. Peterson  sold
most of his stake to fund his philanthropic efforts and his
foundation; his partner,  Stephen Schwarzman , sold some shares.
 Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , the cousins who are KKR co-
founders and managing partners, have yet to sell stock in their
firm, according to KKR’s annual reports.  Other Oaktree executives stand to benefit from its IPO.
John Frank, a managing principal, will receive $4.8 million;
Caleb Kramer, a managing director, will get $4.3 million; and
Stephen Kaplan, a principal, will be paid $3.7 million, the firm
said in government filings.  As at competing firms, the IPO may help Oaktree ease a
transition to new managers. It’s already transferring some
responsibilities, the firm said in an April 6 filing. The firm
will no longer pay Kaplan a direct share of management fees, it
said, instead paying him fixed quarterly payments that represent
about 75 percent of the amount he would otherwise have received.  Acquisition Currency  Buyout firms also have used stock gained through a public
listing as currency to make acquisitions. Blackstone in 2008
agreed to buy GSO Capital Partners, which like Oaktree pursues
credit investments, for about $900 million in cash and stock.
New York-based Blackstone has turned GSO into the centerpiece of
its credit strategy. Assets under management in that business
have more than quadrupled to $46 billion.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley are leading the
offering for Oaktree, which will trade on the  NYSE (NYX)  under the
ticker symbol OAK. Blackstone, Apollo and KKR are also on the
NYSE. Carlyle has filed to be listed on the Nasdaq market using
the symbol CG.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest buyout firm, went public in
June 2007. KKR filed for its own IPO on July 3, 2007. Stalled by
the global financial crisis, KKR eventually gained a New York
listing by combining with its publicly traded European fund and
moving the listing to the NYSE from Amsterdam in 2010.  Clients’ Gains  Apollo and Oaktree first sold shares through a private
exchange managed by Goldman Sachs. The New York-based firm
transferred the listing to the New York Stock Exchange via an
IPO in March 2011.  Oaktree, like its  private-equity  rivals that preceded it to
the public markets, is offering prospective shareholders a slice
of profits gained in a business that generates high returns for
its private investors, a group of pensions, university
endowments and sovereign-wealth funds. Those limited partners
have seen Oaktree deliver average annual returns of 19 percent a
year on more than $52 billion of drawn capital, according to
Oaktree’s IPO filings.  Whether public investors and limited partners both can
benefit from private-equity firms remains unclear, said Colin Blaydon, director of the Center for Private Equity and
Entrepreneurship at  Dartmouth College ’s Tuck School of Business
in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  “Being public means being more transparent and that’s
where the limited partners get uneasy,” Blaydon said. “Does
the magic sauce of being a private investor get diluted in a way
that it will be a drag on the performance of the funds? That’s
an unanswered question.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  