-- Obama Leads Romney in Poll That Shows 19-Point Gender Gap
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-10T15:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/obama-leads-romney-in-poll-that-shows-19-point-gender-gap.html
A competitive, three-month primary
campaign has left  Mitt Romney  damaged as he prepares for a
likely general-election fight with President  Barack Obama , a
Washington Post-ABC News poll shows.  Obama, 50, holds advantages over Romney, 65, on personal
attributes, even as the incumbent remains vulnerable among
Americans concerned that the economic recovery is taking too
long.  If a general election were held now, registered voters
would divide 51 percent for the president and 44 percent for the
former Massachusetts governor.  Obama is boosted by his support among women, a constituency
that favors him by 19 percentage points over Romney. Among men,
Romney has an 8 percentage point advantage. The two candidates
are tied among independent voters, a group that can determine
the winner of presidential elections.  General elections are fought on a state-by-state basis, so
the national figures offer a general measure of the race and
aren’t predictive of the outcome. The  poll  was taken April 5-8
and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points
on the full sample.  Health Care Advantage  Obama leads Romney on who would do a better job protecting
the middle class, handling international affairs and terrorism,
and dealing with health-care policy. The only issue tested where
Romney did markedly better was on who would deal more
effectively with the federal  budget deficit .  On economic issues, a potential match-up between the two
men is more competitive, with Obama holding a 3 percentage point
advantage on who is best to create jobs and Romney holding a 4-
point edge on who is best to handle the economy.  The poll shows Americans are split on the question of
whether the economy is improving. Almost two-thirds said the
country is headed in the wrong direction and one-third said
rising gas prices have caused them “serious” hardship.  Obama will speak today in  Florida  at fundraising events as
well as give an address on the “Buffett rule,” a proposal
named after billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  that would boost
tax rates paid by households with incomes between $1 million and
$2 million, phasing them up to a 30 percent minimum tax rate for
those making more than $2 million a year. Romney is scheduled to
campaign later today in Delaware and  Pennsylvania , where
Republican primaries will be held April 24.  -- Editors: Jeanne Cummings, Robin Meszoly  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  