-- Oil Rises From Eight-Week Low as China Car Sales Expand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-11T12:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/oil-trades-near-eight-week-low-on-rising-u-s-crude-inventories.html
Oil rose from the lowest close in
almost two months in  New York  after a European Central Bank
official signaled the lender may act to stem the spread of the
region’s debt crisis.  Futures gained as much as 0.7 percent as the euro
strengthened against the dollar after ECB Executive Board member
Benoit Coeure suggested that the bank may restart bond purchases
for  Spain . Crude declined yesterday after an industry report
showed U.S. stockpiles rose for a third week. The Energy
Department will release its inventory report later today.  “Oil is getting some support from a weaker greenback amid
some ECB reassurances,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at
VTB Capital in  London . “We also have a general rebound across
the board along with equities after losses yesterday, though it
seems this may be short-lived.”  Crude for May delivery advanced as much as 74 cents to
$101.76 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.47 at 1:31 p.m. London time.
The contract fell yesterday 1.4 percent to $101.02, the lowest
settlement since Feb. 14. Prices are up 2.8 percent this year.  Brent crude  for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange traded at $119.64 a barrel, down 24
cents. The European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of
$18.25 to New York futures. The spread yesterday shrank 6.7
percent, the most since Feb. 20, to $18.86.  Euro Gains  Europe’s shared currency advanced against the dollar amid
speculation that an ECB bond-purchase program may cut Spain’s
borrowing costs. Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s three-month-old
government is struggling to convince investors it can reduce the
 budget deficit . The euro rose as much as 0.6 percent to $1.3157,
making commodities priced in dollars less expensive.  “Market conditions are not justified,” the ECB’sCoeure
said at an event in Paris today. “Will the ECB intervene? We
have an instrument, the securities markets program, which hasn’t
been used recently but it still exists.”  U.S. crude stockpiles are forecast to climb to 364.4
million barrels in the seven days ended April 6, according to
the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Gasoline supplies are projected to decline by  1.38 million
barrels , while the API data showed a gain of 1.18 million
barrels. Inventories of distillates, a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, may drop 250,000 barrels, compared with
a decline of 476,000 barrels in the API report.  U.S. Surplus  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey. Its data will be release at
10:30 a.m. Washington time.  “The fact there is a surplus in the U.S. is borne out by
yesterday’s API inventory data,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who predicts crude will
average $104 a barrel this quarter.  U.S. gasoline demand declined 0.8 percent last week from
the prior seven days and consumption slipped below year-earlier
levels for the 32nd consecutive week,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  said in
its SpendingPulse report yesterday. Drivers bought 8.8 million
barrels a day of the fuel in the seven days ended April 6, down
from 8.87 million the prior week, the report showed.  -- Editors: Rachel Graham, Raj Rajendran  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  