-- Oil Futures Decline Amid Projected U.S. Supply Increase
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-10T19:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/oil-futures-decline-amid-projected-u-s-supply-increase.html
Oil dropped to an eight-week low on
forecasts that U.S. supplies rose to the highest level  for this
time of year  since 1990 and as equities fell on concern that the
euro-region debt crisis will spread.  Futures declined 1.4 percent on speculation the Energy
Department will report that U.S. inventories rose  2 million
barrels  to 364.4 million last week, the median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The decline accelerated as
stocks slid when Spanish and Italian bond yields surged.  “High crude inventories should keep a lid on prices,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York
hedge fund focused on energy. “We’ll continue to be focused on
concerns about  Europe ’s debt crisis.”  Crude oil for May delivery fell $1.44 to $101.02 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Feb. 14. Prices are up 2.2 percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement dropped $2.79, or 2.3 percent,
to end the session at $119.88 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. It was the lowest settle since Feb. 17.
The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded
West Texas Intermediate was $18.86, down from $20.21 at the
close of trading yesterday.  U.S. gasoline supplies declined  1.38 million barrels  last
week, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News before the Energy Department report tomorrow.
 Inventories of distillates , a category that includes diesel and
heating oil, slipped 250,000 barrels to 135.6 million, the
survey showed.  API Report  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  “We’re on the verge of wiping out all of our gains for
2012,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Increasing economic
uncertainty and ample supplies are the primary reason for this
move lower.”  Spain’s efforts to calm investors with 10 billion euros
($13 billion) of budget cuts in education and health failed to
stem concern the nation will be the fourth euro member to need a
bailout. The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year benchmark bond surged 20
basis points to 5.95 percent today as Economy Minister Luis de Guindos declined to rule out a rescue for Spain.  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds rose 23 basis points to
5.67 percent, increasing the spread over similar-maturity German
bunds to more than 400 basis points for the first time since
Feb. 16.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.6 percent,
extending its longest slump since November, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  dropped 1.7 percent.  Chinese Imports  China’s net crude imports fell 6 percent in March and
overseas purchases of all goods missed economists’ estimates,
customs data showed, signaling lower demand.  “The market is bracing for inventory data tomorrow that’s
likely to show a further build in crude stocks,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New
York . “People pay attention to the Chinese data. It’s unclear
whether it means demand actually fell or imports are delayed.”  Chinese imports fell to 5.52 million barrels a day from
February’s record 5.87 million, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on data released today on the website of the
Beijing-based General Administration of Customs.  The nation’s state-owned refiners plan “major” second-
quarter maintenance, idling the equivalent of 12 percent of the
country’s capacity, Oilchem.net reported in January.  Iranian Comments  Futures briefly rose as President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ,
speaking days ahead of a new round of talks on  Iran’s nuclear
program , said his country can last for years without exporting
crude. Iran and the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council plus  Germany  are scheduled to hold talks on
April 14 after a 15-month hiatus.  “The geopolitical concern that drove us higher earlier
this year has dissipated because of the upcoming negotiations,”
McGillian said. “There was some inflammatory rhetoric today
from  Iran  but it had only a limited impact.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 541,119
contracts as of 3:14 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 424,067
contracts yesterday, 34 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  