-- Olympic Gold Medal on Par With Winning a Grand Slam, Murray Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-04-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/olympic-gold-medal-on-par-with-winning-a-grand-slam-murray-says.html
Andy Murray  said winning a gold
medal at the  London Olympics  at Wimbledon is as important as
breaking Great Britain’s 76-year Grand Slam title drought.  Fred Perry was the last British male to win a tennis major
when he triumphed at the 1936  U.S. Open . Fourth-ranked Murray
has lost all three major finals he’s played, the last coming at
the 2011 Australian Open to top-ranked Novak Djokovic.  “Wimbledon and the Olympics would be two of my major
goals,” Murray said yesterday at the Queen’s Club in  London  at
a presentation to announce his five-year commitment to the AEGON
Championships. The 24-year-old, who has 22 career titles, is the
defending champion at the grass-court event.  “Tennis at the Olympics has become a big deal” Murray
said. “Everybody plays it now whereas 10-15 years ago guys were
skipping the Olympics.”  Murray said he sees the Olympics as a fifth Grand Slam.  He played at the Beijing Games four years ago, losing in
the first round of the singles and the second round of doubles
with his brother Jamie. Even with the early defeats, Murray
still regards his time in  China  as a career highlight.  “Just being around all the top athletes in the world, you
don’t get that chance very often,” he said. “Tennis is such an
individual sport.”  The Olympic tennis tournament begins July 28, 20 days after
the Wimbledon Championships end.  Clay-Court Season  Murray, who reached the semifinals of all four majors last
year, will start his clay-court preparation for the French Open
next week in Monte Carlo. He’ll then play tournaments in
Barcelona, Madrid and  Rome  before heading to  Roland Garros . The
French Open starts May 27.  Murray reached the semifinals in Paris last season, losing
to eventual champion  Rafael Nadal . While Nadal is the most
dominant clay-court player of his generation with 32 titles,
including six at the  French Open , Murray is still seeking his
first tournament victory on the surface.  He’s been working with his new coach, eight-time major
champion Ivan Lendl, to improve his form on the sport’s slowest
surface. Lendl won 28 clay titles including three French Opens.  “He is confident in the way my game matches up against the
other guys on the surface,” Murray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  