-- Tombini Reiterates Brazil May Stop Rate Cuts at About 9%
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-04-10T03:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/tombini-reiterates-brazil-may-stop-rate-cuts-at-about-9-.html
Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini reiterated that previous statements saying
policy makers will end cuts to the benchmark rate at a level
“slightly above” the historical low of 8.75 remain in place.  “At the moment that statement by the central bank remains
valid,” Tombini said in an interview with Globo News television
yesterday. “Inflation is moving as expected.”  After reducing borrowing costs to 9.75 percent in March,
the bank has twice signaled that cuts that began in August will
continue. In the minutes of its March 6-7 meeting, the board
said it saw a “high probability” of the rate falling to
“levels slightly above the historical lows and stabilizing”
there. The same comment was made in a March 29 report.  Since August, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has
reduced the benchmark  interest rate  five times, trimmed taxes on
 consumer goods , increased subsidized loans by the state
development bank and pledged to boost public investments to fuel
economic growth. The measures led analysts to forecast the
central bank will miss its inflation target of 4.5 percent this
year, according to a central bank survey published yesterday.  Consumer prices rose 0.21 percent in March, less than
expected by all 50 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, who had a
median estimate of 0.37 percent. Annual inflation slowed to 5.24
percent, the lowest rate in 17 months.  “The central bank’s policy was aimed at re-stabilizing
inflation. I believe were are managing to do it,” Tombini said.
“At the moment the numbers indicate the policy to fight
inflation was right.’”  He said the central bank is seeking to bring inflation back
to the 4.5 percent target by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  