-- Hong Kong Names Two New Directors to City’s Stock Exchange
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-04-10T10:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/hong-kong-names-two-new-directors-to-city-s-stock-exchange-1-.html
Chow Chung-Kong, former chief
executive officer at MTR Corp., and Tim Freshwater, former Asia
vice chairman of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were appointed to the
board of  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388)  by the city’s
government today.  The two will begin their two-year appointments on April 23,
according to a government release. Ronald Arculli, who will step
down as chairman of the world’s largest exchange operator, was
re-appointed as a director for one year from April 23.  “Hong Kong Exchanges needs to expand outside of  China 
because relying too much on the mainland market is risky on
government policies and economic slowdown,” said  Kenny Tang ,
Hong Kong-based general manager of AMTD Financial Planning Ltd.
Chow has “very good international exposure so I think he can
help the exchange to not just expand to China but also promote
to the international market. Freshwater also has good connection
with foreign international institutions.”  Chow retired as the chief executive officer of MTR in
December after taking the position in December 2003. During his
tenure, the company merged with a  Hong Kong  railway operator and
started work on a HK$66.9 billion ($8.62 billion) line
connecting the city to China’s high-speed-rail network.  Freshwater, a Briton who has spent at least 30 of the past
45 years in Hong Kong, retired as vice chairman at Goldman Sachs
at the end of last year. Arculli served as the bourse’s chairman
since 2006. He will step down as chairman on at the annual
general meeting on April 23.  Arculli is currently the chairman of the World Federation
of Exchanges.  Laura Cha and Moses Cheng will retire from the board of
Hong Kong Exchanges after its annual general meeting on April
23, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  