-- Monti’s Overhaul Can’t Stop Pain From Spain: Euro Credit
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 3 5 2 6 4 1 ]   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   [ ]   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 2 6 8 0 7 1 ]   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   [ ]
-- 2012-04-10T06:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/monti-s-overhaul-can-t-stop-pain-from-spain-euro-credit.html
     April 10 (Bloomberg) --Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s efforts
to overhaul the economy and protect  Italy  from the region’s debt
crisis may be overwhelmed by  Spain ’s deepening fiscal woes and
the fading effect of European Central Bank three-year lending.  Monti sent parliament last week a plan to revamp the labor
markets, which represents the most ambitious of his four major
legislative efforts to make the Italian economy more
competitive. The  draft law  was greeted on April 4 by a 9 basis
point increase in the country’s 10-year bond yield to 5.43
percent as Spain’s debt slumped on renewed concern the country
would need a bailout.  “Spain and Italy are two different countries, but the
problem is the two bonds are highly correlated because they
share similarities,” said  Marc Chandler , head of global
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman in  New York . “Both
countries’ economies are going to contract this year.”  Italian borrowing costs fell more than 2 percentage points
between Monti’s appointment in November and the start of March
as ECB lending and his efforts to spur an economy where growth
trailed the euro-region average for a decade shored up demand
for the nation’s debt. Now, Spain has revived contagion concerns
after the government abandoned its deficit target, contributing
to four weeks of declines for Italian bonds.  The month-long slide left the  difference  in the 10-year
yield and comparable German debt at 382 basis points at 8:30
a.m. in Rome, up 10 basis points from April 5, which was the
highest close since Feb. 16. Spanish bonds have fared worse,
with 10-year rates climbing 90 basis points to 5.78 percent
since Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told European Union allies on
March 2 that the country couldn’t meet its deficit commitment
for this year. Spain settled on a new target of 5.3 percent of
gross domestic product, up from the 4.4 previously pledged.  Rajoy’s Pessimism  Monti’s announcement that he secured political support to
speed the labor reform passage in parliament was overshadowed
last week by Rajoy who fueled bailout concern when he said April
4 that Spain was in a situation of “extreme difficulty.”  Spain dragged Italian bonds lower when demand for Spanish
debt slumped at an auction the same day, forcing the government
to pay 4.3 percent on five-year securities, almost 1 percentage
point more than in March.  Investors will be watching to see whether last week’s
Spanish offering drives Italian borrowing costs higher when the
Treasury sells 11 billion euros ($14.4 billion) of bills
tomorrow, followed by as much as 5 billion euros of bonds the
next day.  Asia Swing  Monti said March 28 during a trip to  Asia  that the euro-
region’s debt crisis was “almost over” after EU leaders agreed
to boost the region’s bailout mechanisms. He then returned to
Italy last week to face rising bond yields and growing political
and popular dissent against his labor market reform.  Discontent has been rising among Italians as Monti’s
efforts to balance the budget have brought higher taxes and
record gasoline prices that reached almost 2 euros a liter this
month. His push for companies to have more freedom to fire
workers proved a hard sell with the public at a time when
joblessness is at a decade high of 9.3 percent and the economy
is mired in its fourth recession since 2001.  Monti was forced to back down from his original goal of
allowing companies to  fire workers  for economic reasons without
fear of reinstatement after Italy’s biggest union called for a
general strike and the  Democratic Party , a key political ally of
Monti’s unelected government, opposed the bill.  The final draft allows for reinstatement and helped bring
the Democratic Party back to the fold, virtually securing the
law’s passage in parliament. The proposal also extends the
country’s limited system of  unemployment benefits  to cover more
people and limits the use of part-time contracts to encourage
more permanent employment.  Senate Debate  Italy’s Senate will debate the measures this week and both
houses of Parliament may offer amendments to reshape the law.  “The draft law of the labor market reform proposed by
Monti’s government doesn’t represent a revolution,” Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $153 million at Glendevon King Asset
Management in  London , said in an interview by phone. “The real
success of the government was knocking down a taboo, not
changing things. The inflexibility of labor in Italy has only
been scratched.”  Even after watering down the bill, Monti wins praise from
economists and investors for tackling what they say are
structural impediments that make it difficult to cut the euro-
region’s second biggest debt of almost 2 trillion euros.  “Monti’s reforms are big step in the right direction, but
they will take time to work and stimulate growth,” said Georg Grodzki, who helps oversee $515 billion as global head of credit
research at Legal & General Investment Management in London.
“The markets will closely watch the government’s deficit
reduction progress as well as economic data. Italian  government
bonds  are unlikely to escape unharmed if Spain’s yields keep
rising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  