-- Top Earners Pay Higher Tax Rate Without Buffett Rule
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-10T13:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/top-earners-pay-higher-tax-rate-than-others-without-buffett-rule.html
President  Barack Obama  is promoting
a “Buffett rule” setting a minimum tax rate for top earners to
ensure they pay a higher percentage of their income than middle-
class families. For the most part, they already do.  The average tax rate, including payroll taxes, for the
middle 20 percent of U.S. families will be  15.9 percent  in 2015,
according to an estimate by the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan
research group in Washington. Of the 217,000 households that
would be affected by the Buffett rule,  4,000  will have incomes
exceeding $1 million and tax rates lower than 15 percent, under
slightly different measures of income and taxes by the center.  “The taxes paid by middle-class families are a lot lower
than we think they are,” said  Roberton Williams , a senior
fellow at the center. “Most people don’t think about what their
average tax rate is.”  Obama plans to campaign for the Buffett rule today in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida , as he and Democrats in Congress move the issue
to the forefront of their election-year agenda. Calling for tax
fairness before the April 17 tax-filing deadline,  Senate
Democrats  plan a procedural vote April 16 on a Buffett rule
proposal by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of  Rhode Island .  The measure probably won’t have the votes needed to advance
in the Senate, where Republicans -- who deride the emphasis on
the Buffett rule as political theater -- have the ability to
block legislation.  ‘The Stupid Rule’  “The Buffett rule, amongst economists, could also be
called the stupid rule,” said  Kevin Hassett , a senior fellow at
the  American Enterprise Institute , a Washington group that
supports free enterprise. “It’s basically just a back-door way
to hike taxes on capital.”  Under current law,  capital gains  and dividends are taxed at
a top rate of 15 percent while wages and other ordinary income
are taxed at as much as 35 percent. A new 3.8 percent tax on
unearned income of the top taxpayers takes effect in 2013.  In naming their proposal, Democrats invoke billionaire
investor  Warren Buffett , who maintains he pays a lower tax rate
than his secretary does, largely because of the preferential tax
treatment given to capital gains and dividends.  Relatively Few Taxpayers  The proposal isn’t designed with the average high-earning
household in mind, said  Jason Furman , deputy director of Obama’s
National Economic Council. Instead, he said, the goal is to
raise taxes for the relatively few taxpayers who can use
multiple tax breaks to lower their rates.  The 30 percent rate was chosen as a way to ensure that top
earners pay more, he said.  “The goal is to make sure that it’s not the exact same
rate for millionaires and the middle class but that they’re not
paying less than the middle class,” he told reporters on a
conference call.  The Senate measure would require households with adjusted
gross incomes exceeding $2 million a year to pay a minimum tax
rate of 30 percent. Households with incomes between $1 million
and $2 million would pay part of the taxes needed to boost their
tax rate to 30 percent.  The bill calculates the tax rate by using adjusted gross
income as the base and includes employees’ share of payroll
taxes as part of the taxes paid. Households could deduct
charitable contributions under the measure.  $47 Billion  The bill would raise U.S. tax revenue by $47 billion over
the next decade, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation,
the nonpartisan scorekeeper for Congress. The estimate assumes
that George W. Bush-era income tax cuts would expire as
scheduled at the end of the year. If those tax breaks stay in
place, the joint committee estimates that the bill would raise
$162 billion, according to Whitehouse’s office.  High earners including Buffett and Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  would be “clobbered” by the Buffett
rule, Williams said. Measured as a share of adjusted gross
income, Romney, the co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, paid a 13.9
percent rate for tax year 2010, according to tax returns
released by his campaign.  Corporate chief executives and professional athletes with
multimillion-dollar salaries would see less of a change in their
tax rate because their pay is taxed as ordinary income. High-
income households with a mix of ordinary and capital income have
rates between 15 and 30 percent. Their taxes would go up under
the Buffett rule although they already pay more than middle-
class households do.  Fairness Issue  Obama has framed his push for the Buffett rule as a
fairness issue, and made the case by comparing effective tax
rates paid by different income groups.  “If you make more than a million dollars annually, then
you should pay at least the same percentage of your income in
taxes as middle-class families do,” the president said in an
April 3 speech in  Washington .  A 30 percent tax rate “shouldn’t be too much to ask,”
said Seth Larson, a spokesman for Whitehouse.  “Those who can afford it should pay a little more in
taxes,” Larson said. “This has been a guiding principle of our
 tax code  for generations, and the Paying a Fair Share Act would
simply restore that balance.”  Calculating Effective Rates  There are different ways to calculate effective tax rates,
and the way it’s done can shape the results, said Jon Bakija, an
economics professor at  Williams College  in  Massachusetts .  “It’s legitimate to say that there are some millionaires
who are paying lower average rates than their secretaries,”
Bakija said. “It’s not a large fraction of millionaires, but
it’s some.”  According to the administration’s data, the median
effective tax rate for the middle 20 percent of U.S. taxpayers
is 13.3 percent, including income, payroll and corporate taxes.
For the top 1 percent of taxpayers, the rate is 29.6 percent,
according to the 2012  Economic Report of the President . Still,
10 percent of the high-income households have tax rates of 8.7
percent or less.  The definition of taxes paid can affect the calculation.
Including payroll taxes -- those for Social Security and
Medicare -- makes middle-income workers’ tax rates appear
higher. Counting only income taxes makes their tax rates appear
lower in comparison to those for people with more income.  The calculations also can depend on assumptions about who
bears the burden of some taxes. Examples are whether the
corporate tax is assigned to households based on capital
ownership or whether it’s assumed that employees shoulder the
cost of the employer’s side of the  payroll tax .  Williams said taxpayers and lawmakers sometimes confuse
marginal and average rates. People in the 15 percent income tax
bracket don’t pay 15 percent of their income in taxes. Personal
exemptions, deductions, tax credits and the effect of the 10
percent bracket reduce those taxpayers’ average rate.  The bill is S. 2230.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  