-- Top Forecasters See Euro Weakness Returning on Spain
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-10T16:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/top-forecasters-see-euro-weakness-returning-on-spain.html
The most-accurate foreign-exchange
forecasters say the euro will slide as austerity-driven spending
cuts from Spain to  Italy  reignite debt turmoil and drag the
region into recession.  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo
& Co ., who topped the list for the fourth time out of the past
six quarters according to data compiled by Bloomberg, expects
the euro to drop more than 5 percent to $1.24 at the end of
2012. Westpac Banking Corp., which had the second-lowest margin
of error, predicts $1.26.  The euro’s biggest quarterly gain in a year will prove
fleeting. The economy faces “downside risks” amid rising
Spanish and Italian borrowing costs, European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said on April 4. The benefits of record
ECB loans to local banks, which helped drive yields down from
euro-era records, are fading and the region faces recession,
while the U.S. expands at the fastest pace in two years.  “One of the reasons the euro gained was that we saw some
progress in the European debt crisis and some improvement in
European bond markets, and we’re near the end of that,”
Bennenbroek said in a telephone interview in  New York  on April
2. “The euro will weaken further as slow to no growth weighs on
sentiment and as ECB actions continue to weigh.”  The euro weakened 0.3 percent to $1.3073 at 12:03 p.m. New
York time, and slid 1 percent to 105.79 yen. The dollar fetched
80.94 yen, from 81.49 yesterday.  First Quarter Gain  The 17-nation currency strengthened 2.95 percent in the
first quarter as the European Union arranged a second bailout
package for  Greece  after the nation negotiated a debt-swap with
its private-sector investors, and as the ECB provided a record
amount of loans to the region’s banks. The actions reduced
investor concern that the crisis would spread.  Austerity measures across the region are driving the
economy into a recession, spurring concern the ECB may introduce
further easing measures, according to  Richard Franulovich , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac in New York.  “Europe’s going through deleveraging, austerity, and
growth is very poor,” he said in an April 3 telephone
interview. “So you have a situation where the ECB could be
easing and the Fed is basically on hold, and that should mean
interest-rate differentials move in the dollar’s favor.”  Rise to Resume  The next three most-accurate forecasters see euro gains
continuing. Jane Foley, a London-based senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International and the fifth-most
accurate, said the euro may rise as the  Federal Reserve  keeps
interest rates at a record low and the U.S. moves to cut its
budget deficit after presidential elections in November.  Employers in the U.S. added 120,000 jobs in March, the
fewest in five months, Labor Department figures showed on April
6 in  Washington . The March increase was less than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, in which the
median estimate called for a 205,000 gain. Unemployment declined
to 8.2 percent, the lowest since January 2009, from 8.3 percent.  “The labor market recovery is still slow and the
unemployment levels very high,” Foley said in a telephone
interview on April 3. “If there is any degree of fiscal cleanup
after the election, then that will be a drag on growth and
monetary policy will have to remain accommodative for longer.”
The euro will probably trade at $1.35 in nine months and climb
to $1.40 a year from now, she said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., the
third and fourth most-accurate forecasters, predict the euro
will appreciate to $1.36 and $1.35, respectively, by year end.  Euro Support  “We will not be explicitly expecting another meltdown”
for the euro, Emmanuel Ng, a currency strategist at OCBC in
 Singapore , said by telephone yesterday. “We still expect risk
for the euro to be on the downside.” Ng said he predicts the
euro will be at $1.30 at the end of June.  Europe’s common currency will remain supported as  Spain  and
Italy are unlikely to require financial aid and the U.S. isn’t
growing fast enough for the Fed to start raising interest rates,
according to John Normand, head of currency strategy at
JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. lender.  “There are enough mechanisms to allow countries like Spain
and Italy to retain market access even if they may have to roll
over debt at higher interest rates for a period,” London-based
Normand said in a telephone interview April 5. “It’s difficult
to look at the balance of data emerging from the U.S. and
conclude that the Fed will prepare the ground for rate hikes.”  ECB Stimulus  While the Fed has said it would keep its range for
overnight bank lending at zero to 0.25 percent through 2014,
it’s holding off on increasing monetary stimulus unless the U.S.
economic expansion falters or prices rise more slowly than its 2
percent target, according to minutes of the central bank’s March
13 meeting released on April 3. Fed Bank of Richmond President
 Jeffrey Lacker  said a day later that U.S. economic growth next
year may warrant a rate increase before 2014.  Europe ’s emergency stimulus won’t end soon, Draghi said at
a press conference after the ECB’s April 4 meeting. It’s
premature to talk about an exit strategy, he said, adding that
inflation will remain contained in the medium term.  The euro area is headed for a contraction of 0.4 percent
this year, after 1.5 percent growth in 2011, according to the
median estimate of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
That compares with growth of 2.2 percent in the U.S., the
fastest since 2010, as forecast in a separate survey.  Interest Rates  Strategists expect the ECB to keep its main refinancing
rate at 1 percent through at least the third quarter of next
year, while the Bank of  Japan ’s main rate will be 0.1 percent by
the end of that period, separate surveys show. The BOJ kept its
key rate and stimulus programs unchanged after a meeting today.  Investors may have overestimated developed nations’
readiness to raise rates and reverse loose monetary policy,
according to Royal Bank of Canada, which had the most accurate
dollar-yen forecast.  “There’s an unrealistic expectation of how early central
banks will tighten in the world outside Japan,”  Adam Cole ,
global head of foreign exchange strategy in  London  at the firm’s
 RBC Capital Markets  unit, said in an April 4 telephone
interview. “If the market moves to reflect that and we see two-
year yields in the U.S. and the rest of the world come down back
toward Japanese levels, the upward pressure on the yen will
reemerge.”  Yen Forecasts  Two-year yields on Japanese bonds are at 0.11 percent, just
below the one-year average of 0.15 percent. The  difference 
between the Japanese yields and similar-maturity U.S. yields is
0.20 percentage point, up from as low as 0.08 percentage point
this year in January. The spread between the Japanese securities
and German two-year yields was 0.02 percentage point, after the
yields were almost the same earlier this year.  Cole said the yen will appreciate 10 percent to 73 per
dollar by the end of the year and by 15 percent to 93 per euro.  Public borrowing in Spain will balloon to a record 79.8
percent of gross domestic product this year, according to the
2012 budget that the government presented to parliament April 3,
as the nation finances a deficit that was almost three times the
euro-area limit last year.  Spain’s 10-year bond  yield  has jumped about 85 basis
points, or 0.85 percentage point, since Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said on March 2 that the government  budget deficit  would
miss the 4.4 percent of GDP target the previous administration
had agreed to with the EU. Spain agreed to set the target at 5.3
percent March 12.  Borrowing Costs  The additional yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-
year bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds, the
region’s benchmark government securities, climbed to more than
400 basis points last week, reaching the most since Nov. 30.  Borrowing costs for Spain are at December levels, before
the ECB’s unlimited three-year bank loans were first allotted on
Dec. 21. Some of the 1 trillion euros taken in the longer-term
refinancing operations, or LTROs, has been recycled into
government debt, which helped shave as much 1.44 percentage
points off the 10-year yield before it began to rise in March.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  faces strikes against
austerity measures and his labor-reform plan, which allows
companies to fire workers for economic reasons without letting
courts reinstate them, is dividing his ruling coalition. The
Democratic Party, which has supported the prime minister’s four-
month-old government, has pledged to change the rule in
parliament, even as Monti has said he won’t permit it.  Short Euro  Futures traders  have been short the euro, or betting on a
decline in the common currency, for 32 straight weeks, the
longest such period since 2010.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 79,480 in the
week ended April 3. Net longs were 99,516 in May 2011, as the
Fed was ending its $600 billion bond-buying program.  “The macro picture is slowly but surely turning more
compelling for the dollar,” said Westpac’s Franulovich. “The
U.S. growth picture is much more secure than Europe’s.”  Strategists were ranked according to the accuracy of their
estimates for 13 currency pairs in each of six quarters
beginning with the three months ended Dec. 31, 2010. To test
long-term accuracy, Bloomberg Rankings added one annual
forecast, which was made in March 2011 for March 2012.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
currency pair were ranked, and only those that qualified in at
least eight of 13 pairs were included in the ranking of best
predictors. Thirty-one firms qualified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  