-- Orange-Juice Futures Fall to 17-Month Low on Slack Demand
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-04-10T18:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/orange-juice-futures-fall-to-17-month-low-on-slack-demand.html
Orange-juice  futures plunged to a
17-month low as speculators unwound bullish bets and U.S.
consumer demand dwindled.  Hedge funds and money managers cut net-long  positions  by 33
percent in the two weeks ended April 3 to the lowest since at
least December 2009, government data showed on April 6.
Consumption has declined as part of “a longer-term trend” amid
competition from other fruit juices and drinks,  Joe Glauber , the
chief economist for the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness
With Margaret Brennan.”  Futures have plummeted 35 percent from a record $2.2695 a
pound on Jan. 23. Groves in  Florida , the world’s second-biggest
citrus grower, avoided freezing weather in the first quarter,
and concerns eased that supplies would be disrupted by a U.S.
probe of imports containing a banned fungicide.  “This market has nothing bullish going for it,”  Michael Smith , the president of T&K Futures & Options Inc. in  Port St.
Lucie , Florida, said in a telephone interview. “Demand is weak,
and unless we get a huge weather event, this market could go
down to $1 by the end of the year.”  Orange juice for May delivery fell 3.8 percent to settle at
$1.4695 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Earlier, the price touched $1.4365, the lowest for a most-active
contract since Oct. 14, 2010.  A cut by the USDA in its forecast for the Florida crop
failed to bolster prices. The state’s output will be will be 1.4
percent smaller than projected a month earlier following adverse
weather, the agency said.  CFTC Data  Net-long positions fell to 5,879 futures and options
contracts on April 3 from 8,764 on March 20, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. U.S. retail sales slumped 12
percent to 41.2 million gallons in the four weeks ended March 17
from a year earlier, the Florida Department of Citrus said last
week.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said yesterday that
it has detained 30 orange-juice shipments since January after
samples tested positive for carbendazim, the banned fungicide.
Fourteen of the shipments halted were from Brazil, the top
producer.  A Brazilian industry group said in February that producers
will stop using the fungicide.  The FDA has been testing imports and domestic supplies for
carbendazim, which has been linked to liver tumors in animals.
Futures rose to the record amid concern a citrus-greening
disease in  Texas  and a drop in imports would reduce supplies.  PepsiCo Inc. is the maker of the Tropicana orange-juice
brand, and Coca-Cola Co. sells Minute Maid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  