-- Morgan Stanley Lines Up to Bid for Harrisburg Parking
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-04-10T18:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/morgan-stanley-lines-up-to-bid-for-harrisburg-parking.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , CBRE Global
Investors and Guggenheim Partners LLC are among eight contenders
to buy or lease the parking system of  Harrisburg (9661MF) , the insolvent
Pennsylvania capital coping with more than $300 million in debt.  The city sought the bids as part of a court-approved plan
to deal with obligations of more than five times its general-
fund budget. The community backed financing for an overhaul of a
municipal incinerator which doesn’t produce enough revenue to
cover the cost of servicing the debt. The proposed sales or
leases are designed to keep Harrisburg out of bankruptcy.  “It’s a real opportunity, and the process is attracting
bidders,” said Bob Philbin, a spokesman for Mayor  Linda Thompson . The number of interested parties “is a very good
sign.”  The city has 10 garages, five surface lots and 1,250
metered spaces, which provide 72 percent of municipal parking.
In 2010, the Harrisburg Parking Authority, which oversees the
system, reported $13.8 million in revenue.  The plan to offer assets owned by the city of 49,500
residents for sale or lease was set up by David Unkovic, the
state’s first municipal receiver, who resigned March 30 after
calling for state and federal probes of the financing for the
incinerator. A list of interested parties, dated April 2, was
posted today on the receiver’s website.  Chicago Deal  In Chicago, a different Morgan Stanley venture may reap
$9.58 billion in profit over a 75-year lease of city parking
facilities, based on documents from the group. The bank, joined
by the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Allianz Capital
Partners, set up a venture to lease the  Chicago  operations in
2008. The profit was estimated based on projections in a 2010
offering document.  Partnering with New York-based Morgan Stanley in Harrisburg
is  Central Parking Corp. (PK)  of Nashville,  Tennessee , according to
documents posted on the receiver’s website. Guggenheim’s bidding
entity is named Harrisburg First.  CBRE Group Inc. of  Los Angeles  leads a consortium called
Harrisburg Forward LLC, according to the list. Other contenders
include  National Development Council , a community organization,
Boenning & Scattergood Inc., a securities broker in  West
Conshohocken , Pennsylvania.  Ontario Pension  Also listed are  NW Financial Group LLC , a  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based investment bank, and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Fund with Vancouver-based  Impark Parking Corp. (2896591Q)   A group called Harrisburg Parking Partners LLC includes  EQT
Infrastructure Ltd. , part of a Stockholm-based private-equity
fund, an unnamed private-equity firm and a parking operator that
also wasn’t identified in an earlier list of interested parties.  Before the city was placed in receivership, EQT with New
York-based  LambdaStar Infrastructure Partners LP  offered to
lease Harrisburg’s parking garages and lots for either 75 years
for $215 million or 50 years for $195 million. No one at
LambdaStar responded immediately to a telephone call seeking
comment on the situation in the  Pennsylvania  capital.  Unkovic had planned to close any sale or lease transactions
by June. Governor Tom Corbett hasn’t named a new receiver.  The fiscal recovery blueprint from Unkovic also called for
savings from labor contracts and concessions from creditors once
the value of city assets was determined. While Thompson supports
the plan, it has been opposed by the City Council president, as
well as the elected controller and treasurer.  State law bars the city, where 30 percent of residents live
below poverty level, from seeking bankruptcy-court protection
before July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 