-- Hot New London Restaurant Dabbous Is Worth Wait
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-04-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/hot-new-london-restaurant-dabbous-is-worth-five-month-wait.html
Fancy lunch at Dabbous, the new
restaurant of a little-known chef that opened earlier this year?  The first available table is on June 19. Or maybe you’d
prefer a weekend dinner for two? That will be Sept. 22.  When Chef Ollie Dabbous opened this modern European
establishment just off Oxford Street, few had heard of him and
fewer could pronounce his name. (The “S” is silent.) I’m not
sure anyone foresaw the waves he would make.  It’s difficult to recall a recent  London  restaurant that
created such a buzz without a celebrity at the helm.  Dabbous uses good ingredients in unusual combinations to
create dishes that are visually appealing and enjoyable to eat.
The flavors are clean and not entirely predictable.  He’s an original chef with an individual voice and yet the
route he has taken to this industrial-looking venue off Oxford
Street is entirely coherent as a culinary journey.  He started at Raymond Blanc’s Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons
and became Claude Bosi’s sous chef at Hibiscus. Dabbous then
moved to Mugaritz, in San Sebastian, and worked stages as the
Fat Duck,  Pierre Gagnaire , L’Astrance, Noma, WD-50 and Umu
before becoming head chef at Texture.  Texture is a restaurant that flies below the radar of
publicity and yet chef Agnar Sverrisson is a creative force
whose integrity and originality are well respected within the
industry. Texture is among my Top Five London restaurants.  Pickled Petals  Dabbous’s dishes may appear simple. Two of the best are a
salad of fennel, lemon balm and pickled rose petals; and
celeriac with Moscatel grapes, burnet (a herb with a hint of
cucumber) and hazelnuts. Both are so fresh, with layers of
delicate flavor, your palate is cleansed at the same time as it
is excited.  They are the options on the first course of the set lunch
menu, which is astonishing value at 21 pounds ($33) for three
courses and 24 pounds for four. The menu is already changing, so
who knows what may be on offer when you go?  Another great dish I tried was roast pork belly, savory
acorn praline, turnip tops, home-made apple vinegar. The meat is
full of flavor before you hit the acorn praline, which I’d say
tastes like a posh peanut butter if that didn’t run the risk of
bringing Dabbous out of the kitchen bearing a knife. The other
standout dish is coddled free-range egg with woodland mushrooms
and smoked butter, served in the shell. The concentration of
flavor is outstanding.  It’s a similar story with a beef tartar with cigar oil,
whisky and rye. The flavors are familiar and make sense, yet
I’ve never previously seen them hanging out together on a plate.  Slightly Bitter  As is the way with creativity, not everything in the garden
is rosy. I found a roast-goose dish unpleasant in texture and
taste. And while the tasting menu is, again, exceptional value
(at 49 pounds for seven courses), the start is better than the
finish. That leaves you with a slightly bitter taste, assuming
the final dish is still chocolate and virgin hazelnut oil
ganache, basil moss and sheep’s milk ice cream.  You can relax in the hands of the sommelier, as it were,
but wines I’ve enjoyed include Touraine Chenin Blanc Sec --
Domaine l’Aumonier 2009 (35 pounds); Semillon Boekenhoetskloof,
Franschhoek 2008 (43 pounds); and a couple of U.S. reds: Dundee
Hills Pinot Noir, Sokol Blosser, Oregon 2008 (65 pounds) and
Zinfandel, Nalle Winery, Sonoma Valley, California 2008 (64
pounds).  The sommelier is young and enthusiastic, in a laid-back
British way, while the French waiter has the kind of personality
that would bring you back even if the food weren’t so good.  When a restaurant becomes a talking point, some diners
suspect astute PR. It passed me by. All the buzz I got was from
diners, who include  Daniel Boulud  and his head chef Dean
Yasharian, with whom I spent a very enjoyable Saturday lunch.  It’s a long wait for a table at Dabbous. It’s worth it.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Lunch start at 21 pounds; tasting menu is 49 pounds.  Sound level? Not too noisy: about 75 decibels.  Inside tip? Book early and engage with the person who takes
the bookings rather than show irritation about the wait.  Special feature? Basement bar.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***½.  Dabbous, 39 Whitfield Street, London, W1T 2SF. Information:
+44-20-7323-1544 or  http://www.dabbous.co.uk/ .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today's Muse highlights: Philip Boroff on “Wicked”’s
profits; Katya Kazakina on New York women gallerists; 
 Robert Heller  on Florence + the Machine;  Greg Evans  on 
TV's “Girls” and “Trust.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 