-- Howard B. Schow, Vanguard Funds Manager, Dies at 84
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-04-11T18:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/howard-b-schow-vanguard-funds-manager-dies-at-84.html
Howard B. Schow, who won honors and
shunned publicity as a manager of Vanguard mutual funds such as
the $30.1 billion  Vanguard Primecap (VPMCX) , has died. He was 84.  A resident of  San Marino , California, he died of natural
causes on April 8 at Huntington Hospital in Pasadena, said Joel P. Fried, president of Pasadena-based Primecap Management Co.  As co-founder and chairman emeritus of Primecap Management,
Schow -- rhymes with “now” -- managed portions of five funds
for Vanguard Group Inc., the world’s biggest mutual fund
company.  Schow, Fried and Primecap Management’s vice chairman, Theo A. Kolokotrones, were named domestic stock managers of the year
for 2003 by Morningstar Inc. A ranking by Bloomberg Markets
magazine in 2010 included Schow’s Primecap Odyssey Aggressive
Growth fund as a top U.S. equities fund.  “Howard was the most focused investor I have ever known,”
Fried said yesterday an interview. “He also was a great mentor
to analysts. Almost anything that someone saw, Howard could put
that into context of something he had seen 30, 40 years ago.”  Vanguard Chairman Bill McNabb said yesterday in a
statement, “Howard Schow was a good friend and a wise and
trusted investment manager. We will miss his perspective, his
candor and his balance of optimism and pragmatism.”  Managing Funds  For Vanguard, in addition to the Primecap Fund, Schow
managed Primecap Core, Capital Opportunity, U.S. Opportunities
(available to non-U.S. investors) and the Vanguard Variable
Insurance Fund’s Capital Growth Portfolio, according to  Valley
Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard.  At Primecap, which manages more than $60 billion for 25
clients including Vanguard, he also managed the portfolio of the
Primecap Odyssey Funds.  Schow was involved in the day-to-day management of funds
until shortly before his death, working at his home the last few
weeks, Fried said. Kolokotrones and Fried are among the co-
managers who have assumed his responsibilities. The others are
Alfred W. Mordecai, Mitchell J. Milias and M. Mohsin Ansari.  In a rare 1994 interview with Forbes magazine, the
publicity-averse Schow cited the importance of patience to go
along with savvy stock picking.  “We don’t go for 20 percent or 30 percent gains,” Schow
said. “We go for triples, quadruples, octuples. But that takes
years.”  He also said, “A lot of doing well is drudgery.”  Distinguished Investor  Dan Wiener, editor of the New York-based newsletter
Independent Adviser for Vanguard Investors, said yesterday in an
e-mail: “To say that he was one of the best and least-known
investors would be a vast understatement. Schow plied his trade
from comfortable but unassuming offices in  Pasadena  and, in his
later years, from his home in San Marino.”  Wiener said Schow’s Primecap fund “took no prisoners in
the war on indexing, making mincemeat of Vanguard’s vaunted 500
Index.” From its inception in 1984 through the first quarter of
this year, Primecap outperformed the index fund by 2.4 percent
per year, Wiener wrote.  The Primecap fund has gained 6 percent this year through
April 10 compared with an 8 percent increase by the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Howard Bernard Schow was born on July 28, 1927, and grew up
in the New York City suburbs of  Long Island . He became an Eagle
Scout and served in the U.S. Navy during World War II, according
to Charles D. Ellis’s 2004  book , “Capital: The Story of Long-
Term Investment Excellence.” After the war he attended  Williams
College  and  Harvard Business School , starting his investing
career with $6,000 earned as a settlement after a serious car
accident, Ellis wrote.  Recipe for Success  He moved to  Los Angeles  in 1962 to work at Capital Research
& Management Co., the oldest unit of Capital Group Cos., one of
the largest U.S. investment companies. There, he rose to
chairman.  Under his guidance, the firm’s Amcap Fund returned 12.7
percent annually, compounded, from its inception in 1967, Forbes
reported in its 1994 profile. That fund’s recipe for success was
mixing large companies with fast-growing, innovative small ones,
then holding shares for years, Forbes said.  In 1983, Schow left Capital Research to open his own firm,
landing the contract with Vanguard to run its new Primecap fund.  Schow married the former Nan Walsh in 1953. They had three
children, Melanie, Rodger and Steven.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  