-- Petrobras Finds Oil Seep Near Chevron Spill in Brazil Waters
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-04-10T15:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/petrobras-notified-of-oil-leak-chevron-found-near-frade-spill.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s
state-run oil producer, reported a seep at its Roncador project
near the  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  field where 3,000 barrels leaked into the
Atlantic Ocean in November.  Drops of crude were detected coming out of the seabed at
the Roncador area, Brazil’s petroleum regulator, known as ANP,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Petrobras, as the Rio
de Janeiro-based company is known, confirmed the seep in a
separate statement.  The spill at Chevron’s Frade field off  Rio de Janeiro ’s
coast last year, followed by a seep in the same area last month,
has triggered several probes against the U.S. oil producer and
rig operator  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  in Brazil. Natural seeps are common
in oil-rich regions such as the  Gulf of Mexico  and the North
Sea, said Hernani Chaves, a geology professor at the Rio de
Janeiro State University.  “In the whole world, where there are oil basins it is
common to have seeps along the sea floor,” Chaves said in a
telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro. “It could be coming
from Frade, it could be coming from Roncador.”  Chevron discovered the oil seep at the Roncador field,
operated by Petrobras, on April 7 while examining the ocean
floor near its Frade project and determined it was outside its
concession area, spokesman  Kurt Glaubitz  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The U.S. oil producer halted 60,000 barrels
a day of production at Frade last month when it shut the field
as a precautionary measure while it studies seeps in the area.  Seep’s Origin  The ANP said it’s testing samples of the oil found at
Roncador to determine its origin and expects results within two
days. No oil from the leak has reached the surface, according to
ANP and Petrobras.  Roncador produced 284,000 barrels a day of oil and natural
gas in February, making it Brazil’s second-biggest producing
field after Marlim Sul. Both fields are located in the Campos
basin off Rio de Janeiro’s coast.  Federal prosecutor Eduardo Santos de Oliveira is suing
Chevron and Transocean for 40 billion reais ($22 billion) for
the November and March leaks at Frade. He also pressed criminal
charges against 17 managers of the two companies in Brazil,
seeking penalties of as many as 31 years in prison.  Petrobras dropped 1.3 percent to 21.31 reais at 12:51 p.m.
in  Sao Paulo . Chevron fell 1.5 percent to $101.92 in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  