-- Pfizer Isn’t Shielded From Some Asbestos Claims, Court Rules
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-10T17:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/pfizer-isn-t-shielded-from-some-asbestos-claims-court-rules.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  isn’t entitled to
protection from some asbestos claims related to its non-
operating bankrupt Quigley Co. unit, according to a federal
appeals court ruling.  Quigley, founded in 1916, made three products for the  steel
industry  from the 1940s to the 1970s that contained asbestos.
Pfizer bought Quigley in 1968, and the company stopped most
operations in 1992, filing for bankruptcy in 2004. Pfizer has
said it never made or sold any Quigley products, and some
claimants hadn’t released Pfizer from alleged “derivative
liability.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein that found Quigley’s
bankruptcy barred certain lawsuits against Pfizer. A May 2011
decision in district court reversed the order, and Pfizer had
appealed that ruling.  “We affirm the district court,” three judges said in
today’s ruling that upheld the May decision. In doing so, they
found that the law firm Peter G. Angelos can sue Pfizer based on
manufacturer liability under Pennsylvania law.  Angelos began bringing lawsuits against Pfizer in 1999,
saying that because the drug company’s logo appeared on Quigley
products, it should have liability for the asbestos-containing
products.  Evaluating Options  Christopher Loder , a spokesman for Pfizer, said the company
was disappointed in the court’s decision and is evaluating its
options.  “It is important to note that the court’s ruling is
procedural and does not address the merits of the underlying
claims, which we strongly dispute,” Loder said: “In the
history of this litigation, Pfizer has never been found
derivatively or directly liable for injuries allegedly caused by
Quigley’s asbestos-containing products.”  During Quigley’s bankruptcy, a committee of creditors known
as the “Ad Hoc Committee of Tort Victims” asked in October
2010 to have Quigley’s bankruptcy dismissed so it could bring
tort claims, which are otherwise blocked by bankruptcy law.  Bernstein had said that Pfizer had manipulated the
bankruptcy process, and refused to allow Quigley to exit Chapter
11 court protection under a deal with Pfizer.  Asbestos claims against Quigley may total $4.45 billion
during the next 42 years, according to testimony cited by
Bernstein in September 2011. In November of that year, Pfizer
reported a $701 million third-quarter charge for asbestos
litigation related to Quigley.  Lawyers for the U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice
Department , had asked the  bankruptcy court  to end Quigley’s
Chapter 11, citing the fact that creditors alleging asbestos-
related health issues have been unable to sue New York-based
Pfizer during the case, and many of them have died.  The case is In re Quigley Co., 04-15739,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The appeals
case is 11-2635, 11-2767, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  