-- Qatar Air Targets Cleaner Fuel for Flights With Stake in Byogy
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-10T11:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/qatar-air-targets-cleaner-fuel-for-flights-with-stake-in-byogy.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. plans to invest
in  California ’s  Byogy Renewables Inc.  to produce cleaner  jet
fuel  from alcohol, curbing carbon output to meet emission goals.  “We’re looking to underwrite an investment into Byogy of
up to 10 percent, coupled with an off-take agreement,” Chris
Schroeder, senior manager of corporate social responsibility,
environment and fuel optimization, said by phone, declining to
disclose the value of the transaction. “This will enable the
company to go into the market and look for further equity
investment or other partners.”  Byogy, based in San Jose, makes jet fuel from alcohol in
the U.S., where it expects the  ASTM International  standards body
to endorse the manufacturing process by late 2013. Airlines have
already won approval to mix fuel from inedible plants and
organic waste with traditional kerosene-based jet fuel, and
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group are among
carriers to have flown planes using the blend.  “Being cautious, we hope we will have a couple of flights
to  Europe  by the end of 2014 on a ‘drop-in’ jet fuel made from
ethanol,” Schroeder said. Drop-in biofuels are sufficiently
similar in chemical composition to kerosene to be blended in.  The use of alcohol as feedstock would help curb carbon
output as airlines seek to meet International Air Transport
Association  targets  to halt the growth of emissions from 2020
and to cut  greenhouse gases  in half by 2050 from 2005 levels.
IATA wants about 6 percent of jet fuel to be met by biofuels by
2020.  Byogy Expansion  Byogy plans to build plants in Brazil, the U.S. and the
 Middle East , Chief Executive Officer Kevin Weiss said by
telephone, adding that lenders have shown “preliminary
interest” in providing debt funding. The company will construct
at least two factories next year, with commercial output
targeted by early 2015, Weiss said.  Byogy expects the projects to cost about $80 million in
total and is “pretty confident” it can obtain debt financing
for a “good portion” of that, he said, citing talks with
development banks.  “Our discussions with the Inter-American Development Bank
to support our work in  Latin America  are very positive and they
are anxious to move the talks forward,” Weiss said. The IADB
confirmed that they’ve been in talks with Byogy.  Byogy has signed an agreement with a Brazilian ethanol
maker to use its alcohol and is “finalizing terms” with
airline Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras SA to market the fuel, it
said. Byogy is also working with an investment bank in  Brazil  to
raise as much as $30 million by the fourth quarter, Weiss said,
without identifying the lender. The money will be used to
accelerate its fuel testing with ASTM, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  