-- Rajoy Says Spain Future at Stake as Debt Crisis Persists
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-11T10:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/rajoy-says-spain-future-at-stake-as-debt-crisis-persists.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
Spain’s future is on the line in its battle to tame surging bond
yields, as the head of the nation’s second-largest region
proposed handing back powers to the government to cut costs.  With Spanish bonds trading closer to levels that prompted
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek European bailouts, Rajoy
will address lawmakers of his  People’s Party  today to explain
the deepest  budget  cuts in three decades. The prime minister
will speak at 1 p.m. in Madrid.  “Without a doubt, a good part of Spain’s future is at
stake,” Rajoy told senators yesterday, as he urged regional
governments to contribute to spending cuts. “The problem is
that the markets can lend or decide not to lend.”  Rajoy has stepped up his rhetoric in the past week as he
seeks to persuade Spaniards to accept spending reductions and
tax increases as a less painful alternative to a bailout. His
three-month-old government is struggling to convince investors
it can reduce the  deficit  by a third this year and crack down on
overspending by regional administrations.  As  Spain ’s regions suffer from a slump in tax revenue while
most are locked out of  capital markets , Esperanza Aguirre, the
president of the Madrid region, yesterday proposed handing back
responsibilities such as health and education to the central
government. Aguirre, once a potential rival to Rajoy for the PP
leadership, said the move would save 48 billion euros ($63
billion) by avoiding overlap.  Bailout Level  The 10-year bond yield rose as high as 6.02 percent today,
the most since December, before easing to 5.84 percent as of
11:50 a.m. in Madrid. That compares with the 7 percent level
that pushed Greece, Ireland and Portugal to seek bailouts.  Yields fell after European Central Bank Executive Board
member Benoit Coeure signalled the bank could revive its program
of sovereign bond purchases for Spain. He praised the Spanish
government for taking “very strong deficit measures.”  “Will the ECB intervene? We have an instrument, the
securities markets program, which hasn’t been used recently but
it still exists,” he said in a speech in Paris today.  Spain’s  10-year borrowing costs  have jumped more than one
percentage point since March 2, when Rajoy said that Spain would
miss a deficit goal approved by the European Union. Euro-region
finance ministers on March 12 settled on a new target of 5.3
percent of gross domestic product, compared with 8.5 percent
last year.  ‘Smash Back’  “The idea that Spain is going to be able to avoid a
bailout is going to be tested over the next few months,” said
 Harvinder Sian , a senior interest rate strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “We think the market will
smash back to the highest levels we’ve seen and go beyond
that.”  The government is trying to implement the deepest austerity
steps in at least three decades even as the economy suffers its
second  recession  since 2009. Spanish industrial production fell
5.1 percent in February from a year earlier, the most in three
months, data showed today.  While the cuts are “greater than would have been desirable
during a recession,” they are the “shortest route to return to
economic recovery and job-creation,” Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro told Parliament today.  Doing ‘Homework’  Markets aren’t being “reasonable” to demand additional
increases to the euro region’s firewall as Spain and  Italy  are
doing their “homework,” Michael Fuchs , an economic-affairs
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s  Christian
Democratic Union  and a member of the party’s executive board,
said in an interview yesterday.  “Why should we worry about Spain now? I don’t think
there’s anything that’s going to be a difficulty at the
moment,” he said.  Investors need “time for analysis” to weigh up the
measures Spain has taken, Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said at a conference in  Madrid  today. Those
measures include changes to labor-market rules that make it
easier to cut wages and fire staff in an attempt to reduce the
23.6 percent jobless rate, the highest in the EU.  Regional Politics  Spain’s efforts to bring the  budget deficit  under control
depend in part on the regions. Montoro said the government would
start publishing quarterly figures on individual states’ revenue
and expenditure in terms that are comparable with national
accounts.  The PP controls 11 of the 17 states, which were created as
part of Spain’s return to democracy in 1978 and are enshrined in
the constitution. While Madrid is controlled by the PP, the
biggest region, Catalonia, is run by Convergencia i Union, a
nationalist group that wants more autonomy from Spain.
Andalusia, the third-biggest region, will probably stay under
Socialist control after the PP failed to win a majority in an
election on March 25. In response to a question in the Senate
yesterday about Aguirre’s proposal, Rajoy said a debate about
the regional structure “isn’t even being considered.”  Regions control health and education and their failure to
cut spending pushed all the states apart from Madrid to miss
their deficit target last year, according to government data.
The states expanded spending during Spain’s decade-long real
estate boom amid a surge in  tax revenue  linked to property
sales, which dried up when the market collapsed in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  