-- Randgold Climbs as Mali Junta Agrees to Transition: London Mover
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-04-10T16:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/randgold-climbs-as-mali-junta-agrees-to-transition-london-mover.html
Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  rose the
most in more than four months in London trading after  Mali ’s
military junta agreed to hand over power in the country that
accounts for about two-thirds of the miner’s gold output.  Randgold advanced 270 pence, or 5.2 percent, to 5,425 pence
by the close of trading, the steepest gain since Nov. 29. The
Jersey, Channel Islands-based company reaffirmed its 2012 gold
production target yesterday and said output hasn’t been
“materially affected” by events in Mali.  “Given that the whole West Africa region united against
the junta to force these changes, we believe that Mali will end
up a relatively better and more stable place now that this
latest flirt with the ’old model’ of West African politics is
through,” Numis Securities said in a note to investors today.
“From a geopolitical risk perspective, the whole region has
just de-risked a notch.”  Mali’s military rulers agreed to hand over power to a
temporary government that will organize elections, increasing
the prospects that sanctions imposed since the coup will be
removed. Soldiers unhappy with a lack of resources to combat
Touareg rebels overthrew President Amadou Toure’s government on
March 22.  Randgold operates the Loulo and Gounkoto mines, holding 80
percent stakes, as well as the West African country’s Morila
operation. It produced 445,600 ounces of gold in Mali last year,
about 64 percent of total output.  Avion Gold Corp. (AVR) , which also  mines gold  in Mali, surged the
most in more than six weeks yesterday in Toronto trading. Avion
produced 26,256 ounces of gold from its Tabakoto/Segala
operations in the first three months of 2012.  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG)  and  Iamgold Corp. (IMG)  also operate mines in the country.  Randgold, which earlier rose as much 10 percent, posted the
biggest gain in the city’s  benchmark   FTSE 100 index (UKX)  while the
FTSE 350 Mining Index slumped 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  