-- Tribune Judge Rules on Distribution Rights Under Reorganization
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/tribune-bankruptcy-judge-issues-ruling-on-allocation-disputes.html
Tribune Co. (TRB) , the publisher
scheduled to begin a hearing June 7 for approval of its
reorganization plan, got a ruling clarifying some disputes over
the order in which creditors will receive distributions from the
two trusts created in the plan to bring lawsuits.  In a decision yesterday, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey in Wilmington,  Delaware , answered some of the questions
left after his rulings in September and December, when he
described how Tribune’s assets and lawsuit recoveries should be
distributed. In his September decision, Carey said neither of
the competing reorganization plans could be approved. At the
time, he ruled that the Tribune plan, with modifications, would
be easiest to win ultimate approval.  Carey said in yesterday’s ruling that so-called Phones
notes, which he ruled were in the amount of $759.3 million, are
subordinated to senior notes when it comes to distributions from
the trusts.  Calling a 4 percent difference in distribution
“immaterial,” Carey said the plan wasn’t unfair to senior
noteholders because they are treated the same as other
creditors. “The third amended plan’s equal treatment of the
senior noteholders and the other parent claims does not amount
to unfair discrimination,” he said.  Carey similarly ruled that the so-called EGI notes are
subordinated because they were intended to be at the bottom of
the  capital structure .  Interest  The judge ruled that senior noteholders aren’t entitled to
payment of post-bankruptcy interest before holders of the Phones
notes begin receiving payment. If the trusts manage to recover
enough so Tribune can pay creditors in full, Carey said a court
could change his ruling on post-bankruptcy interest.  Aurelius Capital Management, Deutsche Bank Trust Co.
Americas and Law Debenture Trust Co. of  New York  had asked Carey
to reconsider some of the rulings he made in a 125-page Oct. 31
decision involving the repayment status of the debt-like Phones
 securities .  Carey previously rejected Tribune’s reorganization plan and
a competing proposal by the noteholders. He had also approved
the central piece of the company’s plan, a settlement with
lenders led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The two plans were backed by opposing groups of creditors.
JPMorgan and the lenders who funded Tribune’s $8.2 billion
buyout in 2007 supported a plan that would absolve them of most
legal responsibility for the transaction.  Carey has presided over the case since it was filed in
December 2008. Tribune, which is valued at about $6.75 billion,
owes creditors about $13 billion, according to court records.  The Chicago-based newspaper and television company filed
for bankruptcy one year after the buyout led by real-estate
billionaire  Sam Zell .  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  