-- Romanian Inflation Rate Drops to New Low on Falling Food Prices
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-04-10T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/romanian-inflation-rate-drops-to-new-low-on-falling-food-prices.html
Romania ’s  inflation  rate fell to a
record low in March as falling food prices offset service-price
growth.  The annual rate dropped to 2.4 percent, the lowest in two
decades, from 2.6 percent in February, the  National Statistics
Institute  in Bucharest said today by e-mail. The rate matched
the median estimate of 2.4 percent of 12 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Consumer prices grew 0.4 percent in the month.  As inflation slowed to a post-communist low in the eastern
European country, policy makers had room to cut the  benchmark
interest rate  four times in a row since November to a record-low
5.25 percent to boost a halting recovery as the economy swings
back to a recession during the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Food prices dropped 0.9 percent from a year earlier in
March, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in February, the
institute said. The prices grew 0.6 percent from a month, mostly
because of rising vegetable, fruit and egg prices, as a cold
snap disrupted supply chains across the country.  Price growth for non-food items slowed to 3.9 percent from
a year earlier, compared with 4.1 percent in February, the
institute said. Service-price growth quickened to 5.4 percent
from 4.8 percent the previous month, according to the institute.  Romanian  industrial output  fell a seasonally adjusted 0.6
percent in February, posting a drop for the first time in more
than two years, as freezing temperatures and heavy snow cut
electricity and disrupted transport, hampering supplies, the
Statistics Institute said today in a separate release. Output
fell 1.4 percent on the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  