-- Rusal Appoints Legal Team to Advise on Sual Arbitration
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-10T09:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/rusal-appoints-legal-team-to-advise-on-sual-arbitration-2-.html
United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s
biggest aluminum producer, said it hired legal counsel to advise
on arbitration brought by Sual Partners Ltd. to overturn trading
contracts with  Glencore (GLEN)  International Plc.  Rusal received the request for arbitration on April 4, made
to the London Court of  International Arbitration , the Moscow-
based company said in a statement today. Sual, Rusal’s third-
biggest shareholder, is suing the aluminum producer and Glencore
as well as Rusal Chief Executive Officer  Oleg Deripaska  and his
En+ Group, Rusal’s biggest shareholder, according to the
statement.  Sual, controlled by billionaires  Viktor Vekselberg  and Len Blavatnik, accused EN+ and Swiss trader Glencore of breaching a
2007 shareholder agreement for pushing through new contracts
without its consent, three people with knowledge of the matter
said on April 6. The lawsuit escalates a shareholder conflict
over Rusal management’s decision to hold on to 25 percent of OAO
Norilsk Nickel.  “We haven’t upgraded the stock because we felt this
conflict has too many uncertainties,” Robin Tsui, a Hong Kong-
based analyst with BOC International Holdings Ltd., said today
by phone. The differences seem to be “more about pride than
money,” he said.  Glencore, which owns 8.75 percent of Rusal, said in a
statement today it received a request for arbitration on April 4
and doesn’t intend to comment further on the proceedings.  Rusal shares were unchanged at HK$5.76 as of the 4 p.m.
close in  Hong Kong . The stock has fallen 56 percent in the past
year, compared with a 16 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang
Seng  index.  Vekselberg quit as Rusal chairman last month, saying the
company is facing a “deep crisis” in part because of its
refusal to sell the stake and reduce debt.  The company will “vigorously defend its position” and the
arbitration is not expected to have “any material adverse
impact on its operations,” Rusal said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  