-- Russia Under Pressure to Get Tougher on Its Ally Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-04-11T03:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/russia-under-pressure-to-get-tougher-on-its-ally-syria.html
Pressure mounted on Russia to back
stronger action against its ally  Syria  after President Bashar al-Assad failed to meet a United Nations cease-fire deadline.  “The Russians have continuously said they want to avoid
civil war, they want to avoid a regional conflict,” Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday at the U.S. Naval
Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland . “But their refusal to join with
us in some sort of constructive action is keeping Assad in
power, well armed, able to ignore the demands of his own people,
of his region and the world.”  Russia has wielded its veto power on the Council, the UN’s
decision-making body, to protect Syria from efforts by Western
powers and their Arab allies to consider sanctions against
Assad’s regime and call on him to step aside. That stance may
become more difficult to maintain after  Russia  used its
influence to get Assad to agree to a troop pullout by yesterday,
a pledge he didn’t keep.  Clinton will meet with her Russian counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov , in  Washington  at a gathering of Group of Eight foreign
ministers. She said she expected “a very rough couple of days
in trying to determine whether we go to the Security Council
seeking action knowing that Russia is still not on board.”  The result would be to continue “to require them to have
to either veto or abstain and see what we can try to bring
about, because we’re not going to give up,” Clinton said.
“we’re going to keep pushing for both humanitarian and
strategic reasons.”  Clinton’s address to the Naval Academy focused on the need
for U.S. leadership in the Asia-Pacific region.  A Major Test  Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at the Century Foundation in
 New York , said the situation has “now become a major test of
Russia’s credibility as broker.”  “They have gone out on a limb for this government and they
cannot be made to look like fools,” Laurenti said in a
telephone interview.  The violence in Syria, now in its second year, has left
more than 9,000 people dead by UN estimates. Traditional
diplomacy has led to impasse in a conflict that is evolving into
civil war and entangling Syria’s neighbors with shootings across
the border in Lebanon and Turkey.  Clinton and Lavrov have clashed repeatedly on how to tackle
the crisis, most recently at a March 12 meeting at the UN in New
York, when Lavrov said “ultimatums would not work.”  Assad Not Complying  Clinton told reporters yesterday that  Kofi Annan , the UN
special envoy to Syria, “has made clear that Assad is not
complying” and “I will be particularly raising this with
Foreign Minister Lavrov.”  Russia must be prepared to follow its words with actions,
U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice, who holds the presidency of the
 Security Council , said yesterday.  “The logical next step” would be to increase pressure on
the Assad regime through collective action, she told reporters.
The U.S. views Assad’s failure to comply as “outrageous but by
no means unexpected,” she said.  Lavrov, a former UN ambassador, held talks yesterday in
Moscow with his Syrian counterpart, Walid Al-Muallem, and told
him the Assad government needs to be “more active” in
complying with conditions of the accord brokered by Annan, a
former UN secretary-general.  Russian Influence  “We demand from our Syrian colleagues to rigorously
implement the Annan plan,” Lavrov said. Muallem said the
authorities had started a troop pullback from some areas.  Muallem said Syria wanted assurances from Annan about the
opposition’s implementation of his plan, denying that his
country had demanded written pledges from Assad opponents or
regional countries supporting them.  Russia can benefit if it succeeds in pressuring Assad to
compromise in a manner that would keep its ally in power while
assuaging international demands for action.  The Annan plan called for Assad’s forces to stop firing
heavy weapons and begin withdrawing from populated areas by
yesterday. The armed opposition was supposed to respond by
laying down its weapons to accomplish a cease-fire by 6 a.m.
Damascus time on April 12.  Syria’s main opposition group, the Syrian National Council,
said 1,000 people have been killed by government forces in the
past eight days. Assad had originally agreed to withdraw troops
from populated areas on April 2.  Annan Letter  In a letter to the Security Council, Annan said he was
“gravely concerned” about the course of events, asking the
Council to “register its deep concern” at Assad’s failure to
meet his commitments to help stop the bloodshed.  “Despite these assurances from the Syrian Government,
credible reports indicate that during that same period, the
Syrian armed forces have conducted rolling military operations
in population centers, characterized by troop movements into
towns supported by artillery fire,” Annan said.  “In the last five days it has become clear” that the
Syrian government hasn’t abided by the agreed terms, he said.
“While some troops and heavy weapons have been withdrawn from
some localities, this appears to be often limited to a
repositioning of heavy weapons that keeps cities within firing
range.”  The rate of Syrian refugees flowing into  Turkey  has risen
to an average of 707 a day in the past nine days, Annan said in
the letter. That compares with an average of 96 a day from Dec.
15 to March 15.  Weighing Next Steps  Western powers said they are weighing their next steps at
the Security Council, which alone has the power to impose
sanctions and binding resolutions.  “We will begin the process of seeking the referral by the
Security Council of the situation in Syria to the  International
Criminal Court ,” said U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague .  Western powers are “confused and ambivalent,” having
exhausted their diplomatic and economic leverage, fearful of the
future and tiptoeing around the question of military options,
according to a report published yesterday by the  International
Crisis Group , based in Brussels.  While Russia is in a strong position to influence Syria, it
also is vulnerable because a failure to stop the violence will
reflect badly on Moscow, according to Lilit Gevorgyan, a Russia
analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London .  At stake for Russia are economic and strategic interests in
the  Middle East , where its influence has waned since the
collapse of communism. Moscow is invested in the survival of
Assad, selling him weapons during the uprising. Its only
military base outside the former  Soviet Union  is a naval
maintenance and supply center in the Syrian port of Tartus on
the  Mediterranean Sea .  “Russia realizes the prospects for Assad’s regime are
bleak and perhaps change of power is unavoidable, but it would
like to see this process drawn out,” Gevorgyan said in an e-
mail. “Moscow will try to cultivate better relations with the
Syrian opposition to cultivate that position of a power broker
and try and keep some of its influence over Syria should Assad
leave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  