-- Russia Demands Syria Enact Troop Pullout Under Annan Plan
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-10T13:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/russia-demands-syria-enact-troop-pullout-under-annan-plan-1-.html
Russia urged  Syria  to accelerate a
troop pullout scheduled to be completed today under a United
Nations plan, as the Middle Eastern state demanded guarantees
about the opposition’s commitment to the peace efforts.  President Bashar al-Assad’s government needs to be “more
active” in complying with the conditions of the accord brokered
by UN and Arab League envoy  Kofi Annan , Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  told reporters today after talks in Moscow with
his Syrian counterpart, Walid Al-Muallem.  “We demand from our Syrian colleagues to rigorously
implement the Annan plan,” Lavrov said. Muallem said the
authorities had started a troop pullback from some areas.  Syrian opposition groups must also accept an immediate
cease-fire, Lavrov said, adding that many Assad opponents hadn’t
endorsed the peace plan negotiated by Annan.  Russia , an ally of
Syria, where it maintains a naval base and sells weapons, is
endorsing international efforts to end the violence after twice
vetoing UN resolutions condemning Assad for the crackdown on an
uprising since March 2011.  Muallem said Syria wanted assurances from Annan about the
opposition’s implementation of his plan, denying that his
country had demanded written pledges from Assad opponents or
regional countries supporting them.  Communicate, Inform  “We didn’t ask Annan to provide written guarantees from
terrorist groups and their regional supporters,” al-Muallem
said. “We asked him to communicate with them and inform us of
the results of these contacts.”  Violence in Syria spilled across borders into  Turkey  and
Lebanon yesterday, a day before Annan’s deadline for Syria to
pull back army units and heavy weaponry from populated areas.
Security forces killed 160 people in Syria yesterday and
fighting took place today in Damascus suburbs, Daraa, Deir
Ezzor, Aleppo and Homs, according to the Local Coordination
Committees. A Lebanese cameraman was killed in a car near a
border crossing yesterday and two Syrian civilians who sought
refuge in Turkey were injured by gunfire from Syria.  The Annan plan calls for a complete cease-fire within 48
hours from today.  The Syrian government on April 8 demanded written
guarantees by what it called armed terrorist gangs before it
withdraws troops from residential areas in line with the accord.
The commander of the Syrian Free Army, Riad al-Asaad, who is
leading the forces opposed to the government, said he’s
committed to the UN plan to end the crisis in Syria and wouldn’t
provide the regime with guarantees.  Lavrov and Muallem said that a cease-fire will require the
presence of international observers, which are due to be
deployed under the UN initiative.  ‘Visible’ Withdrawal  The Russian foreign minister said Syria is demonstrating a
commitment to the Annan plan, which required only a “visible”
troop withdrawal from residential areas by today as opposed to a
complete pullback. He said he’d speak later today with Annan, a
former UN secretary-general, to discuss the way forward.  Annan will report to the UN Security Council about
developments in Syria in a letter today, according to his
spokesman, Ahmad Fawzi.  The letter “will report on developments since his last
briefing to the council,” Fawzi said in an e-mail from Geneva
today, adding that Annan will brief the council again on April
12.  ‘No Evidence’  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said today there was
“no evidence so far that the Assad regime has any intention of
adhering to any agreement it makes.” While Britain continues to
support Annan’s efforts, it will intensify support for the
Syrian opposition and seek to get Syria’s leadership referred to
the  International Criminal Court  if the peace initiative fails,
Hague said in an e-mailed statement.  Annan said April 5 that Syria had informed him that the
withdrawal of its troops from populated areas would be completed
on April 10, adding that Syrian government troops and opposition
forces should cease all violence by April 12.  The conflict in Syria, now in its second year, has left
more than 9,000 people dead by UN estimates and turned the
country into a battleground between Sunni Muslim-led  Saudi
Arabia  and Shiite-majority  Iran . Syria’s borders with  Israel ,
Lebanon,  Iraq  and Turkey have raised the stakes for governments
across the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  