-- Romney Will Keep Feeling Santorum’s Sting
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-11T17:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/santorum-suspending-bid-for-republican-nomination-person-says.html
Mitt Romney will continue to feel
 Rick Santorum ’s presence even as the former Pennsylvania senator
exited the Republican presidential race, effectively assuring
the front-runner’s nomination.  Santorum, who made his announcement yesterday, spent much
of the last four months portraying Romney as a phony as he
offered himself as the candidate who best understood the needs
of the lower middle-class. Democrats already have recycled his
material, seeking to portray Romney as an out-of-touch elitist.  “The only thing missing from Santorum’s speech was the
mention of the likely Republican nominee, Mitt Romney,” said
 Jen Psaki , a Democratic strategist who worked on President
 Barack Obama ’s 2008 campaign and in his White House. “It may be
because as recently as the last couple of weeks, Santorum called
 Mitt Romney  completely out of sync with America and uniquely
disqualified to lead the party against Barack Obama.”  Santorum’s shadow will loom over Romney as the former
Massachusetts governor works on selecting a running mate and
tries to rally the evangelical Christians and anti-tax Tea Party
voters who fueled his rival’s insurgent campaign.  Running Mate  “No list yet,” Romney said on  Fox News  today when asked
about running mates. “That will come soon enough and we’ll
begin sorting through the possibilities. But there’s a large
number of people in the  Republican Party  who are extraordinary
leaders, including some of those who’ve run in this last contest
with me.”  On a conference call today with reporters, Romney’s
campaign criticized the so-called Buffett rule that would set a
minimum tax on people who earn at least $1 million annually.
Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  says he pays a lower  tax
rate  than his secretary, largely because of the preferential
treatment given to  capital gains  and dividends. Obama is
promoting the rule as an issue of tax fairness.  Kevin Hassett , a Romney economic adviser, said municipal
bond interest would be exempted from the “harsh capital
treatment” in the proposal and alleged there would be a special
protection for its namesake, the chairman and CEO of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   ‘No Coincidence’  “Given that we’re calling it the Buffett rule, I think
it’s kind of no coincidence that Berkshire has been a big player
in muni bond markets and so they’re left, you know, basically
untouched by the change,” Hassett said.  Interest income from municipal bonds is exempt from
taxation and the Buffett rule wouldn’t change that. Other
proposals from Obama to limit high-earners’ tax breaks would
require taxation of some portion of municipal bond interest.  Buffett didn’t immediately return a message left with an
assistant seeking comment.  Andrew Puzder, the chief executive officer of  CKE
Restaurants Inc. (CKR) , told reporters on the call that the economic
recovery is “stagnant” and that the Buffett rule would do
little to help the federal deficit.  “It doesn’t make sense,” said Puzder, a Romney supporter
whose company operates the Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s food chains.
“It’s not a plan. It’s obviously politically motivated.”  Fair Pay Act  Asked on the conference call whether Romney supports the
Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, an aide said he would have to
research the matter before answering.  “We’ll get back to you on that,” said Lanhee Chen,
Romney’s policy director.  The law, the first Obama signed as president, made it
easier for women to file equal-pay lawsuits. The Chen comment
prompted a critical statement from Ledbetter, an Alabama woman
the act was named after, that was issued by Obama’s campaign
headquarters in  Chicago .  “I was shocked and disappointed to hear that Mitt Romney
is not willing to stand up for women and their families,” she
said. “Anyone who wants to be president of the  United States 
shouldn’t have to think about whether they support pursuing
every possible avenue to ensuring women get the same pay for the
same work as men. Our economic security depends on it.”  “Of course Mitt Romney supports pay equity for women,”
Amanda Henneberg, a Romney spokeswoman said in a subsequent e-
mailed statement. “The real question is whether President Obama
supports jobs for women.”  Andrea Saul, another Romney spokeswoman, said he “supports
pay equity and is not looking to change current law.”  Unity Needed  As Romney’s team turned its attention to Obama, Republican
strategists warned that he must also invest time in uniting his
own party.  Richard Viguerie , who’d advised Santorum, said “there’s
some hard feelings among conservatives.” Such attitudes stem in
part from the millions of dollars Romney’s campaign and its
allies spent on advertising to “crush” Santorum and other
conservatives in the race, Viguerie said.  “He’s got a mountain to climb,” Viguerie said of Romney.  Although Santorum may not be a contender for the vice
presidential slot, Romney could come under pressure to choose
someone who, like his rival, appeals to voters motivated by
social issues such as their opposition to abortion rights and
gay marriage.  “That would please conservatives,” said Viguerie.  Romney and his aides are reaching out to elements of the
party that have been cool to him. He will have a chance to
demonstrate his pro-gun-rights credentials in an April 13
address to a National Rifle Association meeting in  St. Louis .  With Santorum out of the race, Romney also can more easily
appeal to independents who may decide the general election, said
 Frank Donatelli , chairman of the national Republican advocacy
group GOPAC.  Aiming at Democrats  “Republicans aren’t shooting at each other; we are finally
aiming at the Democrats,” Donatelli said. “That will change
the perception of Romney pretty quickly.”  Santorum’s decision to end his candidacy, which he
announced to supporters gathered in Gettysburg,  Pennsylvania ,
spares him a potentially embarrassing loss in his home state.
Recent polls showed Romney in position to win Pennsylvania’s
April 24 primary, and a Santorum loss could have undermined the
cachet he’s built within his party.  Advice to Santorum  Viguerie, who spoke with Santorum yesterday, said he
encouraged him to “stay engaged,” and “step forward and be
the conservative leader” among Republicans.  Although Viguerie said there was no conversation about a
possible 2016 presidential bid, he said Santorum could be a
leading candidate should Romney fail to unseat Obama.  For Romney, the practical end of the primary campaign
signals the start of another, as he is now able to focus
entirely on Obama and building a general-election apparatus.
Obama’s re-election campaign has viewed Romney as his likely foe
for most of the past year, and yesterday it quickly echoed
Santorum’s criticism.  “Mitt Romney finally was able to grind down his opponents
under an avalanche of negative ads,”  Jim Messina , Obama’s
campaign manager, said in a statement. “But neither he nor his
special-interest allies will be able to buy the presidency with
their negative attacks. The more the American people see of Mitt
Romney, the less they like him.”  Santorum, 53, repeatedly in recent weeks called Romney, 65,
“uniquely disqualified” to lead his party’s fight against
Obama. Central to that argument was Romney’s support, during his
governorship, of a Massachusetts statute containing a mandate to
purchase health-care insurance similar to the one included in
the law Obama pushed through Congress in 2010. The  Supreme Court (1000L) 
now is weighing the constitutionality of the federal measure.  Santorum’s Rise  Santorum, who called Romney before his announcement, didn’t
endorse him or even utter his name during his 13-minute exit
speech. He highlighted his rise from a minor candidate given
little chance in the Republican field to his emergence as
Romney’s main challenger, and said he planned to keep fighting
for those he had met along the campaign trail.  “We are going to continue to go out there and fight to
make sure that we defeat” Obama, he said.  Romney, in a statement, lauded Santorum as “an able and
worthy competitor” who has “proven himself to be an important
voice in our party and in the nation.”  Romney offered more praise of Santorum at a rally later in
the day in Wilmington,  Delaware , while also saying: “This has
been a good day for me.”  He also struck back against charges by Democrats that
Republicans are waging a “war on women” in such areas as
contraception -- another major challenge his campaign confronts.  A Washington Post-ABC News poll shows Obama ahead of Romney
among women voters by 19 percentage points. Among all registered
voters surveyed April 5-8, Obama leads Romney by 7 points, 51
percent to 44 percent.  “The real war on women has been waged by the Obama
administration’s failure on the economy,” Romney said at his
rally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  