-- SAP Challenges Oracle With $500 Million Hana Incentive
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-04-11T13:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/sap-plans-337-million-fund-to-encourage-customers-to-adopt-hana.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, plans to spend almost $500 million
to lure customers to its Hana data-processing product, stepping
up competition with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   SAP has budgeted $337 million to provide new clients of its
Hana database platform with consulting services and an 18-month
refund policy. The Walldorf, Germany-based company is also
starting a $155 million venture fund to spur development of
applications compatible with Hana.  With the introduction of Hana and the $5.8 billion purchase
of database maker  Sybase Inc. (SY)  in 2010, SAP ratcheted up efforts
to challenge Oracle’s dominance in the $22.5 billion database
market. Hana is designed to quickly analyze vast caches of sales
and operational information, as well as unstructured data such
as e-mail and social media. It relies on computer memory, rather
than disk drives, to speed up the process.  The incentives “give a strong signal to customers and the
market that we are deeply committed to developing this growth
area,” Vishal Sikka, an SAP board member in charge of
technology and innovation, said yesterday in an interview
following a presentation in  San Francisco . “With Hana, we have
an opportunity to really transform the database and rethink
applications.”  Shares Outperform  SAP declined 0.1 percent to 50.01 euros as of 3:49 p.m. in
Frankfurt while Oracle dropped 0.5 percent to $28.21 in  New
York . SAP had  gained  about 13 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday, compared with a 15 percent drop for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle.  Kate Pichon, a spokeswoman for Oracle in the U.K., said she
couldn’t immediately comment.  Co-Chief Executive Officers  Bill McDermott  and Jim Hagemann Snabe want to expand SAP’s customer base from information-
technology staff in a back office to include salespeople
wielding mobile devices and smaller clients more willing to
adopt on-demand applications. They project that this push will
help lift SAP’s revenue to more than 20 billion euros ($26
billion) by 2015, compared with 14.2 billion euros last year.  “We estimate that SAP can get to double-digit license
revenue growth this year entirely from the success of HANA, so
this is clearly a key product,” Nomura Equity Research analysts
including  Rick Sherlund  wrote in a note today, adding that
revenue from Hana may reach 500 million euros this year.  ‘Initial Traction’  Threatening Oracle in the database market “will certainly
take time, but areas where it might show initial traction
include new real time applications” and cloud-computing, they
said.  Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  in October unveiled the so-called
Exalytics Intelligence Machine, which also analyzes information
within dynamic random access memory. Sanjay Poonen, SAP’s
president of global solutions, at the time said Oracle’s
approach requires clients to buy and maintain more hardware than
a competitive SAP system.  “Early market leadership is important for Hana, so
facilitating customer adoption is very strategic for SAP,”
Nomura’s Sherlund said of SAP’s spending on incentives. “Oracle
is likely to promote Exalytics as a market rival, so helping
customers with implementation is a catalyst to adoption.”  Syclo Acquisition  SAP also said it plans to buy Syclo, a closely held
provider of mobile applications, for an undisclosed price.
Earlier this year, SAP acquired cloud-computing specialist
 SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF)  for $3.4 billion.  Even as SAP is pushing to “become the fastest-growing
database vendor in the world,” the company will continue to
support other databases, including those of International
Business Machines Corp. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  “for the
foreseeable future,” Sikka said in the interview.  SAP’s McDermott in January forecast that revenue from Hana
products will more than double this year from 160 million euros
in 2011, when the software was first rolled out to a wider
audience. Sikka declined to forecast potential revenue for Hana
products beyond this year.  “It’s entirely understandable that they have no interest
in being just a reseller any longer and that they would rather
pull new customers onto its own Sybase database,” said  Thomas Becker , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt who has a hold
recommendation on SAP shares. “Whether that will work remains
to be seen, but in any case it’s another sign that SAP has
shifted up a gear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  