-- HSBC in Talks to Sell Operations in Pakistan, South Korea
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-04-10T12:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/hsbc-in-talks-to-sell-operations-in-pakistan-south-korea-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest
bank, said it’s in talks to sell operations in Pakistan and
 South Korea , part of the lender’s plans to exit businesses that
aren’t large or profitable enough.  The company is in talks with “a number of interested
parties” about a sale of HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd.’s
operations in Pakistan, the bank said in a statement today. HSBC
has 10 branches in the country servicing about 33,000 consumers
and companies,  Brendan McNamara , a HSBC spokesman, said by
telephone. He declined to comment on potential buyers.  Separately, KDB Financial Group Inc., South Korea’s largest
state-owned banking group, said yesterday it was in talks to buy
HSBC’s consumer division in the country to boost its domestic
banking unit’s deposit base. KDB said it will acquire HSBC’s 11
Korean branches, without giving a valuation of the purchase.  “These discussions are ongoing,” HSBC said in a statement
today. “HSBC remains committed to the Korean market and
continues to invest in developing its Korean global banking and
markets and corporate banking businesses.”  HSBC, which plans to cut 30,000 jobs by the end of next
year, is selling assets as the euro-area debt crisis saps profit
and regulators demand bigger capital buffers. Chief Executive
Officer  Stuart Gulliver  has announced about $6 billion of asset
sales since May as the bank sheds jobs and redeploys capital in
faster-growing markets. The bank last month said it would shut
its consumer banking unit in Japan and on March 7 agreed to sell
parts of its general insurance units in Asia and  Latin America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  