-- Scene Last Night: Victor Cruz, Dimon for Ballet Hispanico
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-10T10:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/scene-last-night-victor-cruz-dimon-for-ballet-hispanico.html
JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  “is a terrible dancer,” his
wife, Judy Dimon, said last night at a gala for Ballet
Hispanico, of which JPMorgan was the lead sponsor.  She then moved her shoulders straight up and down to
demonstrate what the 56-year-old leader of the biggest U.S.
bank, with $2.27 trillion of assets at year-end, does on the
dance floor.  Jamie Dimon’s mom, Themis Dimon, was no more encouraging.  Is he a good dancer? “No,” she said, shaking her head.  Jamie Dimon wasn’t present to prove otherwise.  “Unfortunately he couldn’t be here tonight because he had
another commitment,” said his wife, a  Ballet Hispanico  board
member and the event’s honorary chairman.  Too bad. Jamie Dimon missed a good party.  His wife, in a slim-fitting coral gown, danced a salsa with
 New York  Giants wide receiver  Victor Cruz , reminiscent of his 
moves in the end zone after scoring a touchdown.  Cruz’s face lit up as he talked about his 3-month-old
daughter and the book he’s finished writing, due out July 3.  JPMorgan executives Frank Bisignano,  Michael Cavanagh , Mel Martinez, Dick Cashin and Nicolas Aguzin ate roast chicken, as
did members of JPMorgan’s Latino and Hispanic network, Adelante.
(One in five employees of the firm are Latino or Hispanic, Judy
Dimon noted.)  Jamie Dimon’s daughters Julia, Kara and Laura and his twin
brother, Ted Jr., sat at a table decorated with red roses.  Doc Martens  First Eagle Investment Management’s John Arnhold sported
gold Doc Martens. Also present were the talented Elgorts: dance
photographer Arthur, fashion photographer Sophie and actor
Ansel, currently starring in the off-Broadway “Regrets.”  There were performances by members of Ballet Hispanico’s
dance company and students at its school.  Judy Dimon said gala honoree Jody Arnhold, Ballet
Hispanico’s “force of nature” for more than 30 years --
including 16 years as chairman -- recruited her.  “Underestimate her at your own expense,” Judy Dimon said
from the stage of the Plaza Hotel ballroom. “How else could you
possibly explain the overnight transformation of a bunch of
Jewish American Princesses into Jewish Latin-American
Princesses?”  The evening ended with the Dimons asserting themselves on
the dance floor. Daughter Julia Dimon took an elegant spin with
Arnhold’s son, Paul. (They have known each other since nursery
school at the 92nd Street Y).  “We like to dance,” said Jamie Dimon’s father, Theodore Dimon. He and his wife had a Greek American band at their
wedding, he added. “We dance the fox trot -- it’s nice and
easy.”  The event raised more than $2 million for Ballet Hispanico,
whose company will be performing at the Joyce Theater April 17
through April 29.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today's highlights: Krista Giovacco meets bankers setting up
a new wine trust; Martin Gayford reviews U.K. design;  Craig
Seligman  on Nadine Gordimer's “No Time Like the Present.”  -- Editors: Mark Beech, Catherine Hickley.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 