-- Schneider Braces for Smart-City Era by Testing Telvent Software
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-04-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/schneider-braces-for-smart-city-era-by-testing-telvent-software.html
Schneider Electric SA (DG)  is testing
software to manage power grids, pipelines, water networks and
road traffic in cities around the world, in a global
infrastructure push that competes with  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)   The French company is using undisclosed towns in the U.S.,
 China  and  France  to test a mix of services it developed along
with systems gained in the $2 billion acquisition of  Spain ’s
 Telvent GIT SA (TLVTF)  last year, Michel Crochon, head of the
infrastructure unit, said in an April 4 interview.  “Telvent is bringing us the ability to monitor and
simulate” events such as floods, manage power outages and
detect faulty equipment remotely, Crochon said. It also has a
“gold nugget” in the form of a weather forecast model that can
help anticipate water or power demand, he said.  Schneider is vying for so-called smart city projects to
keep up with Siemens, which created a division called
infrastructure and cities last year, and ABB, which spent more
than $1 billion in 2010 to buy a maker of software to manage
energy flows. Crochon sounded a note of optimism about business
this year, saying some of the issues that weighed on the
division’s earnings in 2011 have abated.  “The smart cities initiative is a new market, a new
approach, which has accelerated with the acquisition,” Crochon
said at the company’s headquarters near Paris. “We’re very
confident in the growth of Telvent.”  One-Stop Shop  Telvent, which had sales of 260 million euros ($341
million) in the fourth quarter of 2011, is run as a stand-alone
business for now, the executive said. Schneider already offered
electricity networks, building controls and video surveillance
systems before the Spanish takeover. The systems help local
authorities as cities get more crowded and global resources
become scarcer.  “We didn’t have high-level software for infrastructure,”
Crochon said. “With the arrival of renewable today and electric
vehicles tomorrow, there’s a real need for integration.”  Crochon expects profit to improve at the unit he manages,
which also sells products such as switchgears and transformers
to the oil and gas industry.  Sales at the division, which accounted for 22 percent of
Schneider’s revenue last year, rose 7.5 percent on an organic
basis to 4.90 billion euros. Earnings before interest, taxes,
and amortization were unchanged at 10.5 percent of sales in
2011.  “There’s no cause for concern” for this year, he said.
“I see neither a collapse nor a boom, but a normal continuation
of the business” at the start of 2012.  Better Future  Crochon said profitability of the infrastructure business
was disrupted by rising raw materials and a “slightly more
difficult market” for transformers in 2011. These two factors
are non-recurring, he said.  For the company as a whole, Schneider Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire in February predicted “flat to
slightly positive” organic sales growth this year, held back by
the economic turmoil in parts Western Europe.  Before buying Telvent, Schneider acquired  Areva SA (AREVA) ’s power-
distribution unit for more than 1.1 billion euros and 50 percent
of Russian switchgear and transformers maker Electroshield-TM
Samara for 265 million euros in 2010 to beef up its medium-
voltage offering.  The cooperation with Electroshield is “following its
course” and the purchase of the remaining stake may come under
consideration this year, Crochon said. He declined to give
details on acquisition plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  