-- Serbia Seen Holding Rates on Fiscal Expansion, Dinar Drop
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-04-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/serbia-seen-holding-rates-on-fiscal-expansion-dinar-drop.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
leave its benchmark  interest rate  on hold for a third month to
avoid further declines in the dinar even as key economic
indicators point to the need of additional monetary easing.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will keep its  two-
week repurchase rate  at 9.5 percent when it meets tomorrow,
according to 15 of 23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Three
see a need for a rate increase while five expect rate-setters to
lower the cost of borrowing.  Serbia is trying to avoid a second recession in three
years, just weeks before the nation votes for new president,
parliament and local governments on May 6. The central bank cut
its main rate by a total of 3 percentage points since last June
to contain the economic slowdown triggered by  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  “The exchange rate of the dinar remains unstable and any
further rate cuts would translate into additional dinar
depreciation pressures,” said Ljiljana Grubic, an analyst at
the Belgrade-based Raiffeisen bank AD in Belgrade.  The outgoing government of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic,
seeking re-election, has already slipped on fiscal targets in
the first two months of the year, leaving it up to the new
cabinet to tighten spending, raise taxes, cut public sector
payroll and overhaul the unprofitable pay-as-you-go pension
fund.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.4 percent in the last
quarter of 2011 from a year earlier, compared with 3 percent
growth in the first quarter of 2011.  Market Interventions  Instead of a rate cut, which has little impact in an
economy where more than 70 percent of all deposits and credits
are euro-denominated, the central bank is likely to shift to
other policy instruments, including “market interventions and
changes in the  reserve requirements ” to stop the dinar from
sinking lower “amid catastrophic fundamentals and a lack of
credit activity,” Grubic said in a phone interview.  The National Bank of Serbia sold more than 500 million
euros ($656.45 million) since the beginning of the year to curb
the declines in the dinar, which is trading at close to 112 to
the euro, its lowest in a decade.  The dinar has lost 4.11 percent against the euro since the
start of this year and it will soon begin to push up inflation,
which the central bank targets at 4 percent plus or minus 1.5
percentage points at the end of 2012, Grubic said.  The bank may still take advantage of the worsening GDP and
output data, combined with a fairly low inflation of 4.9 percent
at the end of February, to do another rate cut, Dusko Vasiljevic
of the CEVES economic research institute said. The pressure on
the dinar may be contained once the government completes its
second Eurobond sale in two years, he added.  Eurobond Sale  Government officials will meet U.S. investors later this
month, as part of a roadshow to present them plans for a new 10-
year, dollar-denominated bond worth around 1 billion euros.  Stojan Stamenkovic, the chief macro-economist at the
Belgrade-based Economics Institute, said industrial output
declines in February did not bode well for the full-year
economic output and may even signal the economy is plunging into
recession just like many of its Western European trading
partners and investors.  With a 13 percent contraction, mainly caused by disruptions
in electricity supply and transport, Serbia’s industrial
production was the lowest since 2000, Stamenkovic said at a news
conference in Belgrade today. While monetary policy could do
little to aid growth, policy makers should be wary of underlying
price pressures after producer prices rose by 0.8 percent in
February, the highest in 10 months.  Fiscal worries topped economists’ concerns about Serbia, as
the country’s high fiscal gap, wider than the one agreed with
the  International Monetary Fund  for 2012, led to a freeze in a
$1.3 billion precautionary loan program with the lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  