-- Shadow Banks on Trial as China’s Rich Sister Faces Death
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-11T07:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/shadow-banks-on-trial-as-china-s-rich-sister-faces-death.html
When a Chinese court sentenced 28-
year-old Wu Ying, known as “Rich Sister,” to death for taking
$55.7 million from investors without paying them back, it
sparked an unexpected firestorm that has drawn in China’s top
leadership.  Her crime involved a common, illegal practice in China:
raising money from the public with promises to pay back high
 interest rates . Known as shadow banking, these underground
lending and investing networks are estimated to total $1.3
trillion, according to Ren Xianfang, an economist with  IHS
Global Insight Ltd. (IHS)  in Beijing. That’s the size of the 2011 U.S.
government  deficit .  Operating outside the banking system or  government
regulation , the informal networks provide an important source of
economic growth,  capital  for private companies and return for
investors seeking to beat inflation. Premier  Wen Jiabao , in an
unusual move, weighed in on the Wu case at a March 14 news
conference. His comments highlighted a public debate over the
importance of shadow banking to the Chinese economy, government
efforts to bring it under control -- and whether capital
punishment is an effective means to do so.  “Chinese companies, especially small ones, need access to
funds,” Wen said  when asked  about Wu’s case. “Banks have yet
to be able to meet those companies’ needs, and there is a
massive amount of idle private capital. We need to bring private
finance out into the open.”  Unfairly Singled Out  Wu’s lawyer says his client, now 30, was unfairly singled
out and is no different from the estimated 42 million Chinese
business owners who rely on the shadow-banking system for
financing when they cannot get loans from  state-owned banks . The
Supreme People’s Court is reviewing the 2009 verdict and will
decide as early as this month whether Wu Ying lives or dies.  “Entrepreneurs are paying attention to it because today’s
Wu Ying could be any of them tomorrow,” the lawyer, Yang
Zhaodong, said in an interview in Beijing last month. “There
are so many of them doing the same thing Wu Ying did. This case
not only relates to Wu’s life, but to whether  China ’s legal and
judicial system is fair.”  Shadow banking has been fueled by a two-year credit squeeze
in China and by large, state-owned banks’ preference for lending
to government-run companies rather than small businesses.
Private entrepreneurs account for 60 percent of China’s total
economic activity and provide jobs for 80 percent of its urban
population, according to China’s National Development and Reform
Commission.  Meteoric Rise  “Underground banking filled the hole left by China’s
state-owned banks, which have this long-term bias toward big
enterprises,” said IHS’s Ren. “Even though it is an extremely
opaque market and has a lot of hidden problems, the government
needs it to meet the basic financing needs of small
businesses.”  Wu’s rise and fall have been meteoric. The daughter of a
farmer in Zhejiang province, south of  Shanghai , Wu dropped out
of technical school as a teenager to work at her aunt’s beauty
salon and later opened two of her own, according to the state-
run Global Times newspaper. She branched out into a foot-massage
parlor and bought 10 cars which she rented out. An entertainment
center and a boutique featuring Korean clothes followed, as did
investments in real estate and copper, the report said.  Wu collected 770 million yuan ($122 million) from private
investors between May 2005 and February 2007, according to
government prosecutors. She also accumulated more than 100
properties and 40 cars, including a $500,000 Ferrari, the Global
Times said.  Knowing the Risks  Wu borrowed money to fund her businesses and didn’t lie to
anyone, her lawyer said. She never committed fraud, Yang said,
adding that her investors, like anyone who took part in the
private-banking business, knew the risks involved.  “Even her biggest creditor who she owed 320 million yuan
doesn’t think Wu was lying to her,” said Yang. “These were
real projects.”  The court in Wu’s home province of Zhejiang said she
“brought huge losses to the nation and people with her severe
crimes and should therefore be severely punished” when it
upheld her death sentence in January, according to the Xinhua
News Agency.  Nicknamed “Fu Jie,” or “Rich Sister,” in the media, Wu
and her case were discussed at the annual legislative session in
Beijing in March, where delegates debated the larger issues of
shadow banking.  “You cannot try to stop this just by killing people,”
Wang Yongzheng, a delegate to China’s People’s Political
Consultative Conference and owner of a textile company, told a
small group session at the meetings.  ‘Public Outrage’  In a country where public criticism of government policy is
rarely sanctioned, state-run media outlets such as Xinhua and
the People’s Daily, both Communist Party mouthpieces, have run
stories, editorials and online chat sessions airing public
sympathy for Wu.  On Feb. 8, the  China Daily  newspaper  ran an article  noting
“public outrage” and the “wide sympathy and pleas for the
fair-skinned woman with a short haircut.” It quoted a legal
expert as saying the government’s seizure and sell-off of her
assets was illegal.  On the Defensive  As the public outcry surrounding Wu’s case began to swell,
court officials and police took the rare step of publicly
defending their verdict. The presiding judge in her case, Shen
Xiaoming, appeared in a Feb. 7  Internet chat  to explain that Wu
Ying was sentenced to death because the court found she intended
to defraud investors.  “This was more than just illegal fundraising,” Shen said
in the chat.  China’s entire shadow-banking system is bigger than just
underground borrowing and lending, totaling about $2.4 trillion,
a third the size of China’s official loan market, according to
Societe Generale SA economist Yao Wei. In addition to informal
lending, it includes the off-balance-sheet activities of banks,
 trust companies , and businesses lending to each other, Yao said.
The amount is almost the size of  U.S. consumer debt , which
exceeded $2.5 trillion as of January, according to the U.S.
Federal Reserve.  Ordinary Chinese savers also fuel the country’s shadow-
banking system. They have few legal options if they want to earn
a return that beats inflation, which hit  5.4 percent  in 2011.
The government sets China’s current ceiling for savings account
interest rates at 3.5 percent, a figure that has trailed
inflation for two straight years as of January. Wu offered
interest rates of as much as 0.5 percent a day to attract
investors, according to Xinhua.  Bankruptcies and Suicides  Zhejiang province, where Wu’s home village of Dongyang is
located, has been at the heart of private lending activity.
Between April and September last year, more than 80 indebted
businessmen committed suicide or declared bankruptcy in its
boomtown manufacturing city of Wenzhou because they couldn’t
repay informal lenders, according to Xinhua.  Bankruptcies and arrests continue to be reported almost
daily. Today, the China Securities Journal reported that
Hangzhou Glory Real Estate Co., also located in Zhejiang, had
filed for bankruptcy after borrowing 2.5 billion yuan from
individuals.  Pilot Program  The government has stepped in to deal with the troubles and
bring some aspects of shadow banking under government control.
In October, Premier Wen traveled to Wenzhou, a city of 9.1
million people 230 miles (370 kilometers) south of Shanghai,
pledging help for troubled businesses. Then, on March 28,
China’s State Council approved a pilot program for Wenzhou that
would ease some restrictions on private lending.  Private capital will be encouraged to participate in
“innovative financial organizations” such as  credit unions ,
and banks will be encouraged to lend money to small enterprises,
the State Council said.  “The Wenzhou trial program has started us on the right
track,”  Zhou Dewen , president of the Wenzhou Small and Medium
Sized Enterprises Development Association, said by phone the day
after the announcement. “The trial program is a step forward
toward making private lending a practice that’s legal.”  By the time Wu was in her mid-twenties, she had founded the
Bense Holding Group -- the name means “original color” -- and
established 12 companies, according to a profile in the
Guangzhou-based Southern Weekly before her arrest.  Drawing Attention  Wu’s success drew the attention of the Chinese media. In
its Feb. 1, 2007 profile, the Southern Weekly said she drove to
the interview in a BMW and couldn’t explain where her wealth had
come from.  “I don’t launder money,” Wu said, according to the
newspaper. “My money is clean.”  According to the article, Wu had a tattoo of a rose on her
chest and once donated 6.3 million yuan to charity. Less than
two weeks after the article  was published , authorities announced
that Wu had been arrested on suspicion of illegal fundraising.  Prosecutors later upgraded the charges against her to
financial fraud, a crime punishable by death in the most severe
cases, for losing 380 million yuan of investors’ money. Two
years later, she was sentenced to die.  The court found that Wu raised her money by “fabricating
facts, deliberately hiding the truth, and promising high returns
as an incentive,” according to Xinhua.  Photographs of Wu in court show her sobbing as she stands
at the dock, clad in a yellow prison jacket, her  tattoo  peeking
from the neckline. She has been in prison appealing her
conviction since her arrest in 2007. Xinhua reported in April
2011 that Wu was writing a book called “ Black Swan ,” a
fictional account of her life, while in prison.  Not the First  Wu wouldn’t be the first shadow banker to be put to death
in China. On Aug. 5, 2009, the  Supreme Court  approved the
execution of two female entrepreneurs in separate cases. Si
Chaxian, age unreported, was charged with defrauding 300 people
of 167 million yuan over five years and promising returns of as
much as 108 percent annually, while Du Yimin -- who was 44 at
the time her death sentence was upheld -- was charged with
defrauding 709 million yuan by promising to pay as much as 10
percent per month, the official  CCTV reported . Both women were
from Zhejiang province.  On Death Row  At least 17 people, including Wu, now sit on death row
after being sentenced for illegally raising funds from
individuals, according to Chinese media reports compiled by
Bloomberg since 2009. Seven of them are women.  In the latest case, on April 6, 30-year-old Wang Caiping
was sentenced to death for borrowing along with her brother more
than 100 million yuan from 15 victims, according to the official
Xinhua News Agency. Wang and her brother, who has fled, invested
the money in gold and futures speculation and incurred losses,
the report said. They had paid out 5.8 million yuan in interest
as of the day Wang was arrested, with 94 million yuan unpaid,
Xinhua added.  In Zhejiang, sentences handed out for various shadow-
banking-related crimes rose to 75 last year, up from eight in
2007, the official Legal Daily reported, citing the provincial
high court.  In Shanghai, police said March 29 they had arrested Gu
Chunfang, a woman in her early forties who runs a trading
company, for racking up 500 million yuan in underground-lending
debts, China Daily reported. Her nickname: “Most Beautiful
Businesswoman.”  Striking a Chord  Wu’s case, unlike the two executions, 16 other death
sentences and numerous arrests, has struck a chord and spurred a
broader national debate.  “She’s not some sort of privileged person who just had
everything handed to her,” said Sarah Schafer, a Hong Kong-
based researcher with  Amnesty International . “People see her as
someone who is closer to them than they care to admit.”  Amid the demands for change to China’s shadow-banking
system, Wu’s case has also been taken up as part of a parallel
debate about China’s  death penalty .  Groups including Amnesty International that monitor capital
punishment say attitudes toward it have begun to change in China
-- especially in cases of financial fraud. The government has
allowed broader public debate on the death penalty, and
government officials have talked more often of pushing China
toward abolishing the practice, according to Schafer.  Accepting Abolition  “The argument from the Chinese government has always been
that the public wouldn’t accept abolishing the death penalty,”
Schafer said. “This case has shown that maybe the public isn’t
ready for full abolition but we think they are ready for
abolishing it for nonviolent crimes.”  The Chinese government does not release statistics on the
number of executions it performs. Groups like Amnesty
International, which track the cases in the media, say the
reports may underestimate the total number of executions carried
out, since the media tend to report only the most sensational
crime and corruption cases.  Still, China has cut the number of executions it carries
out every year from 8,000 in 2006 to 4,000  per year  now,
according to the San Francisco-based  Dui Hua Foundation . Even
so, it executes more people than every other government in the
world put together. The next highest is  Iran , with more than 360
in 2011, according to Amnesty International.  Starting in 2007, China’s Supreme Court decreed it must
approve all the country’s executions. In a 2010 annual report,
the court said it should “respect and protect citizens’ right
to life, the most basic human right,” according to Xinhua.  Premier Wen’s remarks in March and the changes to the
private banking system make Wu’s lawyer hopeful that the Supreme
Court will commute her death sentence. On March 30, an editorial
in the Financial News, a publication of the People’s Bank of
China, said reforms in Wenzhou were a “turning point” for the
development of private financing in China.  “Wu Ying’s case happened in a special time during China’s
reform, where the financial system is hugely lagging behind
economic development,” said Zhou, of the Wenzhou enterprise
association. “Wu Ying won’t be executed now that the trial
program has been announced. She can’t die before the dawn.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  