-- Sharp Widens Loss Forecast to $4.7 Billion as TV Sales Slump
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-04-10T09:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/sharp-widens-loss-forecast-to-4-7-billion-on-slumping-tv-sales.html
Sharp (6753)  Corp., the Japanese TV maker
that’s turning to  Foxconn Technology Group (FOXCGZ)  and founder Terry Gou
for a $1.6 billion investment, widened its record loss forecast
to 380 billion yen ($4.7 billion).  The net loss in the year ended March 31 is projected to be
31 percent higher than the company’s February forecast for a 290
billion-yen loss. That reversed an earlier forecast for a profit
of 6 billion yen. The prediction is for the worst annual loss
since the company was founded a century ago.  The Osaka-based company and domestic competitors  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  are all forecasting losses as they lose
ground to Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc. in TVs
and as a stronger yen damps the repatriated value of their
overseas sales. Foxconn, the assembler of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads, and
Gou last month agreed to invest 133 billion yen in  Sharp (6753)  and its
display unit.  Sharp fell  4.3 percent to 530 yen in Tokyo trading today
before the announcement. The Nikkei newspaper reported earlier
today, without attribution, that the company was expected to
report a loss of 390 billion yen.  Tax Charge  Sharp in February predicted a loss on slumping prices for
its Aquos televisions, an economic slowdown and a tax charge.
 Japan ’s largest maker of LCD panels booked charges as it cut
deferred tax assets by 119.8 billion yen in the quarter ended
Dec. 31.  Tax credits can’t be claimed when a company isn’t expected
to post a profit in the future. Companies need to reduce
deferred assets and take appropriate charges when they forecast
a loss.  Sharp, founded in 1912 and the maker of Japan’s first
commercial TVs, said in February it will halve the output at its
largest TV panel factory in Sakai city, Osaka prefecture.  In April, Sharp reduced production of TV panels at its two
biggest LCD plants. The company’s so-called 10th-generation
factory in Sakai, has a production capacity of 72,000 panels a
month, while the eighth-generation LCD plant in Kameyama, Mie,
is capable of making 100,000 panels.  Foxconn, including Taipei-listed flagship  Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co. (2317) , will buy 9.9 percent of Sharp for 66.9 billion yen
in a new-share sale. Foxconn Chairman Gou and related investment
companies will buy 46.5 percent of Sharp Display Products Corp.,
a venture with Sony Corp., for 66 billion yen.  The deal, the largest Japanese investment by a Taiwanese
buyer, includes an agreement to purchase as much as 50 percent
of Sharp Display’s LCD panels.  Sharp will begin shipping displays using IGZO technology
for the new iPad, joining major supplier Samsung and LG Display
Co., Englewood, Colorado-based IHS said in a March 14  statement .  Rating & Investment Information Inc. cut Sharp’s credit
rating by two levels to A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade,
from A+ on March 8 because “it will likely take time for the
company to improve earnings capacity,” the Tokyo-based ratings
company said earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 