-- Shuaa’s Philipp Steps Down, Third CEO to Leave in 3 Years
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-10T12:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/shuaa-s-philipp-steps-down-third-ceo-to-leave-in-3-years-1-.html
Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  Chief Executive
Officer Michael Philipp stepped down, six months after the
former Credit Suisse Group AG board member joined the Dubai
investment bank to restructure its business.  Colin Macdonald, previously the group managing director and
regional head of the  Middle East  at ABN Amro, will replace
Philipp, Shuaa said in an e-mailed statement today. Macdonald
will be the company’s fourth CEO in three years. Maktoum Hasher
Al Maktoum was also appointed executive chairman.  Shuaa has moved away from retail brokerage and scaled back
research operations after markets in its home base declined and
losses mounted. The company said in February it planned to cut
55 jobs as part of a reorganization and that it was closing
operations in Jordan and  Egypt  and reducing its presence in  Abu
Dhabi  and Riyadh.  Shuaa is concentrating on providing sales and trading to
institutions, family offices and high-net worth individuals, it
said in February. The company last year had its ratings cut one
level to Ba3 at Moody’s Investors Service, citing losses and
management “instability.”  Middle East markets were hurt in 2011 by uprisings that
ousted leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya and fears  Europe 
won’t be able to contain its debt crisis. Fees earned by banks
in the region fell 42 percent to $320 million in the first nine
months of 2011 from $551 million during the same period in 2010,
according to New York-based research firm Freeman & Co.  The investment bank returned to profit last year after
posting losses in the preceding three years.  The shares , which
tumbled 56 percent last year, have surged 44 percent this year.
They lost 2.8 percent to 79 fils in Dubai today, the lowest
close since Feb. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  