-- Sony, Sharp Losing $11 Billion Leaves Investors Let Down
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-04-11T01:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/sony-widens-net-loss-estimate-to-520-billion-yen.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  posted
losses that together equaled 900 billion yen ($11 billion) as
the first decline in global TV shipments in six years and a
stronger yen eroded earnings at  Japan ’s biggest LCD TV makers.  Sony had a  record loss  of 520 billion yen for the year
ended March 31, more than twice what it had predicted in
February, after taking a charge to write down deferred tax
assets. The stock fell the most in five months in  Tokyo  trading.
Sharp also declined after posting a record loss of  380 billion
yen , 31 percent more than its earlier forecast.  The two companies, once symbols of Japan’s dominance in
electronics, have been hammered by Apple Inc. and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , a currency that reached a postwar high and
prompted government intervention, and the aftermath of last
year’s quake and Thai floods. Sony’s new President, Kazuo Hirai,
may have to raise equity and cut jobs while Sharp has turned to
 Taiwan ’s  Foxconn Technology Group (FOXCGZ)  for a $1.6 billion infusion.  “Investors have kept hoping for their revival and have
been repeatedly let down,” Einosuke Yoshino, a  fund manager  at
Commons Asset Management in Tokyo, said today by phone. “They
make slow decisions and have weak leadership. I no longer
believe them.”  Sony fell 4.8 percent, the most in intraday trading since
Nov. 10, to 1,510 yen as of 10:51 a.m. in Tokyo. It was the
second-biggest decline among more than 1,600 companies in the
 MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  Sharp dropped 3.2 percent to 513 yen while
Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 1.2 percent.  ‘Nothing Is Sacred’  The cost of insuring Sony’s bonds against non-payment for
five years jumped by 36 basis points to 222 yesterday, the
highest in more than three years, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices in the private
market.  “The situation is critical and we will carry out drastic
reform. Nothing is sacred,” Sony Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato said yesterday in Tokyo, where the company is based.
“Turning around our TV business is a top priority.”  Sony took a 300 billion-yen charge to write down the value
of deferred tax assets as  the company  no longer expects to be as
profitable as it had once forecast. The company may raise
 financing  with equity, according to Kato. It has not made any
specific plans to do so, he said.  “Given the tax charges, Sony’s revival and growth plans in
the U.S. don’t seem to be working out,” said Satoshi Yuzaki, a
general manager at  Takagi Securities (8625)  in Tokyo. “The market is
very skeptical about the outlook for the company over the next
three to five years.”  ‘Race to the Bottom’  Sony and  Osaka , Japan-based Sharp have been trying to reach
consumers willing to pay high prices for televisions with LED,
or light-emitting diode, sets. Sharp, for instance, reintroduced
the Elite brand it licensed after Pioneer Corp. left the TV
market.  Phil Molyneux, president of Sony’s U.S. electronics
business, is focusing on improving consumers’ retail
experiences. On April 1, the company instituted a “unilateral
pricing policy” that limits how much a retailer can mark down
Sony’s products. The move will “slow the race to the bottom,”
he told reporters at a briefing in March.  Sony also is accelerating its redesign worldwide of
company-owned stores to deliver a shopping experience similar to
what  Apple (AAPL)  provides at its retail outlets.  Strong Yen  The modest gains Sony has seen from such moves have been
hobbled by the strong yen, Molyneux said.  The yen’s 7.3 percent surge against the dollar and 11
percent gain against the euro in 2011 damped the repatriated
value of Japanese companies’ overseas sales. Sony earned 70
percent of its  revenue  outside Japan and Sharp 47 percent.  Manufacturers have been forced to both relocate production
outside of Japan and to press their suppliers for cost cuts.
Interventions by Japan’s finance ministry and the  Bank of Japan 
helped bring the currency down from October’s postwar high
against the dollar.  The preliminary loss underscores the  challenge  for Hirai,
51, in turning around the company that set the trend in
electronics during the 1980s with products like the Walkman
music player. Hirai, who succeeded  Howard Stringer  this month,
has said he will close down  less-competitive  businesses and cut
costs to revive Sony. The company predicted operating profit of
180 billion yen for the fiscal year that began this month.  10,000 Job Cuts  “What they’re doing now is trying to squeeze out profits
with cost cuts,” said Ichiro Takamatsu, who helps oversee $2
billion at Bayview Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “I can’t see
a scenario in which they boost their top line. The environment
is still severe, demand for TVs won’t recover, and they’ve got
no hit products.”  Sony will  cut jobs  at its television unit, according to a
person familiar with the situation. The company may eliminate as
many as 10,000 positions, according to the Nikkei newspaper.
Sony will give a briefing on its turnaround plan tomorrow, Kato
said, declining to elaborate on the number of job cuts.  “Sony’s share price will be determined by whether or not
it announces something worthwhile on Thursday,” Kazuharu Miura,
an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo, said today by
phone. “It needs a business development and restructuring plan
that the market can appreciate.”  Miura reiterated his underperform rating on the stock
yesterday and his share-price estimate of 1,500 yen.  Sony’s loss is the worst since the company was founded,
according to Mami Imada, a spokeswoman. Including yesterday’s
announcement of the 520 billion-yen loss,  Sony lost  a combined
919.32 billion yen in the past four years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  TV Shipments Fall  Global TV shipments last year fell for the first time in
six years because of excessive inventory in the U.S. and  Europe ,
and the end of Japanese government subsidies for purchases,
 according  to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Shipments fell
0.3 percent to 247.7 million units, the researcher said.  Samsung and South Korean competitor LG Electronics Inc.
both increased their share of the global flat-panel TV market in
the fourth quarter while Sony,  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp all
posted declines, according to DisplaySearch.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung last week reported a
record first-quarter operating profit of 5.8 trillion won ($5.1
billion) on gains from selling phones and TVs.  Sony, worth more than  $125 billion  in 2000, is now valued
at less than $19 billion, compared with $586 billion for
Cupertino, California-based Apple and $168 billion for Samsung.  New Team  The new CEO, who’s been credited with making the
PlayStation game business  profitable , is bringing in a new team
and has put himself in charge of Sony’s TV business, which is
forecast to lose money for an eighth consecutive year.  Hirai has already  taken action  in an effort to boost the TV
business. Last year, Sony exited a panel-making venture with
Samsung, saying the sale of  that stake  to the South Korean
company will save about 50 billion yen in costs for Sony’s TV
operation.  Sharp’s preliminary loss also was its worst since the
company was founded a century ago. The company has cut
production of TV panels at its two biggest LCD plants as demand
has failed to meet supply. The company’s factory in Sakai has a
production capacity of 72,000 panels a month, while its LCD
plant in Kameyama, Mie, is capable of making 100,000 panels.  ‘Too Optimistic’  “Our previous forecast was too optimistic,” Tetsuo Onishi, an executive managing officer, said during a press
conference in Osaka. “Sales are still bad.”  The cost of insuring Sharp’s debt against default jumped 15
basis points to 281.7 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. yesterday in
Tokyo, according to data provider CMA. That’s the highest level
since March 23, CMA prices in Tokyo show.  Last month, the company turned to Foxconn for help. The
Foxconn group, including Taipei-listed flagship  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317) , will buy 9.9 percent of Sharp for 66.9
billion yen in a new-share sale. Foxconn Chairman Gou and
related investment companies will buy 46.5 percent of Sharp
Display Products Corp., a venture with Sony Corp., for 66
billion yen.  The deal, the largest Japanese investment by a Taiwanese
buyer, includes an agreement to purchase as much as 50 percent
of Sharp Display’s LCD panels.  Standard & Poor’s  cut  Sony’s credit rating  one level in
February to BBB+, S&P’s third-lowest investment grade, because
of falling prices, waning demand and tougher competition. The
announcement followed downgrades by Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings ,
which cited difficulty in turning around the unprofitable TV
business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  