-- Soybeans Fall From Seven-Month High on Europe, China
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-04-11T02:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/soybeans-rise-as-smaller-world-crop-boosts-u-s-export-demand.html
(Corrects to imports from output in second paragraph in
story first published yesterday.)  Soybean futures fell from a seven-
month high on speculation that demand will ease in  Europe  and
 China , the world’s biggest consumer.  China reported an unexpected trade surplus last month as
import growth trailed forecasts. A surge in Spanish and Italian
bond yields fueled concern that Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening. The oilseed rallied after drought cut crops in  South
America . Last year, China and the European Union bought 73
percent of global soybean imports.  “Chinese demand for soybeans may not live up to the hype
already built into prices,”  Dale Durchholz , the senior market
analyst at AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington, Illinois, said in a
telephone interview. “People are reducing riskier asset
holdings because it looks like European debt problems are
increasing.”  Soybean futures for May delivery dropped 0.3 percent to
close at $14.26 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Earlier, the price reached $14.5225, the highest for a
most-active contract since Sept. 1, after the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  cut its forecast for global output and domestic
inventories.  Before the next harvest,  stockpiles  in the U.S., the
world’s top producer last year, will be 9.1 percent less than
forecast a month earlier, the USDA said today in a report.  Combined output in Brazil, the second-largest grower, and
Argentina, the third-biggest, will drop 11 percent from last
season to 111 million metric tons, the lowest in three years,
the USDA said.  In the week ended April 3,  hedge funds  and money managers
increased  wagers  on rallies in soybeans and soybean meal to the
highest since at least June 2006.  “There was nothing new on the supply front in today’s
report that wasn’t already known,”  Don Roose , the president of
U.S. Commodities Inc. West Des Moines, Iowa, said in a telephone
interview. “We are running out of new speculative buyers
without new supply-and-demand fundamentals.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  