-- STMicroelectronics Falls After Margin Forecast Cut: Paris Mover
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-10T11:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/stmicroelectronics-falls-after-margin-forecast-cut-paris-mover.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  fell the most
in more than two months in Paris after  Europe ’s largest
semiconductor maker reduced its gross margin forecast because of
an arbitration award.  STMicroelectronics  declined  as much as 5.9 percent to
5.44 euros, the biggest intraday drop since Jan. 24, and was
down 5.7 percent at 5.45 euros as of 1:39 p.m.  “This is clearly unexpected and it’s triggered a drop in
price even if it has more to do with sentiment than the charge
itself, which is a one-off item,” said Saverio Papagno, an
analyst at AZ Fund Management in Luxembourg.  STMicroelectronics was ordered to pay about $59 million to
NXP Semiconductors Netherlands BV in an arbitration proceeding,
the Geneva-based company said in a statement yesterday. The
ruling relates to a claim against STMicroelectronics for
“underloading charges to be included in the price of wafers”
supplied by NXP to STMicroelectronics’s wireless joint venture
from October 2008 through December 2009.  The award, which will increase the cost of sales in the
first quarter, will hurt the gross margin, the percentage of
revenue left after subtracting manufacturing costs. The measure
will be narrowed by 2.6 percentage points to a range of 28.9
percent to 31.9 percent of sales, according to the statement.
The chipmaker had forecast in January that the gross margin in
the first three months would be about 33 percent, plus or minus
1.5 percentage points.  “Certain issues” raised by STMicroelectronics were not
addressed and will be part of a second arbitration before the
same  International Chamber of Commerce  tribunal scheduled for
June, with a final decision expected in the following 12 months,
the company said. STMicroelectronics aims “to convince the ICC
Tribunal to reverse the economic effect of its award in the
first arbitration,” it said.  The chipmaker is set to report first-quarter results after
the close of trading in  New York  on April 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  