-- Swiss Franc Breaches Cap Versus Euro Amid Crisis Concern
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-04-10T12:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/swiss-franc-breaches-cap-versus-euro-amid-crisis-concern.html
Swiss six-month bills offered a
rate below zero at a sale today while the franc traded within
0.2 percent of its 1.20-per-euro cap as renewed concern  Europe 
hasn’t stemmed its debt crisis spurred demand for safer assets.  Switzerland  sold six-month bills at an average yield of
minus 0.251 percent. Swiss National Bank interim chairman Thomas Jordan reaffirmed the bank will enforce the limit.  Spain ’s Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said last week the nation is in “extreme
difficulty,” while data released on April 6 showed Italian
banks’ borrowings from the  European Central Bank  surged to a
record in March.  “The safe-haven pressure on franc assets is likely to
continue given negative headlines out of the euro zone and the
fact that Switzerland still enjoys a healthy current-account
position,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in London. “The  Swiss National Bank  will be able
to defend the 1.20 cap, but the fact that it was breached a few
times does raise eyebrows.”  The franc was little changed at 1.20279 per euro at 1:05
p.m. London time after strengthening to 1.19962 yesterday, the
strongest level since the cap was introduced on Sept. 6. The
currency was also little changed against the dollar, at 91.74
centimes.  The yield set at today’s auction compares with a rate of
minus 0.099 percent at a previous sale on Feb. 21.  The Swiss National Bank set its foreign-exchange ceiling to
protect exports after investors seeking a haven from the euro-
area turmoil drove the currency to a record 1.00749 per euro.
The currency breached the cap on April 5 and during yesterday’s
trading day.  SNB Policy  “The Swiss National Bank is enforcing the minimum  exchange
rate  with all the means at its disposal,” Jordan said today.
“We are prepared to buy foreign currency in unlimited
quantities for this purpose. In this respect, our policies are
totally unchanged.”  The Swiss currency on April 5 breached the limit for the
first time since the measure was introduced. Jordan today said
the trade occurred in “what is known as a segmented market”
and that the situation was remedied within a few seconds by
means of arbitrage.”  The trade last week was concluded “by banks that do not
have an agreement relating to limits with the SNB -- in other
words by banks that cannot or do not trade with the SNB,”
Jordan said. “The central bank was at all times prepared to buy
unlimited quantities of euros at 1.20 francs per euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  