-- Swiss Stocks Decline After U.S. Jobs Report; Adecco Drops
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-04-10T16:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/swiss-stocks-decline-after-u-s-jobs-report-adecco-drops.html
Stocks in Switzerland  tumbled to a
one-month low as Italy and  Spain ’s borrowing costs jumped and a
U.S. report showed that employers in the world’s largest economy
added fewer jobs in March than forecast.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s biggest supplier of temporary
workers, dropped 4.2 percent on the first day of Zurich trading
after the U.S. Labor Department’s April 6 release.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
Credit Suisse AG, Switzerland’s largest lenders, declined more
than 3.5 percent.  Lonza Group AG (LONN) , the world’s biggest maker of
drug ingredients, slid to its lowest price since at least 1999.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s largest
and most actively traded companies, lost 1.7 percent to 6,061.43
at the close in Zurich, its lowest level since March 6. The
 gauge , which was closed yesterday and on April 6 for Easter, has
retreated for three straight weeks as borrowing costs rose in
Spain and the  Federal Reserve  indicated it will hold off from
making further asset purchases. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also fell 1.7 percent today.  “The U.S. employment data from Friday were a clear
disappointment,” said Benno Galliker, a trader at Luzerner
Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne, Switzerland. “The market is already
waiting for U.S. companies’ quarterly results this week. Better-
than-expected numbers could reassure the markets again. But if
they disappoint, the correction is probably going to continue.”  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, is due to
become the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to
report first-quarter results after the close of trading today.  The number of shares changing hands on the SMI today was 22
percent higher than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Employment Data  On April 6, when European markets were closed for the Good
Friday holiday, a Labor Department report showed employers in
the U.S. added 120,000 jobs in March, down from a revised
240,000 gain in February and short of the most pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Adecco fell 4.2 percent to 44.14 Swiss francs after the
U.S. jobs report.  A gauge of banks contributed the most to the  Stoxx Europe
600 Index (SXXP) ’s tumble today. UBS and Credit Suisse slid 5 percent
to 11.53 francs, the most since Oct. 31, and 3.6 percent to
23.79 francs, respectively.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s
largest life insurer, declined 3.4 percent to 102.20 francs and
Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, retreated
1.1 percent to 56.40 francs.  Lonza slid 3.5 percent to 42.55 francs, the lowest price
since at least 1999. NZZ am Sonntag reported that the company
doesn’t plan to cut a large number of jobs as part of a cost-
reduction program. The newspaper cited Chairman Rolf Soiron.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  declined 1.7 percent to 154.90 francs. The
drugmaker said it’s willing to study “additional value” in its
bid for Illumina Inc. after a proxy-advisory firm recommended
that the target company’s shareholders reject the hostile offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  