-- U.K. Retail Sales Increase in March on Warm Weather, BRC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/u-k-retail-sales-increase-in-march-on-warm-weather-brc-says.html
U.K.  retail sales  rose for the
first time in three months in March as warm weather boosted
demand for clothing and outdoor gear, the  British Retail
Consortium  said.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value,
gained 1.3 percent from a year earlier, the London-based trade
group said in an e-mailed report today. That followed 0.3
percent declines in both January and February.  The  Bank of England  expects inflation to slow to its 2
percent target this year as officials count on  easing  price
pressures to alleviate the squeeze on consumers and help
generate a pickup in spending later this year. Still, any
recovery in demand may be curbed by rising unemployment and an
increase in  oil prices  that is raising the cost of gasoline.  “The warmth of March was a help but it will take more than
a week of sunshine to transform retailers’ fortunes,” BRC
Director General Stephen Robertson said in the report. “The
overall retail environment is still difficult.”  Including stores open less than 12 months, the value of
retail sales rose 3.6 percent in March from a year earlier,
according to the BRC report. In the first quarter, food sales
increased 1.2 percent from a year earlier on a like-for-like
basis, while non-food sales fell 0.4 percent.  The lobby group said annual footwear sales growth increased
to its highest since April 2007, while the warm weather last
month spurred demand for outdoor home-improvement products and
picnic-related gear.  Even so, “discounting remains a key tactic for retailers
trying to encourage consumers to spend,” said Robertson.
“People are still struggling to balance household budgets
against expensive fuel and utilities.”  Separately, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and Employment
Confederation said their index of hiring of full-time staff
dropped to 52.4 in March from a nine-month high of 53.2 in
February. An index of hiring of temporary workers slipped to
48.5 from 49. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  