-- U.K. Stocks Drop After U.S. Jobs Report Misses Estimates
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-04-10T16:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/u-k-stocks-drop-after-u-s-jobs-report-misses-estimates.html
U.K. stocks  fell to the lowest
level this year after a U.S. report showed employers added fewer
jobs than forecast in the world’s largest economy last month.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Rio Tinto Group led declines on the
benchmark  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  rallied the
most since November after Mali’s military junta agreed to hand
over power in the country that accounts for about two-thirds of
the miner’s gold output.  The FTSE 100 dropped 128.12, or 2.2 percent, to 5,595.55 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the lowest since Dec. 30, paring
this year’s gain to 0.4 percent. The gauge slid 0.8 percent last
week as British manufacturing output unexpectedly contracted and
concern about the euro-area debt crisis resurfaced. The FTSE
All-Share Index fell 2.2 percent today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index
lost 1.5 percent.  “Markets in Europe got their first chance to react to
Friday’s non-farm payroll figures this morning, and the result
was not pretty,” Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index
in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments.  The U.S. Labor Department said April 6 that employers added
120,000 jobs in March. That was the fewest in five months and
less than the median economist forecast of 205,000 in a
Bloomberg survey. The amount had exceeded 200,000 for three
straight months.  Fed Stimulus  The weaker-than-expected payroll report won’t be enough to
propel the  Federal Reserve  to commit more monetary stimulus to
revive the economy, according to Stewart Richardson at RMG
Wealth Management LLP.  “We now know that there will not be any new money printing
and the rally in European equities appears to be over,” said
Richardson, the chief investment officer at RMG in London.
“Without any more spiking of the punch bowl, equity investors
are beginning to leave the party.”  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, slipped 3.2 percent to 537
pence.  Rio Tinto , the world’s third-biggest mining company,
declined 4.5 percent to 3,306 pence. Banks and basic-resources
companies were among the largest fallers today.  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  slid 7.2 percent to 198.5 pence as brokers
from Barclays Plc to Citigroup Inc. downgraded the British
transport operator.  Randgold Rallies  Randgold soared 5.2 percent to 5,425 pence, the biggest
gain since November.  Mali’s military junta agreed to hand over power to a
temporary government that will organize elections, increasing
the prospects that sanctions imposed since the coup will be
removed. Soldiers unhappy with a lack of resources to combat
Touareg rebels overthrew President Amadou Toure’s government on
March 22.  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  gained 4.2 percent to 219 pence after
Mozambique clarified a tax charge.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  rallied 13 percent to 23.25 pence,
the biggest jump since February, after the travel company said
it’s in advanced talks with its banks on extending its financing
arrangements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  