-- U.S. February Wholesale Inventories Rise 0.9%, Sales Climb 1.2%
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-10T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/u-s-february-wholesale-inventories-rise-0-9-sales-climb-1-2-.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more than forecast in February as companies tried to keep pace
with stronger demand.  The 0.9 percent advance in  stockpiles  followed a 0.6
percent gain in January that was more than initially estimated,
the Commerce Department reported today in Washington. Economists
projected a 0.5 percent rise, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey. Sales climbed 1.2 percent in February
after no change a month earlier.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on
hand to last 1.17 months, the same as in the prior four months,
the report showed. Inventory rebuilding, which helped the economy
grow in the fourth quarter at the fastest pace in more than a
year, may still contribute less to the expansion in early 2012.  “Inventory growth has been running a little fast and may be
a bit of a headwind” in the second quarter,  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , said
before the report.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 31 economists ranged
from increases of 0.2 percent to 1 percent.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.5 percent, boosted by hardware
and machinery, today’s report showed. Sales of durable goods rose
0.9 percent. Car sales climbed 0.2 percent, while inventories
fell 0.9 percent.  The value of unsold non-durable goods rose 1.4 percent,
matching the rise in sales. Petroleum stockpiles jumped 5.6
percent, while purchases increased 3.9 percent. The gains
probably reflect higher prices.  Fourth Quarter  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 3 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter after a 1.8 percent pace in the prior
three months, Commerce Department figures showed on March 29.
Growth excluding a jump in inventories was 1.1 percent.
Stockpiles were rebuilt at a $52.2 billion annual pace, adding
1.8 percentage points to growth.  The surge in stockpiles last quarter followed a reduction in
the July through September period amid mounting concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis would restrain demand at a time the U.S.
labor market was struggling to pick up.  Labor Department figures last week indicated demand may
struggle to accelerate. Employers in the U.S. boosted payrolls
less than forecast in March, the Labor Department reported last
week, indicating that companies are reluctant to hire in the weak
expansion.  Companies like  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)  are
keeping inventories in line with demand.  Reductions in Inventories  “We’ve seen inventory levels from what we saw mid last year
to now come down fairly dramatically,” Chief Financial Officer
Daniel Fairfax said.  The company’s original equipment manufacturers currently
hold between a week and two week’s supply, he said.  “When the OEMs don’t have to invest in inventory that’s not
productive, they take some of the pricing pressure off us as the
manufacturer,” Fairfax said on April 4 at a technology summit.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.4 percent in February, the Commerce
Department said April 3. Retail stockpiles, which make up the
rest, will be included in the April 16 business inventory report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  