-- U.S. Looks to ‘Harmonize’ With UN Lithium-Battery Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-04-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/u-s-proposes-to-harmonize-global-lithium-battery-rule.html
The  U.S. Department of
Transportation  is seeking comments on whether to align rules
restricting lithium-battery shipments by air with United Nations
standards, after companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co. opposed stricter U.S. regulation.  Lithium batteries, used in  laptop computers , mobile phones
and hearing aids, can spontaneously combust and were part of the
cargo aboard two U.S. jets destroyed in fires since 2006,
including one that crashed after leaving Dubai. UN rules
approved in February would require airlines like  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  to inspect shipments before loading
and after removal.  The Transportation Department’s  Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration  proposed rules in January 2010
that were blocked by the U.S. House after industry groups said
they would cost $1.1 billion to implement. Congress passed
legislation in February preventing U.S. regulators from imposing
rules stricter than those adopted by the UN’s  International
Civil Aviation Organization .  The department sought public comment on “harmonizing” its
rules with the UN’s in a notice posted yesterday on the Federal
Register’s website.  Industry Groups  “The ICAO recently adopted lithium battery provisions that
will become effective on Jan. 1, 2013, and we are asking the
public to provide additional comments on the potential impact of
adopting these ICAO standards,” Jeannie Layson, director for
governmental, international and public affairs for the pipeline
safety agency, said in a statement.  The UN rules are supported by Airlines for America, the
main trade group for U.S. airlines, and the Rechargeable Battery
Association which represents battery and device makers including
Apple, Samsung and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  The U.S. government should “align its regulations with the
new standards recently adopted by ICAO,”  Steve Lott , a
spokesman for Washington-based Airlines for America, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Without new safety rules, there would be the risk that
fires from lithium batteries would destroy a U.S.-registered
cargo jet as often as every two years, according to a  study 
commissioned by U.S. and Canadian aviation regulators.  Dubai Crash  Under the ICAO standards, pilots would have to be notified
when lithium batteries are on a flight, shipments would have to
be labeled as hazardous materials, and employees would need to
be trained in handling such cargo, according to George Kerchner,
executive director of the Washington-based battery trade group.  The new standards would exempt shipments of two or fewer
batteries as well as items that have installed batteries.  A UPS Boeing 747-400 that caught fire shortly after it left
Dubai on Sept. 3, 2010, was carrying more than 81,000 lithium
batteries, according to a preliminary report by the General
Civil Aviation Authority of the  United Arab Emirates . The jet
crashed at a military base as pilots tried to make an emergency
landing. Both pilots died.  Three UPS pilots escaped on Feb. 7, 2006, after fire broke
out on a Boeing DC-8 as it approached Philadelphia, a U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board investigation found. The
jet was carrying “numerous” lithium batteries in computers and
other products, according to the NTSB. The investigation, which
focused on batteries, was unable to determine the cause of the
fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  