-- UBS Wins Dismissal of Billionaire Olenicoff’s Tax Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y
-- 2012-04-10T21:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/ubs-wins-dismissal-of-billionaire-olenicoff-s-tax-lawsuit-1-.html
UBS AG won dismissal of a lawsuit
brought by billionaire  Igor Olenicoff , who blamed the bank for
events leading him to plead guilty to failing to disclose about
$200 million in offshore accounts on U.S. tax forms.  U.S. District Judge Andrew Guilford in  Santa Ana ,
 California , threw out Olenicoff’s lawsuit against Zurich-based
UBS, the largest Swiss bank, and his former banker, Bradley Birkenfeld. Olenicoff claimed UBS committed fraud by not telling
him he owed U.S. taxes. He also said UBS traded excessively in
his accounts.  Guilford said at a hearing yesterday that he was likely to
dismiss the case. Olenicoff, who built his fortune as the chief
executive officer of Newport Beach, California-based Olen
Properties Corp., pleaded guilty in 2007 to filing a false  tax
return . He admitted he hid offshore accounts from the  Internal
Revenue Service  for seven years.  “Olenicoff has already sworn that he was not an innocent
dupe,” Guilford wrote in an opinion filed today. “It is
directly inconsistent for him to now claim that he unwittingly
relied on UBS’ counsel. If Olenicoff wanted to claim he was
misled by UBS, he had the option of pleading not guilty in the
criminal proceedings.”  UBS is pleased with Guilford’s decision, said Torie von Alt, a company spokeswoman.  ‘Without Merit’  “It corresponds with our view that Olenicoff’s claims for
damages have been without merit,” she said in an e-mail. “The
judge confirmed that Olenicoff cannot turn to UBS to blame it
for his own omissions/failures to disclose his offshore accounts
and to pay taxes.”  Olenicoff said he had no immediate comment on the ruling.
He was sentenced to two years’ probation and ordered to pay
$52 million in back taxes, fines and penalties. He admitted that
from 1998 to 2004, he filed false returns that hid accounts in
 Switzerland , Liechtenstein,  England  and the Bahamas.  An attorney for Birkenfeld, John D. Cline, declined to
comment. Birkenfeld is serving 40 months in a federal  prison  in
 Pennsylvania  for helping Olenicoff and others evade taxes. At
his sentencing, a prosecutor said Birkenfeld exposed a “massive
tax scheme” at UBS while hiding his own dealings with
Olenicoff.  UBS Payment  Birkenfeld’s evidence helped lead to criminal charges
against UBS in 2009. UBS avoided prosecution by paying
$780 million, admitting it helped thousands of Americans evade
taxes and disclosing to U.S. authorities the names of 250
American clients. UBS later revealed 4,450 more accounts of U.S.
clients.  After UBS admitted to helping U.S. clients cheat on their
taxes, prosecutors charged almost 50 customers of offshore banks
and about two dozen foreign bankers or advisers with tax crimes.  Seven current or former bankers at Credit Suisse AG and
Switzerland’s oldest private lender, Wegelin & Co., were
indicted. About 33,000 more Americans avoided prosecution by
declaring offshore accounts to the IRS.  The case is Olenicoff v.  UBS AG (UBSN) , 08-cv-1029, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Maurice Possley in Santa Ana, California at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 