-- Mumbai Is the World’s Least Affordable Home Market
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   A i l i n g   T a n
-- 2012-04-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/mumbai-is-world-s-least-affordable-home-market-chart-of-the-day.html
The average Indian would need to
work for three centuries to pay for a luxury home in Mumbai,
making that city the least affordable in the world for locals,
according to an analysis of real estate and wages.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows a 100-square-meter luxury
residence in Mumbai costs about $1.14 million, or 308 times the
average annual income in  India , based on calculations from a
housing index compiled using 63 markets by Knight Frank LLP and
income estimates of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency for
purchasing-power parity in 2011. Shanghai buyers would need 233
times the per-capita income in  China  and Moscow inhabitants 144
times Russian earnings. Singapore and New York homebuyers would
need 43 years and 48 years, respectively, for equivalent
residences using national income averages, the data show.  Prime-location home prices in Mumbai averaged $11,400 a
square meter in the quarter to Dec. 31, while India’s per-capita
purchasing power was $3,700, the data show. Shanghai residential
prices were $19,600 a square meter and China’s income was $8,400.
The Knight Frank Prime International Residential Index is
compiled using the top five percent of districts in each city,
according to  Liam Bailey , London-based head of residential
research at Knight Frank.  “There are big differences in wealth levels in  emerging
markets  compared to the developed world, which is part of the
course for economic development,” Bailey said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “In the first phase of growth some
people make big fortunes, it takes time for this to trickle down
as the middle class develop and generate their own wealth.”  In a separate study published last month by a unit of
Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, India, Russia and  South Africa  were the
best performing housing markets since 2001. Residential prices
in India, calculated using an average in major cities nationwide,
rose 284 percent in real terms in the period after adjusting for
consumer-price inflation.  Japan , Ireland and  Germany  posted the biggest price
declines in the same period, according to the Lloyds TSB report.
Japan’s cost-adjusted drop was 30 percent, the data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  