-- Hungary Probably Failed to Meet Bailout-Talk Terms, Eurasia Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-10T13:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/hungary-probably-failed-to-meet-bailout-talk-terms-eurasia-says.html
Hungary  probably failed to meet
European Union conditions to start aid talks as its legislative
changes don’t sufficiently reduce government influence over
independent institutions, Eurasia Group said.  Hungary has amended laws governing the judiciary and the
data-protection authority and proposed changes to central  bank
regulations  to allay European Commission concerns over their
independence, which have blocked talks on an  International
Monetary Fund -led loan. The Cabinet sent its response to probes
by the EU’s executive on March 30.  “While the government hopes this latest round of
concessions will pave the way for a favorable opinion by the
Commission and the start of formal negotiations on an EU/IMF
program, we think this unlikely,” Mujtaba Rahman, a New York-
based analyst at Eurasia Group, said in a note to clients today.
The EU “continues to hold the bar high, suggesting agreement on
pre-conditions still have some way to run.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has failed to meet EU
conditions to start talks on a bailout close to five months
after requesting aid as the forint fell to a record against the
euro and the country’s sovereign credit grade was cut to junk.  The forint weakened 0.6 percent to 296.96 per euro at 3:06
p.m. in Budapest. The currency rose 6.1 percent against the euro
this year after Orban pledged a quick agreement with the IMF in
January. That allowed the forint to pare its 15 percent drop in
the second half of last year, the biggest plunge in the world.  Ultimately, Hungary will probably manage to reach an
agreement on an IMF loan even as slippage on meeting terms of a
loan is “likely,” Rahman said. He put the likelihood of a
failure to obtain aid at 35 percent.  ‘Soon as Possible’  The European Commission has received all necessary
documents from Hungary in relation to infringement procedures
against the country, commission spokesman Olivier Bailly told
reporters in Brussels today. The commission will analyze the
documents “as soon as possible” and a decision on the
procedures should be made in the coming weeks, he said.  The EU executive on March 7 took a formal step toward
seeking a court order to require Hungary to redraft laws on the
judiciary and data protection agency and asked for more
information on planned changes to a new central bank law.  Hungary hopes the European Commission will only set the
issue of central bank independence as its precondition for
allowing aid talks to start, Gyula Pleschinger, an Economy
Ministry state secretary and a member of the government
negotiating team, told the news website Privatbankar in an
interview published yesterday.  ‘Direct Contradiction’  Separating the issue of central bank independence from the
independence of the judiciary and the data-protection agency may
allow the country to start talks in “a few weeks,” Pleschinger
told the financial news website in an interview originally
conducted on April 4.  “Fairly equal progress” need to be made on “all of the
issues” as “no one area assumes more salience over any other,
per se,” Rahman said. “This is in direct contradiction with
the government’s belief.” He estimated that the European
Commission may respond to Hungary by the end of April.  Orban, who also served as premier from 1998 to 2002, won a
two-thirds majority in parliament in 2010 that allowed him to
unilaterally change the constitution and reduce the power of
independent institutions. The moves raised objections from the
EU, the IMF, the U.S. and the  United Nations .  Ruling-party lawmakers have ousted the chief justice of the
 Supreme Court  and the data-protection commissioner, narrowed the
jurisdiction of the  Constitutional Court , replaced an
independent fiscal council with one dominated by the premier’s
allies and chosen a party member to lead the State Audit Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  