-- Huntington Sticks to Plan to Close Louisiana Shipyard
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-10T22:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/huntington-sticks-to-plan-to-close-louisiana-shipyard.html
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) ,
the U.S. Navy’s largest builder of surface warships, is sticking
to plans to close its Avondale shipyard near  New Orleans , the
company’s chief said.  Shipbuilding will end at Avondale by mid- to late-2013,
after it delivers its last amphibious ship, Chief Executive
Officer Michael Petters said today in an interview in
Bloomberg’s Washington office. The company continues to seek a
“partner,” such as a heavy manufacturer that will develop an
alternative use, he said.  “I am not going to leave a stone unturned trying to figure
out if there is another way to redeploy the site,” Petters
said. “We would continue to think about it even if we get all
to the point where the yard is closed. We still have an asset.
We would still be thinking about what can we do with this asset
beyond locking it.”  Huntington Ingalls of  Newport News ,  Virginia , has been
under pressure from Louisiana lawmakers to keep Avondale open
instead of consolidating the company’s shipbuilding work outside
the state.  The fight to keep Avondale open began as soon as Huntington
Ingalls’s former parent,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , announced plans
in July 2010 to spin off its ship unit and shut the shipyard.
Pressure to cut costs is increasing as the Pentagon prepares for
as much as $1 trillion in potential budget cuts during the next
decade.  As work winds down at Avondale, its workforce has been
reduced to about 3,000 from as many as 4,800, according to Beci
Brenton, a spokeswoman for the company.  Lawmakers’ Plea  U.S. Senator  Mary Landrieu  and Representative Cedric Richmond, both Louisiana Democrats, said last year that they
want to see the Avondale yard continue building commercial ships
or find comparable manufacturing uses. Huntington Ingalls’s
shipyard in neighboring Mississippi isn’t enough to maintain
shipbuilding expertise in the region, they said.  The company’s yards at Pascagoula,  Mississippi , and at
Avondale, both on the  Gulf of Mexico , between them build the
Navy’s DDG-51 guided missile destroyers, LPD-17 amphibious
transport dock ships, the new LHA-6 amphibious assault ship and
U.S. Coast Guard cutters. The company’s Newport News yard in
Virginia builds nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and
submarines.  Reducing Overruns  Huntington Ingalls faces congressional scrutiny over the
cost of a new class of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers.
Petters outlined steps his management is taking to reduce an
estimated $884 million cost overrun on the company’s $5.2
billion contract for detailed design and construction of the
carrier Gerald R. Ford.  Huntington Ingalls’s share of the overrun is $194 million,
which would be taken from its $467 million fee. The Navy’s share
is $690 million.  “We’ve created new management and review teams with the
Navy,” Petters said. “If someone has a better idea of how to
get this done, I am open to ideas because our incentive, in the
way the contract is written, is to drive costs down.”  “We are picking up every rock to look at ways to drive
cost out of that program,” Petters said. “There is a
difference of opinion” between the Navy and Huntington Ingalls
over whether the $884 million estimate is accurate, he said.  The Navy added $273 million to its fiscal 2013 budget
request to cover part of its $690 million share and will add the
remaining $417 million next year, the service told the
 Congressional Research Service .  Navy’s 30-Year Plan  Petters said in the interview he is reviewing the Navy’s
new 30-Year shipbuilding plan for insights useful for strategic
planning.  “The 30-year plan is a recognition the nation needs a
navy,” he said. “If you looking to invest in us for a quarter,
we are probably not the right guy. But if you are thinking about
somebody you can look out three to five years on, and think
about where their priorities are and how they strategically are
placed in the fabric of our society, we think we’ve got a pretty
good story to tell.”  Huntington Ingalls fell 4.5 percent to $37.90 at the close
in New York trading and has gained 1 percent since it began
trading last March.  The Navy shipbuilding plan calls for about 300 warships.
The fleet would include 12 to 14 ballistic missile submarines;
11 nuclear-powered aircraft carriers; about 48 nuclear-powered
attack submarines; about 90 large surface combat ships and 55
small surface combat vessels; about 32 amphibious landing ships;
about 29 combat logistics force ships and 33 support vessels of
all types.  The Navy would have four nuclear-powered cruise missile
submarines until the mid-2020s and is seeking to expand the
strike capabilities of its Virginia-class attack submarines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  