-- Luxury Goods Oust Executives With Global Economy in Flux
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-04-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/luxury-goods-oust-executives-with-global-economy-in-flux.html
Luxury-goods makers are spring
cleaning their boardrooms and ateliers.  At least 14 new presidents, chief executive officers, chief
financial officers and creative directors started at European
companies, including  Mulberry Group Plc (MUL)  and  PPR SA (PP)  in the first
quarter alone.  “Companies are reorganizing for the next growth cycle,”
said Giovanna Brambilla, a partner at  Value Search Srl  in Milan.
“If they’re not convinced of having the best leaders, they’re
changing generals.”  Luxury companies are seeking new talent and ideas as they
contend with a slowing economy in  China  and a cut in high-end
spending by Europeans. An increasing dependence on  emerging
markets  and the Internet are stoking demand for executives with
broader skills, according to Michael Boroian, president of
recruiter Sterling International in Paris. He anticipates more
changes this year.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest
luxury-goods maker, hired Sebastian Suhl as CEO of its Givenchy
fashion and leather goods brand in March. He is credited with
driving competitor Prada Group’s expansion in the Asia Pacific
region in his six and a half years with the Milan-based company,
latterly as chief operating officer.  Rising Stars  Suhl has “a great feel for product and product
development, he knows all the international markets and he works
exceedingly well with creative talents,” Boroian said. His
appointment “is very typical of what you’re seeing. People
evolve and those rising stars who are all in their late 30s to
early 50s are now seeing their talents being parlayed.”  Sales of high-end goods may climb 10 percent in 2012, half
last year’s rate, and 9 percent in 2013, according to HSBC
analyst  Antoine Belge . China, which accounted for 10 percent of
2011 sales, will provide a third of this year’s increase as
growth slows in  Europe , he estimates.  Most appointments have come from within the industry and
some from within the same company. Mulberry, the Somerset,
England-based maker of 595-pound ($944) Cookie Lily leather
handbags, poached Bruno Guillon from  Hermes International SCA (RMS)  to
be CEO, while LVMH shuffled at least four executives, including
moving Michael Burke from Fendi to head up Bulgari, which it
bought for about 3.7 billion euros ($4.8 billion) last year.  Yogurt Maker  In other cases, industry experience hasn’t proved
necessary. PPR, the Paris-based owner of Gucci, hired Jean-Marc Duplaix as CFO from broadcaster M6 Group in January. LVMH raided
 Danone SA (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt maker, for the next CEO of
its Vuitton fashion and accessories brand: Jordi Constans joined
in September and will succeed current CEO Yves Carcelle from
2013.  “The only criterion that guided us was of course to find
the best possible manager for the job,” LVMH Chairman and CEO
 Bernard Arnault  said in February.  That could mean future CEOs come from the entertainment and
media industries as the Internet makes managing and engaging an
audience increasingly important, according to  Floriane de Saint
Pierre , founder and president of a Paris-based recruitment firm
bearing her name. “We are on the edge of luxury brands becoming
media companies,” she said.  Risk Averse  No such radical step is on the horizon when it comes to
designing the clothes and accessories. The world of creative
directors “is often a bit of a club,” said Brambilla.  Raf Simons joined Christian Dior Couture this week as
artistic director from Jil Sander, where he was replaced as
creative director by the fashion label’s namesake founder in
February. PPR reappointed Hedi Slimane as creative director of
 Yves Saint Laurent  in March, succeeding Stefano Pilati. Slimane
had previously worked at YSL from 1996 to 2001.  Major brands aren’t prepared to take risks with unproven
designers given the budgets involved and the impact the
collections have on a brand’s image, said Patricia Lindo,
managing director of London-based recruiter  Style Incorporated .  “They’re too big a beast to bring in someone fresh and
young unless they’ve worked with the creative before and grown
up through the ranks,” she said, citing Sarah Burton, creative
director at PPR’s Alexander McQueen label, as an example of in-
house talent that has been promoted to the top. “It’s such a
risk to bring in someone who hasn’t had that track record.”  Other changes this year include Pietro Beccari, a former
executive vice president of marketing and communications at
 Louis Vuitton , as Fendi CEO; Nicolas Abboud as CEO of jeweler De
Grisogono; Renaud de Lesquen as president of Dior in China;
Giovanni Zoppas as CEO and general manager of eyewear maker
Marcolin; and Lucy Yeomans as editor-in-chief at Net-a-Porter,
an online unit of  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA. (CFR)   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  