-- Vietnam's Biggest Sugar Mill May Boost Stake in Ally
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-10T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/vietnam-s-biggest-sugar-mill-may-boost-stake-in-ally.html
Societe de Bourbon Tay Ninh ,
Vietnam’s biggest listed sugar company, plans to buy more shares
in the country’s No. 3 producer to boost its refinery
utilization rates as materials and borrowing costs rise.  The company owns 23 percent of Bien Hoa Sugar Joint-Stock
Co. and may issue bonds or sell new shares to finance an
additional stake purchase as early as this year, General
Director Nguyen Ba Chu said in an interview. Bourbon hasn’t
decided on the stake size or a more precise timeframe, he said.  A stronger relationship with Bien Hoa may help Bourbon
increase supplies of raw sugar amid higher expenses that have
forced the company, based in southern Tay Ninh province, to cut
its  profit  estimate by 13 percent. Chu said costs of buying
sugar cane from the current crop have climbed as much as 15
percent from a year earlier, while interest expenses are rising.  “Consolidating plants would help avoid the situation in
which companies fiercely compete for sugar cane, so prices will
be lower and more stable,” Nguyen Trung Hoa, a Ho Chi Minh
City-based analyst at Kim Eng Vietnam Securities Co. with a buy
 rating  on  Bourbon (SBT) , said by telephone. “There is potential to
combine sugar plants in the south.”  Bourbon’s plant in Tay Ninh province refines about half the
raw sugar Bien Hoa produces at its mill in the same province,
and tighter cooperation may gradually lead to the larger company
processing as much as 80 percent, Chu said by telephone in Tay
Ninh. He didn’t specify whether Bourbon would buy the shares
from the open market or from major stakeholders.  ‘Win-Win’ Deal  Increasing the Bien Hoa stake would be “a win-win
situation,” Chu said. “Mergers and acquisitions among sugar
companies would give them scale, cut costs and boost their
ability to compete in the international market as they seek
export opportunities in the next few years.”  The No. 3 producer ships the remaining half of the raw
sugar output from its plant in Tay Ninh to its Bien Hoa refinery
in Dong Nai province, about 100 kilometers (62 miles) away for
processing.  “We welcome any investors who want to put money in,” Bien
Hoa Chairwoman Pham Thi Sum said by telephone. “We hope any new
investment will help Bien Hoa develop our sugar plant in Tay
Ninh province.”  Bien Hoa invested about 100 billion dong ($4.8 million) in
its plant in Tay Ninh province to boost capacity to 4,000 tons
of sugar cane a day in the 2011-2012 crop year, from 3,500 tons
previously, Sum said. It will invest 60 billion dong this year
to increase capacity to 4,500 tons a day and upgrade equipment
to produce refined sugar from the next cane crop, she said.  Under-Utilized Mills  Capacity utilization at  Vietnam ’s sugar mills ranges from
about 50 percent to 70 percent, according estimates by Hoa of
Kim Eng.  “We run our factory at 100 percent capacity, with 9,000
tons of sugar cane processed per day,” said Chu. “In sugar
production, there are a lot of steps. If we don’t meet our
capacity of 1,000 tons of sugar in finished form per day, we
have room to bring in raw sugar from outside for refining.”  Bourbon cut its target for 2012 net income to 350 billion
dong compared with a 400 billion dong projection in January
because of increases in costs for materials and borrowing, Chu
said. Profit was 553 billion dong last year.  Shares Gain  Bourbon gained by the daily limit of 5 percent to 16,800
dong at the close of Ho Chi Minh City trading yesterday. The
shares have climbed 39 percent this year, compared with a 28
percent advance for the benchmark  VN Index. (VNINDEX)  Bien Hoa rose 2.1
percent yesterday, while Lam Son Sugar Joint-Stock Co.,
Vietnam’s second-biggest listed producer, fell 1.8 percent.  Bien Hoa has a market value of about 585 billion dong,
making Bourbon’s stake worth 135 billion dong, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock trades at 4.4 times  estimated
earnings , compared with about 5.1 times for Bourbon, the data
show.  Bourbon had about 215 billion dong in cash, near cash and
short-term investments as of Dec. 31, compared with 267 billion
dong a year earlier and a five-year average of about 273 billion
dong, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The company may
use retained earnings to pay for an additional stake in Bien
Hoa, Chu said.  The central bank cut the key refinancing rate by 1
percentage point to 14 percent from March 13, the first
reduction since 2009, and trimmed the repurchase rate by 1
percentage point to 13 percent.  “Even though lending rates have gone down, we’re still
paying 16 percent,” said Chu. “Double-digit rates are still
causing a lot of difficulties to businesses.”  Domestic sugar prices are likely to extend declines that
started earlier this year, Nguyen Hoang Bich Ngoc, an analyst at
Sacombank Securities Joint-Stock Co., said by telephone. Average
prices may drop by as much as 7 percent this year from the
previous 12 months, she said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  