-- Volkswagen Beetle Envy Spurs Pursuit of 10 Million Via Up: Cars
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-04-10T22:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/volkswagen-beetle-envy-spurs-pursuit-of-10-million-via-up-cars.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  has failed to find
one true successor to the original Beetle, so it’s trying out
several to tackle the market for affordable, basic transport.  Following flops by the VW Fox and Lupo, the German automaker
is transforming the Up! city car into a family of entry-level
vehicles to grab market share from  Fiat SpA (F)  and reach its goal
of selling 10 million vehicles a year by 2018. Up clones will be
sold under Volkswagen’s Skoda and Seat brands and a cut-rate
version will be targeted for first-time buyers in markets
including China, Brazil and  India .  “The Up is a fundamental milestone” for VW to reach its
sales target, said  Albrecht Denninghoff , an analyst with Silvia
Quandt Research in Frankfurt. The city car’s expanded lineup
will “really increase the pressure on the competitors in the
segments in which they make their money.”  Subcompact sales are rising as buyers seek cars for driving
in urban centers and governments push automakers to build
vehicles that burn less fuel. Sales of mini cars like the Up and
Fiat Panda could rise 25 percent globally to 11.2 million by
2015, according to IHS Automotive.  After moving upscale with models like the 68,300-euro
($89,400) Phaeton sedan and the trendy, 16,950-euro new Beetle,
the shift back to basic cars marks a key test for Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn , who ordered the Up’s
development after he took charge in 2007 to help turn the
Wolfsburg-based company into the world’s biggest automaker.  ‘People’s Car’  VW became a global automotive power on the back of the
Beetle, the original “people’s car,” which went out of
production as basic, inexpensive transportation in 2003 after
more than six decades.  Volkswagen has failed to gain traction in this segment,
with the 9,850-euro ($12,860) Up marking its third attempt to
build a globally successful subcompact.  The broader array of Up-based offerings is geared at
lowering per-vehicle costs to compete with the Fiat Panda,
 Renault SA (RNO) ’s Twingo and the Peugeot 107 from  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
for customers like Wendy Mountford. The 53-year-old English
teacher shunned the Fox and Lupo three years ago when she was
looking for a cheap, reliable car for her daughter.  The VW models were “just too expensive,” said Mountford,
who lives in Zorneding near Munich and previously owned two Golf
hatchbacks, a Scirocco coupe and a Passat wagon. The VW models
“were very fuel efficient, but you had to have them 10 or 12
years before you got your money back.”  New Small Family  With Volkswagen adding five-door and electric variants in
2013 to what it calls the New Small Family, which already
includes the  Skoda Citigo  and  Seat Mii , the Up models will
outsell the Panda, Twingo and 107 by the end of that year,
according to estimates from IHS Automotive.  VW halted production of the Lupo in 2005 after sales of the
vehicle missed targets during its seven-year lifespan. Exports
of the Fox, which is still built in  Brazil , were squeezed by the
appreciation of the real against the dollar.  While the first generation of the car is unlikely to be
profitable, according to analyst Denninghoff, it will serve to
attract first-time buyers to Volkswagen brands who might then
buy more expensive models.  “Our issue is not so much about making the platform
profitable, but to use it to increase the potential of the brand
and loyalty,” Paul Sevin, Seat’s vice president for sales and
marketing, said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in
Martorell, Spain.  VW sees the Up winning over more than 100,000 new buyers
per year, the brand’s marketing chief, Luca de Meo, said in
August.  ‘Anti-Crisis’ Car  The Up’s various versions each have a different function.
For Seat, the Mii is seen as an “anti-crisis” car aimed at
winning market share in  Italy ,  France  and  Spain , Sevin said.  “We can begin with an entry price in the category, so it’s
a very good answer in this time for reconquering customers,” he
said. Seat’s 225 million-euro loss in 2011 made it VW’s only
unprofitable automotive unit.  The Mii starts at 8,890 euros, undercutting the 9,650 euros
Peugeot charges for the most basic 107 and the 9,990 euros Fiat
and Renault ask for the Panda and the Twingo. Skoda said it’s
breaking away from its focus on male drivers with the 9,450-euro
Citigo.  “We’re now targeting here new customers for the brand -- a
slightly younger, more female audience,” Skoda sales chief
Juergen Stackmann said in an interview in Prague. “Citigo
allows us to move into a more emotional market with more
emotional customers -- for us it’s a completely new endeavor.”  Volkswagen is also developing a version of the Up geared to
the South American market that should arrive in 2013. Editions
for India and  China  are also under consideration, said Ulrich Hackenberg, head of VW brand development.  ‘An Experiment’  “The Up definitely has the potential to mobilize broad
strata of the global population,” Hackenberg said in an e-mail
response to questions. The model line “will be a very important
component of our 2018 growth strategy.”  Still, scaling back a car for low-price markets is “an
experiment which so far has never worked out,” said Frankfurt-
based IHS Automotive analyst Christoph Stuermer. “That is what
makes the car in its second life strategically much more
important than simply another VW. It is certainly addressing
very high volume and very high growth potential much more than
in  Europe .”  Buoyed by the  emerging market  editions, Volkswagen is
projected to more than double sales of the Up family to 390,900
in 2015 from 181,400 this year, according to IHS. That may not
be enough. The carmaker will struggle to make a profit on the
car until annual sales exceed 500,000, Denninghoff said.  Ex-VW owner Mountford ended up opting for a Smart ForFour
from  Daimler AG (DAI)  when she bought a car for her daughter to head
to university. The good news for VW is that the car’s no longer
on the market. The bad news is that Daimler and Renault are
teaming up to bring it back.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  