-- Western Falls on Goldman Forecast of WTI Discount: Dallas Mover
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-04-10T21:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/western-falls-on-goldman-forecast-of-wti-discount-dallas-mover.html
Western Refining Inc. (WNR) , the owner of
refineries in Texas and  New Mexico , fell the most in more than
four months after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted the price
difference between U.S. and international crude would start to
narrow in June.  Western fell 8.3 percent to $18.48 at the close in  New
York . It was the biggest decline since Nov. 17, the day after
Enbridge Inc. and Enterprise Products Partners LP announced they
would reverse the Seaway pipeline to bring more crude from
Cushing, Oklahoma, to Texas refineries.  The reversed Seaway pipeline is expected to open by June,
making the price of West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S.
benchmark, closer to that of Brent oil, a global benchmark,
 David Greely  and Stefan Wieler, analysts with Goldman Sachs,
said today in a note to clients.  The  spread  between Brent and WTI rose to $20.87 on April 4,
the highest point since the Seaway pipeline reversal was
announced, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The discount
narrowed 7.6 percent today in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Western operates refineries near new U.S. oil production,
which has surged to the highest level in 12 years and
oversupplied a storage hub at Cushing, reducing prices.  Lower WTI prices have allowed Western,  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC) 
and other refiners with plants in the middle of the U.S. to pay
less to supply their facilities, boosting profit. In 2011,
Western had net income of $132.7 million, the highest since
2007.  HollyFrontier fell 6.2 percent to $29.58, the largest
decline since Nov. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  