-- Whacked Mobsters Star in $42 Million Las Vegas Museum
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/whacked-mobsters-star-in-42-million-las-vegas-museum.html
The visit starts with a familiar
litany: “You have the right to remain silent....”  The creators of the National  Museum  of Organized Crime and
Law Enforcement in Las Vegas want visitors to have the full
outlaw experience. So instead of Muzak, the elevator offers a
stern-voiced rendition of the  Miranda warning .  Getting off at the third floor, I started with a primer on
the history of the Mafia in the U.S., going back to certain
19th-century immigrants who pursued the American dream by any
means necessary.  The museum opened on Valentine’s Day, the anniversary of
the 1929 massacre in which  Al Capone ’s soldiers lined up seven
men from Bugsy Moran’s gang against a garage wall and gunned
them down. The wall is preserved here and used as a projection
backdrop for a short film describing the choreographed hit.  The collection is housed in the former federal courthouse
where Tennessee Senator Estes Kefauver held one of his hearings
on organized crime in 1950.  “This is first a historic preservation project,” says
Robert Chattel, a consulting architect for the museum. “All of
the historic features are intact and in place. The exhibits are
like a scrim, a theatrical face on that.”  The restored second-floor courtroom is itself an exhibit. A
short film that explains the hearings uses television footage
from the sessions. They were viewed by about 30 million people
at the time, introducing much of the U.S. to the world of
organized crime.  Close Shave  Other artifacts include the barber chair from the Park
Sheraton Hotel in  New York  where mob boss Albert Anastasia met
his bloody end in 1957.  Before entering one room, the visitor is warned that scenes
therein aren’t for the squeamish and an alternative route is
available. Those made of sterner stuff can enter and contemplate
the murder of Bruno Facciola, who was shot, stabbed and stuffed
with a canary in 1990 in New York.  Other images in the museum are lighter:  Ronald Reagan 
hamming it up onstage at the Last Frontier casino in 1954,
hawking Pabst Blue Ribbon beer; a photograph of Catholic Church
bishops posing with casino executives.  The interactive exhibits are wickedly entertaining. I
plugged a couple of thugs using a firearm training simulator,
crawled inside a packing crate just as federal agents did to
snoop on bad guys, and listened to surveillance recordings of
John Gotti’s tapped phone, in which the “Dapper Don” gives the
okay to whack a rival.  ‘Funding a Boondoggle’  Not everyone is happy with the mob showcase.  “Funding a museum dedicated to organized crime is not a
function of government,” says Victor Joecks, spokesman for the
Nevada Policy Research Institute, a free-market think tank.
“Either the taxpayers are going to end up funding a
boondoggle, or the museum will draw tourists away from privately
owned attractions in the area, and that is fundamentally
unjust.”  The City of  Las Vegas  took over the federal building in
2002, and put up most of the $42 million to rehabilitate and
restore the 41,000-square-foot building. The city is hoping the
investment will help revive its drooping downtown. That’s a big
bet on a long shot, but if any town is up for it, it’s Vegas.  The museum is open Sundays through Thursdays, 10-7; Fridays
and Saturdays 10-8. Admission $18; $10 for Nevada residents.
Information: +1-702-229-2734, or  http://themobmuseum.org .  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today's highlights: Amanda Gordon's Scene Last Night 
featuring Dimons,  Victor Cruz ; Krista Giovacco meets bankers 
setting up a new wine trust; Martin Gayford reviews U.K. design; 
 Craig Seligman  on Nadine Gordimer's “No Time Like the Present.”   To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 