-- Williams Says Fed’s Steps to Boost Transparency Irreversible
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-10T15:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/williams-says-fed-s-steps-to-boost-transparency-irreversible-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said the U.S. central bank has
taken steps toward openness that won’t be undone.  “The Fed’s move out of the shadows has been at times slow
and hasn’t always been voluntary,” Williams said in an essay in
the San Francisco Fed’s annual report posted on its website
today. “But the fact is that this greater openness is genuine,
it’s positive, and it’s irreversible.”  Williams used his essay to summarize steps the central bank
has taken to explain its policy process. These have included
last year’s decision to have Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  start
giving press conferences and the adoption of a 2 percent
inflation target in January. Williams didn’t address the outlook
for monetary policy or the economy in his essay.  “I am proud to say that we’ve gone from being behind the
curve relative to other central banks to becoming one of the
leaders in transparency, accountability and openness about
monetary policy,” he wrote.  He said the Fed must continue its efforts, without
identifying specific steps.  “When the public better understands what the Fed is trying
to do, uncertainty about its policies is reduced, and households
and businesses are able to make spending and investment
decisions with greater confidence,” he said.  Some Steps Involuntary  Williams said the Fed’s transparency steps haven’t always
been voluntary. He spoke about the disclosure of emergency
lending programs required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and said
that the measures “represent a reasonable balance between
accountability and transparency on the one hand and, on the
other hand, the need to guard against panics and bank runs in
the midst of a crisis.”  Williams, 49, became the president of the San Francisco Fed
in March 2011. His district includes Alaska, Arizona,
California, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  