-- Will U.S. Avoid a Recession in 2012? (Part 2)
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-04-10T23:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/will-u-s-avoid-a-recession-in-2012-part-2-.html
Employment in the U.S. has gained
in recent months because businesses have, at least temporarily,
run out of productivity enhancements that had allowed them to
cover output gains with reduced staff.  Payroll-employment growth has risen in recent months,
though an unseasonably warm winter may have provided a temporary
boost. (The disappointing report for March, released last week,
may be a case in point.) Furthermore, this growth is benchmarked
to an extremely low recessionary base, and the  unemployment
rate , while down from 9.1 percent in August, is still high, at
 8.2 percent .  The drop in initial claims for  unemployment benefits 
reflects the decline in layoffs, but that’s not the same as new
hires, which have risen much more slowly than job openings.
These trends for the total job market apply to small businesses,
which account for about half of new employment.  Job openings were up 16 percent in February compared with a
year earlier, but in a survey by the  National Federation of
Independent Business , a net zero percent of small-business
owners said they planned to hire over the next three
months. Furthermore, would-be entrepreneurs aren’t all that
enthusiastic: Only 2.7 percent of job seekers started new
businesses in the last quarter, down from 12 percent in the
third quarter of 2009.  -- Job openings: The U.S. has a lot of job openings, but
having endured huge layoffs in recent years, employers are being
very picky in new hiring. Contrary to Federal Reserve Board
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s assertion that high unemployment is
mainly a cyclical concern that will be solved by economic
growth, I believe that a big part of the problem is structural.  Employers may have  jobs available  for software engineers or
skilled machinists, but unemployed residential-construction
carpenters probably don’t have the necessary skills to find
work. Employment for college graduates is up 5.8 percent so far
in the recovery but jobs held by high school dropouts, generally
with low skills, are down 3.9 percent. And the skills of those
out of work for extended periods, as is true of many people
today, tend to erode. In February, 43 percent of the unemployed
were jobless 27 weeks or more, and the average number of weeks a
person was unemployed was 40.  Furthermore, homeowners whose  mortgages  exceed the value of
their houses can’t easily sell their property if they take jobs
in distant locations. And if both spouses work, one may be
unwilling to accept a job in a faraway city for fear that the
other can’t get a job there, too.  Another measure of the labor market is voluntary
resignations. People tend to decide to leave a job when they
believe better positions are abundant, a normal circumstance in
a recovery. But the number of voluntary departures after the
2007-2009 recession showed only an anemic rebound from the
earlier collapse, and is again turning downward in recent
months.  -- Business Cost-Cutting: During the sluggish business
recovery that began in mid-2009, sales-volume increases for U.S.
business have been tiny, and the ability to raise prices was
very limited even as commodity and other input prices climbed
until about a year ago. As a result, profit margins were
threatened. Meanwhile, foreign competition has been fierce.  Optimism among small businesses has recovered somewhat from
its recessionary collapse, but the biggest concern of these
business owners isn’t labor availability, access to loans,
taxes, regulation or insurance -- it’s weak sales.  That means the route to higher profits has been cost-
cutting and productivity enhancement. Labor costs are the
largest expense for most companies, certainly the largest over
which they have much control. The huge layoffs produced rapid
productivity growth in 2009-2010. And since employment costs
have been running at a steady and low annual rate of about 2
percent, the productivity gains flowed through to declining unit
labor costs. As a result, sales-volume growth in 2009-2010
required few new employees or even reduced staff.  This cost-cutting has been so effective that, coupled with
the revival of financial-sector earnings, corporate profits as a
share of national income hit a record high in the fourth quarter
of 2011. Not surprisingly, there is an inverse correlation
between profits and labor compensation’s shares of national
income.  -- Manufacturing productivity: Labor-intensive factories
producing items such as textiles or shoes have long departed
American shores for low-cost venues abroad and may never
return. Those that remain -- and the type of manufacturing that
is coming back to the U.S. in the much ballyhooed “reshoring”
-- is robot-intensive, highly automated production that requires
limited labor. Manufacturing output has recovered from its
recessionary low, though not to the previous peak. Yet output
per person, a measure of productivity, after the usual
recessionary decline, has resumed its robust upward trend.  This means the long-term decline in  manufacturing
employment  has only been arrested, with no meaningful job
gains. Indeed, after falling by 5.8 million from January 2000 to
January 2010 and by 2.3 million from the start of the recession
in December 2007, factory jobs have gained only 433,000. These
trends will no doubt persist, with U.S. manufacturing growing,
but without much benefit to labor.  -- Jobs up, profits down: As in the past, the large share
of national income accounted for by high  corporate profits  is
unlikely to last for long. In a democracy, neither capital nor
labor keeps the upper hand indefinitely. Quite apart from the
Obama administration’s determined effort to redistribute income
in favor of lower-income households, the seeds of narrower
profit margins have already been sown. In recent quarters,
productivity growth has been tiny. Have we reached bottom in
terms of cost-cutting? Industrial leaders say productivity-
enhancing opportunities are never exhausted, but it is possible
that the low-hanging fruit has all been picked, at least for
now.  In any event, unit labor costs are now rising. The growth
rates of operating earnings of  Standard & Poor’s 500 companies  -
- after a post-recession leap as financial institutions went
from deep losses to renewed profits -- are receding. Revenue
growth may also be falling, starting with the decline in the
fourth quarter of 2011.  Meanwhile, fewer S&P 500 companies are beating analysts’
estimates. I’m suspicious of these numbers, in any case:
Analysts tend to be optimistic in earnings estimates, partly
because they want to curry favor with the companies they follow,
and companies want to discourage high estimates so they can beat
projections.  The recent drop-off in rapid productivity growth may be the
key to the recent pickup in payroll employment. Rather than
stretch existing employees over more units of production as
sales increase, U.S. businesses may have been forced to hire
more people in recent months.  -- Corporate earnings implications: More jobs are about the
only spur to household incomes, and  consumer spending  is the
only source of strength in the economy this year. If new
employees spend their paychecks freely, they could create more
consumer demand, additional corporate revenues and profits, more
jobs, and so on, in a self-feeding cycle. But, as I discussed in
Part 1, new and old employees are more likely to retrench and
precipitate a recession.  That would cause great disappointment for corporate
profits. In conjunction with a major recession in  Europe , a hard
landing in  China  and foreign-earnings translation losses caused
by a rising dollar, the operating earnings of  S&P 500 companies 
could drop to $80 per share this year, compared with Wall Street
analysts’ expectations of $104. That would almost guarantee a
major  bear market  with a likely price-earnings ratio low of
about 10. This implies that the  S&P 500 index (SPX)  would be around
800, a 43 percent drop from its recent level.  In Part 3, I’ll examine why the Fed may embark on a third
round of quantitative easing if the economy weakens this year
and whether Congress will be tempted to enact policies of its
own to address a huge fiscal drag in 2013 as payroll and income
taxes rise and unemployment benefits plunge.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4  
of the series.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on the similarities of the
 budget plans  of President  Barack Obama  and Representative  Paul
Ryan  and what a  nuclear deal  with  Iran  should look like. Clive
Crook on why the  Federal Reserve  needs a new, simpler  mandate .
 Margaret Carlson  on why there always will be  waste, fraud and
abuse  in government.  Peter Orszag  on how  index funds  are
boosting aluminum prices. William Pesek on growth in the
 Philippines  reducing the  appeal of emigrating  and Bernard
Donefer on the merits of  high-frequency trading .  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 