-- Wisconsin Seeks Union Recertification Order Stay During Appeal
-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2012-04-10T04:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/wisconsin-appeals-ruling-against-union-recertification-law-1-.html
Wisconsin  asked a federal judge to
put on hold a ruling that overturned a law requiring members of
some public employee unions to vote yearly on whether to
continue their union representation.  State officials asked U.S. District Judge William Conley in
Madison, Wisconsin, to stay enforcement of his decision that
portions of the collective bargaining law are unconstitutional
during an appeal. On March 30, Conley invalidated a part of
Wisconsin Act 10, signed into law by Republican Governor  Scott Walker  last year.  Conley struck a portion of the law that prohibited
voluntary deduction of union dues from paychecks of general
employees while exempting “public safety” unions. He also
overturned a requirement for annual certification of a union by
more than half of the members, not just those voting.  If Conley’s order is put into force and then set aside on
appeal, the result could be a “ping-pong effect on issues that
have significant legal consequences,” the state said yesterday
in a filing.  After Conley’s March 30 ruling, seven or more unions that
had been decertified “demanded that the state immediately begin
negotiations over total base wages” for their bargaining units,
Wisconsin officials said in yesterday’s filing. If the court
doesn’t stay the decision, the state will have to negotiate with
those unions on wages, they said.  Mark Sweet, a lawyer for the unions, said the appeal wasn’t
surprising, considering that Walker is facing a June 5 recall
election.  “We are confident that the constitutional ruling by Judge
Conley will be upheld just as the people of Wisconsin, will soon
have their voices restored through the electoral process,”
Sweet said in an e-mail.  Thousands of local municipalities covered by the law may
face unfair labor practice claims if they don’t negotiate wages
with unions as a result of Conley’s order, the state said.  The case is Wisconsin Education Association Council v.
Walker, 11-cv-00428, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  