-- World Bank Candidate Ocampo Wants to Change Culture at Lender
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-10T23:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/world-bank-candidate-ocampo-wants-to-change-culture-at-lender.html
Jose Antonio Ocampo, a former
Colombian finance minister and one of three candidates to become
the next  World Bank  president, said he would push for a change
in the staff culture and increase cooperation with regional and
national counterparts.  “The world of multilateral development banks is a dense
system” and the World Bank needs to “work with that system, to
be the leader in a sense,” said Ocampo, who spoke in  Washington 
after an interview with the World Bank board of directors. Work
with other lenders “has not been particularly very strong.”  Ocampo and Nigeria’s Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
are seeking to end a tradition that has a U.S. citizen head the
bank. The U.S. nominee, Dartmouth College President Jim Yong Kim, has received an endorsement from countries including Canada
and  Japan . The U.S. is the bank’s largest shareholder.  A 59-year-old professor at  Columbia University  in  New York 
who also served as under-secretary-general for economic and
social affairs at the  United Nations , Ocampo said he wants to
use the bank “more as a forum for dialogue between industrial
economies and emerging economies.”  The lender also needs more capital, he said. Under current
President Robert Zoellick, shareholders approved a capital
increase providing the institution with $5.1 billion in cash and
enhancing  China ’s clout at the lender.  Capital Increase  “When the time came for a capital increase, the current
president was too shy in asking,’ Ocampo said after the more
than three-hour interview with the bank’s board. ‘‘That is a
reason why now the bank is decreasing its lending significantly,
because it cannot have a larger portfolio.”  The new president, whose term is expected to start on July
1, will take over an institution that has become more of a
technical adviser as the amount private investors pump into
developing economies dwarf the $57 billion in loans the bank
made last fiscal year.  Ocampo said that while working for the UN he found it
easier to work with the  International Monetary Fund  than with
the World Bank because “the IMF has a clear sense of its
mandate.”  If selected, Ocampo said he would try to change a culture
where work in the field is not valued as much as working from
the bank’s Washington headquarters.  He spoke at an event organized by the Center for Global
Development and the Washington Post, which hosted a similar
forum with Okonjo-Iweala yesterday. Kim was invited to have his
own and won’t attend, according to the organizers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  