-- Yahoo CEO Outlines Reorganization Plan to Revive Growth
-- B y   T o m   G i l e s
-- 2012-04-10T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/yahoo-ceo-outlines-reorganization-plan-to-revive-growth.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Scott Thompson , addressing staff today, will outline a
restructuring aimed at reversing sales declines and stepping up
the pace of product innovation at the largest U.S. Web portal.  Yahoo, after saying last week that it will eliminate 2,000
jobs, is reorganizing businesses around three areas: consumers,
geographic regions and technology. The consumer division will
focus on media, commerce and so-called connections, which
include Web search and e-mail, Thompson said in a memo.  Thompson, CEO since January, embarked on the turnaround to
reverse a three-year revenue slump and shore up a stock that has
lost 10 percent of its value in 12 months. Yahoo’s failure to
keep up with Facebook Inc. and Google Inc. in online advertising
led to the ouster of former CEO  Carol Bartz  and prompted
Chairman Roy Bostock and co-founder  Jerry Yang  to depart. Now
the company faces a proxy fight with investor Third Point LLC.  Ross Levinsohn, currently  executive vice president  in
charge of the Americas, will head the media group, which will
include the home page, sports, news, entertainment and other
media properties, Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said.  Shashi Seth, who now runs Yahoo’s Web search products, will
oversee connections, which will include search as well as e-
mail, the Flickr photo-sharing service, Yahoo’s question-and-
answer feature, and other communications and social tools.  Regional Overhaul  The head of Yahoo’s commerce business, which spans jobs,
autos and personal ads, is yet to be named.  “Over the last 60 days, we’ve fundamentally rethought
every part of our business,” Thompson said last week in a
letter to employees that was obtained by Bloomberg News. “We
will continue to actively consider all options that allow Yahoo
to put maximum effort where we can succeed.”  Yahoo is also revamping how it handles regions. The company
will bring together varying functions, such as media and
advertising, under a given region, rather than having those
tasks handled by different divisions within the same area. Rich Riley, who currently  oversees  the area that includes  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Africa , will be in charge of the Americas, while
Asia-Pacific operations will continue to be run by  Rose Tsou .  Christophe Parcot will serve as acting head of EMEA while
the company seeks a permanent head of that area. He’s currently
head of sales for the region.  Mark Morrissey will be in charge of core platforms, which
includes Yahoo Labs and user data and analytics, while  David
Dibble  will handle central technology, including Yahoo’s data
centers.  ‘Eliminating Bureaucracy’  Third Point, which wants investors to elect a slate of
directors of its choosing, faulted Yahoo last week for embarking
on the job cuts without having articulated a more complete
strategy.  Thompson said he delayed the all-hands meeting until after
the job cuts -- which affect 14 percent of the workforce -- out
of respect for the employees slated to lose their jobs.  “There’s a lot to do and that’s why I can’t stress enough
that we all need to focus on getting stuff done,” he said.
“Getting stuff done is short hand for eliminating bureaucracy
and barriers so we can all innovate as fast as our customers and
the industry require. That’s pretty fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  