-- Yale Math Man Jazzes up Jackson For Birdland: Interview
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-04-10T04:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/yale-math-man-jazzes-up-jackson-for-birdland-interview.html
Vijay Iyer  could have spent his
life delving into the mysteries of quantum mechanics after
graduating from  Yale University  with a combined major in math
and physics.  While earning a Ph.D. in the cognitive science of music
from  University of California, Berkeley , however, Iyer felt a
stronger tug toward the musician’s life.  So instead pursuing mathematics or music theory, he’s
adding  Michael Jackson  to his modern jazz repertoire.  He began playing violin and piano at age three, long before
learning about physics and the musings of  Isaac Newton .  “I thought science would be my career, but I was playing
music all the time,” said the silky-voiced Iyer, 40, by
telephone from his Manhattan home. Music “is not something that
happens in the abstract, in space. It’s something that is done
for other people.”  Iyer’s adventurous trio takes the stage at  Manhattan ’s
 Birdland  jazz club beginning tonight.  For the five-night stand the group, which includes drummer
 Marcus Gilmore  and bassist  Stephan Crump , will play tunes from
“Accelerando” ( ACT Music + Vision ), Iyer’s 16th album.  Jackson Fan  While rooted in jazz, his music borrows from pop, African
music, spoken word and orchestral settings. He excels at edgy
remakes of standards and classics from outside the jazz sphere.  “Historicity,” his daring 2009 release, recast a Stevie Wonder tune and “Somewhere,” the Leonard Bernstein-Stephen Sondheim masterpiece from “West Side Story,” and was nominated
for a  Grammy Award .  DownBeat  magazine’s international critics
poll also gave it its top ranking.  “The main thing about acclaim is that it opens doors,”
said Iyer, who also teaches at the Manhattan School of Music and
 New York University .  “Accelerando” includes Jackson’s 1983 hit, “Human
Nature.” Iyer, a Jackson fan since he was a teen, first
recorded a solo version of the song two years ago.  “We were sort of messing around with it at a gig in  Kansas
City , and that night Marcus said, ‘Yes, we can play this,’”
Iyer recalled. “We all share a deep reverence for Jackson.”  Other tunes from the CD include a clever twist on jazz
saxophonist Henry Threadgill’s “Little Pocket Size Demons” and
“The Star of the Story,” originally recorded by the 1970s
funk-disco group Heatwave.  Jazz Ensemble  The son of Indian immigrants, Iyer attended Fairport High
School near Rochester,  New York  (also Philip Seymour Hoffman’s
alma mater) and played in the school’s jazz ensemble.  While writing his doctoral thesis, he performed at jazz
clubs in the San Francisco Bay area. He released his first
album, “Memorophilia,” in 1995 and began touring with
saxophonist Steve Coleman.  After moving to New York in 1998, Iyer took low-paying gigs
in small clubs such as the  Knitting Factory , where an idol of
his, the composer and arranger  Muhal Richard Abrams , paid him a
visit in the club’s dingy basement, the Alter Knit.  “I told him that I’m sorry he had to come to a place like
this, and Muhal says, ‘Well, just play your way out of here,’”
Iyer remembered. “That was good advice.”  (The Vijay Iyer Trio performs tonight through Saturday at
Birdland, 315 W. 44th St.; shows at 8:30 p.m. and 11 p.m.
Information: +1-212-581-3080;  http://www.birdlandjazz.com .)  (Patrick Cole is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  Today's highlights: Amanda Gordon's Scene Last Night 
featuring Dimons,  Victor Cruz ; Krista Giovacco meets bankers 
setting up a new wine trust; Martin Gayford reviews U.K. design; 
 Craig Seligman  on Nadine Gordimer's “No Time Like the Present.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 