-- Stocks, Spanish Bonds Drop as Treasuries, Yen Strengthen
-- B y   S t e p h e n   V o s s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-10T20:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/yen-drops-before-boj-as-gold-bond-risk-rise-on-bernanke.html
(Corrects to remove to franc rising above SNB ceiling in
last paragraph.)  Stocks slid, extending the longest
slump for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since November, as a
surge in Spanish and Italian bond yields fueled concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis is worsening. Treasuries and the dollar advanced.  The  S&P 500  fell for a fifth day, losing 1.7 percent to
close at 1,358.59 at 4 p.m. in New York, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost 213.66 points. The  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP)  decreased 2.5 percent as national benchmark indexes
tumbled 5 percent in  Italy  and about 3 percent in Spain and
France. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields slid below 2 percent,
while Spanish yields approached 6 percent for the first time
this year and Italian yields surged 23 basis points. The yen
rose versus all 16 peers and the dollar climbed against 13.
Copper led commodities lower and oil sank to an eight-week low.  Spanish bonds tumbled as Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
declined to rule out a rescue for the nation as 10 billion euros
($13 billion) of additional budget cuts failed to alleviate
investor concerns. Analysts project that profits at non-
financial  S&P 500 (SPX)  companies grew last quarter at the slowest
rate since 2009 as companies from McDonald’s Corp. to 3M Co. saw
gains in the world’s largest economy eroded by a slump in
Europe.  “The surge in Spanish yields puts the European debt crisis
back on U.S. investors’ radar screens, front and center,”
Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in an e-mail today. Last week’s
lower-than-forecast growth in U.S. payrolls “has eroded
investor confidence about America’s self-sustaining ability to
overcome headwinds from Europe.”  Earnings Season  Consumer-discretionary, financial and industrial companies
tumbled more than 2 percent to lead losses among all  10 of the
main industry groups  in the S&P 500 today as General Electric
Co., Walt Disney Co. and Bank of America Corp. slid at least 2.4
percent to pace declines. Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
electronics retailer, slumped 5.9 percent as Chief Executive
Officer  Brian Dunn  resigned.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  retreated 2.9 percent before the biggest U.S.
aluminum producer became the first company in the Dow to
announce first-quarter earnings. The shares surged 5.6 percent
in extended trading following the close of exchanges in New York
as Alcoa reported an unexpected profit after customers from
automakers to beverage-can manufacturers ordered more of the
lightweight metal.  Earnings from S&P 500 companies, excluding financials, are
seen gaining 0.6 percent in the first and the second quarter
from a year earlier, according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg, the slowest growth rate since 2009.  Five-Day Slump  The S&P 500 has slumped 4.3 percent in five sessions after
closing at an almost  four-year high  on April 2. All 10 of the
main industry groups have retreated during the stretch, led by
declines of more than 5.4 percent in industrial, commodity and
financial stocks.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index
advanced today for a  record  eighth straight day. The gauge known
as the VIX, which measures the cost of options to protect
against losses in the S&P 500, rose 8.4 percent to 20.39 and has
surged 32 percent since March 28.  “I don’t think there’s any rush to be involved in the
stock market here,” James Swanson, who oversees about $250
billion as chief investment strategist at Boston-based  MFS
Investment Management , said in a telephone interview. “Europe
is a temporary concern. The market is signaling they haven’t
fixed the whole problem. This will be a soft quarter in
earnings. Investors will need more reassurance.”  Economy Concern  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech
yesterday that the U.S. was still “far from having fully
recovered.” Most European markets were open today for the first
time after the U.S. Labor Department’s monthly tally of U.S.
hiring missed the median economist projection by 85,000 jobs on
April 6.  Copper tumbled 1.9 percent to a 12-week low of $3.65 a
pound, while wheat and natural gas also slid to lead declines in
20 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index, which
tumbled 1.5 percent. Oil tumbled 1.4 percent to $101.02 a barrel
amid forecasts that U.S. supplies rose to the highest level for
this time of year since 1990.  The Stoxx 600 dropped to the lowest level since Jan. 30 as
all 19 industry groups retreated, led by banks. Italian lenders
UniCredit SpA, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Banca Popolare Di Milano
Scarl dropped more than 6.5 percent. Vedanta Resources Plc led a
retreat in mining companies as copper fell in  London  and the
metal producer reported lower iron-ore sales.  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO) 
lost 12 percent as the world’s biggest supplier of floating oil
and gas output platforms said some sales practices “may have
been improper.”  German, Spanish Bonds  The yield on the  German two-year note  fell to 0.091
percent, while the five-year note yield dropped to 0.617
percent, both the lowest on record, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The slump in Spanish bonds drove the difference in yield,
or spread, with German 10-year bunds, the region’s benchmark
government securities, to 4.33 percentage points, the most since
November. The Italian 10-year yield rose 23 basis points to 5.69
percent, sending the spread over bunds to 4.04 percentage
points, the most since Jan. 31 on a closing basis.  Spain Concerns  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy yesterday unexpectedly
announced a 10 billion-euro package of budget cuts in education
and health, less than two weeks after unveiling the most austere
budget in more than three decades. Rajoy is targeting basic
public services for the first time since his election in
December in a bid to convince investors he can bring order to
the nation’s finances.  Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said
the nation’s lenders may need additional capital if the economy
weakens more than expected.  Switzerland sold 182-day bills at an average yield of minus
0.251 percent, according to the nation’s central bank. About 710
million francs were allotted, it said.  “We have a renewed concern in the euro region as the debt
problem hasn’t gone away despite the liquidity support from the
 European Central Bank ,” said  Vincent Chaigneau , the global head
of interest-rate strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “The
poor non-farm payroll data out of the U.S. only exacerbated the
risk-off sentiment. Peripheral bond yields are likely to
continue to rise in the near term.”  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 1 percent to the
lowest level since Jan. 30 on a closing basis. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks listed in  Hong Kong 
lost 1.4 percent. China reported an unexpected  trade surplus 
last month as inbound shipments increased 5.3 percent, below the
9 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.9 percent on speculation the government
will take measures to boost the economy.  The yen appreciated 1 percent against the dollar and
climbed 1.2 percent versus the euro, rising against both for the
fifth consecutive day. The Swiss franc was little changed at
1.20158 against the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Voss in London at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  