-- Euro Gains as Yields on Spanish Bonds Fall; Kiwi Climbs
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-11T21:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-10/yen-trades-near-7-week-high-versus-euro-on-debt-concern.html
The euro strengthened from a seven-
week low against the yen as Spain’s bonds climbed after a board
member of the  European Central Bank  indicated it may buy the
nation’s debt to reduce borrowing costs.  Europe’s shared currency gained versus the dollar after
Italy sold 11 billion euros ($14.4 billion) of bills, meeting
the target for the auction. The yen weakened against all but one
of its 16 most-traded peers amid speculation the Bank of  Japan 
will add to monetary easing later this month.  New Zealand ’s
dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, rallied after the nation’s business
confidence improved in the first quarter.  “The euro got a boost from Spanish bonds rebounding,”
said Daniel Hwang, senior currency strategist for Gain Capital
Group LLC in  New York . “This reaction we’re seeing today is
more consolidation ahead of the next major event. We’ll see
minor euro flare-ups based on news flow, negative or positive.”  The euro advanced 0.5 percent to 106 yen at 5 p.m. New York
time, after falling earlier to 105.45 yen, the weakest since
Feb. 22.  Europe ’s shared currency rose 0.2 percent to $1.3110,
after reaching $1.3033 on April 9, the lowest since March 15.
The yen declined 0.2 percent to 80.86 per dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent, and the
MSCI World Index of equities gained 0.6 percent.  Kiwi Optimism  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened 0.4 percent to 81.81 U.S.
cents and jumped 0.6 percent to 66.16 yen. A net 13 percent of
797 companies surveyed expect the economy will improve over the
next six months, from zero percent in the fourth-quarter survey,
the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research Inc. said in
Wellington.  Australia ’s dollar rose the most among the greenback’s
major peers, boosted by demand for higher-yielding assets. The
Aussie advanced 0.5 percent to $1.0300.  The U.S. currency remained lower against most major peers
after the  Federal Reserve  released a report that said the
economy maintained its expansion in all 12 of the central bank’s
regions. Manufacturing, hiring and retail sales showed signs of
strength in the face of higher fuel prices, it said.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six major trading
partners, was 0.1 percent weaker at 79.753 after earlier
touching 79.508, the lowest level since April 4.  Fed Holding Off  Policy makers will hold off on increasing monetary
accommodation unless the U.S. economic expansion falters or
prices rise at a rate slower than its target, according to
minutes of the Fed’s March 13 policy meeting released last week.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing from December 2008 to
June 2011 to support the economy, and it has pledged to keep
 interest rates  low through late 2014.  “Our house view is that there won’t be any Fed easing in
the sort of unsterilized sense through buying outright
Treasuries,” Chris Walker, a currency strategist at UBS AG in
 London , said in a Bloomberg Radio interview on “Bloomberg - The
First Word” with Ken Prewitt. “We won’t have this dollar-
debasing story which we’ve had in previous years, so we remain
moderately bullish dollars.”  The  yield  on  Spain ’s 10-year bond fell from the highest
since Dec. 12. The rate has jumped almost 1 percentage point
since March 2, when Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the
country would miss its 2012 deficit goal approved by the
European Union.  ‘Nervous’ Markets  “Spain shows the markets remain nervous,” the ECB
Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said at an event in Paris
today. “Will the ECB intervene? We have an instrument, the
securities markets program, which hasn’t been used recently but
it still exists.”  The ECB probably won’t rush into the Spanish  bond market ,
Jens Nordvig, a managing director of currency research in New
York at Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Margaret Brennan .  “For now it’s too early for them to try a new policy
step,” Nordvig said. “We’ve been trading short euro against
the yen, and we took some profits on that.” A short position is
a bet an asset will fall.  If Europe’s shared currency breaks below $1.3033, it may
weaken to $1.2975, Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note to
investors.  The yen strengthened 2.4 percent over the past week, the
best performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro was
little changed, and the dollar rose 0.3 percent.  Japan Policy  Bank of Japan (8301)  policy makers yesterday kept their key
 interest rate  and asset-purchase plan unchanged, the second
straight meeting without a policy shift. They next announce a
policy decision on April 27.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board unexpectedly
expanded bond purchases by 10 trillion yen on Feb. 14 while
setting an inflation goal of 1 percent. Nomura Holdings Inc.,
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. and NLI Research Institute Ltd.
expect the BOJ to expand the program at the next meeting to help
meet the price target.  “There’s definitely a reasonable chance” the BOJ will do
more later this month, said  Sacha Tihanyi , a senior currency
strategist in  Hong Kong  at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank of Nova
Scotia. (BNS)  Monetary easing by Japan’s central bank “fundamentally
undermines the yen,” he said.  Britain’s pound strengthened after a report showed U.K.
retail sales rose in March. It advanced 0.3 percent to $1.5907
and climbed as much as 0.5 percent, the most since March 30.  Retail sales at U.K. stores open at least 12 months,
measured by value, gained 1.3 percent from a year earlier, after
sliding 0.3 percent in February, the London-based British Retail
Consortium said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  