-- Malawi’s Banda Sworn in as Country’s New President
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-04-07T16:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/malawi-government-says-president-bingu-wa-mutharika-has-died-1-.html
Malawian Vice President Joyce Banda
was sworn in today as president, pledging to unite the nation
after Bingu wa Mutharika’s death sparked U.S. concern the
southern African nation was headed toward a power struggle.  Banda, who was next in line to assume power according to
the nation’s laws, became  Africa ’s second female president in a
ceremony in Lilongwe, the capital. Mutharika, 78, suffered a
heart attack on April 5 at State House in the capital, and died
at One Military Hospital in  South Africa  the same day, Bright
Msaka, chief secretary of the government, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “I thank you for the respect you have shown to follow the
constitution,” Banda told lawmakers at Parliament House in
comments broadcast on state-owned Zodiak radio. “Let us go into
the future with hope. There will be no room for revenge. I just
hope we shall stand united.”  Malawi’s refusal to acknowledge the president’s death
yesterday as Kenya and other governments issued condolences, led
the U.S. government to say it was concerned about the delay in
installing Banda as president according to the constitution.  Yesterday, the nation’s information minister told reporters
that Banda was not eligible to be president because she had been
thrown out of Mutharika’s  Democratic Progressive Party  in 2010.  “There is no need to swear her in,” John Gift Mwakhwawa,
president of the Malawi Law Society, said in a telephone
interview earlier today. Malawi is “not in a crisis. The law is
clear, Joyce Banda is president.”  U.S. Partnership  The U.S. “remains committed to our partnership with the
people of Malawi,” according to e-mailed comments from the U.S.
embassy in South Africa after Malawi’s government confirmed
Mutharika’s death today.  “Despite the announcement that constitutional protocol
will be adhered to, it is probable that the DPP will call for
early elections in a bid to cement its grip on power,” London-
based Control Risks said on its website today.  A former World Bank economist, Mutharika was elected
president in 2004 and won plaudits at home and abroad for ending
years of periodic food shortages. During his first five years in
office, the economy of the southern African nation, the world’s
biggest producer of burley tobacco, used mainly for cigarettes,
grew an average 6.6 percent annually. Mutharika won 66 percent
of the vote and a second five-year term in 2009.  Fuel Shortages  His reputation was damaged last July, when his security
forces killed 19 people protesting fuel shortages and rising
food costs. The U.S. and U.K. suspended aid to Malawi, which
relies on donor funds to finance as much as 40 percent of its
budget.  The government was forced to rein in spending, while the
central bank devalued Malawi’s kwacha by 10 percent in August to
address the foreign-exchange shortages. The economy depends on
tobacco, tea and sugar for export income.  Mutharika refused to bow to demands from good-governance
groups to step down or call a referendum on his popularity,
saying on March 22 that he was ready to fight those who
challenged his authority. Opposition to his rule continued until
he became ill.  There will be 10 days of mourning, state-owned MBC Radio
said in announcing Mutharika’s death.  Nobel Peace Prize-winner Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf of Liberia
is the only other female head of government in Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  