-- Mali Junta to Step Down to End Sanctions, Battle Rebels
-- B y   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-04-07T13:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/mali-junta-to-relinquish-power-to-end-sanctions-battle-rebels.html
Mali ’s military junta agreed to hand
over power to a temporary government that will organize
elections, paving the way to lift sanctions that threatened to
worsen a food crisis in the West African nation.  The  Economic Community of West African States  will lift the
sanctions and may aid the government in battling Touareg rebels
that captured cities in the northern part of Mali and declared
an independent state on April 6, junta leader Amadou Sanogo said
on state-owned television yesterday.  “You have to have political order in Bamako to address”
the Touareg rebels, David Zounmenou, a senior researcher at the
Institute for Security Studies in  Pretoria ,  South Africa , said
in a telephone interview today. “The junta had no choice to
resist the pressure from ECOWAS. They are afraid of carrying the
historical responsibility of the breaking down of the nation.”  The agreement allows Mali to focus on defeating Touareg
rebels who took advantage of the March 22 coup to capture cities
in the north and declare a separate state. The junta will hand
over the government to Dioncounda Traore, president of the
national assembly, who will organize elections.  Touareg Rebels  Soldiers unhappy with resources to halt the rising power of
the Touareg rebels overthrew President Amadou Toure’s government
on March 22, before scheduled elections on April 29. The Touareg
rebels took the name The National Movement for the Liberation of
Azawad, the name they use for the north of Mali.  “The military realized they couldn’t survive politically
in the medium-term,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging markets
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a telephone
interview today. “The military authorities don’t have the
capability to take on the Touareg rebels. There will have to be
some kind of political process.”  Since the military coup, the rebels captured the historic
city of Timbuktu this week and other key areas. The Touareg
rebels began fighting in January. The  African Union  rejected the
request for recognition of a separate state yesterday.  The Touaregs, traditionally nomadic camel herders, have
waged battles for autonomy in Mali and neighboring Niger in the
five decades since the countries became independent from
colonial ruler France. The current uprising is bolstered by
Touaregs who returned from  Libya  after the October death of
leader  Muammar Qaddafi , according to the  United Nations .  Libya Weapons  Weapons and ammunition from Libyan stockpiles, including
anti-aircraft artillery and explosives, were smuggled into Mali,
Niger and  Burkina Faso , according to a Jan. 18 United Nations
report.  “We will help Mali to recover its integrity. We will do
war against the Touaregs rebels if necessary,” Djibril Bassole,
Minister of  Foreign Affairs  and Regional Integration of Burkina
Faso said yesterday. “Mali’s fight is our fight.”  France is ready to offer logistical support for a possible
ECOWAS intervention force in the region, French Foreign Minister
 Alain Juppe  said today, according to an e-mailed statement from
his office. The agreement will allow the return of
“constitutional order” to Mali and progress toward a “political
solution” for the north.  French Support  France  supports “unity and the territorial integrity” of
Mali, according to the statement, adding that the MNLA should
cancel its “unilateral declaration of independence” and
presidential elections should be held as soon as possible.  Traore will have 40 days to organize an election and won’t
be eligible to run for president, Sanogo said. Toure and the
junta leaders will be given security and amnesty, Sanogo said.
The Alliance for Democracy in Mali had chosen Traore as the
party’s candidate in the April 29 vote. Toure, who has served
two terms, was due to step down.  The blockade of fuel and food by ECOWAS on Africa’s third-
largest producer of gold would probably exacerbate the food and
fuel crisis in Mali, where 3.5 million people are facing food
shortages, U.K.-based aid agency Oxfam said yesterday.  -- With assistance by  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg and Pauline Bax. Editors: Kim McLaughlin, Shanthy Nambiar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diakaridia Dembele in Johannesburg at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 