-- Bernanke Warning on Jobs Vindicated by March Payrolls Report
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/bernanke-warning-on-jobs-vindicated-by-march-payrolls-report.html
The Labor Department’s March jobs
report may have proved Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
right after he warned that payroll gains might slow as companies
adjust staffing for a period of moderate growth.  Employers in the U.S. added 120,000 jobs in March, the
fewest in five months, the report showed yesterday. The
unemployment rate fell to 8.2 percent from 8.3 percent the month
before as people stopped looking for work. The March report
followed the best six-month streak of job growth since 2006.  “Chairman Bernanke should be putting out the world’s
biggest ‘I told you so,’” said  Phillip Swagel , an economist at
the University of  Maryland  and former assistant Treasury
secretary in George W. Bush’s administration. “It must give the
Fed some comfort that they continue to have this accommodative
stance.”  The data probably won’t trigger a decision to buy more
assets when Fed policy makers next meet April 24-25, nor will it
alter their commitment to keep the benchmark lending rate around
zero until late 2014, said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells
Fargo Securities LLC in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  At the same time, he said, disappointing labor reports in
April and May could help build a case for further easing at the
June meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, headed by
Bernanke.  “When you look at employment per se, it’s not up to the
level he wants to see,” Silvia said. “It’s very difficult for
the Fed to say 8.2 percent, that’s good enough.”  Yellen, Dudley  More insight into the Fed’s response to the data will come
next week when policy makers discuss the economic outlook. Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen will speak in  New York  on April 11, and
William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , will speak in Syracuse the next day. Bernanke is scheduled
to discuss financial stability on April 9.  In a speech on March 26, Bernanke said recent strong job
gains may be a “reversal of the unusually large layoffs that
occurred during late 2008 and over 2009.” If that is the case,
he said, then “significant improvements in the  unemployment
rate  will likely require a more-rapid expansion of production
and demand from consumers and businesses, a process that can be
supported by continued accommodative policies.”  To further reduce the unemployment rate by one, two, or
even three percentage points, “we need to start thinking of not
just having growth of 2 percent or 2.5 percent, but growth of 4
percent or 5 percent,” said Betsey Stevenson, former chief
economist at the Labor Department and a visiting assistant
professor at  Princeton University . “We just haven’t had that
here.”  Weekly Earnings  The March jobs report showed scant improvement in some of
the trends that the Fed chairman said he finds most worrisome.
The share of the unemployed who have been out of work for 27
weeks or more was little changed at 42.5 percent in March.
Average weekly earnings fell, and the average work week
decreased to 34.5 hours from 34.6.  Last month, and in several speeches and testimony before
that, Bernanke has made it clear that long-term unemployment
threatens to erode workers’ skills and eventually detach them
from the  labor force , ultimately reducing how fast the  U.S.
economy  can grow. Bernanke, a scholar of the Great Depression,
has never embraced that as an acceptable outcome, or one that
the Fed can do nothing about. He also hasn’t taken the view that
long-term unemployment is fully explained by a mismatch of
worker skills with employers’ needs.  “What will lead to more hiring and, consequently, further
declines in unemployment?” Bernanke said in last month’s speech
to the National Association for Business Economics. “The short
answer is more-rapid economic growth.”  Growth Forecast  The U.S. economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
final three months of 2011, helping boost job growth to an
average monthly gain of 246,000 from December through February.
Growth may slow to 2 percent in the first quarter, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Manufacturing, a mainstay of the recovery, has cooled in
recent months. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index was 53.4 in March, down from a high of 59.9 at the
beginning of last year. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  “Overall, we ought to focus our attention on the fact that
we’ve got to keep the growth rate of the economy at a sufficient
level that it generates jobs,” said  Austan Goolsbee , former
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers and an
economist at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of
Business. That probably means the economy has to grow faster
than 2 percent, he said.  Stimulus Caution  U.S. central bankers have held the benchmark lending rate
near zero since 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds to
spur growth. Assets on the Fed’s balance now total $2.9 trillion
sheet, compared with $925 billion at the start of 2008. Fed
officials are speaking and acting with more caution. Rather than
pump the balance sheet up further in September, they opted
instead for a program, dubbed Operation Twist, to shift the
portfolio into longer-term assets.  “The probability of needing to do additional stimulus is
lower,” San Francisco Fed President John Williams told
reporters April 4. Cleveland’s  Sandra Pianalto , Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  and Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker  all voiced reservations
about additional accommodation last week. All four presidents
are voting members of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  One concern is that inflation measures are near or above
the Fed’s 2 percent target at a time when crude  oil prices  have
jumped 4.5 percent this year. The personal consumption
expenditures price index rose 2.3 percent for the year ending
February. Excluding food and energy, the index rose 1.9 percent.  “The Fed is in a wait-and-see mode through June when they
will see two more prints of employment data for April and May,”
said Mark Spindel, chief investment officer at Potomac River
Capital in  Washington . “We also need to see more daylight
between the inflation rate and their 2 percent target.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at
   lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  