-- Cambridge Beats Oxford as Swimmer Halts London Boat Race
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-07T16:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/cambridge-beats-oxford-as-swimmer-halts-158th-london-boat-race.html
Cambridge University  defeated its
Oxford rival in the 158th  London Boat Race  after a swimmer in
the  River Thames  interrupted the event and forced a restart.  Oxford  was slightly ahead at the midway point of the 4.25-
mile (6.8-kilometer) televised race in west London when umpire
John Garrett stopped it after a man in the water moved between
the boats and was almost hit by one of the Oxford oar blades.  “We weren’t sure if he was going to get out of the way and
then it was clear he was waiting for the boats to come across
him,” Garrett told the British Broadcasting Corp. in an
 interview . “I just had to stop the race.”  Reserve umpire Matthew Pinsent, who was first to spot the
figure in the water, said the race had to be stopped for safety
reasons. “We couldn’t possibly have carried on,” he told the
 BBC . Cambridge now leads the series 81-76, with one dead heat.  The unidentified swimmer was arrested and is in custody,
the Metropolitan Police said.  The suspect is being held under Section 5 of the Public
Order Act on suspicion of “behavior likely to cause harassment,
alarm or distress,” according to an e-mailed Met statement.  After a delay of about 30 minutes, the race was restarted
near the midway point, with Oxford momentarily regaining its
lead before a clash of boats left Hanno Wienhausen with a broken
oar. Garrett said he warned the Oxford boat to move clear.  ‘Result Stand’  Oxford coxswain Zoe de Toledo appealed for another restart,
saying the water was too rough to move quickly, but it was
rejected and Cambridge rowed to the easy victory.  “The rules state clearly that crews have to abide by their
accidents,” Garrett said. “Cambridge was in the right position
so I was content to let the race continue and the result
stand.”  Oxford bow man Alex Wood, 27, was carried off the Dark Blue
boat after the race and given medical treatment.  “It’s not the ideal way any one wants to take away the
win,” Cambridge coach Steve Trapmore told the BBC. “We’ve been
doing a lot of preparation for this race. I think the guys did
themselves proud.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  