-- Chelsea Beats Wigan With Injury-Time Goal in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-07T18:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/chelsea-beats-wigan-2-1-with-injury-time-goal-in-premier-league.html
Juan Mata  scored in injury time to
give Chelsea a 2-1 win over Wigan in English soccer’s Premier
League.  Branislav Ivanovic added a controversial goal as Chelsea
continued its late-season push under interim manager Roberto Di Matteo. The Blues are two points behind fourth-place Arsenal in
the race for the final place in the  Champions League .  Tottenham moved above Arsenal into third place after a 0-0
tie at Sunderland, Fulham won 3-0 at Bolton, West Brom beat
Blackburn 3-0, Liverpool tied 1-1 with  Aston Villa , Norwich drew
2-2 with Everton and Stoke beat last-place Wolverhampton 2-1.  Chelsea has lost just once in 10 games since Di Matteo
replaced the fired Andre Villas-Boas last month. The Blues are
tied on 56 points with Newcastle, which beat Swansea 2-0
yesterday, and hold fifth place over the Magpies on a superior
goal difference.  Chelsea took the lead in the 62nd minute with a goal from
Ivanovic, who television replays showed to be offside. Wigan
tied the game on Mohammed Diame’s goal with nine minutes
remaining. But the Blues clinched the win in the third of five
added minutes as  Fernando Torres  hit the post with a shot and
Mata put in the rebound.  Goals from Marc-Antoine Fortune and Liam Ridgewell led West
Brom past Blackburn. Defeats keep Blackburn and Wigan in the
three relegations places at the bottom of the standings behind
Queen’s Park Rangers, which plays league leader  Manchester
United  tomorrow.  Spurs in Third  Tottenham has won just one of its past six league matches,
but its goalless draw at Sunderland was enough to move it up to
third. Spurs have 59 points, one more than north London rival
Arsenal, which hosts second-place  Manchester City  tomorrow.  Clint Dempsey scored twice as Fulham ended Bolton’s three-
game winning run. Bolton remains one point above the drop zone.  Grant Holt ’s 75th-minute goal gave Norwich a tie with
Everton, while  Luis Suarez ’s goal in the 81st minute rescued a
draw for Liverpool, its ninth time in 16 home games this season.  Robert Huth and Peter Crouch scored as Stoke beat
Wolverhampton to end four-match winless run. Michael Kightly had
the goal for Wolves, which lost its sixth straight to remain
last with 22 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  