-- DMS Loses Challenge to $32 Billion Contract Held by McKesson
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-07T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/dms-loses-challenge-to-32-billion-contract-held-by-mckesson.html
DMS Pharmaceutical Group Inc. lost a
challenge to a U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs  decision to
exclude small businesses from a drug supply contract valued at
as much as $32 billion, according to a decision announced
yesterday.  The closely held  Park Ridge , Illinois company had filed a
protest with the Government Accountability Office, which
arbitrates contract disputes, after the VA canceled a plan to
reserve some work in the contract for small businesses.  VA officials “reasonably determined” that DMS’s bid was
unacceptable because the company didn’t meet several of the
agency’s requirements for the work, such as having an online
inventory system, the GAO found.  “The evaluation of technical proposals is a matter within
the discretion of the contracting agency, since the agency is
responsible for defining its needs and the best method for
accommodating them,” the decision said. “An offeror’s mere
disagreement with the agency’s judgment concerning the adequacy
of the proposal is not sufficient to establish that the agency
acted unreasonably.”  Protests by DMS and another small drug wholesaler have
delayed the award of the drug distribution contract, expected to
have about the same value as the current contract held by
 McKesson Corp. (MCK) , or about $4 billion a year over as many as 8
years, according to the VA. Department officials won’t award the
new contract until both protests are resolved, Jo Schuda, a VA
spokeswoman, said in a March 26 e-mail.  ’Extremely Disappointed’  DMS officials “are extremely disappointed,” Bill
Anderson, executive vice president for the company, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  “Once again, it appears this $4+ billion contract will be
awarded with zero small business participation,” Anderson said.
“This decision, under President Obama’s watch, proves that Main
Street continues to get overlooked to the benefit of  Wall
Street .”  He said he remains hopeful the VA will find some way to
increase work with small drug wholesalers in the upcoming
contract.  PBA Health, a  Kansas City , Missouri-based drug distributor,
has also filed a protest on the contract, according to the GAO
website. The GAO has until June 4 to rule on that protest.  Schuda and Josh Taylor, a VA spokesman, didn’t respond to
an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  PBA Protest  The VA has asked the GAO to dismiss the protest from PBA
Health, Ralph O. White, the GAO’s managing associate general
counsel, said in an interview today. He said that request would
be shared with PBA Health and the company would be given an
opportunity to respond before the GAO makes its decision.  McKesson has been the VA’s primary medicine supplier for
veterans’ hospitals and the department’s mail-order pharmacy
since 2004. The largest U.S. drug distributor based on revenue,
it has received as much as $27 billion in orders under the
current contract, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The San Francisco-based company is competing against
Dublin, Ohio-based  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH)  and  AmerisourceBergen
Corp. (ABC) , based in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania  for the current
version of the contract.  The Government Accountability Office, Congress’s
investigative arm, issues decisions that provide guidance to
government agencies during contract disputes. It can’t compel
agencies to comply, though its guidance is rarely ignored.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  