-- Egypt Salafists Plan Rally If Presidential Candidate Barred
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-04-07T13:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/egypt-salafists-plan-rally-if-presidential-candidate-barred.html
Supporters of Egyptian Salafi
presidential hopeful Hazem Abu Ismail said they will demonstrate
in the coming week if the government fails to resolve a dispute
about his mother’s citizenship that may block his candidacy.  Demonstrations would be held April 10 if an administrative
court doesn’t order the interior and foreign ministers to
disclose whether Abu Ismail’s mother held U.S. citizenship, the
state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported yesterday, citing a
statement from his campaign. A gathering of thousands of his
supporters yesterday was “a message that we wanted to send” to
officials, Abu Ismail aide Gamal Saber said, MENA reported.  Abu Ismail ranked second with 23 percent support in a
presidential poll by Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies published April 2. His absence from the race would
probably benefit Muslim Brotherhood candidate Khairat el-Shater.
The survey was conducted before the Brotherhood announced it was
fielding a candidate.  Former Arab League secretary-general and Egyptian foreign
minister  Amre Moussa  led the poll, with 32 percent support.  The controversy about the status Abu Ismail’s candidacy
occurs as former intelligence chief Omar Suleiman yesterday
entered the race, reversing a decision he’d announced earlier in
the week, MENA reported.  Suleiman, named  Hosni Mubarak ’s vice president in the
ousted ruler’s final weeks in power last year, said he was
responding to the demands of supporters who organized a rally to
get him to change his mind, MENA reported, citing a statement by
Suleiman. Five people were injured during a gathering yesterday
of Suleiman’s supporters, the news service said, citing Health
Ministry official Hisham Sheiha.  Suleiman to Run  The elections commission said April 5 it received a letter
from the passports and citizenship authority saying Abu Ismail’s
mother used an American passport on three occasions to enter and
leave the country.  Under Egyptian law, a candidate is ineligible for the top
office if either they or their parents hold or had held another
nationality. Abu Ismail has repeatedly denied that his mother
held U.S. citizenship.  Abu Ismail’s disqualification would be a boost for the
Muslim Brotherhood nominee El-Shater. The millionaire
businessman served as the second-in-command for the Brotherhood,
whose political arm holds almost 50 percent of the seats in the
lower house of parliament. Salafis follow a strict
interpretation of Islam, while the Brotherhood has sought to
cast a more moderate image.  Candidacy Deadline  The deadline for submitting candidacy papers for the
presidential vote is Sunday, April 8. The commission will notify
those who failed to qualify on April 12 and 13, and they will
have the right to appeal, the official Middle East News Agency
reported.  The  election commission  is still awaiting confirmation from
Egypt’s foreign ministry, which is inquiring about the
citizenship of Abu Ismail’s mother from U.S. officials, the
commission’s secretary-general, Hatem Bagato, said by telephone
yesterday. The final list of qualified candidates will be
announced on April 26, he said.  The Brotherhood’s decision to field a candidate, reversing
an earlier pledge to stay out the May vote, has ratcheted up
tensions in the first presidential election since last year’s
ouster of Mubarak. It also sparked criticism from secular groups
that the Brotherhood is seeking to monopolize power.  El-Shater was nominated because “the government is ruining
Egypt,” said Saad el-Husseini, a lawmaker with the
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party. “This decision was
made to serve the interests of  Egypt  and not personal
interests.”  Economy Slumps  The registration of candidates comes at a time when
wrangling between the ruling military council, the Brotherhood
and other groups vying to shape the country’s future is stifling
efforts to revive the economy.  Net international reserves fell to $15.1 billion at the end
of March, down more than 50 percent since the start of the
uprising that toppled Mubarak. A $3.2 billion International
Monetary Fund loan is still pending amid criticism from the
Brotherhood and other groups over the government’s economic
program. The  IMF  has said it wants consensus among Egypt’s main
political groups before it concludes the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  