-- Egypt’s Islamists Rush to Field Presidential Candidates
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-04-08T11:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/egyptian-salafist-may-be-blocked-from-running-for-presidency.html
Egypt’s most powerful political
party entered its chief as an alternate candidate in the May
presidential race, a “precaution” against what it described as
apparent attempts to restore the ousted regime.  Lawyers for the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party, which holds nearly half the seats in parliament’s lower
house, submitted the nomination papers for Mohamed Mursi hours
before the door for nominations was set to close for the May
election, state-run Nile News reported today. The vote pits
Islamist candidates against a number of secular figures
including  Omar Suleiman , one of the most senior figures in
former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s government.  Mursi’s nomination was a response to “rapid developments
that point to attempts being made to fabricate barriers and
hurdles” to impede some candidates from competing in the
election, the party said in a statement posted on its website.
It said apparent efforts to disqualify some candidates were an
attempt to recreate “the former regime, with the same old
symbols, figures and structures.”  The entry of Suleiman, Mubarak’s long-time intelligence
chief, shakes up a race seen by many as pitting the Islamists
against former regime officials and the country’s ruling
military council as Egypt struggles to recover from an uprising
that has battered its economy.  Dwindling Reserves  Net international reserves fell by over 50 percent in just
15 months and economic growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the last
quarter of 2011. A $3.2 billion International Monetary Fund loan
is still pending amid criticism from the Brotherhood and other
groups over the government’s economic program. The  IMF  has said
it wants consensus among  Egypt ’s main political groups before it
concludes the deal.  Suleiman, who also served as vice president in the regime’s
final weeks, reversed an earlier decision, saying he was moved
to run after hundreds of his followers took to the streets over
the weekend, rallying for his return. MENA reported that he
picked up his nomination papers yesterday.  His candidacy was met with mixed reviews, with Islamists
and some youth groups who were a driving force in last year’s
uprising decrying it as an attempt to reinstate the old regime.
Others said Suleiman may appeal to Egyptians weary of the
deteriorating security situation in the country and the
Brotherhood’s attempts to jostle for power in the Arab world’s
most populous nation.  ‘Sense of Concern’  Suleiman could win with votes from a large segment of the
Egyptian populace as there is a “broad sense of concern” in
the country about the Brotherhood’s domination, Anwar Esmat el-
Sadat, the head of the Islah, or Reform, party, was cited as
saying by the state-run Al-Ahram newspaper today. Egypt needs a
president with a military background to restore security and the
country’s prestige, he said.  Islamist candidates are grappling with a number of legal
challenges that have raised questions about their chances of
competing in the election.  The Brotherhood’s first choice was millionaire businessman
Khairat el-Shater, the group’s deputy head and chief financier.
Reports later surfaced that he may be deemed ineligible to run,
even as the group repeatedly said that he faced no legal
obstacles.  Questions again surfaced after a Cairo administrative court
ruled that Ayman Nour, the head of the al-Ghad party, was
ineligible to run, the official Middle East  News Agency  reported
yesterday. Nour had been Mubarak’s sole challenger in the 2005
elections, and was subsequently jailed. He had been recently
pardoned by Egypt’s military ruler, Field Marshal Mohamed
Hussein Tantawi.  Salafi Hopeful  Separately, Salafi presidential hopeful Hazem Abu Ismail
may also be out of the running after Egypt’s election commission
said it had received confirmation that his mother had been
granted U.S. citizenship. Abu Ismail’s mother got her American
citizenship in October 2006, the commission’s secretary general
Hatem Bagato said in a telephone interview yesterday, citing a
letter from the Egyptian Foreign Ministry. Under Egyptian law, a
candidate is ineligible to be president if either they or their
parents hold or have held another nationality.  Abu Ismail has disputed the claim, saying in a news
conference aired late yesterday on Al Jazeera Mubashir that the
reports were part of a plot to discredit him. He didn’t deny
that his mother, who is deceased, had held a U.S. passport, but
said that “having a passport is one thing, and having
citizenship is another.”  Islamist Gambit  As the dispute over the two leading Islamist candidates
continued, al-Gamaa al-Islamiya, or the Islamic Group -- which
had waged a violent battle against Mubarak’s regime in the 1990s
-- said it was fielding fundamentalist cleric Safwat Hegazy,
also as a precautionary move.  The  election commission  will notify those who failed to
qualify on April 12 and 13, and they will have the right to
appeal, the official Middle East News Agency has reported. The
first round of voting will occur May 23 and 24, with a second
round in June if needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  