-- Employment Increase in U.S. Trails Most-Pessimistic Forecasts
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/employment-increase-in-u-s-trails-most-pessimistic-forecasts.html
Hiring by American employers trailed
the most pessimistic forecasts in March, casting doubt on the
strength of the expansion now in its third year.  The 120,000 increase in payrolls reported by the Labor
Department in Washington yesterday was the smallest in five
months. The data also showed the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2
percent as people left the labor force, while workers put in
fewer hours.  The figures, which followed an average 246,000 increase in
payrolls in the previous three months, underscored Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s concern that stronger
economic growth is required to keep powering the labor market.
Yesterday’s report showed a drop in weekly earnings that bodes
ill for  consumer spending  at a time when Americans are paying
more at the filling station.  “Not welcome news,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .
“The economy needs a lot of momentum to get through the latest
headwind of the return of $4 gasoline, and this report is
distinctly on the slow side.”  Among those having trouble finding work is Chris Rhoads-
Ford, 41, who has been unemployed since January 2009, when his
job as a senior writer at the American Civil Liberties Union was
eliminated. Since then, Rhoads-Ford has been surviving on
contract work, part-time jobs and loans from his family. His
 unemployment benefits  ended in October.  ‘Out of Options’  “We’re quickly running out of options,” said Rhoads-Ford,
who lives in Alexandria,  Virginia , with his wife and 6-year-old
daughter. “I’m actually pretty scared.”  Payrolls in February rose a revised 240,000. The median
projection in the Bloomberg survey called for a 205,000 gain in
March, with estimates ranging from increases of 175,000 to
250,000.  “We see modest growth inside the U.S. and demand for
labor,”  Carl Camden , president and chief executive officer of
 Kelly Services Inc. (KELYA) , a Troy, Michigan-based staffing agency,
said March 12 during a conference. The expansion is “a nice
steady, not robust, not rock-and-roll, but a steady recovery,
capable of producing a steady stream of jobs.”  S&P 500 futures expiring in June slumped 1.1 percent to
1,374.90 yesterday in New York following the benchmark index’s
0.7 percent weekly loss. U.S. stock exchanges were shut for the
Good Friday holiday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note fell to 2.05 percent from 2.18 percent. The dollar dropped
1 percent to 81.55 yen and declined 0.2 percent to $1.3088 per
euro.  Retail Employment  The March data showed a 34,000 decrease in retail
employment, the biggest decline since October 2009. A milder
winter may have limited hiring as workers were added to payrolls
in previous three months at the expense of March. The Labor
Department said that the number of people unable to work due to
inclement weather was 360,000 below average from December
through February.  Temperatures in December through February averaged 36.8
degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 degrees Celsius), 3.9 degrees above the
average in the 20th century, representing the fourth-warmest
winter on record for the 48 contiguous U.S. states, according to
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  “We had mild weather, which basically had consumers in the
marketplace earlier,” said Jack Kleinhenz, chief economist of
the National Retail Federation, a Washington-based trade group.
As a result, retailers postponed headcount reductions that
typically follow the  holiday shopping season , he said.  J.C. Penney Co., the fourth-largest U.S. department store,
said yesterday that it’s planning to fire 1,000 workers as part
of a restructuring plan.  Service Industries  Employment at service providers increased 89,000 last
month, less than half the 211,000 gain in February, the Labor
Department said. Professional and business service payrolls rose
31,000 last month, restrained by a 7,500 drop in temporary
hiring.  The jobs report broke a pattern that was boosting President
 Barack Obama ’s re-election prospects and prompted a renewed
attack on his record by  Mitt Romney , the leading contender for
the Republican nomination.  “Millions of Americans are paying a high price for
President Obama’s economic policies, and more and more people
are growing so discouraged that they are dropping out of the
labor force altogether,” Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor, said in a statement released by his campaign.  Obama said “we welcome” the added jobs and the decline in
the  unemployment rate . The economy’s created more than 4 million
private sector jobs in the past two years, more than 600,000 in
the past three months, he said.  ‘More Work’  “But, it’s clear to every American that there will still be
ups and downs along the way and that we’ve got a lot more work
to do,” the president said at a forum on women and the economy
at the White House.  Only one president since World War II,  Ronald Reagan , has
been re-elected with a jobless rate above 6 percent. Reagan won
a second term in 1984 with 7.2 percent unemployment in the month
of the election, after the rate had fallen almost three
percentage points in the previous 18 months.  The jobless rate dropped as both unemployed and employed
workers left the  labor force . The participation  rate , which
indicates the share of working-age people in the labor force,
fell to 63.8 percent from 63.9 percent.  Xander Piper, 30, who has been looking for a full-time job
since September, when he completed a master’s program in social
science at the University of Chicago. He decided to go to
graduate school in 2010 to improve his employment prospects
after losing his position at an advertising agency.  10 Resumes a Day  “When I graduated, I assumed I was going to get a job
within the first couple of months,” said Piper, a San Francisco
resident who said he’s looking for work in education and
sometimes sends out 10 resumes a day.  “Now I work for a temp company, but even they’re having
trouble staffing me,” he said. “I recently had a two to three
month break at my temp company. What I have gotten recently is
call center work, which is just brutal.”  Some economists saw similarities with early 2011, when the
economy slowed amid rising energy prices, a disruption of
supplies caused by the tsunami in  Japan  and political gridlock
in the U.S. over the debt ceiling.  This year, rising gasoline prices and the European debt
crisis are taking a toll, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania .  Even so, “We are definitely in a better place today than we
were a year ago, and two years ago,” he said. “The thing that’s
quite amazing is how well the economy’s performed given all
those headwinds.”  Manufacturing Bright Spot  Manufacturing was among the few industries that added more
jobs than in February, with a 37,000 increase. In the last four
months, factories have added 148,000 workers.  Sustained auto purchases are prompting  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the
second-biggest U.S. automaker, to bring in more workers. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based manufacturer boosted its 2012 sales
forecast to 14.5 million to 15 million vehicles from a previous
projection of 13.5 million to 14.5 million.  “We’ve already announced some shift increases, some adds
in terms of shifts this year,”  Erich Merkle , sales analyst at
Ford, said April 3 on a conference call with analysts. “So,
certainly we’ll be adding some people to fill those shifts.”  Bernanke, in a speech to economists on March 26, said the
recent employment gains have been a “welcome development.
Still, conditions remain far from normal, as shown, for example,
by the high level of long-term unemployment and the fact that
jobs and hours worked remain well below pre-crisis peaks.”  Pace of Improvement  “We cannot yet be sure that the recent pace of improvement
in the labor market will be sustained,” Bernanke said, adding
he was particularly concerned about the number people out of
work for six months or longer.  Yesterday’s report also showed a decrease in long-term
unemployed Americans. The number of people unemployed for 27
weeks or more eased as a percentage of all jobless, to 42.5
percent from 42.6 percent.  Average weekly earnings fell to $806.96 in March from
$807.56. The average work week for all workers decreased to 34.5
hours from 34.6.  Wage increases are needed to help Americans weather
 gasoline prices  that have increased by 66 cents this year
through April 5, to $3.94 a gallon, according to data from AAA,
the nation’s largest auto club.  The so-called underemployment rate, which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking, decreased to 14.5 percent
from 14.9 percent.  A separate report yesterday from the Fed showed consumer
borrowing rose less than forecast in February, restrained by a
drop in credit-card debt. Credit increased $8.7 billion, the
least in four months, after an $18.6 billion gain in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  