-- Euro Falls Most in 11 Months Versus Yen on Debt Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-07T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/euro-falls-most-in-11-months-versus-yen-on-debt-concern.html
The euro fell by the most in 11
months against the yen as rising Spanish borrowing costs boosted
concern the region’s sovereign-debt crisis in worsening.  The dollar posted weekly gains against most of its major
counterparts as demand for safety increased. Higher-yielding
currencies, led by South Africa’s rand, fell as a report showed
U.S. employers added the fewest jobs in five months in March,
which fueled concern the U.S. economic recovery is slowing and
underscored bets the  Federal Reserve  will introduce further
stimulus. The yen rose against all of its major peers before a
Bank of  Japan  meeting next week.  “The rain has come from Spain,” said  Alan Ruskin , global
head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG in New York. “The austerity policy is so harsh that it could
undermine their own capacity to deliver better fiscal numbers.
The Spain story is front and center” for the euro.  The 17-nation euro dropped 3.4 percent to 106.86 yen in New
York, its biggest weekly loss since May. The shared currency
fell 1.9 percent to $1.3096, reaching $1.3035 April 5, its
lowest level since March 15. The dollar weakened 1.5 percent to
81.64 yen.  The rand and  Sweden ’s krona declined the most against the
dollar among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  South
Africa ’s currency slumped 2.7 percent to 7.8834 per dollar while
the krona lost 2.1 percent to 6.7522.  Franc Ceiling  The Swiss franc climbed to as strong as 1.19995 per euro
April 5, breaking the Swiss National Bank-imposed ceiling of
1.20 per euro. The franc appreciated 0.3 percent this week,
rising for a third week, to 1.2010 per euro. It lost 1.6 percent
to 91.73 centimes per dollar.  The Swiss central bank set a limit of 1.20 francs per euro
on Sept. 6 to protect exports after investors turned to the
nation’s currency as a haven from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis. The SNB won’t allow the franc to rise above the ceiling
and is ready to buy foreign currencies in unlimited quantities,
spokesman Walter Meier said by telephone April 5.  The euro declined 1.1 percent in the past week, the second
worst performance after the krona among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The yen has gained 2.6 percent and the dollar has appreciated
0.9 percent.  Spain , the euro-region’s fourth-largest economy, is in
“extreme difficulty,” Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said April
4, raising the possibility of a bailout for the second time.
Spanish bonds fell, pushing the yield on the  10-year benchmark
bond  to as high as 5.84 percent April 5, the most since
December, and widening the spread with similar-maturity German
bunds to more than 4 percentage points.  Spain’s Debt  Spain’s 10-year bond yield has jumped nearly one percentage
point since March 2, when Rajoy announced the government would
fail to achieve its budget-deficit target this year. He warned
that public debt will surge to a record 79.8 percent of GDP this
year as it imposes the deepest austerity in at least three
decades.  German exports probably decreased 1.2 percent in February
from January, when they rose 2.4 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the report due on April 10. In  France , industrial production
increased 0.3 percent in February, matching a 0.3 percent gain
the prior month, another poll showed before the nation’s
statistics office releases data the same day.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. major
trading partners, gained 1.1 percent to 79.839, halting three
consecutive weeks of losses.  Jobs Gains  Nonfarm payrolls increased by 120,000 last month, the
smallest increase in five months, the Labor Department reported
yesterday. Economists had forecast an addition of 205,000,
according to the median of 75 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent, the lowest
since January 2009.  While the  Federal Open Market Committee , led by Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , has pledged to keep its interest rate target at
a record low of zero to 0.25 percent through 2014. It’s holding
off on increasing monetary accommodations unless the U.S.
economic expansion falters or prices rise at a rate slower than
its 2 percent target, according to minutes of the central bank’s
March 13 meeting released April 3.  “It’s not a green light for Mr. Bernanke to announce QE3
tomorrow, but it certainly says that the conditions under which
some FOMC members will be pushing the case for further easing
measures are falling into place,” said Ray Attrill, a senior
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New York , yesterday
after the jobs report.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011.  Canada’s Economy  Canada ’s dollar rose against its U.S. counterpart after a
report showed the nation added the most jobs since 2008 in
March. Canada’s unemployment rate fell to 7.2 percent last month
from 7.4 percent in February,  Statistics Canada  said April 5.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known, climbed 0.2
percent to 99.72 cents per  U.S. dollar .  The yen strengthened even before a Bank of Japan meeting
April 10 that may see policy makers adding stimulus.  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s nominee to the  Bank of
Japan  board was rejected by the upper house of parliament in a
victory for lawmakers pressing for more monetary easing to spur
growth and end deflation.  The BOJ said in February it would expand its asset-purchase
program to 30 trillion yen ($368 billion) from 20 trillion, with
19 trillion yen set aside for  government bonds . The central bank
also said it will target 1 percent inflation “for the time
being.”  “Dollar-yen is going to bounce back because we know the
underlying story beyond U.S. payrolls,” said  Sebastien Galy , a
senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New
York. “More interesting stuff is coming out of the BOJ next
week, that they’re going to introduce more easing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  