-- Express Scripts Asks Judge to Toss Medco Deal Objection
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-07T19:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/express-scripts-asks-judge-to-toss-challenge-to-medco-purchase.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  asked for court
dismissal of a lawsuit by pharmacy trade groups trying to
prevent its $29.1 billion takeover of  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)   The groups sued St. Louis-based  Express Scripts  and Medco
March 29, claiming the transaction would violate U.S. antitrust
laws by reducing competition and raising consumer prices. They
filed an injunction request the next day.  The acquisition was first agreed upon in July. Express
Scripts completed its purchase of Medco on April 2 while the
request for an order blocking the deal was still before U.S.
District Judge Cathy Bissoon in Pittsburgh.  “Plaintiffs spent the intervening months between the
announcement and consummation of the merger attempting to
convince the government to challenge the transaction, but failed
to take any action on their own to challenge the merger in
court,” Express Scripts and Medco told Bissoon in papers filed
yesterday.  ‘Inexcusable’ Delay  The merging companies called their opponents’ delay
“inexcusable,” and said the trade groups had failed to support
their claim of irreparable harm.  The deal creates the largest pharmacy benefits manager in
the U.S. Express Scripts and  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based
Medco act as middlemen among drugmakers, pharmacies and health-
plan sponsors to manage patients’ benefits.  The Federal Trade Commission approved the purchase by a 3-1
vote on April 2. Clearance was unconditional, with the majority
of the commissioners saying their eight-month review of the deal
found “a competitive market for pharmacy benefit management
services.”  The National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the National
Community Pharmacists Association and independent pharmacies had
filed their emergency request to “hold separate Medco’s assets
and operations,” hours after the acquisition closed.  Bissoon has scheduled a hearing on April 10 for oral
arguments on the groups’ request to block the deal.  Chris Krese, a spokesman for the Alexandria, Virginia-based
National Association of Chain Drug Stores, declined to
immediately comment. Valerie Briggs, a spokeswoman with the
Alexandria, Virginia-based National Community Pharmacists
Association, didn’t immediately return calls or e-mails seeking
comment after regular business hours.  The case is National Association of Chain Drug Stores v.
Express Scripts, 2:12-cv-00395, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  