-- Mickelson Trails Hanson by One Shot in Masters’ Final Round
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-08T16:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/fred-couples-shares-masters-36-hole-lead-as-woods-is-8-back.html
Phil Mickelson  said he’s right where
he wants to be -- in the last group on the final day of golf’s
 Masters Tournament .  Mickelson begins today one stroke behind 54-hole leader
 Peter Hanson  as he seeks to join  Jack Nicklaus ,  Arnold Palmer 
and Tiger Woods as the only golfers to win at least four titles
at the season’s first major championship.  Mickelson and Hanson will go off together in the final
group after Mickelson mounted a late charge and finished with a
6-under-par 66 yesterday at Augusta National Golf Club in
Augusta,  Georgia . The Masters winner has come from the final
pairing 19 of the past 21 years.  “I just feel really confident in the way I’ve been playing,
the way I’ve been putting and in this setting and on this golf
course,” said Mickelson, who is 8-under par. “I love nothing
more than being in the last group on Sunday at the Masters. It’s
the greatest thing in professional golf.”  Hanson, making his second Masters appearance, is 9 under
after shooting a 7-under 65 yesterday, the best round of the
tournament. The Swede, who has four wins on the European Tour,
has never led in 38 previous U.S  PGA Tour  starts.  “I’ve never led in anything like this,” Hanson, who is
seeking to become  Sweden ’s first major tournament winner, said
at a news conference. “It’s going to be a tough night and just
try to do the normal stuff. I’ll just try to get as much sleep
as I can and try to be ready.”  Final Group  Hanson, whose best finish in a major was a tie for seventh
place at last year’s U.S. Open, played in a group with Mickelson
during the first two rounds. The duo will tee off at 2:40 p.m.
today local time.  “I know a one-shot lead over Mickelson is pretty much
nothing,” said Hanson.  Louis Oosthuizen , the 2010 British Open champion, is 7-
under par, one shot better than Bubba Watson.  Matt Kuchar  is
four shots off the lead, while  Padraig Harrington ,  Hunter Mahan ,
 Henrik Stenson  and Lee Westwood are 4 under.  Four-time Masters champion  Tiger Woods  is 11 shots behind
after scoring a birdie at the second hole today. Woods shot an
even-par 72 yesterday, the third straight day he failed to break
par.  Fred Couples , who was tied for the lead after 36 holes,
shot a 3-over 75 yesterday to fall to 2-under par.  Mickelson, 41, yesterday carded his best round at the
Masters since 1996, when he had a 65 on the opening day. He had
four birdies and an eagle over the final nine holes for a
second-nine score of 30, one off the Masters record.  Fighting Back  Mickelson said he was most pleased about being able to
fight his way back into contention after dropping to 4-over par
through 10 holes on the opening day of the tournament.  “I fought hard to get a couple back, knowing that there
was plenty of golf left, that I would get a hot hand at some
point,” Mickelson said. “I left myself in a position where if
I did get hot, I could move up the leaderboard, which is what
happened the last two days.”  Mickelson, who won the Masters in 2004, 2006 and 2010,
credited his knowledge of Augusta National’s greens with helping
him in his rally. He dropped an eagle putt of about 25 feet (7.6
meters) on the par-5 13th hole and closed his round with a 10-
foot birdie putt on No. 18, becoming the first player since
Justin Leonard in 1999 to birdie the closing hole the first
three days of the Masters.  Best on the Greens  Mickelson’s 77 putts over 54 holes is the fewest of the 62
players who will play the final round, two better than Hanson,
who is the only other golfer in the field who’s averaged less
than 1.5 putts per green.  Mickelson enters today as the 5-4 favorite to win,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel & Casino’s sports book, with
Hanson the second choice at odds of 4-1.  Woods, the winner of 14 major championships, is tied for
34th place. His worst finish in 17 previous Masters appearances
is a tie for 22nd place in 2004. Woods hasn’t finished worse
than sixth place in the past seven years at Augusta National,
dating back to his last win in 2005.  Rory McIlroy, who blew a four-shot final-round lead at the
Masters a year ago before winning the  U.S. Open , is 1-over par
for the tournament after shooting a third-round 5-over 77.  Defending Masters champion Charl Schwartzel is also 5-over
after beginning his final round with a birdie.  Luke Donald , the
No. 1 ranked player in the world, has advanced to 4-over, having
made three birdies in his opening eight holes today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta, Georgia, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  