-- Tiger Woods Finishes Worst Masters as Professional at 5-Over Par
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-04-08T20:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/tiger-woods-fails-to-break-par-at-masters-for-third-straight-day.html
  Tiger Woods  failed to break par for
the fourth straight round to finish 5-over par at golf’s  Masters
Tournament , his worst performance as a professional.  Woods shot a 2-over-par 74 in today’s final round at
Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta,  Georgia , after rounds of
72, 75 and 72. When he finished play, Woods was tied for 41st
place, 14 shots off the lead.  The worst previous Masters finish as a professional for the
four-time champion was a tie for 22nd place in 2004, when he had
rounds of 75, 69, 75 and 71. He has 12 career top-10 finishes at
the season’s first major championship and hadn’t finished
outside the top six the past seven years.  “You’re not going to play well every week and
unfortunately it was this week for me,” Woods, a 14-time major
champion, told reporters after his round. “I had the wrong
ball-striking week at the wrong time.”  Woods, 36, had arrived in Augusta coming off a win in his
last start, at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, his first U.S.
PGA Tour victory in 2 1/2 years. Woods was the pre-tournament
favorite of oddsmakers, yet extends a major championship drought
that stretches back to the 2008  U.S. Open .  “On a golf course like this, if you’re just a yard off
here and there, you end up 40-50 feet away,” Woods said.  Par-5 Misses  Woods hit 32 of 56 fairways off the tee, a 57 percent
accuracy rate that’s second-worst among the 62 players who
reached the final round. He also failed to take advantage of the
par-5 holes at Augusta National, with two birdies and one bogey
over four rounds.  Woods didn’t have a birdie or eagle on the four par-5s in
the second or third round, something he’d done only twice in his
previous 17 Masters appearances.  “This is a golf course you have to dominate the par-5s and
I didn’t do that all week,” Woods said.  Woods’s displeasure with his play boiled over at one point
in the second round, when he dropped and then kicked his 9-iron
in frustration after a poor tee shot at the par-3 16th hole. He
apologized for his actions following the third round.  Woods’s next chance for a major title will come at the U.S.
Open at the Olympic Club in  San Francisco  from June 14-17.  Asked if he still has faith in swing changes he’s made with
coach  Sean Foley , Woods said it remains a work in progress.  “I can get it on the range and get it dialed in there. It
feels really good,” Woods said outside the Augusta National
locker room. “Then when I go to the golf course I just don’t
quite trust it. It just means that I need to do more reps.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta, Georgia, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Buteau in Augusta, Georgia at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  