-- Tishman Plans San Francisco Offices as Tech Demand Surges
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-04-09T16:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/tishman-plans-san-francisco-offices-as-tech-firm-demand-surges.html
(Corrects growth in U.S. office rents in ninth paragraph
of story published April 7.)  Tishman Speyer Properties LP plans
to build a  San Francisco  office building without having a signed
tenant, the city’s first speculative project since 2006, as
demand for space surges amid growth at technology companies.  Tishman bought a parcel known as Foundry Square III in the
South of Market district and will “move ahead immediately”
with development,  Jerry Speyer  and  Rob Speyer , co-chief
executive officers of the New York-based firm, said in a
statement. Tishman paid $37 million in cash for the land and $4
million for architectural drawings, and won’t need a loan to
finance construction, said a person familiar with the plans who
asked not to be named because the terms of the deal are private.  “Office-space demand and rent growth have been extremely
strong in San Francisco,” the Speyers said in the statement to
Bloomberg News. “In a very supply-constrained market, this
creates an extraordinary opportunity for a developer with a
prime site and the ability to build without delay.”  The cost of developing the most desirable and best-located
offices, known as Class A space, is about $650 a square foot in
the city, said Michael Covarrubias, chief executive officer of
San Francisco-based developer TMG Partners. That would put
Foundry Square III construction at about $186 million, and the
total cost at $227 million, including the site and drawings.  Foundry Square III will have 286,000 square feet (26,600
square meters) of space, according to the person familiar with
Tishman’s plans. Tishman’s joint-venture partner for the project
is J.P. Morgan Asset Management’s Global Real Assets unit, on
behalf of institutional investors, the person said.  Rockefeller Center  Rick Matthews , a spokesman for closely held Tishman,
declined to comment on Foundry Square III beyond the statement
from the Speyers. Jerry and Rob Speyer are father and son. Their
company’s holdings include such New York landmarks as
Rockefeller Center and the Chrysler Building. The San Francisco
Business Times reported the firm’s building plans yesterday.  “Given the current difficulty in securing financing for
new construction, starting a downtown spec office building is
indeed a rarity,” Peter C. Roberts, Americas CEO for brokerage
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , said in an e-mail. “There is not much
spec office development at all.”  More than 1 million square feet of leases were signed by
technology companies in San Francisco in the first two months of
2012. Among the firms signing contracts for space were
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ,  Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD) 
and  Macy’s Inc. (M) ’s online store, according to Mayor Edwin Lee’s
office.  Biggest Rent Growth  San Francisco’s metropolitan area led the U.S. in effective
office-rent growth with a 6.8 percent advance in the first
quarter from a year earlier, according to research firm  Reis
Inc. (REIS)  New York was second at 4.8 percent and the U.S. average was
2.1 percent, the New York-based research firm reported April 5.
Effective rents are what tenants actually pay landlords after
concessions.  “The growth chart looks like a straight up exclamation
point, not a hockey stick as before,” said Covarrubias, whose
closely held company renovated a South of Market building for
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , then agreed last month to sell it to the online-game
maker for $228 million.  Tishman bought the Foundry Square site from San Francisco-
based developer Wilson Meany Sullivan, according to the person
familiar with the deal. The acquisition was completed April 4,
the person said.  Glenn Bunting, a spokesman for Wilson Meany Sullivan,
declined to comment.  Late 1990s Development  Foundry Square was conceived in the first Internet wave of
the late 1990s as four buildings, each 10 stories high, at First
and Howard streets. Foundry Square III is the last to be built.
Foundry Square I, occupied by money manager  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , is
set to be sold for $240 million to State Teachers Retirement
System of  Ohio , a person familiar with the transaction said last
month. Foundry Square II is leased to  law firm   Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP (1141L) , and Foundry Square IV, leased to
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , is on the market.  Landlords hold sway in San Francisco after last year’s
record 2.9 million square feet of occupancy growth, according to
the San Francisco office of Cassidy Turley. The amount of leased
space in the city is now greater than it was in 2007, before the
U.S. real estate downturn and recession, Frank Fudem, a partner
at the commercial brokerage, wrote in a February letter to
clients.  “San Francisco faces the risk of a sharp rent spike, on
top of rates that are already considerably higher than just a
year ago,” Fudem said in the letter.  Tishman also built San Francisco’s last speculative office
project, a 34-story Class A tower with 555,000 square feet, at
555 Mission St. The developer has approval to construct a 27-
story building with 450,000 square feet at 222 Second St., also
in partnership with the J.P. Morgan Asset Management unit. The
tower may be ready for construction in the first quarter of
2013, said the person familiar with Tishman’s plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  