-- Japan, China to ‘Consult Closely’ on Support for IMF, Azumi Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-04-07T05:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/japan-china-to-consult-closely-on-support-for-imf-azumi-says.html
Japan  and China will seek to
coordinate on supporting the International Monetary Fund’s
effort to contain Europe’s debt crisis, Japanese Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  said.  “Rather than make decisions independently, we’ve agreed to
consult each other very closely” on financial contributions to
the IMF, Azumi told reporters today after meeting with Chinese
Finance Minister  Xie Xuren  in Tokyo.  The finance ministers of Asia’s two largest economies met
before the Group of 20 countries gathering later this month in
 Washington . One topic at the G-20 meeting will be increasing
cooperation with the IMF. The Fund needs more resources to
shield the global economy from threats of strains on Europe’s
financial system, rising oil prices and high unemployment,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said this week.  “It won’t probably be smooth for G-20 nations to hammer
out details for their contributions to the IMF,”  Tomoko Fujii ,
a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in Tokyo, said before Azumi and Xie met. “It’s important
for Japan to check China’s intention on this, while China
probably wants to increase its political influence if it puts up
money.”  The IMF asked in January for as much as $500 billion in
additional lending resources. Member countries have been
reluctant to pitch until European nations did more to help
themselves. The U.S. has refused to increase its contribution to
the fund.  ‘Not Convincing’  European finance ministers decided March 30 that 500
billion euros ($667 billion) in fresh money would be added to
the 300 billion euros already committed to create an 800
billion-euro defense against the two-year-old turmoil. Euro-area
finance chiefs insisted that they’ve fulfilled their side of the
bargain.  “The firewall European nations presented in March isn’t
convincing enough to give momentum to discussions for other
countries’ financial contributions to the IMF,” Fujii said.  Concerns about  Europe ’s debt crisis were rekindled this
week as  Spain ’s borrowing costs surged on concern that the
country’s public debt will expand and the region’s fourth-
largest economy may ask for a bailout. Yields on Spain’s 10-year
bonds rose to a four-month high.  “Europe’s crisis hasn’t ended” even as the situation
improves from last year, Azumi said today. “This still needs
careful monitoring and we can’t yet become optimistic.”  Yet to Decide  Japan and China have yet to decide on cooperation with the
IMF, and will continue their discussions on this until the G-20
meeting, Azumi said today. The nations agreed to strengthen and
expand Asia’s regional currency swap agreement, sharing a view
that “there is a need for Japan and China to cooperate to
prevent crisis in  Asia ,” he said.  Possible G-20 support for the global economy could be
similar to a G-20 decision in April 2009 to triple the fund’s
resources as part of plan to avoid the global economy from
slipping into a recession. At the time, the U.S. and Japan each
contributed $100 billion, the EU $178 billion and China $50
billion.  Azumi and Xie today agreed the world economy continues to
grow at a moderate pace even as many uncertainties still remain,
according to a statement released by the Japanese  finance
ministry .  Today’s meeting is the second this year between the two
finance ministers. Azumi visited Beijing in February and met Xie
and Vice Premier  Wang Qishan .  Growth Targets  China  last month pared this year’s economic growth target
to 7.5 percent from the 8 percent goal in place since 2005, part
of government plans to tilt growth toward consumption and away
from exports. In the fourth quarter of last year, the world’s
second-largest economy grew 8.9 percent.  Azumi said he was told today that China’s domestic demand
has been firm and consumption stronger than expected. He said he
considers it possible that China can achieve this year’s
targeted 7.5 percent growth or ever a greater expansion.  Azumi also said it’s fully possible Japan can achieve its
growth goal of 2% for the fiscal year started April 1, as demand
from reconstruction is emerging even as the economy struggles
with the yen’s appreciation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  