-- India’s Singh Accepts Zardari’s Invitation to Visit Pakistan
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-04-08T10:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/pakistan-president-on-first-india-visit-since-2005-as-ties-warm.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
accepted Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari’s invitation to
visit the neighboring country after a “constructive” meeting
today.  “President Zardari and I have had a very constructive and
friendly exchange of views on all bilateral issues,” Singh told
reporters after a half-hour-long meeting. “I am very satisfied
with the outcome of this visit.”  This is the first time Pakistan’s head of state has crossed
the border since 2005, as the countries build on a peace process
that resumed last year. Zardari held talks with Singh in New
Delhi before the two leaders had lunch. Zardari left for the
Rajasthan city of Ajmer for a personal trip to a Sufi religious
shrine.  Zardari invited Singh to visit  Pakistan  by the end of this
year. “I will be very happy to visit Pakistan on a mutually
convenient date,” Singh said.  Singh’s visit to Pakistan would be the first by an Indian
head of government since January 2004 when former Prime Minister
Atal Bihari Vajpayee visited Islamabad for talks with former
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf.  The nuclear-armed nations have in recent months agreed to
boost trade, expand travel across their frontier in divided
Kashmir and grant more business visas as they normalize economic
ties. Peace talks, derailed by the November 2008 terrorist
strike on Mumbai by Pakistani gunmen that killed 166 people,
restarted in February 2011.  ‘All Topics’  “We have a number of issues and we are willing to find
practical, pragmatic solutions to all those issues,” Singh
said. Zardari expressed his willingness to have better relations
with  India . “We had spoken on all topics that we could have
spoken about,” the Pakistani president said.  A day before Zardari’s visit, an avalanche struck a
military post in the Siachen region burying 135 people and
underscoring the cost of the countries’ rivalry in what is
called the world’s highest battlefield. Pakistan’s army said 124
soldiers were among those buried when the avalanche hit a
military post. Singh offered his guest humanitarian help for the
avalanche victims, Indian Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai told
reporters after the leaders’ deliberations.  Pakistan’s Cabinet in March approved a proposal to remove
restrictions on the import of most items from India by December.  While their focus has been on ways to promote bilateral
trade, the nations have made less progress on addressing India’s
demands that Pakistan crack down on militant groups that have
targeted India from across the border.  Hafiz Muhammad Saeed  In particular, India may continue to press Pakistan to take
action against Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, the founder of the Lashkar-
e-Taiba militant group that India and the U.S. have blamed for
carrying out the Mumbai strike. The two leaders discussed the
problem of terrorism and Saeed, Mathai said.  The U.S. has offered a $10 million reward for help in
arresting Saeed, who continues to address public rallies,
increasing its pressure on Pakistan to move against the
prominent politician and Islamic militant leader.  The Mumbai attack shattered a dialogue that over five years
had increased cross-border trade and strengthened transport and
cultural links. Zardari became president in September 2008,
replacing military leader  Pervez Musharraf , who had visited
India three years earlier for talks in New Delhi and a cricket
match.  Alleged Corruption  While Singh and Zardari have battled to inject new energy
to negotiations, both men have been damaged by controversies at
home.  Singh’s administration has been assailed by opposition
parties and allies over efforts to open the economy to more
foreign investment. Alleged government corruption triggered
street protests last year and contributed to defeats in recent
regional elections.  Zardari, too, has been fighting on several fronts. His
prime minister,  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani , is on trial for
contempt in Pakistan’s high court for refusing to order the
reopening of Swiss graft charges against the president.  In separate hearings, the country’s top judges are probing
claims that Zardari sought U.S. assistance in May to ward off a
feared military coup in the wake of Osama bin Laden’s killing in
an army garrison town by American special forces.  Pakistan was carved out of India at independence from
British colonial rule in 1947. Since then the countries have
fought three wars, two of them over the divided territory of
Kashmir, and several skirmishes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  