-- Treasuries Gain After Jobs Increase Falls Below Forecasts
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-04-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/treasuries-gain-after-jobs-increase-falls-below-forecasts.html
Treasuries rose, with 10-year note
yields falling the most since December, as less-than-forecast
job growth renewed speculation the  Federal Reserve  will provide
more monetary stimulus to support the economic recovery.  The benchmark  note  gained for a third consecutive week
after the Labor Department said yesterday that employers added
120,000 jobs in March and the jobless rate fell to 8.2 percent.
Treasuries rallied on concern the European debt crisis is
worsening as rising borrowing costs make it more difficult to
finance deficits in nations such as Spain. The U.S. will sell
$66 billion in three-, 10-, and 30-year debt next week.  “Things were not quite as rosy as previous numbers led us
to believe, and we are seeing some payback for that,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo
Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “One number won’t determine
the Fed’s action, but it does give them more cover to remain
dovish.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  fell this week 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 2.05 percent in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Thirty-year bond
yields fell 12 basis points, the most since December, to 3.22
percent.  The increase in payrolls, the fewest in five months,
followed a revised 240,000 gain in February that was bigger than
first estimated, Labor Department figures showed in  Washington .
The March increase was less than the most pessimistic forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey, in which the median estimate called
for a 205,000 rise.  Additional Stimulus  Unemployment fell to the lowest since January 2009, from
8.3 percent. The data also showed Americans worked fewer hours
and earned less on average per week.  Investors continue to price in some probability that the
Fed may initiate a third round of asset purchases, or
quantitative easing, amid signs that the pace of the recovery
remains subject to risks, including rising oil prices and
continued turmoil in  Europe .  “A couple of members” of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  indicated that additional stimulus could become
necessary if the economy lost momentum or if inflation stayed
below 2 percent, according to minutes of its March 13 meeting
released April 3. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
that, while he’s encouraged by the unemployment rate’s decline,
continued accommodative monetary policy will be needed to make
further progress.  ‘On the Table’  “QE3 is firmly on the table again,” said Alan De Rose,
head of Treasury trading at Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. “In terms of
the economic backdrop, it’s not as strong as many people
thought.”  After buying $2.3 trillion of assets to support the economy
in two rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June,
the central bank has been replacing shorter maturities in its
holdings with longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs without
increasing holdings on its balance sheet. The $400 billion
program, known as Operation Twist, is due to end in June.  The 10-year yield rose 10 basis points to 1.92 percent Feb.
3 after Labor Department data showed the economy added 200,000
jobs, 60,000 more than the consensus forecast. The yield fell 14
basis points to 1.99 percent on Sept. 2 after the government
said there had been no job growth in August, compared with a
forecast for a gain of 68,000 positions.  ‘In Play’  “It keeps the Fed in play,” said Jason Brady, who manages
bonds in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , at Thornburg Investment
Management, which oversees $72 billion. “We had bought into a
story, as a market, that was about continuous improvements in
the employment situation. This definitely puts that into
question.”  The Treasury Department will sell $32 billion in three-year
notes, $21 billion in 10-year notes, and $13 billion 30-year
bonds from April 10 to April 12.  Yields fell earlier in the week after Spain’s borrowing
costs climbed as the yield on the country’s 10-year bonds gained
13 basis points to 5.82 percent. The yield difference, or
spread, between Spanish 10-year securities and similar-maturity
German bunds rose to more than 400 basis points for the first
time since Dec. 12.  Spain , the euro region’s fourth-largest economy, is in
“extreme difficulty,” Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said April
4, raising the likelihood of a bailout for the second time this
week. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said April 4 that the economic
outlook remained subject to “downside risks.”  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.51 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of banks
and securities companies, with the most recent projections given
the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  