-- Sarkozy Condemns Offshore Oil Drilling Plans in Mediterranean
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-07T14:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/sarkozy-condemns-offshore-oil-drilling-plans-in-mediterranean.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
condemned oil and natural gas exploration in the French
Mediterranean as protesters prepared to march tomorrow against a
drilling plan.  “It’s a crazy idea, go and look for oil somewhere else if
there is some,” Sarkozy said in a campaign speech today in
Saint-Raphael, a resort on the southern French Riviera. “I want
to protect our scenery, it’s part of our identity.”  Sarkozy, who is seeking re-election in a two-round vote
April 22 and May 6, reiterated remarks made yesterday in Caen
against Mediterranean drilling near the Calanques cliffs, a
popular tourist spot near Marseille.  The “Non aux Hydrocarbures en Mer” (No to Offshore
Hydrocarbons) movement is planning a protest near the Bregancon
fort tomorrow to warn against the dangers of pollution linked to
oil exploration in the sea. The march near the presidential
retreat is designed to put pressure on the government not to
renew an exploration permit, according to the group’s  website .  Melrose Resources Plc (MRS)  and partner Noble Energy  France  have
applied to the French government for an extension until November
2015 of an exploration license in the French part of the
Mediterranean.  Sarkozy today compared his opposition to offshore drilling
in the Mediterranean with the search for oil and natural gas in
shale rock. France last year became the first country in the
world to ban hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a technique used
in the U.S. to extract energy from shale. The law was approved
by parliament with support from Sarkozy’s party as well as the
opposition Socialists.  Melrose is studying data from the French permit and hasn’t
yet provided details of drilling plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  