-- Saudi Shares Fall a Second Day on Europe Risk; Almarai Declines
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-07T13:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/saudi-shares-fall-a-second-day-on-europe-risk-almarai-declines.html
Saudi shares dropped for a second
day on speculation this year’s rally was overdone amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will weigh on global economic growth and
after  Almarai Co. (ALMARAI)  reported lower-than-expected earnings.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker known as Sabic, fell 0.9 percent. Almarai,
Saudi Arabia’s largest food producer by market value, fell the
most in more than a year after first-quarter profit fell below
expectations. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  lost 0.4 percent to
7,862.51 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, the lowest since
March 31. The gauge has advanced  23 percent  so far this year.  “The index had run up quite a bit and we are seeing some
profit-taking,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity analyst at Riyad
Capital.  “The run up was partly in anticipation of quarterly
numbers, Almarai’s were a little disappointing.”  Almarai reported a 2.9 percent increase in first-quarter
profit to 242.1 million riyals ($65 million) as sales increased
on expansion in the  Persian Gulf . That fell short of the 278-
million riyal median estimate of three analysts, according to
data compiled on Bloomberg. The shares decreased 4.9 percent,
the most since March 2011, to 68.25 riyals.  Emerging-market stocks fell last week after sluggish demand
at Spain’s debt sale and slowing German factory output fueled
concern Europe’s debt crisis is spreading. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the region’s economic outlook is
“subject to downside risks.” Employers in the U.S. added fewer
jobs than forecast in March, underscoring Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s concern that recent gains may not be
sustained without a pickup in growth.  “The unemployment numbers have fuelled fears of an
economic slowdown, and that the global economic recovery is not
as anticipated,” Bukhtiar said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.5 percent last week,
while  Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  retreated 0.7 percent. The
U.S. market was closed yesterday for a holiday.  Sabic fell the most since March 28 to 108 riyals.  Saudi
Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse that is
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  