-- Syrian Forces Press Offensive Three Days Before Cease-Fire Start
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-07T12:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/syrian-forces-press-offensive-three-days-before-cease-fire-start.html
Syrian troops pressed on with their
attacks on opposition forces before a promised April 10 military
pullback from cities to end more than a year of fighting.  Syrian forces killed at least 53 civilians today, including
40 in Aellatamna when government forces stormed the town in
central  Syria , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in
an e-mailed statement. Troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad
also shelled Homs and carried out strikes in Hama, the U.K.-
based rights group said.  Western nations and their Arab allies say they have seen
little sign of restraint from Syrian forces since Assad pledged
to United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan  on April 2 to stop using
heavy weapons on civilians and begin withdrawing from population
centers. The situation in Syria “continues to deteriorate” as
the government keeps up attacks on cities and towns, United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said on April 5 in an
address to members of the UN General Assembly in  New York .  At least 9,000 people have been killed in the yearlong
conflict, the UN estimates. A group of UN officials arrived in
Damascus on April 5 to begin preparations for a cease-fire
monitoring force if the Syrian government complies.  Syrian Accusations  Syria accused “armed terrorist groups” of increasing
their attacks during the “last few days,” the official  Syrian
Arab News Agency  reported today, citing two government letters
addressed to the president of the UN Security Council and the UN
Secretary General. These groups are backed by Arab and Western
countries, the news service said.  Syria says it is fighting foreign terrorists, armed gangs
and Islamists, and blames countries such as  Saudi Arabia , Qatar,
 Turkey  and the U.S. for aiding the opposition. Saudi Foreign
Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said earlier this month that the
kingdom supports arming the Syrian rebels so they can defend
themselves.  The  Security Council  urged Assad on April 5 to stop using
heavy weapons against the Syrian opposition and to “urgently and
visibly” withdraw his forces from cities under an agreement
negotiated by Annan. The Council asked all groups to cease armed
violence within 48 hours of implementation of the pullback
pledge.  Eight army personnel and four members of Syrian
intelligence died in fighting today, the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  