-- Yemen Loyalist Forces Deploy in Sana’a After Generals Ousted
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-04-07T11:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-07/yemen-loyalist-forces-deploy-in-sana-a-after-generals-ousted-1-.html
Yemeni forces loyal to ousted
president Ali Abdullah Saleh deployed in the southern part of
Sana’a and shelled an opposition general’s house after the
country’s new president removed some military commanders.  Loyalist forces shelled the house of Major General Ali
Mohsen al-Ahmar, commander of the First Armored Division,
without causing injuries, Abdulghani al-Shameri, the spokesman
for the general, said in a phone interview today. Forces loyal
to the air force commander closed Sana’a airport and threatened
to shoot down any aircraft taking off,  Al Arabiya  reported
today, citing its correspondent.  Yemen, bordering  Saudi Arabia  and Oman at the southern tip
of the Arabian Peninsula, is struggling to recover from protests
that weakened the central government’s authority and reduced oil
production to about half of its 250,000 barrel a day capacity.
Abdurabu Mansur Hadi, who was elected president of the Arab
world’s poorest country in February, is implementing the most
sweeping changes to the armed forces after Saleh agreed in
November to relinquish power under a Gulf-brokered peace plan.  The Gulf Cooperation Council urged all political parties in
Yemen to support Hadi “in moving forward” with the Gulf plan,
Abdullatif al-Zayani, secretary-general of the six-member group,
said today in an e-mailed statement. The GCC supports all
measure taken by Hadi to get “out of the current crisis,” al-
Zayani said.  Commanders Ousted  Hadi ousted Mohammed Saleh al-Ahmar yesterday from his post
as commander of the  air force  after more than two months of
protests by soldiers and officers demanding his removal. He is
the half-brother of the ousted president. Hadi also dismissed
Tariq Mohammed Saleh, Saleh’s nephew, from his post as a
commander of the presidential guards and Mohammed al-Maqdashi, a
Saleh loyalist, from his position as commander of the central
military region, state TV said.  Hadi also removed Mohammed Ali Mohsen, commander of the
eastern military region, who defected last year and joined the
revolt against Saleh, as well as the commander of the maritime
forces. Saleh’s son, Ahmed, remains the commander of the elite
Republican Guard, and Saleh’s nephew, Yahia Saleh, retains his
position as chief of the central security forces.  Omar al-Arhabi, the head of  Yemen Petroleum Co. , was also
dismissed from his position, according to state TV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  