-- ‘Ghost’ is Banal, Blinding; ‘Lyons’ Electrifies: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-24T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/-ghost-is-banal-blinding-lyons-electrifies-review.html
If the comic-book ideal appeals to
you as much as it apparently did to director Matthew Warchus --
and if you haven’t been to the movies in, say, a couple of
decades -- “Ghost: The Musical” has plenty to offer.  Palpitating with light-emitting diodes that blink, flicker,
zip and flash, “Ghost” is like “Spider-Man: Turn Off the
Dark” without the depth.  Before you know it, ushers at musicals will be handing out
3D glasses to customers. Which will be odd, you know, since
Broadway shows generally take place in all three dimensions.  Clever use of video, moving panels and scrims sort of
thrust you into the rush of New York City craziness and menace.
Buildings whiz by.  Views from the heights may make you dizzy. Characters
magically disappear or walk through doors and speeding subway
cars.  Based on the 1990 Jerry Zucker  film , “Ghost” is the story
of Sam Wheat (Richard Fleeshman in the Patrick Swayze role), a
super buff banker, and his girlfriend Molly Jensen (Caissie
Levy, in  Demi Moore ’s part), a struggling sculptress.  Their combined incomes allow them to buy raw loft space and
convert it into a posh passion pit-cum-potter’s studio.  Bad Break  When Sam is killed in a botched robbery set up by his
dastardly assistant, he teams up with sketchy psychic con artist
Oda Mae Brown (Da’Vine Joy Randolph, in the Whoopi Goldberg
role) to protect Molly and -- spoiler alert -- finally tell her
how much he loves her.  There are enough LEDs to compete with the billboards
outside the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre in Times Square. They give the
show the look of a video game, which the creative team says was
their intention.  Unsurprisingly, Rob Howell’s physical production (with
video and projections by Jon Driscoll, illusions by Paul Kieve,
lighting by Hugh Vanstone and sound by Bobby Aitken) vastly
overwhelm the slim plot.  As the lovers, Fleeshman and Levy have the generic appeal
of Broadway understudies, competent while lacking in style or
star quality.  Vulgar Caricature  Randolph’s Oda Mae, on the other hand, has been turned into
a vulgar, wild-eyed caricature of the type that Goldberg
scrupulously avoided in her Oscar-winning performance. I doubt
it’s Randolph’s fault.  Warchus keeps things moving at warp speed except when
choreographer Ashley Wallen stops the show in its tracks for
dances with all the artistry of a Jane Fonda workout.  Screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin wrote the book and banal
lyrics, the latter with  Dave Stewart  and Glen Ballard, who also
wrote the tunes. All except one: “Unchained Melody,” the
hypnotic ‘50s pop ballad that anchored the film.  That song has lyrics by Hy Zaret to a tune by Alex North
-- the composer, as it happens, of the incidental music for
“Death of a Salesman” also getting a second life, in Mike Nichols’s current Broadway revival.  There’s more heart and soul in that number than in all the
exhausting busyness around it.  At 205 W. 46th St. Information: +1-877-250-2929;
 http://www.ticketmaster.com .
Rating: *  ‘The Lyons’  In Nicky Silver’s brutal comedy “The Lyons,” Linda Lavin
dives into the role of Rita, a mother embittered by a mediocre
and mostly loveless life, and finds a wellspring of feeling that
saves the play from drowning in bile.  The play, staged by Mark Brokaw, has moved uptown from the
invaluable Vineyard Theatre. It opens in a hospital room, where
the impending death of her unloved and unloving husband Ben (the
incomparably gruff Dick Latessa) does nothing to soften Rita’s
withering attitude.  “Even if there is a hell, I can’t believe you’re going,”
she tells him. “I mean, it’s a little grandiose of you.”  Rita holds back nothing from her grown children, either.  Curtis (Michael Esper), her gay son, is a struggling writer
with imaginary boyfriends; he can’t let go of “the Hindenberg
of my childhood.”  Lisa (Kate Jennings Grant), is a recovering alcoholic who
strikes up a relationship with the dying man down the hall.  Silver, an expert in unearthing powerful connections in
dysfunctional families, finds a way to make us sympathize with
Rita, especially when she announces her intention of cutting off
Lisa and Curtis financially in order to take up with a beau who
promises her a life of fun.  ‘Everything Changes’  “It may seem fast, or look abrupt, but that’s the way the
world is,” she tells her astonished children. “You wait and
wait and wait and then everything changes, all at once!”  The look on their faces -- fear, abandonment, desperation,
disbelief -- as she takes her leave speaks volumes as the lights
go down. It’s an unforgettable moment.  At the Cort Theatre, 138 W. 48th St. Information: +1-212-
239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include James Pressley on  Paul Krugman 
and Manuela Hoelterhoff on  Pablo Heras-Casado .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 