-- ‘Rogue’ Shale Cracks Beyond 600 Meters Unlikely, Researchers Say
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-04-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/-rogue-shale-cracks-beyond-600-meters-unlikely-researchers-say.html
Hydraulic fracturing to increase
gas output has a fraction of a 1 percent chance of causing
unintended cracks in the earth beyond 600 meters (656 yards),
according to research in Marine and Petroleum Geology.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has opened vast shale
gas deposits and helped push U.S. gas prices to the lowest level
in a decade. It involves injecting water, sand and chemicals
into deep shale formations to break apart underground rock and
free natural gas trapped deep underground, a technique that some
critics have said risks contaminating ground water aquifers.  The research published in the scientific journal today, led
by Durham University and based on data from thousands of U.S.
fracking operations and natural fractures in Europe and  Africa ,
showed the odds of “rogue” cracks extending beyond 350 meters
at 1 percent, according to a statement from the university.  “The process itself is a bit of a red herring in terms of
the chance of it causing aquifer contamination,” Richard Davies, a co-author of the report, said in an interview. “The
earth is very good at limiting these things.”  The researchers, also from Cardiff University and Norway’s
University of Tromso, recommended regulating a minimum vertical
distance between gas reservoirs and aquifers for stimulated
fracturing. In areas where the technique has not been used, it
should be “significantly in excess” of 600 meters, they said.  “The chances of rogue fractures due to shale gas fracking
operations extending beyond 0.6 kilometres from the injection
source is a fraction of 1 percent,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  