-- T. Rowe Price Profit Profit Rises as Janus Reports Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-04-24T20:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/t-rowe-price-s-profit-rises-tk-after-markets-rally.html
T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  reported
higher earnings as investors added money during a quarter that
saw redemptions and falling profit at rival  Janus Capital Group
Inc. (JNS)   T. Rowe Price, the Baltimore-based  money manager  that has
posted a profit every quarter since going public in 1986, said
net income in the first quarter increased 1.4 percent to $196.5
million, or 75 cents a share. Janus, the Denver-based owner of
the Janus, Intech and Perkins funds, said profit fell 40 percent
to $22.6 million, or 12 cents a share, missing the 16-cent
average estimate of 5 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer James Kennedy has expanded T. Rowe
Price’s retirement products, driving a record $12.4 billion in
net deposits in the first three months of the year, a period in
which Janus’s clients pulled $2.5 billion. The difference
highlights the challenges for Glenn S. Schafer, who was named in
January to replace chairman Steven L. Scheid after eight years
during which at least 15 fund managers and senior executives
left and the company lost more than half of its market value.  T. Rowe Price “saw a nice step up in flows in the first
quarter that is likely to reflect the seasonal increase to
retirement-related accounts,”  Michael Kim , an analyst with
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York , said in a telephone
interview before results were announced. Janus is facing
“continued pressure from falling performance fees given their
long-term track records.”  Target-Date Funds  T. Rowe Price rose 1.5 percent to $61.95 in New York,
bringing gains this year to 8.8 percent, compared with the 14
percent increase in the  Standard & Poor’s  index of asset
managers and custody banks. Janus declined 2.4 percent to $7.74.
Janus has gained 23 percent since the start of the year.  Investors poured $5.3 billion into T. Rowe Price’s mutual
funds, including $3.5 billion into bond funds and $2.5 billion
into stock and blended assets funds. Institutional investors and
wealthy individuals added $7.1 billion. The deposits, and an 11
percent increase in the  MSCI ACWI Index (MXWD)  of global stocks,
boosted assets under management by 13 percent to $554.8 billion.
About three-fourths of T. Rowe Price’s assets are invested in
equities.  Target-date retirement funds and trusts, which
automatically shift money into more conservative investments as
the client ages, attracted $4.2 billion in the first quarter, up
from $2.9 billion a year ago. Target-date products hold 14
percent of the firm’s assets under management.  ‘Gaining Momentum’  “We had better performance than others in target-date
funds and the asset class as a whole is gaining momentum,”
Kennedy said in a telephone interview.  T. Rowe’s target-date funds beat 92 percent of competing
funds, on average over the past three and five years, according
to data compiled by research firm Lipper.The firm said 73
percent of its mutual funds beat their average competitors over
one year and 75 percent over three years, according to Lipper.  Janus’s stock fund performance remained “challenged,” the
company said, with just 39 percent of fundamental equity funds
ranking in the top half of similarly managed funds over one
year. Fixed-income funds did better, with 100 percent in the top
half. More than four-fifths of Janus’ assets are invested in
equities.  Janus’s fixed-income funds, which account for about 14
percent of assets, were the firm’s only product category to
report net deposits after drawing $1.2 billion from investors.
Assets under management fell 5.5 percent from a year earlier to
$164 billion.  Fee Reductions  The drop contributed to a 10 percent decline in investment
management fees. Revenue fell 18 percent to $218.4 million as
poor performance reduced fees by $19 million. Expenses fell 10
percent, primarily because of a 12 percent drop in compensation.  Money-management firms earn fees on the funds they manage
for clients. Janus’s mutual funds adjust fees lower or higher
based on the funds’ performance over trailing 12- to 36-month
periods.  Janus’s performance issues coincided with a number of
departures under Scheid. When the firm was sued by former fund
manager Ed Keely for alleged contract violations, Scheid
testified during the May 2009 trial that portfolio managers had
threatened to “smear Janus’s name in the marketplace” if
Scheid didn’t fire then CEO Gary Black. Janus lost the case and
was ordered to pay $7.5 million in compensation and legal costs.  Schafer, a director since December 2007, will replace
Scheid as chairman when he retires this month. CEO Richard M.
Weil, a former executive at Pacific Investment Management Co.
who replaced Black in February 2010, has worked to diversify
Janus’s offerings, improve sales and cut costs.  ‘Fragile’ Recovery  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, said in
reporting results April 18 that clients withdrew $48 billion in
the first quarter. Market gains and foreign-exchange swings
helped the New York firm increase net income by 0.7 percent to
$572 million as assets rose to $3.68 trillion.  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink said clients are
still overwhelmed by fear as global markets remain “fragile”
despite the first-quarter rally.  T. Rowe’s revenue rose 6.8 percent to $728.7 million.
Expenses climbed 11 percent to $412.5 million that included a
7.3 increase in compensation. The company said it expects
advertising and promotion costs to rise “modestly” in 2012
over last year.  “We are reasonably confident the economic recovery is
sustainable,” Kennedy said. “We think people will take more
risk in their portfolios as they gain more confidence in the
marketplace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  