-- 76ers Grab NBA Playoff Spot by Beating Nets in New Jersey Finale
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/76ers-grab-nba-playoff-spot-by-beating-nets-in-new-jersey-finale.html
The Philadelphia 76ers clinched the
final playoff spot in the  National Basketball Association ’s
Eastern Conference with a 105-87 win against a Nets team playing
its last game in New Jersey.  Elton Brand, Jrue Holiday and Thaddeus Young each scored 15
points for the 76ers, who are headed to the postseason for the
fourth time in five years. Philadelphia has won three games in a
row after losing seven of its previous nine.  “It was good that we were able to play good basketball
right when we needed to put ourselves together and get ready for
the playoffs,” 76ers forward Andre Iguodala, who added 14
points, nine assists and seven rebounds, told reporters.  Philadelphia and the  New York  Knicks, who had already
locked up a playoff berth, are tied for seventh in the
conference with 34-30 records with two regular-season games left.
If the teams finish with identical records, the Knicks would
take the seventh spot since they won two of their three games
against Philadelphia this season.  The 76ers’ victory at the Prudential Center in  Newark  ended
the Nets’ 35-year tenure in  New Jersey , as the franchise moves
to  Brooklyn , New York, next season. The Nets’ final regular-
season game will be on the road and while some signs at the
Prudential Center bid a fond farewell to the team, New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  wasn’t among those upset at the Nets’
departure.  “You don’t want to stay, we don’t want you,” Christie
said yesterday at a news conference when asked about the Nets’
final game. “I’m not going to be in the business of begging
people to stay here. They want to leave here and go to Brooklyn,
good riddance, see you later.”  The Nets fell to 22-43 with the loss, including a 9-24
record at home this season.  The eighth and final playoff spot in the Western Conference
will be decided between  Utah  and Phoenix, with the Jazz (34-30)
hosting the Suns (33-31) tonight. Utah can clinch its first trip
to the playoffs since 2010 with a win.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  