-- ABB Sees German Renewables Risk Decision in Third Quarter
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-04-24T14:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/abb-sees-german-renewables-risk-decision-in-third-quarter.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest
power-grid supplier, expects Germany to decide by the third
quarter on large transmission projects’ risk-sharing that may
help push European industry investment in renewable energy.  “Germany is a leader, clearly,” as its government
promotes resources such as solar and wind energy to replace
nuclear power and reduce fossil-fuel use, Brice Koch, ABB’s
power systems head, said in an interview yesterday at the
Hanover trade fair. Regulations there for next-generation power
networks are likely to be a model for other countries, he said.  Power-industry players including Zurich-based ABB and
transmission-network operators are  holding talks  with German
authorities on how to upgrade the country’s grid. The European
Union needs 140 billion euros ($185 billion) of investment in
power transmission over the next 10 years as utilities expand
into renewable energy, the European Commission said on Oct. 19.  “Much of this investment still has to materialize,” Koch
said. “Hopefully we should see an acceleration, once we get
through some of the economic uncertainty in  Europe .” Any delays
in decisions on spending “could affect Europe’s ability to
integrate renewable-energy sources and meet climate-change
objectives.”  ABB competes with Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest
engineering company, and  France ’s  Alstom SA (ALO)  to produce high-
voltage direct-current  power lines . Germany has set a target of
producing 35 percent of its electricity from renewable sources
by 2020.  Sharing Risk  Financial risk for new projects should be spread more
evenly to include such parties as the government and renewable-
energy suppliers instead of the current system of placing the
bulk of responsibility on the network operator, Koch said.
German discussions on the topic are likely to be completed in
the third quarter, he said. Spokesmen at the German Economy
Ministry weren’t immediately available to comment.  ABB has spent about $1 billion on high-voltage direct
current and related technologies in the last two to three years,
about the same as the company’s total planned capital
expenditure for this year, Koch said.  The manufacturer is “investing heavily in production,”
and is looking forward to more contracts along the lines of its
record $1 billion order from Dutch-German network operator
TenneT Holding BV to link offshore North Sea wind farms with
 Germany ’s main grid, Koch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  