-- Abu Dhabi’s Wealth Fund Said to Hire Axa Private Equity’s Florin
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-04-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/abu-dhabi-s-wealth-fund-said-to-hire-axa-private-equity-s-florin.html
Christophe Florin, chief operating
officer of Axa Private Equity, has left to join the  Abu Dhabi 
Investment Authority, according to three people with knowledge
of the matter, as it seeks to expand its staff for acquisitions.  Florin, who was also a member of the executive board of
French insurer  Axa SA (CS) ’s private-equity unit, will head ADIA’s
emerging markets private-equity team, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the appointment has yet to be
announced. He’ll be based in Abu Dhabi, they said.  ADIA, one of the world’s biggest sovereign wealth funds, is
boosting its private-equity team as it seeks to increase its
ability to invest in buyout funds and deals. It has mandated two
London-based recruitment firms to find about 40 private-equity
professionals in London and  Europe , two of the people said.
Florin’s hire follows the December appointment of Benjamin Weston, chief executive officer of Helvetica Wealth Management
Partners, as global head of alternative investments.  Officials for Axa Private Equity and ADIA declined to
comment.  Florin, who joined Axa Private Equity in 1998, was head of
the firm’s Asian operations between 2005 and 2008, before
returning to Paris to take on his latest position. He is leaving
just as Dominique Senequier, Axa Private Equity’s CEO, works on
a spinoff of the Paris-based firm, which manages $28 billion of
assets.  Abu Dhabi, capital of the  United Arab Emirates  and home to
about 7 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, is trying to
diversify away from oil by investing globally. It set up ADIA in
1976 to manage proceeds from its oil wealth. ADIA, which doesn’t
invest in the U.A.E. or typically in the Gulf Arab region, had
assets valued at $328 billion at the end of 2008, according to
economists at the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations,
the latest available data.  ADIA, in March, appointed Eduardo Favrin as head of  Latin
America  in its internal equities department from HSBC Global
Asset Management. It named Pascal Duhamel as head of its
European real estate investments a month earlier. Duhamel joined
from Carrefour Property in Paris, where he was the chief
executive officer since 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  