-- Mad-Cow Case Confirmed in Central California, USDA Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-04-25T05:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/mad-cow-case-confirmed-in-central-california-usda-says.html
The first U.S. case of mad cow
disease in six years has been found in a dairy cow in central
 California , detected before it could enter the human food chain
and pose any threat to consumers, officials said.  The cow was identified as part of routine testing for the
brain-wasting disease, known as bovine spongiform
encephalopathy, John Clifford, the U.S.  Department of
Agriculture ’s chief veterinarian, told reporters yesterday at a
briefing in Washington.  The animal arrived April 18 at a Baker Commodities Inc.
facility in Hanford, California, where dead livestock are held
before going to a rendering plant, Dennis Luckey, executive vice
president of operations at Los Angeles-based Baker, said in a
phone interview.  The carcass “was never presented for slaughter for human
consumption, so at no time presented a risk to the food supply
or human health,” Clifford said in a statement. Mad cow disease
cannot be transmitted through milk from dairy animals, he said.
“USDA remains confident in the health of the national herd and
the safety of beef and dairy products.”  Cattle futures rebounded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
after tumbling the most in 11 months. Feeder-cattle also rose
after falling by the exchange limit.  Brazil ’s  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the
world’s largest beef producer, fell by as much as 5.2 percent
before closing 0.3 percent lower in  Sao Paulo . Tyson Foods Inc.,
the second-biggest U.S. beef processor, pared earlier gains to
close 1.5 percent higher in New York.  Random Sampling  This is the fourth BSE case found in the U.S. herd, and the
first since March 2006. Clifford said the age and the source of
the animal in the latest case were being investigated. Luckey
said the animal was at least 30 months old and the disease was
discovered as part of random testing conducted to meet USDA
quotas. He said it’s possible that a diseased animal could be
processed without being tested.  Scientists say the disease is spread through feed that
contains brain or spinal-cord tissue from infected animals.
People can get it from eating products containing such tissues,
such as head cheese. Since 1997, feed made from mammals has been
banned from cattle rations, and high-risk materials such as
brains have been kept from the human  food supply .  Comes From Protein  Much is unknown about the disease, which comes from a
protein that changes form rather than a virus or bacteria,
Michele Jay-Russell, a veterinarian and researcher at the
 University of California  in Davis, said in an interview.  State veterinary diagnostic labs do surveillance to
identify any cattle in the U.S. showing neurological symptoms
that may indicate mad cow, she said. California officials are
holding the carcass at the rendering facility, the USDA said
without identifying the plant or its location.  The latest BSE case was “atypical,” Clifford said,
meaning that its disease form is very rare and not generally
associated with an animal consuming infected feed. Such cases
can occur spontaneously in older animals, said Guy Loneragan, an
epidemiologist and professor of  food safety  and public health at
Texas Tech University in Lubbock.  Live cattle futures for June delivery rose 0.3 percent to
$1.11925 a pound as of 3.50 p.m. Sydney time on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange.  Cattle Futures  Feeder cattle futures for August settlement were little
changed at $1.51350 a pound on the CME, after declining
yesterday by the 3-cent limit.  Mad cow disease has been most prevalent in the U.K., which
has had 184,000 cases since 1987. Last year only 29 cases were
reported worldwide, Clifford said.  Canada , the biggest U.S.
agricultural trading partner, has had 19 occurrences as of
February 2011, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  “It’s been rare” Jay-Russell said. “We have a fairly
robust surveillance system.”  Still, the new case shows a need to boost surveillance,
said Michael Hansen, a staff scientist at  Consumers Union , a
Yonkers,  New York  advocacy group.  ‘Russian Roulette’  “The USDA is playing Russian Roulette with public
health,” Hansen said, calling for more cattle to be tested than
the sampling the agency currently performs.  Senator  Max Baucus  of  Montana , chairman of the Senate
Finance Committee, said he needs to know more before coming to a
determination on what ought to be done.  “Where’d this cow come from? What’s its feed?” he asked.  Tom Talbot, chairman of the Washington-based National
Cattlemen’s Beef Association’s cattle health committee, said the
discovery poses no risk to human health.  “All U.S. beef is safe,” he said.  U.S. beef exports plunged 82 percent to 460.3 million
pounds in the year following the discovery of the country’s
first mad cow case in December 2003, as dozens of countries
closed their borders to exports, government data show. Losses to
livestock producers and meat packers including  Tyson Foods (TSN)  and
Cargill Inc. ranged from $2.5 billion to $3.1 billion annually
from 2004 through 2007, the  International Trade Commission  has
said.  Nations including Japan and  China  have maintained some
restrictions on U.S. beef imports ever since.  “The systems and safeguards in place to protect animal and
human health worked as planned to identify this case quickly,
and will ensure that it presents no risk to the food supply or
to human health,” said Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack in a
statement.  “I am going home and I am having beef for dinner, and that
is no lie,” Vilsack said in an interview on CNN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  