-- Agility Gains Most in 2 Months on U.S. Legal Claim: Kuwait Mover
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-24T10:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/agility-gains-most-in-2-months-on-u-s-legal-claim-kuwait-mover.html
Agility (AGLTY)  rose the most in two months
as the Kuwaiti company charged with defrauding the U.S.
government said it filed a claim seeking about $225 million from
the Department of Defense for breaching contract terms.  The shares surged 4.9 percent, the most since Feb. 22, to
425 fils at the 12:30 p.m. close in Kuwait City. The stock was
the most traded by value on  Kuwait’s SE Price Index (KWSEIDX) , which was
little changed at 6,327.60.  The Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals in  Falls
Church , Virginia, received the appeal on April 16, said David
Houpe, the board’s chief counsel. The supplier alleges the
Pentagon’s Defense Logistics Agency and the Department of
Justice “conspired and acted in concert to intentionally
deprive” the company of its rights under the contract to
deliver food to troops in  Iraq  and Kuwait.  “There will be two views: that Agility is justly
retaliating and it will gain something from this move, or that
the counter-claim effectively crushes any recent hopes that an
amicable settlement to the ongoing case may be achieved and
legal battles will go on until we all retire,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based director of institutional sales trading
at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  Shares Declines  The storage and logistics provider, indicted in the U.S. in
November 2009, is accused of overcharging the Pentagon for
supplying food for troops in Kuwait and Iraq. The shares slumped
8.8 percent in 2010 and 28 percent last year amid the charges.
The stock is up 13 percent so far this year, compared with a
gain of 8.8 percent in Kuwait’s benchmark index.  The  Defense Logistics Agency  was obligated under the
contract to provide objective evaluations that might have led to
higher payments, Agility said in a statement yesterday. Instead,
it said the  Justice Department  interfered and pressured the
 military  agency to downgrade the supplier’s performance.
Officials at the Defense Logistics Agency and the Department of
Justice didn’t immediately comment.  The $225 million sought by Agility includes $159 million in
performance-based distribution fees plus interest, according to
the company’s statement.  In a separate case, Agility in February asked a federal
judge in Atlanta to throw out charges that it defrauded the U.S.
government on a multibillion-dollar contract to feed troops
overseas, saying prosecutors have no proof and on the basis of a
“troubling pattern of misconduct” by the prosecution.  Two analysts recommend investors  buy Agility shares  while
one says hold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in  Kuwait  at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  