-- Malaysia’s Top Fund Buys More Consumer, Plantation Stocks
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-04-25T09:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/malaysia-s-top-fund-to-buy-more-consumer-plantation-stocks.html
Malaysia ’s best-performing fund in
the past year is buying consumer and plantation stocks that are
benefiting from government efforts to bolster domestic growth
and a rally in  palm oil  prices.  Kenanga Growth Fund (KUTNETF) , with assets of 59 million ringgit ($19
million) as of March 31, favors companies including  Dutch Lady
Milk Industries Bhd. (DLM)  and Nestle (Malaysia) Bhd., Chen Fan Fai,
investment director at Kenanga Investors Bhd., said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur on April 23. The fund beat 370 other
Malaysian equity mutual funds in the past year with an 18
percent return, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dutch
Lady has doubled in the past year, outpacing the  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index’s (FBMKLCI)  3.6 percent gain.  Gauges of consumer and plantation stocks are the best
performers of 10 industry groups on the Malaysian bourse in the
past year on optimism Prime Minister Najib Razak’s 2012 budget
plan to distribute cash to low-income families, raise wages for
civil servants and boost spending on transportation will bolster
growth and consumption. Palm-oil futures have surged 9.3 percent
this year and hit a 13-month high on April 10.  “Consumer stocks have done well because they are more
resilient in any downturn and the government’s drive to boost
income levels will also be positive for consumption,” Chen
said. “We have always liked plantation stocks because demand
for crude palm oil is ever on the rise.”  Election Concerns  The  Bursa Malaysia Consumer Index (KLCSU)  rose less than 0.1
percent to close near a record at 514.12 at 5 p.m. in Kuala
Lumpur. Shares of Dutch Lady added 0.1 percent to 35 ringgit.
The Bursa Malaysia Plantation Index dropped 0.2 percent.  The Kenanga Growth Fund beat 97 percent of its peers in the
past three years and 98 percent of them over five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was named Malaysia’s
best equity fund in 2011 by Morningstar Inc. Chen said he’s
willing to buy stocks even before an election that Najib may
call as early as June, according to four government officials
who spoke on condition of anonymity last month.  Concern a poor election result for Najib would disrupt the
government’s spending plans has limited the  KLCI index ’s gain to
3.2 percent this year, the second-worst performance among Asia-
Pacific benchmark indexes after  Sri Lanka , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  MSCI Emerging-Markets Index (MXEF)  has risen
11 percent in 2012.  Higher Valuations  Investors will probably be wary of the stock market before
the polls, Tan Ting Min, an analyst at the Malaysian unit of
Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report dated March 7.  “Investors don’t like uncertainties,” said Kenanga’s
Chen. “Uncertainties can be positive or negative. The outcome
is not certain so nobody knows which way it’s going to go. We
take a view that there is not going to be a change in the
government.”  Gains by Malaysian  consumer stocks  pushed valuations
relative to the  Bloomberg World Consumer Non Cyclical Index (BWCNCY)  to a
four-month high on April 13. The Bursa Malaysia Consumer Index
of 136 stocks, which includes carmakers Tan Chong Motor Holdings
Bhd. and Proton Holdings Bhd., has rallied 11 percent in the
past 12 months, outpacing a 3.6 percent gain in the  KLCI index .
The Selangor state-based  Nestle Malaysia (NESZ) , the local unit of the
world’s biggest food company, has advanced 16 percent. The
shares fell 0.1 percent today to close at 55.86 ringgit.  “We focus more on consumption,” Chen said. “Sector-wise,
that’s probably our biggest bet.”  Plantation Rally  Southeast Asia ’s third-biggest economy may expand 4.2
percent in 2012 on domestic demand, thanks to increased private
investment and state spending, the Malaysian Institute of
 Economic Research , a partly government-funded institute, said in
a statement on April 17. The body earlier estimated 3.7 percent
growth. This is in line with the central bank’s revised forecast
of 4 percent to 5 percent on March 22.  Najib unveiled economic and government transformation plans
in 2010 and identified $444 billion of private sector-led
projects this decade to bolster growth and achieve high-income
status by 2020.  The Bursa Malaysia  Plantation Index (KLPLN)  of 43 members including
IOI Corp. and  Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd. (KLK)  has surged 15 percent in
the past year. The plantation measure trades at 13.8 times
estimated profit, compared with a record-low 6.25 times in
October 2008, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Palm oil will advance to 3,800 ringgit a metric ton in
Kuala Lumpur by Dec. 31, the highest level since February 2011,
according to the median of 11 analyst and trader estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Palm oil futures rose as much as 0.4
percent to 3,478 ringgit a metric ton today.  “Palm oil prices have been firmer than expected,” Chen
said. “The offshoot of this will be higher income for families
in the rural area who are involved in agriculture. This will
also give a boost to consumption.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  