-- Amgen Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimate on Rising Drug Sales
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-04-24T20:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/amgen-profit-tops-analysts-estimate-on-rising-drug-sales.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as sales increased of its drugs to treat
infections in cancer patients.  Net income  rose to $1.18 billion, or $1.48 a share, from
$1.13 billion, or $1.20, a year earlier, the  Thousand Oaks ,
California-based company said in a statement today. Earnings,
excluding one-time items, of $1.61 a share bested by 15 cents
the average  estimates  of 22 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue jumped 9.2 percent to $4.05 billion.  Amgen is seeking to shore up revenue as its former core
anemia franchise declines. In the past few months, the company
has acquired Micromet Inc. for $1.16 billion to add an
experimental leukemia drug, signed a development deal with
London-based AstraZeneca Plc and boosted its presence in the
cancer market through sales of Xgeva, a bone drug that reduces
fractures. Amgen will get a new chief executive officer next
month, when President Robert Bradway takes over for retiring CEO
Kevin Sharer. Amgen has also repurchased shares and issued
dividends.  “This is what the new management is preparing and looking
to come out of the gates showing,”  Michael Yee , an analyst with
RBC Capital Markets Corp. in San Francisco said in an e-mail.
“Managing the core business, financial discipline, and ability
to try to steer the ship in the right direction.”  Newer Products  Sales of Xgeva, approved by the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  to reduce fractures in cancer patients in
November 2010, and Prolia, used to treat osteoporosis in
menopausal women, were $241 million in the quarter, Amgen said.
Analysts had estimated sales of $249.6 million.  Later this week, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is
scheduled to decide whether Amgen can market Xgeva to delay the
spread of tumors to bones in patients with advanced prostate
cancer. An advisory panel to the regulatory body voted 12-1
against the expanded use in February, saying the risks of the
drug outweighed its benefits. The agency doesn’t have to follow
the panel’s recommendation.  Amgen gained less than 1 percent to $68.63 at the close of
New York trading before the earnings were announced. The company
has gained 6.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  