-- Man Group Rises; UBS Says Hedge-Fund Firm Is a Bid Target
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-04-24T15:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/man-group-rises-as-ubs-says-hedge-fund-firm-is-a-takeover-target.html
Man Group Plc (EMG)  rose in London
trading after analysts at UBS AG said the past year’s share-
price decline for the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-fund
manager makes it a takeover target.  The  shares  rose 4.5 percent to 96.7 pence at 4:02 p.m.
local time, giving London-based Man Group a market value of 1.8
billion pounds ($2.8 billion).  Based on yesterday’s share price, Man Group was trading at
a 5 percent discount to the combined value of its cash and
hedge-fund businesses, UBS analysts led by Arnaud Giblat wrote
in a report today. A bid of 150 pence a share, or 50 percent
above Man Group’s current price, would likely be approved by
investors, wrote Giblat, who has a buy rating on the company.  “There is now a substantial risk of Man Group receiving a
bid approach,” he wrote in the report. “Man Group would offer
significant strategic value to an acquirer, as the group is well
positioned to benefit from the long-term structural trends in
asset management.”  Man shares have declined 23 percent this year. They  plunged 
58 percent in 2011 as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis triggered
investment losses and prompted client redemptions from Man
Group’s funds. Analysts have been cutting their profit estimates
on Man Group amid concern that the company’s fee income may be
constrained.  Distribution Appeal  Man Group has a “top-tier distribution network” in  Japan 
and  Asia , which may make it an attractive target for asset
managers in  North America , according to Giblat. Potential
bidders include New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
biggest asset manager, and San Mateo, California-based  Franklin
Resources Inc., (BEN)  manager of the Franklin and Templeton mutual
funds, Giblat wrote.  A spokeswoman for Man Group declined to comment. A
spokeswoman for BlackRock had no immediate comment and a
spokesman for Franklin declined to comment.  Man Group bought London-based hedge-fund company GLG
Partners Inc. in October 2010 for $1.5 billion. Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Clarke  made that deal after analysts questioned
whether Man was too dependent on AHL Diversified Plc, which
relies on computer models to predict trends in futures prices.  AHL accounts for more than one-third of Man Group’s $58
billion in assets. The fund has fallen about 3.4 percent this
year after declining 6 percent in 2011, according to Bloomberg
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  