-- Anglo Sells Its Scaw South African Unit for $430 Million
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-04-24T12:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/anglo-sells-scaw-metals-south-african-unit-for-3-4-billion-rand.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , which controls
the world’s biggest platinum producer, agreed to sell steelmaker
Scaw  South Africa  (Pty) Ltd. for 3.4 billion rand ($430
million), completing its divestment from Scaw Metals Group.  Industrial Development Corp., a state lender known as IDC,
and a group of Anglo’s partners in the local steelmaker, will
buy Anglo’s 74 percent stake, it said in a statement today. The
companies include Shanduka Resources (Pty) Ltd., Izingwe
Holdings (Pty) Ltd. and Southern Palace Group of Companies (Pty)
Ltd., London-based Anglo said.  The sale, which follows that of Scaw companies Moly-Cop and
AltaSteel last year, brings Anglo’s non-core asset sales since
2010 to $3.7 billion. The company has sold paper, zinc and sugar
assets as it builds iron-ore, copper and nickel mines, betting
demand for the materials will increase in  China  and other
expanding Asian economies.  Anglo will effectively settle Scaw’s outstanding net debt
of about $320 million, leaving net cash proceeds of about $120
million, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note to clients. The
realized price exceeded its estimated net present value of $232
million, it added.  The sale is a “small positive,” for Anglo, Liberum
Capital Ltd. wrote in an e-mailed note.  ‘Meaningful Role’  The sale will enable “the IDC to play a meaningful role in
the strategically important  steel industry ,” Anglo Chief
Executive Officer Cynthia Carroll said in the statement.  The IDC has been investigating setting up a mill since at
least 2008 to rival  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , which
produces most of the country’s steel.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  was found to
have charged “excessive” prices by the country’s antitrust
tribunal in 2007. At least five investigations are under way by
antitrust authorities, ArcelorMittal said Feb. 7.  Scaw South Africa produces steel components for the mining,
rail, power, offshore oil and gas, construction, commercial and
other industries. The business includes a 50 percent stake in
Consolidated Wire Industries, a tie-up with ArcelorMittal, and
31 percent of GSI Lucchini, a venture with Lucchini SpA.  “The IDC endeavors to promote the establishment of
domestic-based manufacturing industries, supporting the
infrastructure expansion programs” of Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.,
the state-owned power utility, and Transnet SOC Ltd., South
Africa’s ports and rail company, IDC Chief Executive Officer
Geoff Qhena said in the statement.  Shanduka Group, which owns Shanduka Resources, was formed
by former politician and labor union leader Cyril Ramaphosa and
has interests in coal mines through a venture with  Glencore
International Plc. (GLEN)  Izingwe is led by Sipho Pityana, a board
member at  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)   Scaw South Africa was valued at 5.3 billion rand in March
2007, according to an Anglo statement at the time.  Anglo was little changed at 2,294.50 pence as of 12:33 p.m.
in  London , giving the company a market value of 30.5 billion
pounds ($49.2 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  