-- APG to Increase Asia Property Investments to Tap Economic Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-24T02:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/apg-to-increase-asia-property-investments-to-tap-economic-growth.html
APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV,
which manages about 299 billion euros ($393 billion) for the
largest Dutch pension fund, said it will increase investments in
Asian properties to tap the region’s  economic growth .  The Amsterdam-based pension fund manager has invested 900
million euros in private real estate across  Asia  in the past two
years, boosting the investment to 4.8 billion euros, said Daan Van Aert, head of strategic real estate at APG Investment Asia
Ltd., a subsidiary of APG, in an interview in Hong Kong on April
20. About 70 percent of APG’s Asia allocation is in developed
markets such as Hong Kong,  Singapore  and  Australia , while the
rest is in  emerging markets  including China and  India .  APG, which started investing in property in Australia in
1998 and in other countries in Asia in 2003, is looking for
returns in the region with the world’s fastest-growing economic
growth as the U.S. recovery remains feeble and  Europe  grapples
with a sovereign debt crisis. Developing Asia will expand 7.3
percent this year, while the economy of the euro area will
contract and the U.S. will grow 2.1 percent, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  “There is still room for us to grow,” said Hong Kong-
based Van Aert, declining to say how much APG planned to invest
in the region. “Globally, I’m convinced the growth engine in
the world is Asia. From that point of the view, I think more
investments will be in Asia because of the growing economy.”  APG is the asset manager for Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP,
the world’s third-largest pension fund, according to data from
Towers Watson & Co.  APG has 2.7 billion euros invested in listed real-estate
companies and real-estate investment trusts, and 2.1 billion
euros in private funds, joint ventures and co-investments, the
firm said.  China Investments  APG is seeking to increase investments in  China , its
largest emerging market exposure in Asia, despite the country’s
housing curbs, said Van Aert. The company’s 0.7 billion euros of
investments in China accounted for 15 percent of its total Asia
allocation, he said.  “It could be the right timing now to look at China again
when prices go down a little bit,” he said. “There’s still a
strong demand of people needing better quality housing. Our
belief in China is a long-term story.”  The Chinese government has increased down payments and
mortgage rates, and imposed home purchase restrictions in 40
cities as part of efforts in the past two years to curb
speculation in the  property market  that threatens affordability.
March home prices fell in a record 37 of 70 cities tracked by
the government from a year earlier. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has
pledged to “resolutely” maintain the tightening policies.  “The tightening policies may stabilize the market and can
make it grow more sustainably in the future,” Van Aert said.  Australia Logistics  In February, APG committed $150 million for the first close
of an as much as $500 million fund with China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd., the biggest Chinese developer listed in  Hong
Kong , and ICBC International Holdings Ltd.  APG finds logistics and retail properties in Australia
attractive, because it sees the market as being the most stable
and one of the most transparent in Asia, according to Van Aert.  About 50 percent of APG’s real estate investments are in
Europe, 30 percent in the Americas, and 20 percent in Asia, said
Patrick Kanters, Amsterdam-based managing director of real
estate at APG, in an interview in July.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Tomoko Yamazaki, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  