-- Apple’s Dominance Has Carriers Cheering Nokia Windows Phone
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-04-25T20:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/apple-s-dominance-has-carriers-cheering-for-nokia-windows-phone.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless,
facing concerns that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have too tight a
grip on the market for smartphone software, are cozying up to
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK)   When they reported quarterly results this month, both
carriers praised Microsoft’s Windows Phone operating system,
which runs the new Nokia Lumia phone. AT&T began offering the
Lumia 900 for $99.99 on April 8, and Verizon is preparing to add
a new Nokia model to its lineup soon. AT&T declined to give
sales figures for its device.  The companies are counting on the Lumia and forthcoming
Windows models to provide an alternative to Apple’s iPhone and
Google Android handsets. While AT&T and Verizon sell millions of
those devices, the products can be more costly to subsidize,
especially the iPhone. The companies also face the risk that an
Apple-Google duopoly will erode carriers’ ability to distinguish
themselves and will further squeeze their profit margins.  “We want the Lumia to succeed -- we love to have
competition in the handset market,” AT&T Chief Financial
Officer John Stephens said in an interview. “It’s always better
to have more choices for your customers.”  For now, most of AT&T’s smartphone customers are opting for
the iPhone. The Apple device made up 78 percent of the carrier’s
smartphone sales in the first quarter. At Verizon, which added
the iPhone to its network more recently, the product accounted
for 51 percent. The company relies more on models running
Android.  Apple Results  Apple’s profit almost doubled to $11.6 billion last
quarter, lifted by the surging popularity of the iPhone, while
revenue jumped 59 percent to $39.2 billion. The company sold
35.1 million iPhones in the period.  Apple requires carriers to subsidize the phones at a higher
level, leaving less room for profit, said John Hodulik, an
analyst at UBS AG in New York.  “They hope Lumia can take some market share to help lower
their subsidy costs, now that so much of the spending is in
Apple’s favor,” he said.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo also said there was a need for another player in the
smartphone software arena. Research In Motion Ltd., which has
served that role, has seen its market share slide.  ‘Third Ecosystem’  “It is important that there is a third ecosystem that’s
brought into the mix here, and we are fully supportive of that
with Microsoft,” Shammo said on Verizon’s earnings call last
week. Android “is an incredible platform today that we helped
create. And we’re looking to do the same thing with a third
ecosystem.”  AT&T rose less than 1 percent to $31.74 at the close in New
York. Shares of the Dallas-based company have climbed 5 percent
this year. Verizon Communications, the co-owner of  Verizon
Wireless , declined less than 1 percent to $39.48. The New York-
based company’s stock has fallen 1.6 percent in 2012.  Nokia reported sales of about 2 million Lumia phones in the
first quarter. The Espoo, Finland-based company plans to
increase advertising spending on the product this quarter, Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Elop said last week.  Both Microsoft and Nokia have staked their fortunes on the
new lineup of Windows Phone devices. Microsoft, based in
Redmond,  Washington , aims to regain market share lost to Apple
and Google. Nokia, meanwhile, is trying to rebound from four
straight quarters of losses and a stock price trading near a 15-
year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  