-- Apple Wins Discovery Ruling in Samsung Infringement Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-24T15:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/apple-wins-discovery-ruling-in-samsung-infringement-suit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a court
determination that Samsung Electronics Co. violated court orders
in a patent-infringement case by failing to produce documents
referencing Apple features and designs.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal in San Jose,
 California , yesterday ruled that Samsung had failed to comply
with court orders.  “The scale of Samsung’s production and the burden placed
on it by the compressed case schedule and the numerous claims at
issue are not in doubt,” Grewal wrote in the order. “That
burden, however, does not negate Samsung’s obligation to comply
with no fewer than two court orders specifying the production of
documents that reference Apple’s products.”  In its lawsuit, Apple claims that Samsung’s 4G smartphone
and Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer, among other products,
infringe its patents. In December, U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh
of  San Jose  ruled against Apple’s request to block Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung from selling that phone and tablet in the
U.S. That order followed an Australian court ruling lifting an
injunction on the tablet there.  In yesterday’s order, Grewal granted some of the monetary
sanctions Apple sought, while denying others it asked for in
connection with its failed request to block the sales of
Samsung’s products. The amount of the damages Apple sought
wasn’t identified in court filings.  Samsung Response  “Samsung will respond in accordance with the court’s order
and produce the requested documentation within the timeframe
provided,” Adam Yates, a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return messages after regular business hours yesterday seeking
comment on the ruling.  Samsung, which was the world’s largest seller of
smartphones last year, and Cupertino, California-based Apple
have filed at least 30 lawsuits against each other on four
continents since April 2011.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  