-- Haring’s Outlaw Graffiti Lose Street Smarts in Brooklyn
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/haring-s-outlaw-graffiti-lose-street-smarts-in-brooklyn.html
Pop artist  Keith Haring  (1958-90)
was an avid scenester and Warhol wannabe, trying his hand at
everything: performance art, videos, posters, sculptures, books,
animations, paintings and drawings.  He curated shows, filled notebooks with pedagogical musings
and blatantly marketed himself. He even had his own store in New
York’s SoHo area.  A show at the Brooklyn Museum focuses on the artist’s early
days, when he was making his name in the late 1970s and ‘80s
defacing downtown New York with his inimitable cartoon
pictographs.  Haring’s frenetic line drawings of dancers, crawling
babies, talking televisions, bestiality, symbols, aliens and
penises enlivened the East Village.  Although he was arrested several times, graffiti was not a
hot-button issue. K-Mart and  Starbucks (SBUX)  had yet to drive the
artists, junkies and prostitutes from Alphabet City with
skyrocketing rents.  Haring’s outlaw work moved from dilapidated walls into
chic, SoHo galleries and uptown museums.  Hipster Scene  The Brooklyn Museum has attempted to split the difference
by turning the space into a nostalgic, hipster scene that plays
up the period’s clubs, streets, music and atmosphere.  The curators acknowledge both the transient character of
Haring’s work and its graphic, merchandising charm. They also
attempt, unsuccessfully, to add Haring and graffiti to the
Western canon.  At the entrance to the show, enlivened by the sounds of
Devo, Grace Jones,  David Bowie , the Bangles and the B-52s, you
can go directly into the gift shop or into the galleries.  Inside the crowded, salon-style exhibition, walls are
painted bright red and lime green. Collaged flyers are plastered
floor-to-ceiling. Videos and archival material, such as Haring’s
sketchbook pages and photographs of the downtown club scene,
invigorate the show.  Yet we are offered more pop culture here than art. Haring
is fun, talented and entertaining, often sexually, socially and
politically provocative. He tackles homosexuality, AIDS, the
pope and Reagan.  Barking Dogs  In one sketchbook entry, hearts and erect penises fly
through the sky like a volley of cruise missiles. And in the
Sumi-ink-on-paper “Untitled” (1982), Haring’s homemade
hieroglyphics transform the head of Medusa into a pack of
barking dogs.  But his pictures -- one of which spreads 56 feet -- feel
hurriedly performed rather than composed. They sprawl like
meandering wallpaper.  Haring began as a Neo-Expressionist, and the best of these
drawings are influenced by Pollock and de Kooning. In the large,
graphic, black-red-and-orange work on paper “Untitled” (1979),
Haring playfully orchestrates his calligraphic figures and
squiggles into decorative surfaces.  But more often than not, his marks become jazz hands.
Without much frontal pressure or feel for the rectangle, they
devolve into mere patterns.  Haring was in top form when he drew on walls, dumpsters and
on the black paper covering old ads in subways. These comical,
energetic yet plainspoken drawings were often inspired by their
adjacent posters.  The exhibition includes slideshows of these subway drawings
in situ, some of which capture the artist working as middle-aged
commuters glare suspiciously.  A number of the chalk drawings fill the show’s penultimate
gallery. But only one is paired with its original advertisement:
a blown-up Penthouse magazine cover displaying an almost nude
Pia Zadora.  Sexual Charge  Haring’s neighboring chalk drawing depicts a figure made
out of lightning bolts -- a cartoon character with his finger in
the socket. Like a lot of his graffiti, this sexually charged
pairing of art and ad made me laugh out loud. It also made it
clear that in a show about street art, context matters.  At the Brooklyn Museum, Haring’s work feels sanitized,
vestigial, entombed. Its inspirational sources, outlaw energy
and surprising juxtapositions are all missing.  Neither graffiti nor art, here Haring’s work remains in
limbo.  “Keith Haring: 1978-1982” runs through July 8 at the
Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway. Information: +1-718-638-
5000;  http://www.brooklynmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include an interview by  Manuela Hoelterhoff 
and Jeremy Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on the story: Lance Esplund in  New York  at
 lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 