-- Hawaii Said to Gain Marines From Japan Under U.S. Plan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-04-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/marine-bases-in-hawaii-said-to-gain-in-revised-guam-plan.html
The U.S. will move as many as 2,700
Marines to Hawaii from  Japan  as the Pentagon scales back a $21.1
billion blueprint to station forces in Guam, people familiar
with the plan said.  The Pentagon is expected to announce as soon as today that
it intends to send about 4,700 U.S. Marines now stationed in
Japan to Guam, as previously reported, as well as the contingent
going to Hawaii, according to two people familiar with the plan,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the details haven’t
been made public.  Under a 2006 agreement with Japan, 8,600 Marines and 9,000
dependents were to be transferred from the island of Okinawa in
Japan almost 1,500 miles (2,413 kilometers) south to Guam, a
U.S. territory in the Pacific, by 2014. Now, the Obama
administration is seeking a less costly plan in a time of
 defense spending  cutbacks even as its strategy places added
emphasis on projecting force in the Asia-Pacific region.  “We require additional information regarding how this
proposal relates to the broader strategic concept of operations
in the region,” leaders of the Senate Armed Services Committee
said in a letter yesterday to Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  Congress may reject any plan to move Marines from Japan
until the Defense Department submits an independent assessment
of its strategic posture in the Asia-Pacific region, Senators
 Carl Levin ,  John McCain  and  Jim Webb  wrote. Levin, a Democrat
from  Michigan , is chairman of the Senate Armed Services
committee; McCain of  Arizona  is the top Republican on the panel;
and Webb, a Virginia Democrat, heads a subcommittee.  Australia, U.S. Mainland  About 60 percent of the Marines going to Guam under the
Pentagon plan will be based in the territory temporarily, known
as “on rotation,” rather than being permanently stationed
there, according to one of the people familiar with the plan.  Marines also will rotate through Australia, and hundreds
will be stationed on the U.S. mainland, probably on the West
Coast, the people said.  While the number of Marines going to
Guam under the revised plan was previously reported, the numbers
to be based in  Hawaii  and the U.S. mainland hadn’t been
resolved.  Okinawans have long called for the Marine Corps  Air Station
Futenma  to be closed, citing crime and pollution. The Obama
administration’s plans to move Marine Corps expeditionary forces
out of Japan are no longer contingent on progress in building a
new site at Camp Schwab, near the Okinawan town of Henoko.  Panetta, Tanaka Talk  Panetta phoned Japan’s Defense Minister Naoki Tanaka on
April 23 “to discuss the realignment of U.S. forces in Okinawa
and Guam,” according to Navy Captain John Kirby, a Pentagon
spokesman.  “Panetta said he looked forward to an official
announcement in the very near future outlining specifics of the
mutually agreed-upon way forward,” Kirby said in a statement
posted on the Pentagon’s website. Pentagon spokeswoman Leslie
Hull-Ryde said yesterday she couldn’t provide details beyond
Panetta’s call.  Japan’s bill for the relocation of the U.S. Marines will be
$3.1 billion in 2012 dollars, a reduction from that nation’s
initial commitment to provide as much as $6.09 billion to fund
the move of some forces to  Guam  and to replace Futenma,
according to the two people.  Levin, McCain and Webb said in their letter that they
understood the administration plans to announce the agreement on
moving forces out of Okinawa in advance of a visit by Japan’s
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who is scheduled to meet with
Obama on April 30.  ‘Critical’ Projects  Delegate Madeleine Bordallo, a Democrat who represents Guam
in the  U.S. Congress , called for a speedy implementation of the
administration plan to “move forward with critical construction
projects on Guam.”  “We are confident that the Department of Defense will
continue to meet every requirement and answer every question
raised by the Senate,” Bordallo said in an e-mailed statement.
“I hope that at some point in the near future the Senators will
be satisfied so that we can get the ball rolling.”  The Obama administration also is engaged in discussions
with the  Philippines  and  Australia  as it seeks to realign forces
in the region. Earlier this year, Philippine officials said they
were seeking closer ties with the U.S., including a “rotating
and more frequent” military presence to deter  China  from
operating in disputed waters of the  South China Sea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  