-- Stocks, Euro Advance as Treasuries Fall; Cattle Decline
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-24T21:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/asian-stocks-won-decline-on-europe-concern-as-yen-gains.html
Stocks and the euro rose as
Treasuries fell amid better-than-estimated earnings and data
indicating the American housing market is stabilizing. Cattle
futures fell after the U.S. found a case of mad-cow disease.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.4 percent at 4
p.m. New York time.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rallied 7 percent in late trading
after second-quarter profit topped projections, while Nasdaq-100
Index futures advanced 1.4 percent at 5:29 p.m. The Stoxx  Europe 
600 Index added 1 percent as banks rallied 2 percent. Treasury
10-year yields added four basis points to 1.97 percent. The euro
gained 0.2 percent to $1.3187. Cattle futures tumbled the most
in 11 months in Chicago. Spanish and Dutch bonds rallied after
the nations sold debt.  Equities recovered some of yesterday’s losses as new U.S.
homes sold at a faster-than-estimated pace and companies from
AT&T Inc. to 3M Co. and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  beat analysts’
earnings projections. Yields on Spanish and Dutch bonds
decreased following the auctions, easing concern that the
European debt crisis is intensifying.  “Earnings have been much better than what many people
expected,” Ethan Anderson, senior portfolio manager for Rehmann
Financial in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , said in a telephone
interview. His firm manages about $2 billion. “These companies
are finding ways to become more efficient and create profit. The
economy is improving. Growth is very real.”  Earnings Season  More than 82 percent of S&P 500 companies that reported
quarterly results since April 10 topped the average analyst
earnings estimate, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
U.S. Commerce Department said today that sales of new homes were
at an annual rate of 328,000 in March, compared with the median
economist estimate of 319,000 in a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks fell around the world yesterday, while the euro
weakened and commodities retreated, as Europe’s backlash against
budget cuts gained momentum. Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte 
offered his cabinet’s resignation amid a revolt against spending
cuts. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of
his re-election bid as the anti-euro National Front won a record
share of the vote.  Markets recovered today after  Spain  sold 1.9 billion euros
($2.5 billion) of bills, while the Netherlands auctioned 2
billion euros of securities. Yields on Spanish 10-year debt fell
14 basis points to 5.86 percent. Rates on similar-maturity Dutch
notes slipped 10 basis points to 2.33 percent. Yields on 10-year
German bunds climbed to 1.70 percent after declining to a euro-
era low of 1.63 percent yesterday.  AT&T, 3M  Seven of 10 S&P 500 industries advanced today, led by
telephone stocks. AT&T rallied 3.7 percent. The largest U.S.
phone company posted first-quarter earnings that beat analysts’
estimates on lower smartphone upgrade costs and an increase in
wireless data sales related to Apple’s iPad.  3M, the maker of Post-it Notes and fuel system tuneup kits,
advanced 1.6 percent after posting first-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates because of rising U.S. auto and
industrial demand.  Juniper Networks  surged  7.3 percent after its quarterly
report was released early on the company’s website. The second-
largest maker of networking equipment reported first-quarter
profit of 16 cents excluding some items, beating the average
analyst estimate of 13 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Apple’s Report  Apple, which slumped 2 percent during the regular trading
session, rallied as high as $604.22 after the world’s largest
company by market value  beat  earnings estimates. The shares had
 retreated  12 percent since April 9, when they closed at $636.23.  Apple said profit almost doubled last quarter, reflecting
robust demand for the iPhone in  China  as well as purchases of a
new version of the iPad tablet, allaying the concerns that
fueled a 12 percent two-week slump in the stock.  Cattle fell after the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  found
a case of mad-cow disease in a dairy cow in central  California .
Its meat didn’t enter the food chain, according to John
Clifford, the department’s chief veterinarian.  Futures for June delivery fell by the exchange limit of 3
cents, or 2.6 percent, to settle at $1.11575 a pound at 1 p.m.
on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange. That’s the lowest level
since July 1 and the biggest percentage drop on a most-active
contract since May 23. Corn, used in livestock feed, also
slumped. Futures dropped 0.7 percent to close at $6.08 a bushel
at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.  This is the fourth confirmed case of the brain-wasting
disease in the U.S. cattle herd since the first was discovered
in December 2003 in an animal that came from  Canada .  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasuries notes rose for the
first time in a week after the U.S. sold $35 billion of two-year
securities and Federal Reserve policy makers began a two-day
meeting.  More Auctions  The notes drew a yield of 0.270 percent, compared with a
forecast of 0.278 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine of
the Fed’s 21 primary dealers, as investors continue to seek the
safest assets. Treasury will sell $35 billion in five-year notes
tomorrow and $29 billion of 10-year debt the next day.  Dutch bonds rose for the first time in four days amid
optimism the collapse of its government yesterday won’t derail
efforts to implement budget cuts. Two-year Dutch yields dropped
the most in almost five months as the government auctioned
securities due in 2014 and 2037.  Spanish bonds gained as the country sold close to its
maximum target at a bill sale. German bunds fell, pushing 10-
year yields up from yesterday’s record low, as stocks gained and
a report showed U.S. new home sales were stronger than
economists forecast, undermining demand for the safest assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  