-- Sleeping Burlington Train Operators Highlight Fatigue
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-04-25T18:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/asleep-at-controls-train-operators-blamed-for-fatal-crash.html
U.S. investigators’ conclusion that
both operators of a Burlington Northern Santa Fe freight train
fell asleep before a fatal wreck last year revived concerns that
led to rules restricting hours of airline pilots and truck
drivers.  “Once again, this investigation draws attention to the
dangers of human fatigue,” National Transportation Safety Board
Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said in a statement yesterday. “The
human body is not designed to work irregular schedules,
especially during the circadian trough, when our bodies are at
their lowest alertness.”  Both operators of a coal train that struck the back of
another Burlington Northern train that was stopped near Red Oak,
 Iowa , on April 17, 2011, fell asleep and missed signals to slow
and stop, the safety board found. The tracks didn’t have crash-
avoidance technology that U.S. railroads must install by 2015
under a U.S. rule, it said.  Suann Lundsberg, a Burlington Northern spokeswoman, didn’t
respond to a phone call seeking comment.  About one in four pilots and rail workers surveyed by the
National Sleep Foundation reported that sleepiness affects their
job performance at least once a week, compared with one in six
non-transportation workers, according to a report issued last
month.  Pilots, Truckers  The Burlington Northern conductor and engineer were both at
high risk for sleep apnea and the company didn’t screen for
common ailments, Hersman said in an interview today in McLean,
Virginia. They were working unpredictable schedules involving
day and night shifts, making it difficult to stay rested,
Hersman said  “We want to be awake during the day, and we want to sleep
at night,” Hersman said.  The U.S. introduced pilot-scheduling regulations designed
to limit fatigue that take effect in December 2013, following an
investigation into a 2009 crash at Pinnacle Airline Corp.’s
Colgan Air unit. The rules reduce hours passenger-airline pilots
can work late at night, after crossing numerous time zones or
making numerous landings and takeoffs.  The Department of Transportation backed off proposed rules
in December that would have reduced the maximum driving day for
truckers to 10 hours, from 11, while requiring a 34-hour rest
period each week that would require drivers to be off two
consecutive nights. The trucking industry has challenged the
rule in court while safety groups and the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters union criticized the decision not to
reduce the workday.  Positive Train Control  Congress required the railroad accident-avoidance
technology, known as positive train control, following a 2008
head-on crash between a  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  freight train and a
Los Angeles Metrolink commuter train. Manufacturers of the
technology include  Wabtec Corp. (WAB)   The technology can automatically stop a train before it
hits another. Railroads have sought an extension to the 2015
U.S.-mandated deadline.  The Federal Railroad Administration has estimated it would
cost railroads about $12 billion over 20 years to install and
maintain the systems, making it the most expensive U.S. mandate
ever on the railroad industry, according to the  American
Association  of Railroads, a Washington-based trade group.  Positive train control would help prevent fatalities and
injuries in cases like the Burlington Northern crash, Hersman
said in the interview.  “Always, we want the engineer to be in control of the
train,” Hersman said. “But when something happens -- medical,
fatigue, distraction, whatever -- there’s a technological
backup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  