-- Australia Inflation Unexpectedly Slows; Currency Weakens
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-24T04:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/australia-inflation-unexpectedly-slows-currency-weakens.html
Australian core  consumer prices 
rose last quarter at the slowest pace since 1998, driving the
currency and bond yields lower as investors increased bets the
central bank will resume cutting  interest rates  next week.  The so-called trimmed mean gauge of core prices advanced
0.3 percent from the previous quarter, the  Bureau of Statistics 
said in Sydney today, the lowest rate since the third quarter of
1998. The consumer price index rose 0.1 percent from the
previous three months, compared with 0.6 percent forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, as banana prices slipped 60 percent.  Yields on Australian five-year bonds fell to a record low
and the currency weakened as the data boosted chances Reserve
Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  will make good on signals he will
cut the 4.25 percent benchmark should inflation ease. Price
gains are slowing as tourism and manufacturing industries
struggle with a currency that has risen 58 percent in 3 1/2
years, while resource-rich regions benefit from a mining boom.  A rate cut next week is “absolutely a done deal,” Ivan Colhoun, head of Australian economics and property research at
 Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Sydney. “There’s no reason why the
Reserve Bank cannot be a little bit more accommodative for the
sectors of the economy that have been hit.”  The nation’s dollar, which has remained above parity with
the U.S. currency for the past four months, touched $1.0247, the
cheapest since April 11, compared with $1.0319 immediately
before the report.  Asian Stocks  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses as Australian
shares rallied after the inflation report, tempering earlier
losses sparked by political uncertainty in  Europe . The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index fell 0.5 percent to 122.99 as of 1:25 p.m. in
 Tokyo .  Australian bonds advanced, pushing yields on the five-year
note down to a record 3.094 percent. The benchmark 10-year rate
slid to a record-low 3.638 percent.  Swaps traders are certain the RBA will reduce borrowing
costs by a quarter percentage point to 4 percent at its May 1
meeting, in what would be the first cut this year, a Credit
Suisse Group AG index showed. They are pricing in 112 basis
points of cuts over the next 12 months, according to a separate
Credit Suisse index.  Food Prices  Today’s report showed the cost of food and non-alcoholic
drinks, which at 16.8 percent is the second-biggest component in
the consumer-price basket, fell 2.1 percent. Fruit plunged 30
percent as the breaking of nearly a decade of drought and a
historically mild summer caused a glut of fruit and vegetables.  The recreation and culture group in the index declined 2
percent, led by a 4.8 percent drop in international holiday
travel and accommodation as the currency touched a six-month
high of $1.0856 on Feb. 29.  In contrast, education gained 6 percent with the start of
the new school year, the report showed. Health advanced 4.4
percent, led by a 14.1 percent rise in pharmaceutical products.  Elsewhere, data today from the U.S. may show that housing
is stabilizing. A report from the Commerce Department may show
new-home sales rose 1.6 percent to a 318,000 annual rate in
March, according to economists surveyed.  Consumer confidence data are due in  France  and the U.S.,
while  Canada  will announce retail sales figures for February.  Hong Kong  may today report that exports rose 4 percent in
March from a year earlier after January and February numbers
were distorted by a Lunar New Year holiday that disrupts
production and shipments.  Core Inflation  Today’s Australian inflation report showed the weighted-
median gauge, a second core measure that excludes the largest
price increases and declines, advanced 0.4 percent in the first
quarter from the final three months of 2011, compared with
economists’ estimates for a 0.6 percent gain.  On an annual basis, the trimmed mean gauge advanced 2.2
percent, compared with economists’ forecasts for a 2.4 percent
gain. The weighted median increased 2.1 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, versus an estimated 2.3 percent rise,
today’s report showed.  The average of the central bank-designed core inflation
gauges eased to 2.15 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, the weakest pace since 1999.  The central bank tries to keep inflation in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average. The CPI increased 1.6 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, the slowest annual
pace since the third quarter of 2009, compared with economists’
forecast of a 2.2 percent increase.  Seasonal Adjustment  The statistics bureau also released a seasonally adjusted
 consumer price index  that showed a 0.2 percent decrease last
quarter, for an annual gain of 1.5 percent.  Australia’s economy is being driven by demand from
developing nations including China and  India  for  iron ore , coal
and natural gas.  The central bank, in minutes of its April 3 policy meeting
released last week, said the board will review the inflation
outlook when it next meets. “If slower growth in demand could
be expected to result in a more moderate inflation outcome, then
a case could be made for a further easing of monetary policy,”
policy makers said.  The nation’s  unemployment rate  has held at about 5.25
percent for the past six months even as the currency’s strength
hurts manufacturing and tourism. The central bank said in the
minutes that “members noted, however, that an easing in average
hours worked and a decline in the participation rate were
indicative of a softer labor market than implied by the
unemployment rate.”  The RBA has more scope to cut borrowing costs than the
central banks of  New Zealand ,  Norway ,  Sweden , Canada and the
euro region, where benchmark policy rates range from 1 percent
to 2.5 percent. Rates in  Japan  and the U.S. are near zero.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan today said inflation is at
the bottom of the RBA’s target range and, together with a
projected budget surplus, the central bank has room for another
round of monetary easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  