-- Lawmakers Suspended From Indian Parliament Over State Demand
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-04-24T12:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/lawmakers-suspended-from-indian-parliament-over-state-demand.html
Eight lawmakers in  India  were
suspended from parliament after they disrupted proceedings to
push their demand for a new state, a call that has sparked
violence in the province of  Andhra Pradesh .  The  lower house  took the action against the legislators,
all from the ruling Congress party, following a motion moved by
Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal as the
assembly resumed after a 24-day break.  The members representing constituencies in the Telangana
region of Andhra Pradesh have been advocating the division of
the southern province, with agitations frequently disrupting
proceedings in parliament.  A 50-year-old campaign for statehood for Telangana was
reinvigorated in December 2009 when Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s government backed the idea as a local leader’s hunger
strike triggered protests that closed roads and offices. Andhra
Pradesh sends 42 lawmakers to the 545-member lower house of
 parliament  and played a crucial role in back-to-back Congress
election victories in 2004 and 2009.  The status of its capital Hyderabad, home to offices of
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , is at the heart of the dispute
over Telangana, whose name is inspired by the Telugu language
spoken in the region. India’s sixth-largest city, a center for
information-technology and pharmaceuticals companies, lies
within the proposed boundaries of the new state.  Repeated disruptions in at least the last five sessions
over various issues have caused a yearlong policy paralysis and
hampered the government’s efforts to push through bills. Singh’s
administration plans to advance some key pieces of legislation,
including banking reforms, further opening up of the insurance
sector to foreign investment, and passage of the budget.  Today’s suspension precedes  elections  for a parliamentary
seat and 18 assembly constituencies in Andhra Pradesh due June
12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  