-- Ayala, Metro Pacific to Form Alliance for Rail Projects
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-04-24T11:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ayala-metro-pacific-to-form-alliance-for-rail-projects.html
Ayala Corp. (AC)  and  Metro Pacific
Investments Corp. (MPI)  agreed to form a partnership to bid and
develop light rail projects in Manila, stepping up competition
for companies such as  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  to build infrastructure.  They will own 50 percent each in the rail projects and
related real-estate developments, Ayala and Metro Pacific said
in a joint statement today. The alliance will initially bid for
so-called public private partnership projects, it said.  Philippines plans to offer as many as 18 projects worth
more than 200 billion pesos ($4.7 billion) to companies this
year as President  Benigno Aquino  aims to create jobs and spur
the $200 billion economy after growth slowed to a two-year low
in 2011. Ayala and Metro Pacific said they have delivered public
utilities such as water infrastructure services and toll road
operations and will be able to use these capabilities.  “Each of these companies brings something to the table,”
said Jomar Lacson, an analyst at Campos Lanuza & Co. “In many
ways, their assets and strategies are mutually beneficial and
the partnership makes sense.”  Ayala and businessman Manuel Pangilinan’s Metro Pacific had
first come together in 2010. They joined  First Gen Corp. (FGEN)  in a
venture that bid for a 246-megawatt hydroelectric power plant in
Bulacan province. Eight years before that, Ayala Land and its
partner acquired control of the 240-hectare Fort Bonifacio
project from Metro Pacific for $90 million.  ‘Under Invested’  The two companies see opportunities as Philippines seeks to
improve its light rail transit system.  “The existing system is over capacity and under invested -
- the need to improve the existing rail systems now cannot be
overemphasized,” Pangilinan said in the statement.  San Miguel , the Philippines’ largest company, plans to bid
for a 60 billion-peso contract to extend a Manila commuter
railway line to Cavite, a province neighboring the capital,
President Ramon Ang said in February.  Ayala, which owns the nation’s biggest builder, seeks to
expand into airports and railways, and will boost  capital
spending  by 38 percent this year to a record 91 billion pesos,
Chairman Jaime Augusto Zobel said in March. It won the first
road project offered by Aquino’s administration to investors in
December.  Pangilinan, who is the chairman of Metro Pacific, said in
November the company may bid for  Manila ’s 30-year old
international airport which the government wants to sell or
revamp. A sale may bring in as much as $2.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  