-- Baidu ADRs Sink in After-Hours Trade on Revenue Outlook
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-04-25T03:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/baidu-adrs-sink-in-after-hours-trade-on-revenue-outlook.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of  China ’s
dominant Internet search engine, tumbled in after-market trading
in  New York  after forecasting its second-quarter sales may grow
at the slowest pace in more than two years.  American depositary receipts of the Beijing-based company
 slid  9.3 percent to $123.26 by 7:59 p.m. yesterday in New York,
after slumping to $121.11 earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The stock fell 2.7 percent to $135.83 during normal
trading hours.  Baidu’s forecast that revenue growth may slow to 56 percent
this quarter raised concern that China’s economic slowdown may
curtail advertising spending by companies. Still, Chief
Executive Officer Robin Li said today that he expects
“healthy” growth in sales of search-engine keywords, and the
company will step up efforts to sign up advertisers outside the
biggest Chinese cities.  “The guidance was disappointing,” said Qi Guo, an analyst
at ThinkEquity Partners LLC in  San Francisco . He said he intends
to keep his buy rating on the stock because he expects search-
engine companies can weather China’s slowing economy better than
those that rely on sales of online display advertising.  Revenue is expected to rise to between 5.34 billion yuan
($847 million) and 5.46 billion yuan in the second quarter,
Baidu said in a statement released after the 4 p.m. close
yesterday. That compares with a 5.48 billion yuan average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The increase would be the slowest since the fourth quarter
of 2009, when sales climbed 39 percent from the year-earlier
period. Revenue was 3.4 billion yuan in the second quarter last
year.  Baidu’s sales last year were boosted by increases in ad
spending by Chinese daily coupon sites, a trend that won’t be
repeated this year, according to ThinkEquity’s Guo.  “It is a solid guidance for the second-quarter,” Baidu
Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Li said in a conference call
today. The outlook reflects a “normal” seasonal variation, she
said.  Net income  in the first quarter climbed to 1.88 billion
yuan, or an adjusted 5.48 yuan per ADR, from 1.07 billion yuan a
year earlier, according to the statement. Profit matched the
1.88 billion yuan average of 10 analysts’  estimates  collated by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 75 percent to 4.26 billion yuan.  “Spending by larger customers have been driving Baidu’s
results,” Kelvin Ho, who rates Baidu a buy at Yuanta Securities
in  Hong Kong , said before the earnings release. “In the long
term, Baidu’s market position is still very good.”  Baidu Trailing Tencent  This year, Baidu’s stock has underperformed the 48 percent
gain in the Hong Kong-traded shares of  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
China’s biggest online-games company, and the 40 percent advance
in  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , the biggest local online video operator.  Baidu accounted for 78.5 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue last quarter, compared with 16.6 percent for
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , according to researcher Analysys International.  Google has been losing ground in China’s search-engine
market since January 2010, when the  Mountain View , California-
based company said it was no longer willing to comply with
Chinese regulation to self-censor Web content. Two months later,
the U.S. company shut its Google.cn service and redirected
Chinese users to its site in Hong Kong.  Large advertisers that make up less than 1 percent of
Baidu’s customer base are contributing as much as 20 percent of
the company’s  revenue , according to an April 20 Morgan Stanley
report. Improved keyword matching technology in Baidu’s Phoenix
Nest advertising system helped boost sales to bigger clients,
according to the  U.S. bank .  Online advertising sales in China may increase 39 percent
this year, outpacing the 4.6 percent growth in ad sales for
newspapers, and 11 percent for television, according to a report
this month by Nomura Holdings Inc.  Chinese advertisers are allocating a bigger percentage of
their spending to online, Baidu CEO Li said today. He forecasts
the company’s advertising sales growth will be “better” in the
second half.  Baidu has expanded its Phoenix Nest system for customers
that place ads on its mobile search service, Li said. Still,
mobile advertising is expected to make up a small percentage of
overall revenue, he said.  Tencent plans to offer “performance-based” advertising
services this year, and seeks to increase sales from its search-
engine, President Martin Lau said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  