-- Baker Hughes Rises After Beating Estimates in U.S.: Dallas Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-04-24T20:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/baker-hughes-rises-after-beating-estimates-in-u-s-dallas-mover.html
Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the world’s
third-largest oilfield services provider, rose the most in more
than three months after beating analysts’ estimates on improved
performance in  North America .  Shares climbed 4.8 percent to $43.04 at the close in  New
York . Houston-based Baker Hughes, the worst performer in the
 Philadelphia Stock Exchange Oil Service Index (OSX) , has fallen 12
percent this year.  First quarter per-share earnings of 86 cents was 6 cents
higher than the average of 29 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 18 percent to $5.4 billion, according
to a statement today. Baker Hughes has been working on reducing
costs and improving utilization in its hydraulic-fracturing
business in North America after customers shifted from natural-
gas basins to oil fields.  “The results were better than expected,”  Scott Gruber , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said today in
a telephone interview.  “The worst is behind the company from a
quarterly profitability standpoint and directionally things will
get better.” He rates the shares an “outperform,” which means
investors should buy the stock.  Baker Hughes cut its forecast for capital spending this
year to a range of $2.7 billion to $2.9 billion from $3.1
billion to $3.4 billion as it reduces the amount it will spend
on new fracking equipment, Chief Financial Officer Peter Ragauss
said on a conference call today.  Significant Benefits  The company reported $2.9 billion in first-quarter sales in
North America, 5 percent better than Gruber expected. The
company’s operating margin there of 14 percent was also slightly
better than he expected, according to a note to investors.  The company expects to see “significant” benefits from
supply-chain improvements in the second half, Chief Executive
Officer Martin Craighead said in the statement.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield-services
provider, reported earnings per-share April 20 that beat
analysts’ estimates by 1 cent.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s
second-largest services provider, beat analysts’ estimates by 4
cents on April 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  