-- Bonuses Under Threat in EU Vision of Banks as Utilities
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-04-25T08:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/bankers-on-a-different-planet-face-bonuses-backlash-from-eu.html
Bankers (SX7P)  face a backlash from
European Union lawmakers determined to cut their bonuses as part
of a quest to reshape lenders as utilities like water and
electricity providers rather than money-making machines.  The European Parliament is proposing an array of amendments
to a draft law implementing capital rules by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  to attack the bonus culture legislators
partly blame for bringing the region’s economy to the brink of
collapse. A vote is set for May 8.  “A majority” of members “have had enough of banks living
on a different planet than everyone else,”  Sharon Bowles ,
chairwoman of the assembly’s economic and monetary affairs
committee, said in an interview. “I think it’s more than that
though -- we want to change banks’ behavior.”  Public outrage and shareholder rebellions have already led
some banks to limit payouts.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  said last week that he will forgo about
11 percent of his total compensation until the bank improves
profitability in a bid to placate investors opposed to his pay
package. His move follows a decision by  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
shareholders to reject that bank’s executive pay plan.  Lenders have struggled to find winning counter arguments to
the EU parliament’s plans, with lawmakers insisting that the
tougher requirements are a cornerstone of their position on the
draft Basel law.  The European Banking Federation, a Brussels-based group
that lobbies EU decision makers concedes that changing the minds
of politicians will be “difficult.” The debate “is more
emotional than rational,” the federation said in an e-mail.
“It is a highly political issue.”  Bankers’ Salaries  Among the dozens of amendments sought by members of the
parliament is one by  Othmar Karas , the Austrian Christian
Democrat lawmaker leading work on the draft rules in the
assembly, to ban bonuses that exceed a banker’s salary.  Karas toughened his earlier suggestion of capping bonuses
at double fixed pay as part of a proposed compromise among the
parliament’s different political groups.  The stricter approach has cross-party support, said
Philippe Lamberts, a Belgian who’s representing the parliament’s
Green group in the negotiations.  Other parliamentarians have said maximum pay for bankers
shouldn’t be more than four times as high as that of the chief
of their national watchdog, or more than three times as much as
the salary of their nation’s head of government -- such as the
142,500 pounds ($230,000) made by the U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  ‘Banker Bashing’  What parliament is doing “is much more sophisticated than
simple banker bashing,” said Bowles, a member of the U.K.
 Liberal Democrats , which is part of the coalition government
with Cameron’s Conservatives.  UBS AG (UBSN)  will base Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti ’s
bonus on a wider range of criteria than profitability, including
his progress in restoring the reputation of  Switzerland ’s
biggest bank, Chairman  Kaspar Villiger  said in an interview last
week.  Ermotti’s predecessor,  Oswald Gruebel , left last year after
the bank uncovered a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trades.  Ermotti joined UBS last April and took over as CEO after
Gruebel resigned. He received 6.35 million francs ($7 million)
last year, including 1.39 million francs in base salary, Zurich-
based UBS said in its 2011 annual report, published last month.  Common Sense  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services commissioner,
has said some payouts to bankers go against “all reason, common
sense and morality.”  Barnier, who is responsible for draft legislation, has
promised to consider proposing extra rules on bonuses.  The parliament may beat him to it by including the curbs in
the EU’s draft Basel bank-capital rules, which are scheduled to
become law across the 27-nation bloc on Jan. 1.  Lawmakers insist that the restrictions belong in the draft
Basel law, whose core purpose, they say, is to curb excessive
risk taking and turn banks into more solid anchors of the
broader economy.  Sony Kapoor, managing director of policy advisory firm Re-
Define, said it is right for legislators to act.  “Hard bonus caps are the only way to address the imbalance
between upside and downside that individual risk takers in banks
face,” Kapoor said in an interview.  ‘Unreasonable Levels’  Another step could be to limit banks’ total pay pools to
“a percentage of revenue,” he said. This “would make it hard
for them to inflate base pay to unreasonable levels.”  Banks have argued against the curbs, warning that they may
threaten deeper EU goals of international competitiveness and a
stable financial system. They may also scare away talent.  The Association for Financial Markets in  Europe , a group
representing lenders including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP) , has told lawmakers that the curbs are likely to force banks
to increase fixed salaries, making it harder for banks to
respond to a “stressed situation” or falling revenue by
reining in costs.  “Such an approach would run counter to the overriding
objectives of financial stability and economic growth,” the
group said in a letter to the EU assembly this month.  City of London  The  City of London  Corporation, which represents the
capital’s biggest financial district, said this month that
Europe can’t afford to “drive away” the best and brightest
minds by giving the impression it doesn’t welcome high earners.  “We should be wary of unintended consequences when it
comes to bringing in pay legislation,” Stuart Fraser, the City
of  London  policy chairman, said in an e-mail. “Banks have cut
tens of thousands of jobs, partly due to the movement away from
flexible bonuses to higher fixed-salary costs that was
encouraged following the financial crisis.”  Still, attempts to limit the ratio of bonuses to fixed
elements of pay may be welcomed by many bankers, said  Simon Gleeson , a financial-services lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP in
London.  “It’s the ‘Banker Enrichment Act,’” Gleeson said in an
interview. “You’re telling them 50 percent of your next bonus
is guaranteed, not just next year but for the whole career, and
you’ll receive it in cash. I’d be surprised if bankers weren’t
lobbying for it.”  ‘Salary Inflation’  Limits on the share of bonuses may lead to “some salary
inflation.” Bowles said. “But I don’t think it will totally
compensate for the reduced bonus payments.”  “It will make banks face up to what they are paying and
ask whether they want to do this on a permanent basis,” Bowles
said. “Shareholders and investors will ask questions about
whether it’s right.”  The draft Basel law must be agreed to by the parliament and
by national governments before it can take effect.  Governments are scheduled to agree on a negotiating stance
at a May 2 meeting of finance ministers, who have yet to signal
whether they will support the bonus curbs. The parliament’s
economic and monetary affairs committee will vote on May 8.  Denmark , which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, must
then try to broker a deal between governments and the parliament
on the final version of the law.  When the law finally enters the EU’s statute books,
Lamberts said he’s seeking a return to the days when banks
served the economy, rather than the other way around.  Banking is a “very important industry,” the Green
lawmaker said in an interview. “It’s just that it’s not more
important that other utilities like energy and water.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  