-- BofA, Morgan Stanley Said to Team in Bid for Maiden Lane
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D e R e z a
-- 2012-04-24T16:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/bank-of-america-morgan-stanley-said-to-pair-on-maiden-lane-bid.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are teaming up to bid on $7.49 billion of commercial-
real estate securities held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, joining the ranks of dealers pooling resources to win the
assets, according to people with knowledge of the auction.  The banks today distributed price estimates of about 60
cents on the dollar, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the transaction isn’t public. The debt is
composed of two collateralized debt obligations issued by
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and assumed in the rescue of American
International Group Inc. Final bids are due on April 26 by 9
a.m. in New York, said the people.  The New York Fed invited eight broker-dealers to compete
for the so-called MAX CDOs after receiving “several”
unsolicited bids for the holdings in its Maiden Lane III LLC
portfolio, according to an April 10 statement.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are
preparing a joint bid as well, people familiar with the plan
said yesterday. The other banks invited to bid are  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
Deutsche Bank and Nomura Holdings Inc.  The CDOs could be sold intact or broken into pieces. An
interest-rate swap contract with Barclays would need to be paid
out to access the underlying bonds, eating into profits,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Deutsche Bank, which owns the
most junior slices of the CDOs, would need to be bought out to
break up the CDO, according to people familiar with the deals.  Barclays Proposal  Barclays has circulated a proposal to investors for a so-
called re-remic, which would enable the bank to create AAA rated
bonds with pieces of the CDOs, according to one of the people.
About 44 percent of the securities are rated below investment
grade, while 8 percent carry top rankings, JPMorgan analysts
said in an April 13 report.  The two CDOs, which bundle securities culled from 103
commercial-mortgage bond deals, are estimated by the  New York 
Fed to be worth $4.8 billion as of December, according to the
district bank’s website.  Renee Calabro, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, and Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays spokesman, both based in New York, declined
to comment.  Maiden Lane III, with a face value of $47.7 billion, was
estimated to be worth $17.8 billion as of December last year,
according to the Fed’s website. In addition to commercial-
mortgage CDOs, the holdings include $12.7 billion in CDOs backed
by other assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net 
Christopher DeReza in New York at 
 cdereza1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  