-- Barclays Betting on Investment Bank Profit to Quell Pay Revolt
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-04-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/barclays-betting-on-investment-bank-profit-to-quell-pay-revolt.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  is betting that rising profitability at
the investment bank he built will allow him to fend off a
shareholders’ revolt over his compensation.  The U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets may say tomorrow
first-quarter net income rose 18 percent to 1.19 billion pounds
($1.9 billion) from the year-earlier period, according to the
 median estimate  of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Investors
will vote on Diamond’s 12 million-pound compensation at the
company’s annual general meeting in  London  the following day.  Diamond, 60, offered to forgo 11 percent of his total
compensation for 2011 if the bank doesn’t hit its profitability
targets after  investors  including  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  criticized
his pay. That leaves Diamond dependent on the investment bank,
which last year generated about half of Barclays’s pretax
profit.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and Diamond’s ability to
rein in expenses will be the keys to improving profitability,
investors and analysts say.  “As a shareholder I’m much more concerned about whether
they’ve made the right decisions about expanding aggressively
into investment banking and how that will pan out,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 16 billion pounds at London’s
 Rathbone Brothers Plc. (RAT) , including Barclays shares. “In five
years that is what will have driven their stock up or down.”  Debt Crisis  Diamond, the U.K.’s best-paid bank CEO, expanded the
investment banking unit by acquiring the North American unit of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. amid the 2008 financial crisis,
and adding 2,000 bankers in Europe and  Asia . Last year, the unit
posted pretax profit of 2.97 billion pounds, or about 50 percent
of the pretax income for the entire bank.  Barclays’s performance will be “contingent on how capital
markets fare, especially relating to the sovereign debt
crisis,” said Andrew Lim, an analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in London, who has a buy rating on the bank.
Bringing down costs “is a major part of the plan, and then
they’ll be concentrating on taking market share in businesses
such as currencies, commodities and fixed-income trading.”  Even as the  investment banking  unit’s 10.4 percent return
on equity is beating the firm’s average, it will have to rise if
the London-based bank is to reach its 13 percent target next
year, analysts say. Barclays’s  return on equity  was an
“unacceptable” 6.6 percent last year, Diamond said on Feb. 10.  Barclays’s Shares Rise  Barclays  shares  are up 20 percent this year, while the
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index  has risen 2
percent. Barclays closed yesterday in London at 211 pence,
valuing the lender at 25.8 billion pounds.  “Barclays can’t meet their return on equity target until
Barclays Capital does,” said Chirantan Barua, an analyst at
Sanford Bernstein Research in London with an outperform rating
on Barclays and a 360 pence target price. “ Barclays Capital 
can’t make the target with a 45 percent compensation-to-net-
income ratio. The expense ratio needs to be brought down. Pay
people less or take out capacity. I think BarCap has 15 percent
excess capacity.”  Diamond will probably keep his 24,000 investment banking
employees in anticipation of business improving and try to take
market share from competitors while lowering banker pay, Barua
said. “We’ve hardly seen any wage inflation in investment
banking so it shouldn’t be a very hard task,” he said.  Diamond’s Pay  Barclays’s board last week tried to quell shareholder
dissent by tying Diamond’s pay to his ability to improve profit.
Diamond and Finance Director Chris Lucas, 51, will lose 50
percent of their deferred bonuses for 2011 if return on equity
doesn’t exceed the cost of equity within three years, the lender
said. Diamond received a 2.7 million-pound bonus in stock and
Lucas 1.8 million pounds. Barclays’s cost of equity was 11.5
percent, according to the 2011 annual report  Barclays is ranked fourth in mergers and acquisitions deals
this year, with 21 percent of the advisory market, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A Barclays spokesman declined to
comment.  “In the first quarter, I’m expecting Barclays investment
bank revenue to be better than market expectations,” said  Ian Gordon , an Investec Bank Plc analyst who rates the bank a buy.
“I’m expecting that to drive overall profits ahead of
expectations.”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  analyst Andrew Coombs estimated in a note to
investors yesterday that investment banking operating profit
rose 19 percent to 1.59 billion pounds in the first quarter from
a year earlier.  ‘Best in Class’  “We believe BarCap will emerge as the ‘best-in-class’
European investment banking franchise over time, taking the
mantle currently held by Deutsche Bank,” Lim said a note to
investors on April 23. The investment banking unit was the most
profitable in Europe in the second half by return on risk-
weighted assets, he said.  Standard Life’s Guy Jubb, global head of governance and
stewardship, said the company would vote to support the bank’s
pay report, saying “our key concerns over last year’s executive
bonuses have been addressed.”  Barclays’s deferred share bonuses for 2011 are paid in
three equal parts in 2013, 2014 and 2015. The announcement won’t
affect Diamond’s 2.25 million-pound long-term incentive bonus,
the bank said. In all, he got as much as 6.3 million pounds in
salary, bonuses and stock awards for 2011 as well as a 5.75
million-pound contribution toward his personal tax bill.  “We’re happy enough with the concessions that have been
made,” said Colin McLean, CEO of SVM Asset Management in
Edinburgh, which holds Barclays shares. “Shareholders are happy
with the leadership, but with the company not yet earning the
return on equity it targeted the package looked excessive.”  PIRC Objects  The concession, agreed a week before shareholders meet to
decide upon the pay report among other resolutions, didn’t
placate  Pensions Investment Research Consultants Ltd. , which
this month urged investors to vote down Diamond’s pay and
reiterated its advice last week.  “The announcement does not address the fundamental issue
of rewards for failure,” PIRC, a London-based corporate
governance adviser, said in a statement. “The proposed change
acknowledges a problem with the bonus scheme, but still keeps it
in place.”  The  Association of British Insurers , whose members own 15
percent to 20 percent of all Britain’s publicly traded
companies, said Barclays’s pay plans should be scrutinized
before shareholders vote on the compensation.  Citigroup investors last week rejected the New York-based
bank’s executive pay plan amid criticism it lets CEO Vikram Pandit collect millions of dollars in rewards too easily.  UBS AG (UBSN)  will base CEO  Sergio Ermotti ’s bonus in part on the
progress he makes in restoring the reputation of  Switzerland ’s
biggest bank, Chairman  Kaspar Villiger  said on April 18.  “We’ll have this argument endlessly” on executive banker
compensation, Rathbone’s Chillingworth said. “There’s going to
be lots of discussions about how they get paid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  