-- BBVA First-Quarter Profit May Decline on Slump at Spanish Unit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-04-24T07:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/bbva-first-quarter-profit-may-decline-on-slump-at-spanish-unit.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, will probably report a drop in
first-quarter profit as earnings slumped in its home country and
provisions for bad loans increased.  BBVA  may say  net income fell to 921 million euros ($1.21
billion) from 1.15 billion euros in the year-earlier period,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six
analysts. The Bilbao, Spain-based bank is due to report earnings
tomorrow before the stock market opens in  Madrid .  Banks including BBVA, which has about 60 percent of its
 loan book  in Spain, are being forced by the government to
recognize more losses on the real estate assets held on their
balance sheets. BBVA says the revenue-generating potential of
units in Mexico and  Asia  means it can weather the challenges in
Spain, where the economy is sliding back into recession.  “Spain is under pressure because of the economy but Mexico
and  Latin America  should be pretty strong,” Daragh Quinn, an
analyst at Nomura International in Madrid, said in a phone
interview.  BBVA shares have declined 24 percent this year, valuing the
lender at 25.8 billion euros. Larger rival Banco Santander SA,
which has dropped 17 percent, will report earnings on April 26.  Earnings from Spain may slump 28 percent, according to
analysts at Banco BPI SA in Porto, Portugal. BBVA said in
February that the final impact on 2012 earnings of the real
estate cleanup ordered by the Spanish government would be 1.36
billion euros.  Profit from  Mexico , the biggest contributor to BBVA
 earnings , may have risen 8.6 percent, according to estimates by
Nomura Equity Research. Earnings from Eurasia, a division that
pools BBVA’s business in Turkey and  China  and its operations in
 Europe  outside Spain, may have climbed 22 percent, Nomura said.  Net loan loss provisions may have increased 9.5 percent to
1.12 billion euros, according to Nomura. Net interest income may
have gained 12 percent to 3.55 billion euros, according to BPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  