-- Bill Cunningham on Borrowed Dresses, Charity Galas, Astor
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-24T10:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/bill-cunningham-on-borrowed-dresses-charity-galas-astor.html
“I remember a waiter spilling a
tray of food on  Sandy Weill ,” Bill Cunningham, the New York
Times photographer, said of  Citigroup Inc.’s (C)  former chairman, a
frequent subject in his column “Evening Hours.” “All the
gravy went down his back, and he just went with the flow,
sitting with his guests.”  Cunningham, 83, accepting the  Carnegie Hall  Medal of
Excellence last night at the Waldorf-Astoria, was arguing the
point that galas are not so glamorous.  The photographer, known for riding a bicycle around town,
sported a black tie and a navy blazer in place of his trademark
blue jacket. He also recalled former World Bank President James Wolfensohn playing the cello and retired Goldman Sachs partner
James Marcus speaking “flawless Russian” after a concert by a
Russian orchestra.  “People don’t realize what you give to these events,”
Cunningham said in front of 360 guests including Blackstone’s
chairman and chief executive  Stephen Schwarzman , Daniel Ziff of
Ziff Brothers Investments, Lightyear Capital’s  Donald Marron  and
 David Koch  of  Koch Industries .  “There are cynics, who think the parties are just for
ladies who want to dress up,” he continued. “That’s a lie.
It’s not that way at all. It is an American tradition of giving
back, from a country that has given us everything.”  This particular gala raised $1.5 million for the music
education programs at  Carnegie Hall , said Weill, its chairman.
These programs are now located where Cunningham lived for 60
years in what were once artists’ studios above the venue.  Brooke Astor  Cunningham began his remarks unfurling 10 or so pages of
notes. Among the topics he touched on: Brooke Astor (“she gave
her time and money”); the  New York  Times (“I’m just the fluff,
I fill around the ads, if we have any”); wisteria in Union
Square Park (a sign we’re living in New York’s golden age), and
the fact that 30 years ago he used to photograph women going to
lunch. Now he photographs them going to work.  Speaking about what to wear to a gala, Cunningham urged
women to buy, not borrow their dresses.  Any woman guilty of that crime forgot it when Italian tenor
Vittorio Grigolo came on stage, to sing “Maria” from “West
Side Story” and a few arias. Lauren  Santo Domingo , Annette de
la Renta, Sarah Jessica Parker and Mercedes Bass were beaming,
especially after he took off his jacket.  Cunningham first spotted Weill without his jacket, at a
gala in a very hot tent.  “I couldn’t believe it, so I asked who he was. The press
agent said he ran a company, couldn’t remember the name but the
logo was an umbrella. So I thought, ‘He’s an umbrella maker?’”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Manuela Hoelterhoff
interviews  Pablo Heras-Casado ; Mark Beech on new  rock CDs ;
Jeremy Gerard on  Broadway .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 