-- Alexander Says U.K. Return to Prosperity Will Take Time
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2012-04-30T08:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/boe-s-miles-says-april-vote-for-more-qe-still-looks-vindicated.html
Chief Secretary to the Treasury
Danny Alexander said it will take time for Britain to return to
“sustainable prosperity” and reiterated the government’s
commitment to its budget-cutting program.  “Those were very disappointing figures that we saw last
week,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
London today. “It is going to take time to get the U.K. back to
sustainable prosperity” and “a critically important part of
that is to maintain the commitments that we’ve made to deal with
the enormous budget deficit we inherited.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  was forced to defend his
government’s spending cuts last week after official data showed
Britain’s economy slid back into its first double-dip recession
since the 1970s. The U.K. was joined today by  Spain , which has
entered its second recession since 2009.  Alexander said low bond yields show investors still have
confidence in the U.K. economy.  “They’re at one of the lowest levels they’ve ever been in
our history,” he said. “That’s a reflection of the confidence
that people have in investing in the U.K. because of the plan
we’ve set out.”  Alexander’s comments echo those made yesterday by Cameron,
who said the government won’t ease an austerity plan aimed at
wiping out the bulk of a  budget deficit  equal to 8 percent of
gross domestic product by 2017.  Cameron also told the British Broadcasting Corp. the euro
area was “nowhere near” halfway through its debt crisis. Data
today showed  Spain’s gross domestic product  fell 0.3 percent in
the first quarter, the same as in the previous three months.  “We’ve set out a very comprehensive growth strategy,”
Alexander said. “There are big changes we are making to support
economic growth in the U.K.”  Alexander declined to comment when asked about a Sunday
Times report that Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  was a candidate to replace  Mervyn King  as governor of
the  Bank of England  next year.  “We’ll have to make a decision in due course,” he said.
“I’m sure there are a lot of good candidates around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Hyde in London at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  