-- Botox Provides Modest Relief From Migraines, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-04-24T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/botox-provides-modest-relief-from-migraines-study-finds.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN) ’s wrinkle treatment
Botox, approved in the U.S. for preventing chronic migraines,
provides only modest relief for patients with the headaches, an
analysis of previous studies showed.  The study, published today in the  Journal of the  American
Medical Association , found that Botox had no benefit for those
with episodic migraines that occur less than 15 times a month,
or chronic tension headaches that occur more than 15 times a
month. The analysis also showed that Botox reduced chronic
migraines and daily headaches by only about two per month.  Botox was approved in the U.S. in October 2010 for chronic
migraines, those occurring more than 15 times a month lasting
more than four hours each, even though results from studies on
the drug’s benefit were mixed, the authors wrote. Today’s
findings are the first to assess the available research to show
which headaches the treatment helps and which it doesn’t, lead
study author Jeffrey Jackson said.  “Botox does appear to have a benefit for people appearing
to suffer from chronic migraines and chronic daily headaches,”
said  Jackson , a professor of medicine at the Medical College of
 Wisconsin  in  Milwaukee , in an April 20 telephone interview.
“The benefit is only a reduction of two to three headaches a
month and that’s in people who have a minimum of 15 headaches a
month. So that’s not a large benefit. For people having
headaches less than 14 days a month or anyone with a tension
headache, it clearly doesn’t work.”  Different Doses  Robert Duarte , director of the Pain Center at the Cushing
Neuroscience Institute at North Shore-LIJ Health System in
Manhasset, New York, said today’s analysis included studies with
different doses of Botox, many lower than the current U.S.-
approved dose, which may be why the results show only a slight
benefit.  “It still demonstrates that for chronic migraines this is
the treatment of choice,” said Duarte, who wasn’t an author on
today’s paper, in an April 23 telephone interview. “We have
seen clinically that patients’ headaches have been significantly
reduced. It is not a cure. It is maintenance therapy. This is
the best treatment that we have to date.”  Researchers analyzed 27 studies that looked at Botox versus
placebo and four studies that compared Botox to other migraine
treatments. Among the trials studying Botox and placebo there
were 5,313 total patients, including 1,938 that had episodic
migraines, 1,544 who had chronic  migraines , 616 who had chronic
tension headaches and 1,115 who had chronic daily headaches.  The analysis found that Botox cut the number of chronic
migraines per month to 17.2 from 19.5 and reduced chronic daily
headaches to 15.4 from 17.5 on average.  $1.59 Billion in Sales  About 50 percent of Botox’s $1.59 billion in 2011 worldwide
sales was for therapeutic uses, including chronic migraines,
severe underarm sweating and urinary incontinence, according to
the Irvine, California-based company’s annual report. Allergan
doesn’t break out sales data specific to migraines, said Crystal Muilenburg, a company spokeswoman.  The two additional migraine-free days a month for sufferers
using Botox in today’s analysis amounts to 24 days a year, but
doesn’t tell the whole story, Muilenburg said. Botox also
shortens migraine time in hours and decreases the severity of
the headaches, company-funded studies have shown.  “These data reinforce the role Botox plays in the
treatment of patients with chronic migraine,” Muilenburg said
in a statement. “As the study authors note, their analysis of
27 randomized, placebo-controlled studies, five of which were
classified as chronic migraine, suggests that Botox is
associated with improvement in patients with chronic migraine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  