-- Bovespa Snaps Three-Day Drop as U.S. Data Spurs Global Optimism
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-04-24T20:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/bovespa-snaps-three-day-drop-as-u-s-data-spurs-growth-optimism.html
The Bovespa index rose for the
first time in four days after a report that showed home sales
exceeded forecasts in the U.S.,  Brazil ’s second-biggest trading
partner, rekindled global growth optimism.  Pulp producer Fibria Celulose SA rallied before it
announces the results of a share sale. Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA rebounded from its lowest price since October
after a newspaper reported that Delta Air Lines Inc. plans to
increase its stake in the Brazilian airline. Meatpacker JBS SA
sank after mad cow disease was reported in the U.S., where the
company produces more than a third of its beef.  The Bovespa rose 0.7 percent to 61,971.14 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Forty-four stocks gained on the gauge
while 22 fell. The real was little changed at 1.8815 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5:27 p.m. local time.  “There is some positive news coming from abroad,
especially from the U.S.,” Marcio Cardoso, a partner at Titulo
Corretora de Valores, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “I don’t
see people buying based on long-term prospects for the
companies. Everyone seems to be focused on the short term: when
there’s a positive piece of news or data, the market goes up,
and it can go the other way just as fast.”  Home sales in the U.S. dropped to a 328,000 annual rate in
March, a decline of 7.1 percent from a revised 353,000 pace in
February that was stronger than initially projected, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington .
Economists forecast a rate of 319,000 last month, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  China Economy  The Bovespa earlier  fell  as much as 0.3 percent after a
leading index for  China’s economy  rose more slowly in March,
fueling concern about growth in Brazil’s top trading partner.
The measure gained 0.8 percent from the previous month to 230.6,
the New York-based Conference Board said in a statement today in
Beijing, citing a preliminary reading. That compares with a 1
percent rise in February that was revised up from a previously
reported 0.8 percent increase.  Fibria jumped 6.7 percent to 16 reais, the most in eight
months. The company plans to sell as many as 91.2 million new
voting shares in a global public offering, according to a
prospectus sent to Brazil’s securities regulator.  Gol rose 4 percent to 10.17 reais after Folha de S.Paulo
reported that Delta may increase its stake in the Brazilian
airline to 20 percent from 3 percent. The newspaper cited
unidentified people close to the negotiations. Gol denied the
report in an e-mailed statement today.  JBS Sinks  JBS, the world’s biggest beef producer, slid 0.3 percent to
7.16 reais after earlier plunging 5.2 percent. A case of mad cow
disease has been found in a dairy cow in central  California ,
John Clifford, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s chief
veterinarian, told reporters today in a briefing in Washington.
It’s the fourth confirmed U.S. case of bovine spongiform
encephalopathy, as the disease is known, since the first was
discovered in December 2003 in an animal that came from  Canada .  Itau Unibanco Holding SA,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by
market value, fell 1.1 percent to 31.45 reais. The lender said
adjusted net income, which excludes one-time charges, fell to
3.54 billion reais ($1.88 billion) from 3.64 billion reais a
year earlier, according to a regulatory filing. Profit was in
line with the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight
analysts.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-
biggest steelmaker, declined 1 percent to 11.25 reais. Usiminas,
as the company is known, said its first-quarter net loss more
than doubled to 70.8 million reais from 26.1 million in the
year-earlier period.  Bovespa Year-to-Date  Brazil’s benchmark equity  measure  has gained 9.2 percent
this year, buoyed by local interest-rate cuts, signs of
expansion in the U.S. and speculation  Europe  may be closer to
resolving its sovereign-debt crisis. The gauge has fallen 9.4
percent since this year’s high on March 13 as signs of a
slowdown in  China  spurred speculation that demand for
commodities exports may falter.  The Bovespa trades at 10.4 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, in line with the 10.4 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure
of 21 developing nations’ equities, weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Traders  moved  5.52 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.27 billion reais this year through April 19,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  