-- Brazil Rate Futures Drop on Speculation About New Savings Rules
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-04-24T21:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/brazil-rate-futures-drop-toward-record-low-on-savings-rules-bets.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts dropped on speculation the government is
planning changes in savings-account rules to facilitate more
cuts in borrowing costs.  The yields plunged last week after the central bank
signaled in a statement that slowing inflation and weaker global
economic growth may allow for further cuts in  interest rates .
The real strengthened today as a gain in stocks revived demand
for higher-yielding assets in emerging markets.  “Changes to  savings accounts  rules would open space for
more rate cuts,” said Flavio Serrano, a senior economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank, in a phone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “Perceptions of global markets are a bit better today.”  The yield on the futures contract due in January 2014 slid
9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.86 percent after
gaining six basis points yesterday. The yields touched a record
low 8.82 percent on April 20. The real appreciated 0.1 percent
to 1.8790 per  U.S. dollar .  Brazil  may have a chance to lower interest rates as a
“moderation” of global economic growth could lead to lower
inflation,  Luciano Coutinho , head of Brazil’s state development
bank, said yesterday in  New York .  Policy makers lowered the benchmark lending rate last week
by 75 basis points to 9 percent, almost the record low of 8.75
percent. They said in a statement accompanying the unanimous
decision that they were “continuing the adjustment process of
monetary conditions” given that inflation risks “remain
limited.”  Savings Returns  The law requires minimum returns on savings accounts,
spurring concern further reductions by the central bank will
drive investors out of  government bonds  and into  bank deposits .  Yields on rate futures fell on speculation inflation that
was faster than forecast won’t be enough to keep the central
bank from continuing to cut rates, Serrano said.  Prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose 0.43 percent
through mid-April, compared with a 0.25 percent jump a month
earlier. The increase was more than predicted by all except two
of 42 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median estimate was
for a 0.37 percent jump.  The real gained along with rising global stocks after
approaching a 2012 low yesterday. European equities advanced
after Spain and the Netherlands sold debt, easing concern the
sovereign-debt crisis was spreading.  The real has slumped 8.6 percent since the end of February,
the most in  emerging markets , as the government tripled a tax on
foreign loans and the central bank boosted purchases of
greenbacks to help fuel growth in Latin America’s biggest
economy. Brazil’s currency rallied 41 percent from the end of
2005 through the end of 2010, the most among developing-nation
currencies.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA, Brazil’s second-
largest steelmaker by output, said its net loss more than
doubled in the first quarter as a weakening real contributed to
higher financial expenses and sales fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  