-- Brisa’s Board Says Mello Bid Price in ‘Reasonable Range’
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-04-24T18:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/brisa-s-board-says-mello-bid-price-in-reasonable-range-.html
Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal
SA ’s board said a bid from a group led by its largest
shareholder to acquire the entire company is within “a
reasonable range.”  “Given the current context,” the offer price of 2.66
euros ($3.51) a share “is within a reasonable range of the
intrinsic value of the company,” Brisa, Portugal’s biggest
toll-road operator, said today in a regulatory filing. The board
said it will maintain a position of “neutrality” towards the
offer.  Jose de Mello SGPS SA, a holding company for one of
Portugal’s richest families, and Aeif Apollo Sarl, through their
Tagus Holdings Sarl venture, last month, made the offer which
values the company at 1.6 billion euros ($2 billion).  Jose de Mello, with a 30.48 percent stake, is Brisa’s
largest  shareholder ,  according to a regulatory filing April 9,
while Aeif Apollo holds 19.09 percent. Combined they have 54
percent of voting rights in Brisa, which is based near Lisbon.  The board said it “recognizes that the offer price doesn’t
entirely reflect the potential long-term value” but it also
“doesn’t fully take entirely into consideration a possible
serious deterioration of those conditions.”  The offer could be an opportunity for shareholders
interested in reducing their exposure to Brisa and to  Portugal ’s
economic risks, the board said. The bid could also herald
changes to the company’s dividend policy, it said.  On April 2, the company’s board had already said it would
adopt a “neutral approach” to the bid and would abstain “from
implementing measures that may either frustrate or facilitate”
the offer.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  