-- Britain’s 52-Year Olympic Soccer Absence Ends With Senegal Game
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-24T15:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/britain-to-play-senegal-uruguay-in-olympic-soccer-tournament.html
The British soccer team will play
its first Olympic soccer game in 52 years when it takes on
 Senegal  in the opening match of the men’s tournament at  London 
2012.  The teams will play at Manchester United’s Old Trafford on
July 26 following today’s draw at Wembley Stadium in London. The
United Arab Emirates and Uruguay are the other teams in group A.  Interim England national team manager Stuart Pearce is in
charge of Team GB, which last played at a games in 1960. He can
choose players from the so-called home nations of England,
 Wales , Northern Ireland and  Scotland . Soccer’s governing body,
FIFA, said the combined team wouldn’t change the separate
nation’s ability to play in international tournaments.  “We are hoping home advantage will play a big part and the
opportunity to showcase our sport under the Olympic umbrella is
fantastic,” said Pearce, who may also lead the  England  national
team to the European Championships, which finish about three
weeks before the start of the Olympics. “I’m busy scouting
players’ form and fitness: they are the two drivers.”  The Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish soccer federations
remain opposed to a united team and have advised their players
not participate. Pearce said he’s not under pressure to include
a quota of players from any one country.  “No one has guided me in regard to picking home nation
players, English, or certainly individual players,” he said.
“As far as I’m concerned it’s form and fitness that will
dictate what the squad will be.”  Women’s Event  In the women’s soccer tournament, Britain will play
Cameroon, New Zealand and Brazil, while  Japan , Sweden,  South
Africa  and  Canada  are grouped together. The U.S., the defending
Olympic women’s champion, takes on France, Colombia and North
Korea. The top two teams from each group and the two best third-
placed teams move to the quarterfinals.  While the women’s Olympics competition doesn’t restrict
players by age, squads for the men’s tournament will be limited
to Under 23s and three older players. Former England captain
David Beckham, 37, is on Pearce’s current 80-man shortlist.  Beckham helped U.K. officials lobby for London when it
beat  New York , Paris and Moscow to the games in 2005 and has
said he wants to participate. Pearce said he’ll travel to watch
Beckham play for the  Los Angeles Galaxy  in a May 2 match with
the Seattle Sounders.  About 1.5 million tickets remain unsold for the soccer
competition. That’s led to suggestions the local organizing
committee may push for Beckham’s inclusion to boost sales.  Duty to Britain  “He will be treated in the same way as every other
individual, young or over age,” said Pearce. “The main proviso
is that I’ve got a duty of care to  Great Britain  to try to win a
gold medal.”  Ronaldo, Beckham’s former teammate at Real Madrid, and the
man with the most goals in  World Cup  finals, said the Galaxy
midfielder should be selected.  “If I was the manager I definitely would because he would
guarantee quality and efficiency,” Ronaldo said. “Just last
week he scored a beautiful goal for the Galaxy from outside the
box into the top corner. He really looks after himself so
despite his age I think he could contribute.”  England names its European Championship squad on May 10,
three days before the close of the Premier League season and
it’s expected that Pearce will choose the Olympic roster about a
week later.  Brazil, a record five-time winner of the World Cup, has
never secured Olympic gold. Ronaldo, who got a bronze medal in
Atlanta in 1996, said capturing the title has become a national
obsession.  Brazil is in group C alongside Belarus,  New Zealand  and
Egypt. Mexico, South Korea, Gabon and Switzerland are in Group
B. World Cup holder Spain, Honduras, Japan and Morocco make up
Group D. The top two teams from each group move to the
quarterfinals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  