-- BTG’s IPO Said to Value Esteves’s Bank at $14.5 Billion
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-04-24T17:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/btg-pactual-said-to-price-initial-public-offering-at-31-25-reais.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11) ’s initial
public offering valued the Brazilian bank, led by billionaire
 Andre Esteves , at 27.3 billion reais ($14.5 billion), a person
familiar with the transaction said.  The IPO was sold at 31.25 reais per unit, according to the
person, who declined to be named because the details haven’t
been made public. BTG had said previously it expected the price
to fall in a range of 28.75 reais to 33.75 reais.  BTG’s IPO was the largest for an investment bank since
Huatai Securities Co.’s $2.3 billion offering in Shanghai in
2010, and the company is the first stand-alone investment bank
to go public in Brazil, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Brazilian banks have benefited from a rebound in the benchmark
Bovespa stock index this year and on signs Europeans may resume
investing in  emerging markets  as the debt crisis there eases.  “I’m happy to take any sign as a positive these days, but
I think it’s most apt to be peculiar to the Brazilian
environment, and not so much an indication of how things are
going worldwide,”  Gary Townsend , head of Hill Townsend Capital
LLC, which manages about $40 million, said in a phone interview.  The units, which represent a total of three shares of the
bank and three shares of BTG’s private-equity firm, will begin
trading in  Sao Paulo  and Amsterdam on April 26. BTG plans to use
the proceeds to “continue expanding its businesses” and to
improve its “funding structure,” according to a regulatory
filing.  The bank’s IPO is the biggest in the Brazilian exchange,
 BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , since Banco Santander Brasil SA, a subsidiary of
Madrid-based  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , raised a record 13.2 billion
reais in October 2009. It’s the second IPO in Brazil this year.  Mexico’s IPO market is also showing signs of revival with
the planned sale tomorrow of shares in Alpek SAB, the country’s
largest privately owned petrochemical company. Alpek’s parent,
Alfa SAB, is selling a stake to raise as much as 11.2 billion
pesos ($850 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  