-- BTG Sells Biggest IPO for Investment Bank in Two Years
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-04-25T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/btg-s-ipo-raises-1-95-billion-valuing-bank-at-14-5-billion.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11) , the Brazilian
bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves , is raising as much as
3.66 billion reais ($1.95 billion) in the biggest initial public
offering for an investment bank in two years.  The IPO units, which represent shares in BTG and its
private-equity arm, are being sold at 31.25 reais each, valuing
the company at $14.5 billion, the Sao Paulo-based bank said in a
statement. BTG had said previously it expected a price of 28.75
reais to 33.75 reais. The bank is selling 93.6 million units in
new capital and previous shareholders are selling 23.4 million
units.  BTG’s IPO was the largest for an investment bank since
Huatai Securities Co.’s $2.3 billion offering in  Shanghai  in
2010, and the company is the first stand-alone investment bank
to go public in Brazil, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Brazilian banks have benefited from a rebound in the benchmark
Bovespa stock index this year and on signs Europeans may resume
investing in  emerging markets  as the debt crisis there eases.  “I’m happy to take any sign as a positive these days, but
I think it’s most apt to be peculiar to the Brazilian
environment, and not so much an indication of how things are
going worldwide,”  Gary Townsend , head of Hill Townsend Capital
LLC, which manages about $40 million, said in a phone interview.  The units, which represent a total of three shares of the
bank and three shares of BTG’s private-equity firm, will begin
trading in Sao Paulo and Amsterdam on April 26. BTG plans to use
the proceeds to “continue expanding its businesses” and to
improve its “funding structure,” according to a regulatory
filing.  Banco Santander  The bank’s IPO is the biggest in the Brazilian exchange,
 BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , since  Banco Santander Brasil SA (SANB11) , a subsidiary of
Madrid-based  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , raised a record 13.2 billion
reais in October 2009. It’s the second IPO in Brazil this year.  Italy’s Agnelli family and J.C. Flowers, the New York-based
private-equity firm founded by financier J. Christopher Flowers,
are part of a group that paid $1.8 billion in December 2010 for
a stake of almost 19 percent that valued BTG at about $10
billion at the time.  Mexico’s IPO market is also showing signs of revival with
the planned sale today of shares in Alpek SAB, the country’s
largest privately owned petrochemical company. Alpek’s parent,
Alfa SAB, is selling a stake to raise as much as 11.2 billion
pesos ($850 million) in the first IPO in Mexico in nine months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  