-- HTC Forecasts Revenue Rebound on ’One’ Smartphone Models
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-24T11:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/htc-forecasts-revenue-rebound-on-one-smartphone-models-2-.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest
smartphone maker, forecast its highest revenue in three quarters
after it released new devices to help gain share following its
biggest sales and profit decline in a decade.  Second-quarter sales will be about NT$105 billion ($3.6
billion), the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement
today. Revenue was expected to be NT$106 billion, according to
the average of 22 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  HTC is betting on its  One series  of handsets, announced
last quarter, to gain share on  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s IPhone after it “dropped the ball” on new
products in the prior period. A shortage of chips from  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)  may delay shipments and narrow its competitive edge even
after releasing more-powerful devices than its competitors.  “The window of opportunity for HTC to be ahead in the
most-advanced products is shrinking because of the delay, as
Samsung is set to release its next handset in May,” Richard Ko,
who rates the stock neutral at KGI Securities Co. in Taipei,
said before today’s announcement. He estimates the delay could
reduce shipments by as much as 2 million units to about 11
million this quarter.  Chip Shortage  Qualcomm, the world’s largest maker of chips for mobile
phones, can’t get enough supply from its existing manufacturer
and is seeking additional output, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said in an interview last week. HTC also has models that
use chips from rival Nvidia Corp. which will mitigate the
shortage, KGI’s Ko said.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , which counts
Qualcomm as a client, has fully booked its most-advanced 28
nanometer facilities and last week announced it will raise
factory spending at least 20 percent higher than originally
forecast to add capacity.  “At first there was a little concern over supply” of
handsets, Chief Executive Officer Peter Chou said in an
investors’ conference call today without providing details of
any possible impact. “We just work hard to do our best, yet we
can’t comment on any specific company.”  Profit Decline  HTC net income will probably drop to NT$11.4 billion this
quarter, according to the average of 18 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with NT$17.5 billion a year
earlier and NT$4.5 billion in the first quarter. HTC didn’t
provide profit forecasts today.  The company plans to pay a cash dividend of NT$40 per share
for 2011 earnings, it said in a statement today, in line with
the NT$40  projected  by Bloomberg. The company paid a dividend of
NT$37 cash and 5 percent in stock for the previous year.  Gross margin, the percentage of revenue that’s left after
deducting the cost of components and manufacturing, will be
about 27 percent this quarter from 25 percent last quarter, HTC
said today. The average of analysts’ estimates is for 26.9
percent.  HTC’s sales trailed estimates for the past three quarters
with first-quarter revenue the largest miss in more than two
years, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg.   Information Gap  Analysts have a “gap” in information and were wrong to be
bearish on the company because “they don’t know what we’re
working on,” Chou said in a Feb. 26 interview when the company
announced its One series of handsets.  HTC became the largest smartphone provider in the U.S.
during the third quarter, according to market researcher
 Canalys . Apple’s IPhone 4S and Galaxy models from Samsung
prompted HTC to lose its lead and cut its sales forecast more
than 20 percent in the fourth quarter.  “We won’t be able to return to the same market share we
had before, yet we don’t think that’s a problem,” Chou said
today. “Europe and  Asia  growth will be more balanced and very
good.”  Sell Ratings  More analysts have a sell rating on the company than buy,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The stock’s 3.7 percent
decline this year trails a 6 percent advance in the benchmark
Taiex index and follows a 42 percent drop last year.  The shortage of chips and resulting delay in handset
shipments comes after HTC posted a 70 percent drop in profit,
the most since its 2002 listing in Taipei, and a 35 percent
decline in revenue during the first quarter.  The company “dropped the ball” on new products in the
fourth quarter, forcing a “transition” quarter in the first
three months of the year, then-Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said in February.  Chang Chia-lin, a former partner at Goldman Sachs Inc. who
holds a doctorate in electrical engineering, took over as CFO on
April 16, less than 16 months after Yung was appointed. HTC,
which has announced at least five  acquisitions  in the past 18
months, may buy more companies, Chang said today.  “It has to be a strategic investment that makes financial
sense,” Chang said on the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 