-- Calderon Says Mexico Reduced Net Migration to U.S. to Zero
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-04-24T16:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/calderon-says-mexico-reduced-net-migration-to-u-s-to-zero.html
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon 
said that better education, more job opportunities and broader
health-care availability in  Latin America ’s second-largest
 economy  have cut net migration to the U.S. to zero.  Speaking at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington,
Calderon, whose six-year term ends in December, said the  North
American Free Trade Agreement  signed two decades ago has
improved the economic outlook on both sides of the border. He
criticized U.S. immigration policy that he said is needlessly
restrictive and deprives U.S. farms of needed migrant labor.  “The fact is that net migration to the  United States  is
zero,” he said, referencing a  Pew Research Center study 
released yesterday that showed as many people are leaving the
U.S. for  Mexico  as moving north to the U.S. from Calderon’s
nation. “There’s a swing in terms of the opportunities. The
agricultural sector in the United States is losing a lot
competitiveness and opportunities due to the restrictions.”  After four decades that brought 12 million Mexicans to the
U.S., more than half illegally and in what Pew says is the
largest immigration wave to the U.S. from a single country, net
migration has dropped to zero and may have reversed, Pew’s
Hispanic center said in the study. From 2005 to 2010 about 1.4
million Mexicans immigrated to the U.S. and an equal number
moved from the U.S. to Mexico, Pew said.  The weakened U.S. job and housing construction market, a
decline in Mexico’s birth rate and changing economic conditions
in the Latin American nation are among the factors leading to
this standstill, Pew said.  For the first time in at least two decades, the number of
undocumented Mexicans living in the U.S. decreased significantly
from 2007 to 2011, falling to 6.1 from 7 million, according to
the study, which analyzed data from five Mexican government
sources and four U.S. government sources.  Calderon said Mexico’s investment in roads and airports has
helped boost the nation’s competitiveness and that the economy
is “in good shape” relative to the challenges the rest of the
world is facing.  “Trade is positive for the country,” Calderon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 