-- California Defaults Drop to Five-Year Low on Short Sales
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-04-24T17:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/california-defaults-drop-to-five-year-low-on-short-sales.html
California mortgage defaults fell
to their lowest level in almost five years as banks cut their
backlog of distressed property with more short sales, in which
homes are sold for less than the amount owed,  DataQuick  said.  First-time notices of default totaled 56,258 in the first
quarter, down 8.5 percent from the previous three months and 18
percent from a year earlier, the San Diego-based data seller
said today in a statement. Default notices are the beginning of
the foreclosure process in the most populous U.S. state.  The tally was the lowest since the second of quarter of
2007, showing that a predicted foreclosure wave is being
averted, partially because low  interest rates  are preventing
adjustable mortgages from resetting with higher monthly
payments, DataQuick President  John Walsh  said in the statement.
Also, some loans thought to be headed for default are current on
their payments, he said.  “Remarkably, whole batches of presumed ‘toxic’ mortgages
continue to perform,” Walsh said. “There’s no doubt that
housing, especially negative equity, is one of the biggest drags
on a struggling economy, but it’s not necessarily playing out
the way some pundits thought.”  Short sales increased to an estimated 20 percent of deals,
up from 18 percent a year earlier. Areas in the state with
median home values of less than $200,000 had the most defaults,
at 8.9 per 1,000 homes, almost four times the number in
neighborhoods with a median greater than $800,000, where the
rate was 2.3 per 1,000.  Mortgages were least likely to go into default in Marin,
 San Francisco  and San Mateo counties, and the probability was
greatest in Tulare, Sacramento and San Joaquin, DataQuick said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  