-- California Voters to Decide Whether to Close Death Row
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/california-voters-to-decide-whether-to-close-death-row.html
Voters in  California , with more
prisoners on death row than any other U.S. state, will decide in
November whether to repeal use of capital punishment 40 years
after it was  approved  by two-thirds of the electorate.  Advocates of the  initiative , which would change the maximum
criminal penalty from execution to life in prison without the
possibility of parole, gathered enough signatures to place the
issue on the ballot, Secretary of State Debra Bowen said
yesterday in a statement.  If approved, California would join 17 states that exclude
the practice including  New York ,  New Jersey , New Mexico and
 Illinois , all of which have abolished the death penalty since
2007. In November, Oregon Governor John Kitzhaber said he would
no longer allow executions during his term because of moral
objections. A bill to eliminate capital punishment has been
 approved  by both legislative chambers in  Connecticut .  “It’s hard to overstate the significance of this
decision,” said Jeanne Woodford, the legal sponsor of the
initiative, who oversaw executions as warden of  San Quentin
State Prison . “California voters will, for the first time, be
able to vote on replacing the death penalty.”  California had 723 inmates on death row as of Jan. 1,
according to  data  compiled by the Death Penalty Information
Center, which opposes capital punishment. While two-thirds of
voters approved reintroduction of the death penalty in 1972, the
state hasn’t conducted executions since 2006, when a federal
judge halted them over concerns that the procedure, using lethal
injection, was unconstitutionally cruel.  Executions Falling  Nationally, the number of executions dropped to 43 last
year from a peak of 98 in 1999, according to the Washington-
based  death penalty center .  California has spent about $4 billion on the punishment
since voters  expanded  the scope of the death penalty in 1978,
according to a Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review  study  last year
by Judge Arthur Alarcón, of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San
Francisco , and Professor Paula Mitchell.  The nonpartisan California Legislative Analyst’s Office, in
a report on the proposed ballot measure in October,  concluded 
that repealing the death penalty would save the state and
counties in the “high tens of millions of dollars” a year.  Kent Scheidegger, legal director of the pro-death-penalty
Criminal Justice Legal Foundation in  Sacramento , said reports of
significant savings are speculative and don’t factor in costs
such as health care for aging inmates.  “The savings they are promising are not real,”
Scheidegger said in a telephone interview April 19. “The people
of California have consistently supported the death penalty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  