-- California Wins Temporary Reinstatement of Carbon Fuel Standard
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/california-s-carbon-fuel-standard-reinstated-during-appeal-1-.html
California  won temporary
reinstatement of its low-carbon fuel standard, which was blocked
last year by a federal judge.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  yesterday
granted a request by California officials to put on hold the
Dec. 29 ruling that the standard is unconstitutional while the
case is on appeal. The rule was to have taken effect Jan. 1,
2012.  “Today’s decision allows the Air Resources Board to
continue implementation and resume enforcement of this important
program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” California Air
Resources Board Executive Officer James Goldstene said in an e-
mail yesterday. “The Low Carbon Fuel Standard drives investment
and innovation, creates new jobs and provides the next
generation of clean fuels to all Californians.”  U.S. District Judge Lawrence O’Neill in Fresno, California,
ruled Dec. 29 that California’s method of assigning a higher so-
called carbon intensity score to ethanol produced in the
Midwest, which is otherwise chemically and physically identical
to that produced in California, discriminates against interstate
commerce. The judge sided with agriculture and oil-industry
groups that sued to overturn the standards.  Tom Buis , chief executive officer of Growth Energy, an
ethanol trade group that opposed the rules, said he hadn’t yet
reviewed the ruling and couldn’t comment.  December Delivery  California carbon allowance futures for December delivery
slipped 75 cents to $14.75 per ton yesterday, according to data
from CME Group Inc.’s  Green Exchange  in  New York .  Bids for California carbon permit forwards cleared by
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. closed at $15.25 per ton
yesterday, down 75 cents from April 20, Samantha Katz, managing
director of carbon broker BGC Environmental Brokerage Services,
said in a telephone interview from New York.  The judge’s ruling may boost carbon prices today as the
market speculates on whether California’s carbon cap-and-trade
program would survive a similar court challenge, said Jon
Costantino, senior climate change adviser for law firm Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips LLP in  Los Angeles .  “Any court victory (even one that may only be temporary)
seems to lift the long-term view on price,” Costantino,
executive director of the Association of Carbon Market
Participants in  Sacramento , California, said in an e-mail.  Lawyers for the state had argued that California would be
irreparably harmed by increased greenhouse-gas emissions if
barred from implementing the standard, which is aimed at
encouraging the use of cleaner low-carbon fuels.  The lower-court case is Rocky Mountain Farmers Union v.
Goldstene, 09-2234, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
California (Fresno).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  