-- Canada February Retail Sales Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-04-24T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/canada-february-retail-sales-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s retail sales report for February as released by
 Statistics Canada .  Retail sales edged down 0.2% to $38.9 billion in February,
largely offsetting the gain in January. New car dealers
accounted for most of the decline. Lower sales were reported in
5 of 11 subsectors, representing 57% of total retail sales.  In volume terms, retail sales decreased 0.6%.  Sales at  motor vehicle  and parts dealers fell 2.4%,
partially offsetting the rise in January. Lower receipts at new
car dealers (-2.8%) accounted for most of the decline. The
“other motor vehicle dealers” industry (-3.5%) posted a decrease
for a fourth month in a row. Increased sales were reported at
automotive parts, accessories and tire stores (+1.3%) and used
car dealers (+0.4%).  Food and beverage stores registered a second consecutive
monthly decline, edging down 0.2%. Sales were down in all
industries within this subsector in February.  Sporting goods, hobby, book and music store receipts
(-1.0%) declined for a third month in a row, reflecting lower
sales at sporting goods stores.  Following three consecutive monthly declines, sales at
gasoline stations rose 1.7% in February, reflecting higher
prices at the pump.  Sales at building material and garden equipment and
supplies dealers increased 2.2%, partially offsetting January’s
decline.  For a fifth consecutive month, sales grew at clothing and
clothing accessories stores (+1.3%). Higher sales at clothing
stores accounted for these gains.  General merchandise store sales rose 0.5% in February.
Sales in the “other general merchandise stores” industry (+1.1%)
accounted for all of the increase, advancing for a fifth time in
six months.  Sales decrease most in Ontario  Retail sales fell in six provinces in February. Ontario
(-0.9%) reported the largest decline in dollar terms. Lower
sales of new motor vehicles were the main reason for this
decrease.  Sales in Alberta decreased 0.6% in February, largely
offsetting January’s gain.  Quebec retailers registered a 0.7% rise in sales, a fifth
increase in six months.  Sales in British Columbia (+0.4%) rose for a second
consecutive month.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted and in
current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Unadjusted monthly data were revised back to January 2010,
while seasonally adjusted data were revised back to January 2007.
The revisions take into account late reporting or correction of
respondent information, classification changes, as well as
updates to seasonal and trading day factors. With these
revisions, the annual sum of seasonally adjusted figures will
now correspond to the annual sum of unadjusted data for
reference year 2011.  Total retail sales by volume are measured by deflating
values in current dollars of the various trade groups using
consumer price indexes. This retail sales in chained dollars
series (2002) is a chain Fisher volume index with 2002 as the
reference year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  