-- Canadian Dollar Rallies With Stocks, Oil. BOC Rates View
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-24T21:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/canadian-dollar-strengthens-on-rate-view-as-europe-eases.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened
against its U.S. counterpart as stocks and crude oil rallied
amid speculation stronger inflation and economic growth will
spur the  Bank of Canada  to consider higher interest rates.  The Canadian currency was headed for a 1 percent gain this
month versus the greenback. The loonie, as the currency is
nicknamed, briefly pared gains after  Statistics Canada  said
retail sales unexpectedly fell for the first time in seven
months.  “Risk is coming back on the table,” said  Fabian Eliasson ,
head of U.S. currency sales at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , by
phone from  New York . “Commodities across the board are doing
well. That certainly helps.”  Canada’s currency advanced 0.4 percent to 98.71 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0131.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent while
futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, added 0.7 percent
to $103.75 in New York.  An hourly close below 99.02 cents means there’s “a short-
term shift in sentiment at hand” and the Canadian dollar will
likely appreciate to as much as 98.68 cents by the end of April,
 George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed-income and
currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets
unit, said via e-mail.  Technical Pressures  “The break below 99.02 appears to have shifted sentiment
back into the bearish camp over the short-term,” Davis said,
referring to views for the  U.S. dollar . “Despite the razor-thin
margins we’ve seen, there’s a good chance we could test this low
over the next week.”  Canadian 10-year government  bonds  were lower, pushing the
yield up three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.07
percent. The price of the 3.25 percent securities maturing in
June 2021 lost 29 cents to C$109.76.  Canadian 10-year bond yields are trading 10 basis points
above comparable U.S. securities. The so-called spread was 10
basis points below at the end of last month. Canada’s federal
 government bonds  have lost 0.5 percent this year, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback decreased to 7.3 percent, compared
with 7.5 percent yesterday. It reached 6.75 percent on March 19,
the lowest level since June 2007.  Price Swings  Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.
Lower volatility tends to favor higher-yielding currencies such
as the Canadian dollar.  The loonie was the second-best performing currency this
month after the yen on speculation Canada may become the only
Group of Seven country to raise  interest-rates  this year. Policy
makers said April 17 the removal of stimulus is “appropriate”
in light of inflation and economic growth stronger than the
bank’s earlier projections.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has held rates steady
at 1 percent since September 2010 as he gauges the effect of the
euro-zone debt crisis on the domestic economy, which relies for
about a third of its output on exports.  “We still have the positive-rate story,” said  Geoff Kendrick , head of European currency strategy at Nomura Holdings
Inc., by phone from  London . “We’ve gone marginally off the
tail-risk-type story. There’s still news about that, but really
the more big-picture driver is likely to be growth this year.”  BOC Talks  Carney was quizzed by lawmakers today about rising home
prices and  consumer debt  and said that families should use
“caution” because borrowing costs will rise.  The average home price is about 4.75 times income today,
compared with a historical average of 3.5 times, he told the
House of Commons Finance Committee today in Ottawa. He also said
that in some housing markets “valuations are firm,” declining
to repeat a lawmaker’s use of the word “bubble.”  Retail sales decreased 0.2 percent to C$38.9 billion ($39.3
billion) in February, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 0.1 percent
increase, based on the median of 23 projections.  The retail sales numbers “provided a bit of a bounce” for
the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar, said Matt Perrier,
Toronto-based director of foreign exchange at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,
in a telephone interview. “The numbers came in weaker than
expected. We’re still in the broader range of 98.50 cents to
C$1.0050.”  The currency has oscillated in a 2-cent range between 98.42
cents and C$1.0054 since the end of January. It will appreciate
to 98 cents by the end of 2012, according to the median of 40
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  