-- Carlyle in Sunoco Talks Shows Private Equity Sees Rebound
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-04-24T20:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/carlyle-in-sunoco-talks-shows-private-equity-sees-rebound.html
Carlyle Group (CG) ’s talks to buy a
majority stake in  Sunoco Inc. (SUN) ’s Philadelphia refinery show
private equity is betting the business abandoned by public oil
companies may be poised for a long-term rebound.  If the talks are successful, Washington-based Carlyle would
pay cash into a joint venture that would oversee day-to-day
operations at the plant, according to a statement yesterday.
Sunoco, based in Philadelphia, would have no ongoing  capital
requirements  at the refinery. No terms were disclosed and an
agreement hasn’t been finalized.  Carlyle would join  Blackstone Group (BX)  and TPG Capital, which
made refinery deals in the past two years to expand natural
resources investments. Unlike public companies, which have to
answer to shareholders every quarter, private-equity funds can
make longer-term bets on a business or an industry because their
capital is usually locked up for 10 years.  “They’re looking to pick up a cash-generating asset at a
good price and flip it in four or five years,” said Neil
Earnest, practice leader for mergers and acquisitions at Muse
Stancil & Co., a Dallas-based consulting firm that specializes
in the energy industry. “They want to buy something cheap and
sell high.”  Private-equity firms are turning to refining assets on the
U.S. East Coast and in  Europe  as the lowest margin in nearly a
decade has transformed profitable plants into money-losers,
reducing the value enough to make a turnaround bet an attractive
proposition, Earnest said in a telephone interview yesterday.  East Coast Disadvantage  Refineries on the East Coast have been hurt because their
only source of crude is based on Brent, the global benchmark,
which sold for an average $15.69 a barrel higher in 2011 than
U.S.-produced oil, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
difference between the cost of crude and the price at which
refiners can sell fuel on the U.S. East Coast  sunk  to an average
of $7.94 a barrel last year, the lowest point since 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Although Sunoco has lost money in refining in 10 of the
last 11 quarters, the fortunes of the Philadelphia plant might
improve if the company is able to buy cheaper oil produced in
 Canada  and  North Dakota , said  John Auers , senior vice president
of Turner Mason & Co., a Dallas-based energy consulting firm.  Sunoco rose 1.4 percent to $40.02 at the close in  New York .
The shares have risen 17 percent this year.  O’Malley’s Deals  With  oil companies  selling, buyout firms have picked up
refining assets on the cheap. Blackstone, the world’s largest
private-equity firm, and energy specialist First Reserve formed
PBF Energy Inc. in 2008 with Thomas O’Malley, a veteran oil-
industry investor and trader. PBF bought a Delaware City,
Delaware, refinery for $220 million in 2010. PBF, which also
bought plants in  New Jersey  and Toledo, Ohio, filed for an
initial public offering last November.  “You have to buy very cheaply, and have an exceptional
management team that knows how to operate the assets safely and
reliably and can source and finance purchases of crude oil and
the sale of refined products efficiently,” said David Foley, a
senior managing director at Blackstone. “Petroleum refining is
a very tricky, very volatile industry. Even if you buy a
refinery for almost nothing, you still have to invest a lot of
capital for maintenance, environmental compliance and crude-oil
inventories.”  TPG Capital, the private-equity firm run by David Bonderman, in October of 2010 agreed to acquire most of  Marathon
Oil Corp. (MRO) ’s Minnesota refining holdings for about $900 million,
the firm’s largest investment in fuel making and delivery.  That deal was led by Washington-based ACON Investments LLC
and the resulting company, Northern Tier Energy LLC, has filed
for an IPO. The assets purchased by the investors included a
75,000-barrel-a-day refinery, a pipeline interest and more than
200 convenience stores and gas stations.  Rescuing Petroplus  KKR & Co., the private-equity firm run by Henry Kravis and
George Roberts, has been among the most aggressive buyout
investors in energy, targeting deals tied to tapping natural-gas
reserves. The New York firm last year led a group of investors
to buy Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Samson Investment Co. for $7.2
billion.  KKR has yet to announce a refinery deal along the lines of
the PBF transaction or Carlyle’s proposed tie-up with Sunoco.
Earlier this year, KKR’s asset-management unit was among the
investors providing a financial lifeline to a refinery owned by
insolvent  Petroplus Holdings AG. (PPHN)  Morgan Stanley and AtlasInvest
also participated in the deal.  Petroplus itself has a private-equity history. Carlyle
bought Petroplus in 2005 and made about six times its investment
when the company went public and it sold most of its stake.
Along the way, it hired O’Malley, who bought up plants in
France, England and  Germany .  Shedding Refining Assets  Petroplus’s stock doubled in the first eight months after
the IPO in November 2006. The next year, with the financial
crisis looming, the shares started to  slump . The company sought
protection from creditors this year after profit margins shrank
from pressures similar to the ones Sunoco and other competitors
face.  So-called “integrated” energy companies including  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Chevron Corp. that extract and process crude
have been shedding refining capacity since 2011 to focus on the
business of producing oil, which has become more profitable as
crude prices surged to $126.65 on April 8, the highest since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refining is a cyclical business that can reap a bounty
depending on product prices, the location of a given plant and
its processing capabilities. The ability to process heavier,
cheaper grades of crude, or lower-priced oil produced in North
Dakota and other areas in the Midwest last year drove profits
for refiners such as  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC) 
to the highest level since 2007.  Tightening Capacity  On the East Coast, refineries have been at a disadvantage
because of falling demand for gasoline, excess supply from
European imports and competitors’ ability to buy crude for lower
prices in other parts of the country. Oil produced in North
Dakota sold for $46.25 a barrell  less  than the global benchmark
on Feb. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sunoco said Sept. 6 that it would seek a buyer or shut its
330,000 barrel-a-day Philadelphia refinery in July. About 1.7
million barrels a day of refining capacity on the U.S. East
Coast and in Europe is set to close due to tightening margins,
the largest reduction in more than 10 years, according to a
Bloomberg Industries refining analysis. Another 1.3 million
barrels a day is either for sale or scheduled to close,
according to the analysis.  Pennsylvania politicians and union leaders have rallied to
oppose East Coast refinery closures and have asked the companies
to find buyers for the assets, rather than idling them. Also on
the block is  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’ Trainer, Pennsylvania refinery,
which has seen interest from Delta Air Lines Inc., according to
a person familiar with the matter.  Saving Jobs  “It is a heavy lift and we are not sure a solution is
possible, but we are doing the work,” Rodney S. Cohen, a
managing director of the  Carlyle Group , said in the statement
announcing the talks with Sunoco.  Sunoco Chief Executive Officer Brian MacDonald, who took
over in March, has sought a buyer for the Philadelphia plant so
the company can focus on expanding its pipeline business. While
talks are under way, Sunoco will keep it open until August, the
company said yesterday.  The refinery deals may help private equity as it seeks to
make the case that it can save or create jobs. The industry’s
role in the broader economy has come to the fore with the U.S.
presidential candidacy of  Mitt Romney , the former chief
executive officer of Bain Capital LLC, who’s faced criticism for
firing workers at some companies the private-equity firm
purchased.  PBF, the Blackstone and First Reserve-backed joint venture,
threw an event last October to celebrate the reopening of the
Delaware City facility. Flanked by the state’s governor and
other elected officials and a union representative, Blackstone
president Tony James noted that PBF spent $450 million to
renovate the facility, which has about 500 full-time employees
and 250 contract workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  