-- Cecon Surges on Reaching Vessel Loan Accord With EDC: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-04-24T12:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/cecon-surges-on-reaching-vessel-loan-accord-with-edc-oslo-mover.html
Cecon ASA (CECON) , a Norwegian owner of
pipe-laying ships, rose the most in almost 21 months in Oslo
after signing a deal to ensure the construction of three ships
on order from a struggling yard.  Cecon rose as much as 72 percent, the most since July 2010,
and was up 55 percent to 2.8 kroner as of 2:24 p.m. in the
Norwegian capital. The stock had gained  16 percent  this year
before today’s move.  The deal to acquire the rights to a $200 million loan from
Export Development  Canada  makes way for the construction of
three vessels Cecon has on order at the Davie Yard in Levis,
Canada, the Arendal-based company said in a statement. The cost
to complete the three vessels and settle the deal with EDC will
be as much as $270 million, Cecon said.  “They basically get three new SURF vessels for $250
million to $270 million plus bond debt of around $77 million
including deferred interest,” Kristoffer Riis Iden, an analyst
at Arctic Securities ASA, said by phone.  “You probably would
have to pay around $160 million ordering a similar vessel
today.”  Cecon has been in talks with an international bank to
secure sufficient financing and payment guarantees before
entering a final contract, the company said.  “In order to resume activity at the yard, the Canadian
export agency has agreed to take a haircut on the debt,” Iden
said.  The loss on the loan could be as much as 80 percent, said
the analyst, who has a buy recommendation on the share and a 5
krone price target.  Davie Yard was acquired by Upper Lakes Group Inc. and SNC
Lavalin Group Inc. after Davie Yards Inc. entered  bankruptcy
protection  in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  