-- McGraw-Hill Profit Rises on Demand for Credit Ratings, Funds
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-04-24T14:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/mcgraw-hill-profit-rises-on-demand-for-credit-ratings-funds.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , the finance and
publishing company that’s splitting in two, said first-quarter
profit rose 2.5 percent on increased demand for  Standard &
Poor’s  credit-ratings and index funds.  Net income from continuing operations rose to $123 million,
or 43 cents a share, from $120 million, or 39 cents, a year
earlier, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
Excluding costs related to the split of the company, McGraw Hill
earned 51 cents a share, beating the 48-cent average of seven
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  McGraw-Hill, the owner of Standard & Poor’s, said Sept. 12
it will break into two companies, one focused on financial
information and the other on educational publishing, by the end
of this year. The company’s credit-ratings business is
benefitting as U.S. debt issuance rose 9.8 percent in the first
quarter over last year.  “Revenues here were strong” in the credit-rating
business, said Douglas Arthur, an analyst with Evercore Partners
Inc. in  New York . He estimated the company would earn 50 cents a
share on an adjusted basis.  McGraw-Hill fell 1 percent to $48.63 at 9:45 a.m. in New
York. The shares had  gained  9.2 percent this year before today.  The company kept its 2012 earnings forecast of $3.25 to
$3.35 a share. It didn’t announce an update to its proposal to
split the S&P unit from the education business except to say the
plan is progressing. Expenses rose 6.2 percent to $1.1 billion,
the company said.  S&P Spiders  The company’s S&P index funds, called SPDRs, or Spiders,
are becoming more popular with investors,  Peter Appert , an
analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco , said before
the results were released.  “The index business has become phenomenal,” said Appert,
who rates the stock overweight. “They get paid every time
someone trades an S&P spider. Assets are shifting to exchange-
traded funds. They really dominate the U.S. index market.”  First-quarter revenue rose 5.6 percent to $1.33 billion, up
from $1.26 billion a year earlier, McGraw-Hill said.  The company began a strategic review in 2010 of the
company’s businesses. On Aug. 22, Jana Partners LLC, a  New York- 
based hedge fund and investor in the company, proposed a plan to
break up McGraw-Hill after education revenue fell for three
straight quarters.  Investors are now waiting to hear the details of the split,
Appert said. Those need to be unveiled soon to give the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission enough time to approve the
break-up before then end of the year, he said.  “What we’re all on the edges of our seats waiting for is
the document that will lay out the structure of the deal,” he
said. “We don’t know what the  capital structure  will be. How
much debt grows with the education company, how much cash goes
with the education company. That’s what we will need to see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  