-- LCH.Clearnet in Talks to Buy Nasdaq’s Rate Clearinghouse
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-04-24T14:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/lch-clearnet-in-discussion-to-buy-nasdaq-s-rate-clearinghouse.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. entered
discussions to buy Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s International
Derivatives Clearing Group LLC as the world’s largest interest-
rate swaps clearinghouse seeks to expand in the U.S.  The companies have signed a non-binding agreement, London-
based LCH said today in a statement. New York-based Nasdaq will
become a shareholder in LCH.Clearnet, joining  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , after the deal is completed, according to
the statement. No financial terms were released.  LCH.Clearnet is seeking to expand its U.S. business in
guaranteeing interest-rate swaps with its SwapClear
clearinghouse. The service began processing interest-rate
contracts traded between banks in 1999 and expanded to offer
U.S.-based services in March 2011.  “This is all about making SwapClear a more attractive
clearing venue in the U.S. for end users,” Richard Perrott, a
London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank, said in a phone
interview today. “This will make it easier to organize cross
margining and capital offsets. IDCG has not been a huge
success.”  New York-based IDCG, which opened in January 2009 for
interest-rate swap futures, has struggled to capture market
share.  Nasdaq (NDAQ)  last year tried to buy a minority stake in
LCH.Clearnet, with Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld 
seeking talks on how IDCG and LCH could work together.  Sale Options  “Investors won’t be surprised that Nasdaq has been
considering sale options for this business initiative,”  Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW Inc., wrote in a report today.
“IDCG has not generated significant revenue as of yet and we
estimate that this division has cost Nasdaq about $10 million,
or $0.05 in earnings-per-share, annually to support.”  LCH.Clearnet is also in discussions to join  NYSE Euronext’s (NYX) 
venture to take on  CME Group Inc. (CME)  in interest-rate trading.
SwapClear would add U.S. rate swaps to the types of trades
accepted by New York Portfolio Clearing to lower margin costs,
the companies said last month.  “This will facilitate that happening considerably,”
Michael Davie, chief executive officer of SwapClear, said in an
in a telephone interview today. “The way we are looking at this
is a strategic move for LCH,” he said. “It’s about a long-term
commitment to the U.S. market.”  More Complicated  SwapClear has guaranteed more than $686 billion of
interest-rate swaps between dealer banks and their customers, it
said in the statement today. CME Group, based in  Chicago , had
backed $393.7 billion in rate swaps as of April 6, it said
earlier this month.  The new U.S. business “is going very, very well,” Davie
said. “This is very much to complement the existing offering we
have.”  While swaps between banks have been cleared since 1999 by
SwapClear, doing the same for trades between banks and asset
managers or  hedge funds  is more complicated, Davie said.  “The question is, ‘how will the buy-side come to
clearing?’” he said. “In that, CME will be a major clearer,
but not the only one.” He noted that LCH.Clearnet has cleared
more customer trades than CME to date. “Our hope is this will
up the ante,” he said.  CME Group spokesman  Michael Shore  didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone message seeking comment.  Antitrust Clearance  Earlier this month, LCH.Clearnet shareholders backed the
clearinghouse’s proposal to sell a majority stake to LSE,
 Europe ’s oldest independent bourse, for 463 million euros ($610
million). They intend to complete the transaction by the fourth
quarter, and the deal needs to be cleared by antitrust
authorities. LCH attracted interest from Nasdaq and NYSE
Euronext before agreeing to the LSE bid.  LCH.Clearnet appointed Ian Axe as chief executive officer
last April to revamp the company after losing two CEOs in less
than six years. LCH.Clearnet has seen its market share in
equities eroded by new entrants even as regulators mandated more
clearing to reduce financial risk.  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default. They
have become more attractive as regulators seek more central
clearing of derivatives.  Portfolio Clearing  NYSE Euronext, the owner of the New York Stock Exchange,
has a stake of about 9.1 percent in LCH.Clearnet and plans to
stop using the venue to clear European securities and
derivatives in 2013. A joint venture between NYSE and the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., known as New York Portfolio
Clearing, may include interest-rate swaps backed by the U.S.
operations of LCH.Clearnet, the companies said last month.  SwapClear’s Davie declined to comment on the terms of the
deal, other than that  Nasdaq  would become an LCH.Clearnet
shareholder. It’s too early to say when the deal may move
forward as the company is working on several other initiatives,
he said.  “Having told the world what we have in process, we need to
get our heads down and deliver on what we’ve promised,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  