-- Chelsea Beats Odds, Barcelona to Reach Champions League Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-24T23:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/chelsea-advances-to-champions-league-soccer-final-over-barcelona.html
Trailing 2-1 overall and playing
with 10 men, Chelsea found a way to oust Barcelona and reach the
Champions League soccer final.  Chelsea rallied for a 2-2 tie last night at the Camp Nou
stadium in  Spain  to win the two-game semifinal 3-2. Ramires and
 Fernando Torres  scored the goals as the Blues overcame the loss
of captain  John Terry  to a 37th-minute red card for kneeing
 Alexis Sanchez  from behind.  “It was backs to the wall,” Chelsea midfielder  Frank Lampard  told Sky Sports. “People want to see beautiful football,
but with 10 men for 50-odd minutes, to perform like that was
unbelievable.”  Chelsea will meet Bayern Munich or Real Madrid in the final
of Europe’s elite club competition on May 19. They meet tonight
in Madrid, with Bayern leading 2-1 from the first game in the
series. Chelsea lost on a penalty shootout to  Manchester United 
in 2008, the last time it reached the final.  Defending champion Barcelona, which was seeking its fourth
title in seven seasons, got goals from Sergio Busquets and
Andres Iniesta. The team’s top scorer,  Lionel Messi , missed a
penalty kick.  Terry’s first-half sending off put Chelsea under pressure
for the rest of the game. The defender said the referee was
right to eject him and apologized to his teammates.  “I’ve let the lads down,” Terry told Sky Sports.
“They’ve performed brilliantly, so hopefully this doesn’t take
it away from the players.”  Out of the Final  The dismissal will keep Terry out of the final. Ramires,
Branislav Ivanovic and Raul Meireles will also sit out the title
game after receiving yellow cards, while  Gary Cahill  may also be
sidelined after leaving in the 12th minute last night with a leg
injury.  As it did in losing 1-0 in the opening game last week,
Barcelona dominated statistically. While it had 75 percent of
possession, it could only put five of its 12 shots on target.
Chelsea had seven shots, three on goal.  “That’s football,” Torres said on UEFA’s website. “The
best team or the favorites don’t always win.”  Busquets scored for Barcelona two minutes before Terry was
ejected. Iniesta made it 2-0 in the 43rd minute and Ramires ran
onto a Lampard pass and chipped a shot over goalkeeper Victor Valdes in injury time to make it 2-1 at halftime.  Penalty Miss  Barcelona had an early chance in the second half after
 Didier Drogba  tripped Cesc Fabregas to concede a penalty kick,
which Messi struck against the crossbar.  Barcelona kept pressuring as Chelsea kept all 10 men behind
the ball at times. When Sanchez put the ball in the net, the
score was disallowed for offside against Alves.  Messi then struck a post with a shot before Torres made
certain of the win in injury time. With Barcelona pressing
everyone forward in search of the goal that would send it
through, Torres collected a long clearance in midfield and went
in alone on goal before rounding Valdes and putting the ball
into the open net.  “It’s an incredible achievement by this group of
players,” Chelsea interim manager Roberto Di Matteo told  sky
Sports . “We didn’t expect to play with 10 men and we knew it
was going to be tough. It was even more difficult than we
expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 