-- China Leding Economic Index Rose at Slower Pace in March
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-24T02:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/china-leding-economic-index-rose-at-slower-pace-in-march.html
A leading index for  China  rose at a
slower pace in March, adding to evidence growth in the world’s
second-biggest economy is moderating.  The gauge gained 0.8 percent from the previous month to
230.6, the New York-based Conference Board said in a statement
today in Beijing, citing a preliminary reading. That compares
with a 1 percent rise in February that was revised up from a
previously reported 0.8 percent increase.  Today’s data may add pressure on policy makers to take more
measures to support expansion after the  economy  grew the least
in almost three years. China’s slowdown may cloud the outlook
for a global recovery after U.S. job gains weakened and the
euro-area’s fiscal crisis threatened to spread.  “This month’s reading supports a continued slowing of the
economy,” Andrew Polk, resident economist at the Conference
Board China Center in Beijing, said in the statement. Volatility
among indicators “suggests that significant downside risks
remain,” Polk said.  China’s manufacturing may contract for a sixth month in
April, according to the preliminary reading of a purchasing
managers’ index released yesterday by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics. If confirmed in the final reading due May 2,
that would be the longest contraction since the global financial
crisis.  Gross domestic product expanded 8.1 percent in the first
three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the fifth quarterly
slowdown, as Premier  Wen Jiabao  waged a campaign to cool
consumer and property prices and exports weakened on sluggish
global demand.  Growth Rebound  China’s economic growth is stabilizing and won’t fall
“drastically,” the official People’s Daily reported yesterday,
citing Pan Jiancheng, deputy director-general of the monitoring
and analysis center of the National Bureau of Statistics. The
economy may reach a bottom and rebound in the second or third
quarter, Pan was quoted as saying.  The Leading Economic Index, first published in May 2010,
captures turning points in China’s economic cycles if plotted
back to 1986, the Conference Board says.  The index’s components include loans, a gauge of raw-
material supplies, export orders, consumer expectations and
floor space started, using data released by the central bank and
the statistics bureau.  The research group said in January it made benchmark
revisions to the index and started releasing the index for the
previous month instead of with the prior two-month lag.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Nerys Avery in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  