-- China’s Forex Reserves Show First Decline in Three Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-24T09:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/china-s-forex-reserves-show-first-decline-in-three-months-1-.html
China ’s foreign-exchange  reserves 
fell in March from February in the first monthly decline since
the end of last year, central bank data showed, signaling a
possible outflow of capital.  The nation’s holdings, the world’s largest, dropped $4.69
billion to $3.305 trillion from a record $3.310 trillion,
according to People’s Bank of China figures released today. The
first-quarter gain of $124 billion was reported on April 12.  The decline highlights volatility in capital flows that may
have contributed to China’s decision this month to widen the
yuan’s trading band for the first time since 2007. March’s drop,
while smaller than the monthly declines in November and December,
indicates the country can no longer rely on foreign-currency
inflows to boost domestic liquidity, according to analysts
including Dariusz Kowalczyk at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .  “A reserve-ratio cut remains very likely” this quarter
because of the economic slowdown, said  Qu Hongbin , Hong Kong-
based chief China economist for HSBC Holdings Plc. The country’s
inflation is under control while the economic downturn is
“obvious,” Qu said.  While today’s data may indicate a “small amount of
capital outflows,” the change won’t have a “big impact on
monetary policy as the central bank is fully able to adjust
liquidity” through channels including bill sales, he said.  Key Factors  The economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, down from 8.9 percent in the previous three
months. Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent in March from a year
earlier, the second month the inflation rate was lower than the
government’s 2012 target of about 4 percent.  Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said last month that
changes in capital flows and foreign-exchange reserves were key
factors in decisions to adjust banks’ reserve requirements. The
ratio was cut in February for the second time in three months.  Zhou said that such reductions were not an indication of
policy loosening and were instead related to the need to
maintain liquidity in financial markets.  Foreign-exchange reserves declined to $3.181 trillion in
the fourth quarter from $3.201 trillion at the end of September,
the first quarterly drop in more than a decade.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  