-- Two Chinese Politburo Members Call for Loyalty to Party
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-24T10:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/china-politburo-s-zhou-calls-for-party-loyalty-in-speech-1-.html
Two members of China’s elite
Politburo Standing Committee said in separate remarks that
Communist Party officials must uphold loyalty to the party and
stay in line with the central committee.  Zhou Yongkang , 69, said the party’s Political and
Legislative Affairs Committee, which he heads, will train party
secretaries so they “implement the Party’s lines and policies
more conscientiously,” according to a March 26 speech printed
today in the official People’s Daily. He Guoqiang told officials
in Shandong province that members at all levels of the party
must ensure discipline.  The appearance of the remarks comes after the Financial
Times and the  Associated Press  reported that Zhou is under
investigation after he opposed the decision to strip ousted
Chongqing party leader  Bo Xilai  of his Politburo post this
month. Zhou’s speech may indicate that he has fallen back in
line behind President  Hu Jintao , the party’s general secretary,
said Huang Jing, a professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of
Public Policy at the  National University  of  Singapore .  “I would assume that he caved in and is trying to soft-
land,” Huang said.  Bo, 62, was suspended from the Politburo and has been
accused of “serious violations of discipline,” the Xinhua News
Agency said April 10. His wife, Gu Kailai, and an aide were put
in custody for suspicion of murdering British businessman Neil
Heywood.  Zhou’s Retirement  That was after his former police chief, Wang Lijun, had
spent a night in February at the U.S. Consulate in Chengdu, an
event confirmed by both the U.S. and Chinese governments. Xinhua
reported that Wang disclosed the murder allegations.  The AP and Financial Times reports cited the dissident
website Boxun.com, which  reported  last week that Zhou would
likely keep his seat on the standing committee until a Communist
Party congress later this year, when he is scheduled to retire
as part of the country’s once-in-a-decade leadership transition.
The nine-man standing committee exercises supreme power in
 China .  Zhou, the former minister in charge of China’s police
force, praised Bo’s policies in Chongqing at a March meeting in
Beijing with Bo and the municipality’s delegation to the
National People’s Congress, China’s legislature. A week later,
Bo was removed from his post as Chongqing party secretary.  Zhou’s March 26 speech mentioned President Hu Jintao four
times and called on the legislative affairs system to create a
“harmonious and stable social environment” for this year’s
party congress.  He Guoqiang said officials should be strict with themselves
as well as their relatives, children and aides. His remarks came
during a trip to Shandong province from April 20 to today and
were published on the central government’s website.  He stressed that party organizations should “reinforce
ideological and political work.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  