-- China Tire Demand Slows as Economy Decelerates, Bridgestone Says
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-04-24T04:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/china-tire-demand-slows-as-economy-decelerates-bridgestone-says.html
Tire demand in  China , the largest
rubber consumer, is growing at a slower pace than last year as
the nation’s economic expansion is decelerating, said an
executive at  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the biggest tiremaker.  “The Chinese market is in an adjustment phase,” Vice
President Makio Ohashi said in an interview yesterday. Growth in
tire sales for trucks and buses, or half of the country’s demand,
may slow to near the rate of gross domestic product expansion at
7.5 to 8 percent annually from last year’s 11 percent, said
Ohashi. Passenger-car tire sales are also slowing from last
year’s 16 percent expansion, he said.  China’s passenger-car sales fell 1.3 percent in the three
months ended March 31, the first decline since the first quarter
of 2005, according to the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers. Rubber futures on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange
have lost 9.1 percent since March amid concerns the sovereign-
debt crisis in  Europe  may derail the global recovery.  “A slowdown in Chinese demand is a big concern, putting
rubber futures under pressure, as the nation led a rapid
expansion in global tire sales in recent years,” said
 Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo.  Reduce Costs  China’s vehicle sales this year will probably miss their 8
percent growth forecast as the slowing economy and rising fuel
costs curb buying, Gu Xianghua, deputy secretary general of
state-backed CAAM, said on March 20. China, the world’s second-
largest oil consumer, raised prices of gasoline by 7 percent and
for diesel by 7.8 percent last month, the biggest increases in
more than two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lower rubber prices will help reduce costs for tiremakers,
while they may force producers such as  Thailand  to reduce output,
Saito said.  Bridgestone forecast in February operating profit will jump
41 percent to a record 269 billion yen in the year ending Dec.
31, based on the assumption that futures in  Singapore  will trade
between $3.98 and $4.06 a kilogram. Ribbed-smoked-sheet rubber
on the  Singapore Exchange  settled at $3.81 a kilogram yesterday.  Tire demand also weakened after distributors boosted
stockpiles last year amid speculation that raw-material costs
could increase further, leading to additional gains in tire
prices, Ohashi said. Futures in Tokyo climbed to a record 535.7
yen a kilogram on Feb. 18, 2011, as demand growth led by China
outpaced supply constrained by flooding in Thailand. The most
active contract traded at 305.3 yen at 11:32 a.m.  India, Southeast Asia  Bridgestone plans to consume a record 1.99 million tons of
rubber, including natural and synthetic, for tire production
globally this year, rising 5.3 percent from last year, said
Koaru Tomizawa, public relations manager.  A slowdown in Chinese sales may be offset by faster
expansion in other  emerging markets  including  India  and
Southeast Asian nations, helping Bridgestone achieve its tire
sales target for this year of 2.72 trillion yen, Ohashi said.  Bridgestone forecasts Indian demand for replacement tires
for trucks and buses will grow 39 percent this year from last
year, while demand for passenger-car tires will expand 15
percent. Tire use in Thailand is expected to grow 24 percent for
trucks and buses, and 13 percent for passenger-car tires.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  