-- China Faces Five-Year Renewal of EU Tariffs on Tartaric Acid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-04-24T05:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/china-faces-five-year-renewal-of-eu-tariffs-on-tartaric-acid.html
The European Union renewed tariffs
against  China  on a chemical used in industries from construction
and pharmaceuticals to food and drinks so Italian and Spanish
manufacturers avoid stiffer competition.  The EU reimposed the duties as high as 34.9 percent on
 tartaric acid  from China for another five years. Tartaric acid
is the main acid in grapes and can also be made synthetically
from petrochemicals.  The levies punish Chinese exporters such as Changmao
Biochemical Engineering Co. for selling tartaric acid in Europe
below cost, a practice known as  dumping . The goal is to help EU
producers including  Italy ’s Distillerie Mazzari SpA and  Spain ’s
Alcoholera Vinicola SA.  “Significant volumes of imports from China are still being
dumped,” the 27-nation EU said in a decision published today in
the  Official Journal . The renewal is the outcome of a probe that
prevented the measures, introduced in January 2006, from lapsing
as originally scheduled in January 2011.  Dumped tartaric acid from China accounted for 12.2 percent
of the EU market in 2010 compared with 11.3 percent in 2007,
according to the bloc. The anti-dumping duties range from 4.7
percent to 34.9 percent, depending on the Chinese exporter.
Changmao Biochemical Engineering faces a 10.1 percent levy.  A company called Hangzhou Bioking Biochemical Engineering
Co., which won a zero duty rate in 2006, remains exempted from
the duties under the decision to renew them. The latest decision
excludes Hangzhou Bioking from the measures rather than setting
a zero tariff rate on the company.  Europe ’s industry, located mainly in Italy and Spain, is
composed largely of companies whose  primary activity  is the
production of alcohol from wine lees, a process for which
tartaric acid is a by-product, according to the EU. Chinese
exporters sell the synthetic form, according to the bloc.  “There are no significant constraints in production
volumes for Chinese production given their synthetic production
techniques, unlike the union industry producers,” the EU said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  