-- Yuan Forwards Decline for Second Day on Europe Debt Concerns
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-04-24T09:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/china-yuan-set-for-longest-losing-streak-since-january-on-europe.html
Yuan forwards fell for a second day
as political shifts in Europe fueled concern the region’s debt
crisis will worsen.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his cabinet’s
resignation yesterday amid a revolt against spending cuts, while
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of his re-
election bid. An initial report yesterday showed  China ’s
manufacturing may contract for a sixth month in April. The PBOC
weakened the  reference rate  0.05 percent to 6.3003 per dollar.  “Investors are back to risk-aversion mode as political
uncertainties in Europe could overshadow efforts spent on
resolving the debt crisis,” said Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based
currency analyst at  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  “That’s negative for
the yuan because Europe is China’s largest trading partner.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.05 percent
to 6.3481 per dollar as of 4:42 p.m. in  Hong Kong , a 0.6 percent
discount to the onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts fell as much as 0.2 percent earlier.  The yuan rose 0.02 percent to close at 6.3073 in Shanghai,
halting a four-day losing streak, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency is allowed to trade 1
percent on either side of the daily fixing and Lai said it may
slip to 6.34 within a month. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the
yuan traded at 6.3075, from yesterday’s close of 6.3080.  One-month implied volatility for the currency, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at 2.1
percent.  Chinese government corruption must be tackled for the yuan
to become a global currency, independent economist  Andy Xie  said
at an event in Hong Kong today. If China opened its capital
account now, money could flee, said Xie, a former Morgan Stanley
chief Asia-Pacific economist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  