-- Most Chinese Stocks Drop on Slowing Economy, Europe Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-24T07:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-economic-european-debt-concerns.html
Most  Chinese stocks  fell as a
leading index for the nation’s economy rose at a slower pace in
March and political uncertainty in  Europe  hurt the outlook for
Chinese exports to its biggest trading partner.  Jiangxi Copper Co. led a gauge of  material producers  to the
second-biggest drop among industry groups as a political
backlash in Europe against budget cuts gained momentum. Risen
Energy Co., a maker of solar panels, plunged to a record low
after officials tightened standards on the ChiNext gauge of
start-up companies. Bank of Beijing Co. and Huaxia Bank Co.
gained more than 2 percent after the China Banking Regulatory
Commission said the nation’s lenders posted their fastest profit
growth in at least four years.  “The economy is on a slowing trend,” said Dai Ming, a
 fund manager  at Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management &
Consulting Co. “The political uncertainty in Europe will make
the sovereign debt crisis a protracted issue. That’ll pressure
the market.”  The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 point, or less than
0.1 percent, to 2,388.83 at the close, even as 592 stocks
dropped and 317 gained. It erased a loss of as much as 1.6
percent. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  was little changed at 2,604.87. The
Bloomberg China-US 55 Index, the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 2.3 percent in New York
yesterday.  Leading Economic Index  The Shanghai index has climbed 8.6 percent this year amid
speculation the government will take measures to boost the
economy. Stocks in the Shanghai gauge are valued at 10.2 times
estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The leading index for China gained 0.8 percent from the
previous month to 230.6, the New York-based Conference Board
said in a statement today in Beijing, citing a preliminary
reading. That compares with a 1 percent rise in February that
was revised up from a previously reported 0.8 percent increase.  Today’s data may add pressure on policy makers to take more
measures to support expansion after the economy grew the least
in almost three years.  China ’s purchasing managers’  index  shrank
to a preliminary reading of 49.1 in April, compared with a final
48.3 in March, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said
yesterday. A number below 50 points to a contraction.  The Leading Economic Index, first published in May 2010,
captures turning points in China’s economic cycles if plotted
back to 1986, according to the Conference Board.  European Concerns  A measure of material stocks in the CSI 300 fell 0.9
percent today, the second most among the 10 industry groups.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
dropped 0.4 percent to 25.15 yuan. Tongling Nonferrous Metals
Group Co., the second largest, slid 1.7 percent to 20.34 yuan.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  dropped 0.2 percent today as
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered to quit after lawmakers
split over austerity and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost
the first round of his re-election bid.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the services and manufacturing industries fell to
47.4, a five-month low, from 49.1 in March, London-based Markit
Economics said in an initial estimate yesterday.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  Smallcaps Fall  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. lost 2.6 percent to 23.09 yuan. Net
income declined 11 percent from a year earlier to 2.2 billion
yuan ($349 million), the Shandong-based company said yesterday.  A gauge of ChiNext start-up companies fell 1.3 percent in
Shenzhen today after plunging 5.3 percent yesterday.  Risen Energy tumbled 6.8 percent to 9.71 yuan, the lowest
close since its listing in September 2010.  Beijing Easpring
Material Technology Co. (300073) , a manufacturer of battery chemical,
slid by the maximum 10 percent to 8.72 yuan. JiangSu Jin Tong
Ling Fans Co. also plunged 10 percent to 8.19 yuan.  Companies listed on the ChiNext board will be delisted if
they are censured by the exchange three times over a three-year
period, the Shenzhen exchange said in an April 20 statement. The
bourse said it won’t support ChiNext companies seeking to regain
listing status by means of reverse takeovers, it said. The rules
will take effect on May 1.  China’s preliminary PMI data yesterday has added to
investor speculation that Chinese monetary authorities will take
steps to stimulate the economy, Michael Gayed, chief investment
strategist in  New York  at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on
over $150 million in assets, said by phone yesterday.  Rate Outlook  “The market is feeling that China is going to have to
start to initiate interest rate cuts and stimulate further,”
Gayed said.  The People’s Bank of China has cut the amount of cash
lenders must set aside as reserves twice since November to boost
lending. Policy makers have kept  interest rates  on hold since
July, while central banks in India and  Brazil  cut benchmark
rates last week.  Financial institutions in China including policy banks,
commercial lenders, rural credit cooperatives and foreign banks,
earned a combined net income of 1.25 trillion yuan ($198
billion) last year, a gain of 39 percent from a year earlier,
the CBRC said in its annual report today.  Bank of Beijing rose 3.7 percent to 10.37 yuan. Huaxia Bank
advanced 2.3 percent to 11.33 yuan.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  