-- Clean-Energy Requirements Targeted by ALEC, Norquist
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/clean-energy-requirements-targeted-by-alec-norquist.html
Small-government groups including
the American Legislative Exchange Council, whose advocacy for
 Florida ’s Stand-Your-Ground law and other measures have drawn
calls to revoke its tax-exempt status, are taking aim at state
mandates requiring renewable energy use.  While environmentalists view the clean-energy standards as
vital to reducing the country’s reliance on fossil fuels, groups
like  ALEC  and the Grover Norquist-run Americans for Tax  Reform 
say the mandates are a hidden tax on consumers and a drag on
state economies.  “Enough time has passed that it’s clear that these laws
have failed and have an economically adverse impact,” said
Patrick Gleason, who lobbies state legislatures for Washington-
based Americans for Tax Reform, in an e-mail.  Targeting the mandates extends a debate in Washington to
state legislatures, where incentives to develop solar, wind,
geothermal and other alternate energy sources have had
bipartisan support.  Twenty-nine states and Washington, D.C., now have mandates,
which, by requiring utilities to purchase energy derived from
renewable sources, have helped provide a market for clean-energy
technologies.  End of Stimulus  Opposition to the mandates coincides with the expiration of
some federal incentives for renewables -- many contained in the
2009 stimulus legislation. The repeal or weakening of state
standards puts at risk an industry still dependent on  government
aid  to compete with dirtier but cheaper fossil fuels, advocates
say.  State standards have “really helped get the market started
for renewable-energy technology,” said Dylan Sullivan, a
Chicago-based staff scientist with  Natural Resources Defense
Council  in  New York , in an interview.  Americans for Tax Reform, famous for its no-tax pledge
candidates sign to win its endorsement, is urging its members to
speak out against the state mandates, Gleason said.  ALEC, a group of state lawmakers and corporations recently
criticized for its support of Stand-Your-Ground laws highlighted
in the Florida shooting of Trayvon Martin, may write model
legislation for state lawmakers to repeal or weaken the mandates
later this year, said Todd Wynn, energy, environment and
agriculture task force director for the group, in an interview.
Stand-Your-Ground laws allows citizens to use force when
threatened, even when they can retreat.  Energy Freedom Index  The group may also develop an “energy freedom” index that
ranks states based on regulation, market intervention and taxes.  Members of the group have “expressed concern on the cost
of renewable energy,” Wynn said in an interview.  Common Cause , a Washington-based group that says it
promotes open government, filed a complaint April 20 with the
 Internal Revenue Service  alleging ALEC’s advocacy violates its
tax-exempt status. Alan Dye, ALEC’s counsel, said in a statement
the claims were “patently false” and politically motivated.  A governing board of state legislators chooses what ALEC
promotes as model legislation, Kaitlyn Buss, a spokeswoman for
the group, said in an interview. A separate private enterprise
board, including representatives from  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the
largest U.S. coal producer, and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest
U.S. oil and gas company, serves in an advisory capacity, she
said.  “The concern over state renewable energy standards is
being driven by state legislators themselves,” Wynn said in an
e-mail.  Energy Cost Debate  A February report from the Manhattan Institute, a New York-
based group that says it promotes policies that “foster
economic choice and individual responsibility,” found that
seven coal-dependent states with clean-energy mandates had rate
increases of more than 54 percent from 2001 to 2010.  That was twice the average increase in seven other coal-
dependent states without mandates, according to the report,
written by  Manhattan Institute  fellow Robert Bryce.  The Center for American Progress, a Washington-based group
that advocates for progressive public policies and is often
aligned with Democrats, rebutted those findings and defended
state renewable mandates in an April 11 report as a way to
reduce pollution and create jobs.  The rate of electricity price increases in 12 states slowed
after a renewable standard was adopted, in some cases dropping
below the national average, the report found.  Jobs Created  “There’s no systematic evidence that these do increase
rates for consumers,” said Richard Caperton, director of clean-
energy investment at the center, in an interview.  Instead, renewable standards have helped drive investment
and created jobs, clean-energy advocates say.  “For each one, it has a direct economic development
benefit,” said Joel Serface, a clean-tech investor, in an
interview.  Texas ’s renewable energy standard, for example, passed when
Republican  George W. Bush  was governor, created a wind-energy
industry there, said Serface, a managing director at  Clean Range
Ventures , a Colorado-based firm that supports early stage clean-
energy technologies who has invested in some companies in Texas.
Wind accounted for about 6.4 percent of Texas’s power in 2010,
and is home to several wind-energy manufacturers, according to
the  American Wind Energy Association .  Clean-energy standards typically call for an escalating
percentage of the state’s energy to come from clean sources
until a final target is reached. There is a wide variety of
standards. Some count energy efficiency gains, while others
include power produced from the methane gas emitted from waste
landfills.  Solyndra Fallout  California , for example, will require that 33 percent of
its electricity come from renewable energy by 2020. Oregon set a
25 percent mark for large utilities by 2025 and from 5 percent
to 10 percent for smaller power generators.  Energy costs have been a major issue in the presidential
race as Republicans and allied groups try to tie President
 Barack Obama  to high gasoline prices.  Since Solyndra LLC’s collapse after winning a $535 million
U.S. loan guarantee, Republicans in Congress have accused Obama
of trying to pick winners and losers among energy companies.  Gleason, of Americans for  Tax Reform , said Republican gains
in state elections means that the “composition of state
legislatures is now more conducive” to repealing the renewable
requirements. Republicans  control  the legislatures and
governorships of 24 states.  Repeal Efforts  So far, a handful of bills have been introduced in state
legislatures seeking to repeal the mandates altogether or to
expand the definition of renewable energy in ways that
environmentalists say weaken the environmental benefits.  Lawmakers in Michigan and  Ohio  -- two states that may prove
crucial to presidential race -- are pushing repeal bills. A bill
in  West Virginia  would repeal the state’s goal of 25 percent
mandate by 2025.  Legislation was introduced in 2011 in Colorado, Montana and
 Washington  state to eliminate the renewable standards or reduce
their impact, according to the National Council of State
Legislatures. None of the bills have passed.  Ohio’s law requires 25 percent of the state’s electricity
come from alternative sources, which includes nuclear and
cleaner coal, by 2024. Half of that total must come from
renewable energy sources like wind and solar power.  ‘Buyer’s Remorse’  Ohio State Senator Kris Jordan, a Republican who introduced
the repeal bill, said the state can’t afford to keep such a
“warm and fuzzy” law, which was passed in 2008 before the
economic crisis.  “There is a little buyer’s remorse among my colleagues,
because it’s not going to be best for consumers and because the
economy has changed,” Jordan, a Republican elected after the
law passed in 2008, said.  A Senate committee held a hearing on the repeal measure
without a vote.  Brian Kaiser, director of green jobs and innovation for the
 Ohio Environmental Council , said the state standard has broad
bipartisan support and has made clean energy among the fastest
growing segments of the economy in the state.  Jordan’s bill “does not represent the mainstream of the
political landscape in Ohio,” Kaiser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  