-- Coda to Make Battery-Powered Cars With China’s Great Wall
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-04-24T16:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/coda-to-make-battery-powered-cars-with-china-s-great-wall-motor.html
Coda Holdings , the Los Angeles-
based maker of electric cars, plans to produce battery-powered
autos with  China ’s  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333)  to be sold under the
U.S. company’s name starting in 2014.  Motors and batteries from the U.S. company’s Coda
Automotive unit will be used in Great Wall vehicles, Chief
Executive Officer Phil Murtaugh told reporters today by
telephone. The cars also will be sold in China under the Great
Wall name, he said. The partnership doesn’t include equity ties.  The partnership is intended to develop electric cars that
match the price of gasoline-powered autos, after government
incentives are included, Murtaugh said. Coda, a closely held
company with investors including billionaire  Philip Falcone  and
former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , already uses
chassis and other parts from China for its electric Coda Sedan.  Murtaugh, who previously helped develop business in China
for the former General Motors Corp., declined to say how many
sedans Coda has sold since deliveries began in  California  last
month.  The first model from the agreement with Baoding, China-
based Great Wall is due by 2014’s second quarter, Murtaugh said.
Great Wall, China’s biggest seller of sport-utility vehicles and
pickups, doesn’t currently sell electric vehicles, Coda said.  Details of the initial model will be announced later,
Murtaugh said.  The Coda Sedan costs $38,145, before a $7,500 tax credit.
The small car averages 88 miles (142 kilometers) per charge,
according to a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimate.
Nissan Motor Co.’s Leaf hatchback, the best-selling all-electric
car in the U.S., has a $36,050 base price and averages 73 miles
per charge.  The Sedan’s chassis is built in Harbin, China, through a
partnership with Hafei Motor Co., with final assembly in
Benicia, California. Lithium iron-phosphate cells for its 1,000-
pound (454-kilogram) battery pack are from LIO Energy Systems, a
joint venture of Coda and China’s Tianjin Lishen Battery Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  