-- Collective Said to Weigh Offers From E-Land, Wolverine
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-04-24T14:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/collective-said-to-weigh-final-offers-from-e-land-wolverine.html
Collective Brands Inc. (PSS) , the owner
of the Payless ShoeSource chain, is weighing final offers to
sell itself to  South Korea ’s E-Land Group or a group led by
 Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW) , said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  Collective Brands has attracted at least one bid that gives
 the company  an enterprise value of about $2 billion, including
debt, said one of the people, who declined to be named because
the talks are private. Collective Brands is also considering
offers from a few private-equity funds for parts of the company
after bids came in late last week, said the people. Golden Gate
Capital is bidding with Wolverine, one person said.  Collective Brands plans to make a decision on the bids in
the coming days, said the people. The Topeka, Kansas-based
company, which also markets  Saucony  and Sperry Top-Sider shoes,
announced a strategic review in August and has been working with
Perella Weinberg Partners LP and Kurt Salmon to explore options.  The company expected to receive bids that valued it at $20
to $22, people with knowledge of the matter said last month.
That range was higher than the company anticipated in August,
when it disclosed a review of plans to increase  shareholder
value , said the people.  The shares gained 3.7 percent to $19.93 at 10:05 a.m. New
York time. Collective Brands had a market value of about $1.17
billion at yesterday’s close, and had  $610 million of debt  as of
Jan. 28, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A spokeswoman for Collective Brands and a spokesman for E-
Land declined to comment. A Wolverine spokeswoman didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  E-Land, a closely held owner of fashion brand stores,
discount malls and department stores across South Korea, targets
footwear sales of 6 trillion won ($5.3 billion) by 2015, Korean-
language daily Maeil Business Newspaper reported in March. Sales
outside South Korea account for 18 percent of total revenue, the
company said the same month, when it announced plans to bid for
Collective Brands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  