-- Colleges Confuse Students With Letters Offering Aid That’s Debt
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/colleges-confuse-students-with-letters-offering-aid-that-s-debt.html
Susan Romano read her son Zach’s
financial-aid letter from  Drexel University , and her eyes jumped
to the line highlighted in yellow: “$13,442 expected payment”
for the first year at the $63,000-a-year school.  “At first, I thought it was great,” said Romano, 48, an
insurance claims representative from Huntington,  Pennsylvania .
“The more I read it over and over, the worse it got.”  It turned out the college’s “offered financial aid”
included $42,000 in loans to be taken out by the family,
including a “suggested” $36,178 in parental borrowing or
private loans.  “A loan to me is not financial aid,” Romano said. “It is
money I have to pay.”  As many high school seniors face a May 1 deadline to decide
where to go to college, families are struggling to understand
financial-aid letters, which can be murky and confusing. While
the federal government requires banks and mortgage companies to
disclose  interest rates  and total payments on loans,  financial-
aid letters  for college -- which can cost as much as $240,000
for four years -- are unclear about how much families will have
to pay.  “You have to be savvy enough to know the fine print
exists, and then you have to be eagled-eye enough to find it
hidden in the letters and on websites,” said Debbie Greenberg,
a counselor with  College Bound St. Louis , which coaches low-
income students about admissions and financial aid. “You also
have to have access to a computer.”  Difficult to Compare  The Education Department, consumer groups and guidance
counselors are pushing for a standard format for award letters
to make them less confusing. The Education Department is working
to complete a model financial-aid award letter before the start
of the next school year,  Justin Hamilton , a spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. Only Congress has the power to make it
mandatory, he said.  “Our hope is that institutions will see the wisdom and
benefit of moving towards a common form,” Hamilton said.
“Allowing students to comparison shop with a common letter
would be a big step in that direction.”  College financial-aid officers oppose the move, saying it
would give them less room to negotiate. It isn’t uncommon for
colleges to try and match offers from peer institutions, if the
families present a package with more money, said Darby McHugh,
the college counselor at  Bronx High School of Science , a public
school in New York.  Opposition  The National Association of Student Financial Aid
Administrators in  Washington  went to  Capitol Hill  in March to
lobby against standard documents. While the group isn’t opposed
to requiring schools to use the same terms, its members prefer
the flexibility to design their own letters, Megan McClean,
 NASFAA ’s director of policy and federal relations, said in an
interview.  “It’s not an issue of trying to confuse students or leave
things out,” McClean said. “We are always in favor of students
and families having clear and accurate information.”  Drexel, a private school in Philadelphia, includes
federally backed and private loans in letters about financial
aid so families have a complete view of available resources,
Joan McDonald, senior vice president for enrollment management,
said in an e-mail.  The format for aid packages varies by school, making them
difficult to compare, and some students have little more than a
month to decide. Loans and grants offered by the federal
government are lumped together with the school’s scholarships,
and the statements often don’t include information on interest
rates.  ‘Manipulative and Deceptive’  The documents colleges send can be “manipulative and
deceptive” because the true costs are hidden, said Greenberg,
who has been a counselor for 15 years.  One of Greenberg’s students, Salenia Shaw, received a
letter from  Bradley University  in Peoria,  Illinois , in December
announcing $40,000 in scholarships over four years. A letter in
March said she would receive $29,050 in “financial assistance”
for next year and the balance in “direct costs” would be
$7,914.  She was directed to a website that showed “educational
expenses” of $36,964 for tuition, fees and room and board.
Greenberg added in $3,300 -- an amount mentioned lower on the
screen about expenses that aren’t charged by the university --
for a total of $40,264. The bottom line: Shaw and her mother, a
photographer without a steady job, would have to take out
$17,000 in loans to make up the difference.  ‘Even More Choices’  Shaw’s letter ends with a section called “Even More
Choices,” a euphemism for financing the balance on a  credit
card . The letter says Bradley provides this option “for maximum
convenience.”  Bradley hasn’t heard complaints from families about the
clarity of its letters, David L. Pardieck, director of financial
assistance, said in interview.  “Families tell us they appreciate the simplicity,”
Pardieck said.  Shaw said her mother has poor credit and wouldn’t qualify
for a loan. The burden would fall to Shaw, 17, who wants to
become a veterinarian.  “I’m going to have to be independent and bust my butt
working a lot,” said Shaw, who is weighing other options and
will decide by May 1.  Tuition and fees to attend a public, four-year college have
almost tripled since the 1995-1996 academic year and have more
than doubled for a private-school education, according to data
from the  College Board , a New York-based nonprofit group whose
members include universities. Educational-loan debt has
ballooned to $1 trillion, surpassing the amount owed on credit
cards in the U.S., according to the preliminary findings by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  Comparing Options  The agency introduced a  website  this month that helps
students compare financial-aid options at different schools.  “Clear financial-aid information with estimates for total
debt and monthly payment after graduation would help them make
decisions,” Rohit Chopra, CFPB’s student-loan ombudsman, said
in an e-mail.  That kind of information would be helpful to Daniel
Jamrozik, 18, the top-ranked student at his high school near  St.
Louis , who needed help from a coach at College Bound to
interpret his aid award letters.  Loans Add Up  A letter from the public Missouri University of Science and
Technology presented a 10-line breakdown with a boxed amount of
$22,536 that matched the school’s total cost to attend. The
package, though, required Jamrozik and his parents, immigrants
from  Poland , to take out $12,586 in loans. His father is a
contractor and his mother juggles several jobs, including as a
nursing-home aide. Jamrozik would also have to find a work-study
job for $2,500.  A letter from  Butler University , a private college in
Indianapolis, initially appeared to offer more: the $28,100
amount highlighted in a box. After calculations, he and his
coach determined the gap was bigger at Butler. Jamrozik and his
parents would need to take out $28,000 in loans, more than
double the amount for the state school.  “It’s certainly not our intention for them to be
confusing,” Melissa Smurdon, director of financial aid at
Butler, said in an interview. “There is a significant amount of
information that needs to be conveyed.”  Jamrozik equated the letters to a scavenger hunt.  “You’re just going to be suffering for an eternity to pay
off the debt,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  