-- Alberta Re-Elects Redford’s Conservative Party
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-04-24T14:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/conservatives-win-alberta-election-ctv-television.html
Alberta ’s Progressive Conservative
party led by Premier Alison Redford won a surprise re-election
in Canada’s oil-rich western province, renewing its majority
mandate and extending a 41-year reign.  The Progressive Conservatives, who have ruled Alberta since
1971, were elected in 61 of 87 districts, compared with 17 for
the Wildrose Alliance, five for the  Liberal Party  and four for
the  New Democratic Party , according to preliminary results
posted on the provincial election agency’s website.  The Conservative victory came after opinion polls during
the election indicated Wildrose was poised to win, bringing
increased focus on the four-year-old party’s platform and
candidates.  “It was a near-death experience” for the Conservatives,
said David Taras, a political scientist at Mount Royal
University in Calgary. The victory “wasn’t out of love for
Alison -- it was out of fear for the Wildrose.”  Redford, a 47-year-old lawyer and former United Nations
elections commissioner in  Afghanistan , said the province has
changed and needs to prepare for the future while supporting the
expansion of the oil sands industry.  “Albertans want positive change and change that move
Albertans forward,” said Redford in a speech to supporters in
Calgary. She said change will bring “unity and prosperity for
the best province in the best country in the world.”  Attacked Fiscal Record  Wildrose’s leader, 41-year-old Danielle Smith, had attacked
the Conservative’s fiscal record during the campaign. She
promised to end the deficit this year, revamp the public health-
care system and pay each Albertan C$300 with money from oil
sands royalties. Smith pledged on April 20 a return to “common-
sense conservative values: fiscal prudence, individual freedom,
individual responsibility, decentralized decision making.”  Redford countered the attacks by emphasizing comments made
by Wildrose candidates about race and sexual preferences, as
well as Smith’s own comments that the science of  climate change 
is still being debated.  The result marks the first time a female had been elected
as premier in Alberta, with a female also serving as leader of
the opposition.  The Conservatives took 44 percent of the vote with more
than 99 percent of polls reporting, according to the  election
agency . Wildrose had 34 percent of the vote, with the  New
Democrats  and Liberals each at 10 percent.  Before the election, the Conservatives held 66 of 83 seats
in the legislature, while Wildrose, which takes its name from
the provincial flower, had four.  More Spending  Redford, who took over from former Premier Ed Stelmach in
October, plans to balance the budget next year, while spending
more on schools and hospitals and promoting a national energy
strategy.  The result was the 12th consecutive majority government
elected in Alberta.  “Tonight we found out that change might take a little
longer than we thought,” Smith told supporters. “Am I
surprised? Yeah. Am I disappointed? Yeah. Am I discouraged? Not
a chance.”  Alberta’s gross domestic output per capita leads the
nation. It’s the only one of  Canada ’s 10 provinces to have top
credit ratings from  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service
and DBRS Ltd., and its bonds have the lowest yields relative to
Canadian federal benchmarks, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data.  The western province has C$14.3 billion in outstanding
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The provincial
treasury is scheduled to pay back about C$2.1 billion this year.
The economy is forecast to grow 3.8 percent in 2012.  “Investors always like stable politics and that’s the
situation they’ve essentially had in this province since 1935,”
said Keith Brownsey, a political scientist at Mount Royal
University in Calgary, before the polls closed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at   or
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   or  dscanlan@bloomberg.net  