-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Little Changed as Outlook Cools
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-24T14:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-little-changed-as-expectations-cool.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers was
little changed in April as expectations over the outlook
tempered increased optimism about the present.  The Conference Board’s confidence  index  was at 69.2 com-
pared to a revised 69.5 in the prior month, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed today. The  median 
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
reading of 69.6.  The smallest increase in employment in five months may have
raised concern that growth is not fast enough to reduce
unemployment. The report also showed households trimmed buying
plans for automobiles, homes and vacations, showing that more
jobs will be needed to boost  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy.  “Overall, consumers are more upbeat about the state of the
economy, but they remain cautiously optimistic,”  Lynn Franco ,
director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said
in a statement.  A separate report today showed  home prices  in 20 cities
dropped at a slower pace in the year ended February, pointing to
stabilization in the real-estate market. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values fell 3.5 percent from a year earlier,
the smallest 12-month drop since February 2011, a report from
the group showed in New York.  Home Sales  In another sign the housing market is mending, sales on new
houses were stronger than forecast in March, data from the
Commerce Department also showed. Purchases came in at a 328,000
annual rate, a decline of 7.1 percent from an upwardly revised
353,000 pace in February, a two-year high. Economists forecast a
rate of 319,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Inventory declined to a record low and the median
selling price rose from a year ago, the report also showed.  Stocks climbed after the reports, led by homebuilder
shares. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,374.4 at 10:10 a.m. in  New York . The S&P Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index advanced 1.7 percent.  Also today, a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond showed manufacturing in its region grew at a faster
pace this month.  Estimates for  consumer confidence  ranged from 67 to 74 in
the Bloomberg survey of 74 economists. The measure averaged 53.7
during the recession that ended in June 2009.  Other Measures  Among other measures, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
improved in the week ended April 15 to match the highest level
in four years as more Americans said their finances were in
better shape. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment cooled in April from a
one-year high.  The Conference Board’s measure of present conditions
increased to 51.4, the highest level since September 2008, from
49.9 a month earlier. The gauge of expectations for the next six
months declined to 81.1 from 82.5.  The share of consumers who said jobs are currently
plentiful decreased to 8.4 percent from 9 percent. Those who
said jobs are hard to get fell to 37.5 percent, the fewest since
November 2008, from 40.7 percent.  The percent of respondents expecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months decreased to 16.9 from 17.4 the
previous month. The proportion who expect their incomes to rise
over the next six months declined to 14 percent from 15.5
percent.  Spending Plans  The share of households planning to buy a car dropped to
the lowest level since comparable records began in November
2010. Consumers also cut back on plans to buy houses and take
vacations.  Employers have increased payrolls by 1.13 million workers
over the past six months, and the jobless rate dropped to 8.2
percent in March, compared with 9 percent in September.  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank, is
looking for a “modest” increase in operating revenue this year
as the U.S. is expected to “continue its slow recovery,”
according to Joseph Hooley, chief executive officer.  “Our cautious outlook is consistent with a moderate
improvement in U.S. markets,” Hooley said on an April 17
conference call with analysts. “Consumer confidence has
improved slightly, but housing prices continue to slide as
unemployment continues to be a challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  