-- Conservatives Need Better Blueprint for New Economy
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-04-24T23:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/conservatives-need-better-blueprint-for-new-economy.html
The first priority for governments
in the U.S. and  Europe  is to engineer the fastest possible
recovery from the Great Recession -- a job that the European
Union, in particular, is bungling. Despite it all, recovery will
come, and when it does the world economy is going to look
different.  As I explained last week,  recessions accelerate  structural
transformations, and this unusually severe recession will do so
with unusual force. Without losing sight of the here and now,
politicians in Europe and the U.S. need to examine their ideas
to make sure they fit this new world.  Neither the left nor the right needs to abandon its basic
worldview: The creative tension between conservatives’ trust in
individual initiative and market forces and the left’s concern
for fairness and solidarity will never be resolved, and trying
to resolve it would be a mistake. But both sides have some
rethinking to do.  Let’s start with the right. I’ll have something to say
about the left next week.  Living With Risk  Conservatives need to recognize three crucial shifts.
First, globalization and information technology are increasing
the rate of  industrial change . This is great for incomes in the
aggregate -- in that respect, the right’s instinctive optimism
about economic progress is as correct as ever. But faster change
makes our economic lives riskier, and conservatives must not
close their eyes to that.  Second, without new government interventions, the  gap
between winners and losers  may continue to widen. The skillful,
the adaptable and the lucky will do better than ever before. But
there will be more losers -- and in relative terms, at least,
they will have further to fall.  Third, the new economy will put different demands on
infrastructure and other public services. Conservatives think
that blunting market forces and trying to slow the rate of
change would be a mistake -- and they’re right. But they should
recognize that market forces can be blunted by neglect as well
as deliberate action. To make the most of the new economic
opportunities, governments need to augment market forces with,
among other things, new kinds of public investment.  All three factors demand intelligent discrimination on
taxes and public spending. The increase in risk means safety
nets should be improved, not just maintained, and governments
must help build better pathways from old jobs to new. That will
cost money. The widening gap between winners and losers
strengthens the case for smart nonpunitive  redistribution  from
rich to poor. That means  tax reform , not tax cuts for all.
Public spending on education, training, and IT and other
infrastructure is a good investment and should rise. That will
cost money, too.  Europe’s center-right conservative parties, to a greater or
lesser degree, are willing to give these issues some thought.
The response of many American conservatives, unfortunately, is
complete intellectual shutdown.  There must be no tax increases of any kind ever, they
believe. All  government spending ,  apart from defense , is waste.
Is it even necessary to say how idiotic this is? There’s a
difference between bridges to nowhere and, let’s say, universal
access to high-speed Internet, which vastly widens new
entrepreneurial opportunities. There’s a difference between a
stupid income-tax system that raises little revenue because of
loopholes and the simpler alternatives that could raise more for
good purposes -- and more of it, proportionately, from the rich
-- with lower marginal rates and hence less economic damage.  The Education Challenge  American conservatives need to start making these
distinctions. If they did, they could stamp initiatives in the
areas I’ve mentioned with their own priorities and values.
Effort and opportunity are themes that come naturally to them,
so go with that.  Adapting education systems to the new economic realities is
a challenge that conservatives should be keen to take up. This
is partly -- but only partly -- a question of public spending.
Pouring good money into failing schools seems to be the
preferred policy of the American left. Conservatives could
combine confronting teachers’ unions and their hidebound
contractual arrangements with a willingness to spend more on
excellent new recruits (a hallmark of the most successful
schools systems worldwide) and other educational assets. Noting
that people will have to switch careers more often, they could
explain how they’ll ensure wider access to lifelong education
and retraining.  The themes of effort and opportunity also apply to safety
nets and risk-sharing. For instance, support the poor with
subsidies linked to employment -- a change in emphasis
especially needed in Europe. The U.S.  earned income tax credit 
is a pro-market, pro-productivity intervention that should
appeal to all conservatives. It should be expanded and made more
generous.  In a riskier world, and one where industrial-country
demographic trends are unfavorable, public support for pensions
and health care will need to be increased. In the U.S., the
 Republican Party  has set its face against this. Its plans to
contain the fiscal burden of Medicare, for instance, involve a
gradual shifting of cost and risk to the system’s beneficiaries
-- adding to rather than offsetting the pressures that the
economy will bring to bear in any event.  This is an error. Conservatives shouldn’t be withdrawing
fiscal support at a time when more will be needed. The right’s
aim should be to emphasize the part that competition and
individual choice can play in getting more out of these
programs, and to ensure that the necessary funds are raised
through an uncluttered tax system that does the least harm to
incentives.  The next economy is going to demand unaccustomed
flexibility from many more of us. Politicians may hope to be
exempt. The sooner voters disabuse them of that idea the better.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on stopping  technology
sales  to tyrants and court hearings on  Arizona ’s  immigration
law ;  Margaret Carlson  on the start of the John Edwards  trial ;
William Pesek on the  Reserve Bank of Australia ;  Peter Orszag  on
a post-election  budget compromise ; and Jack Hedin on U.S.  crop
insurance  subsidies.  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 