-- Cosmo Said to Renew Iranian Crude Contract With Reduced Volume
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-04-24T04:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/cosmo-said-to-renew-iranian-crude-contract-with-reduced-volume.html
Cosmo Oil Co. (5007)  reduced the amount of
crude it buys from Iran in a contract renewal for the fiscal
year started in April, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The Japanese refiner, partly owned by the government of  Abu
Dhabi , cut its annual purchase agreement following negotiations
this month, the people said, declining to be identified because
the terms are confidential. They wouldn’t specify the reduction
from about 40,000 barrels a day that Cosmo bought from Iran last
year. Katsuhisa Maeda, a spokesman for Cosmo Oil in  Tokyo ,
declined to comment on the contract.  The Obama administration granted exemptions to Japan and 10
European Union nations last month for 180 days from a U.S. law
that places sanctions on banks that do business with  Iran ,
including processing of oil payments. The nations showed they
are cutting crude purchases from the Persian Gulf producer, the
U.S. said.  Cosmo Oil added force majeure clauses to the new contract
that allows it to opt out of buying Iranian crude when it can’t
obtain sufficient insurance, the people said.  The European Union prohibited the insurance and re-
insurance of tankers carrying Iranian crude last month as part
of sanctions designed to stop  Iran’s nuclear program . The bloc
allowed insurance only for third-party liability and
environmental-liability until July 1.  Japan cut  imports  from the Persian Gulf country by 33
percent in February from a year earlier to 1.41 million
kiloliters, or about 306,000 barrels a day, according to data
compiled by the trade ministry. Shipments from Iran,  Japan ’s
fourth-biggest crude supplier, accounted for 7.9 percent of the
country’s total supply in the month, the data showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  