-- Credit Suisse Bonus Bonds Lead Embrace of Relief Deals
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-04-24T14:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/credit-suisse-bonus-bonds-lead-embrace-of-capital-relief-deals.html
When  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  handed
out $750 million of bonuses this year in the form of bonds,
generosity wasn’t the only motive.  The securities also shielded the Zurich-based bank from
potential losses on $16 billion of derivatives trades -- and
reduced its capital needs -- by shifting some of the risk onto
employees, people with knowledge of the matter said. Instead of
the company bearing the full brunt of any trades where customers
failed to pay up, bonus recipients will share the cost.  The bonds are part of a resurgence in “regulatory capital
relief transactions,” created by bankers looking to cut risk
and build cushions against losses without diluting shareholders,
selling assets or scaling back trades and loans. Some of
 Europe ’s biggest banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  are paying investors and
employees interest rates as high as 15 percent in return for
agreeing to share losses on at least $30 billion of assets.  “If somebody’s out there and willing to accept that risk,
that’s beneficial, as long as it’s being used properly,” said
Christopher Culp, a former Federal Reserve Bank of  Chicago 
examiner who’s now managing director of Risk Management
Consulting Services Inc. in Chicago. “Some regulatory
transactions are designed to exploit inefficient regulations.”  Capital Savers  Using techniques similar to the ones that packaged
mortgages into bonds, lenders are turning holdings of corporate
loans, export-import credit or derivatives-trading gains into
triple-A securities. The transformation -- usually requiring a
cash infusion from investors, or in Credit Suisse’s case, a
commitment from employees -- makes the assets look safer so
banks can hold less capital as a loss reserve.  The practice has drawn scrutiny from regulators in the U.K.
who say it could leave firms with too little capital to
withstand a financial crisis or help them  defer  loan losses.
Another pitfall according to Culp is that instead of diffusing
risk, securitization ends up concentrating it elsewhere.  While financial innovation can be helpful, “I would be
just as pleased to see a lot of these banks raise new equity
capital,” said  Darrell Duffie , a Stanford University business-
school professor who joined the Moody’s Corp. board in October
2008. “It’s a cleaner way for us all to see that systemic risk
is going down.”  Regulators are pressing banks to trim holdings of risky
assets and bolster capital -- the buffer between assets and
liabilities that helps protect depositors from losses and
prevent the need for government bailouts.  Default Swaps  In response, some banks have turned to “synthetic
transactions,” built from credit-default swaps that work like
insurance to reimburse the lender whenever a borrower defaults
or a customer fails to pay up on a trading contract.  The credit-default swap is used to insure a pool of assets.
The company then sells bonds backed by the swap that are divided
into classes or “tranches” with varying degrees of risk and
payoff. That’s similar to the collateralized debt obligations,
or CDOs, used in the years before the 2008 financial crisis to
turn subprime mortgages into triple-A securities.  Terms call for the junior or “mezzanine” tranches of the
new securities to absorb a preset amount of any losses that
arise in the pool of assets. This protects the more senior
tranches from principal losses. In return for bearing the added
risk, the junior investors get paid a higher interest rate.  Genuine Risk Reduction  While the terms may sound complex, lenders are genuinely
reducing risks, said Richard Robb, chief executive officer of
Christofferson, Robb & Co. The New York-based firm, with $1.5
billion in net assets, specializes in transactions that transfer
credit risk from banks to investors, according to its website.  “It’s not really for amateurs,” Robb said. The firm is
working on about 25 transactions, and will “end up doing
between 10 and 50 percent of them,” he said.  For investors, the success of the deals is linked to the
financial strength of banks’ regular corporate customers whose
debts are being insured. In theory, there’s less risk of default
because those companies have an ongoing relationship with the
bank. By contrast, many pre-crisis CDOs were packaged from home
loans made by small, independent lenders to consumers with
subprime credit scores.  “The banks tend to do this not with their bad assets, but
actually with their good assets,” said Ron D’Vari, CEO of
NewOak Capital in  New York , which advises financial firms and
investors on asset-backed securities.  Who Loses  In the Credit Suisse deal, known as the Partner Asset
Facility 2 notes,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank gave 5,500
employees bonds maturing in four years that pay a 6.5 percent
interest rate. The bonds are linked to a “portfolio of
derivative counterparty risks,” according to a Jan. 23 memo
sent to the staff by CEO Brady Dougan.  That means the bonds may lose money if a certain percentage
of customers fail to pay up on a $16 billion pool of derivatives
trades that have gone in the bank’s favor, people briefed on the
matter said. They asked not to be named because the matter is
private. The company agreed to take the first $500 million of
losses on the portfolio, according to its  annual report .  The employees -- who had no choice about accepting the
terms -- would suffer the next $750 million of any losses, two
people briefed on the terms said. Still, Dougan said in his
January memo that “our best estimation from actual experience
is that this will pay its interest and principal in full.”  The deal was designed “to provide for additional
flexibility” as new regulations “require higher minimum
capital standards,” Credit Suisse said in the annual report.
The plan was discussed with Swiss regulators before it was
approved by the bank’s compensation committee, the firm said.  Commerzbank’s Bonds  Suzanne Fleming, a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse, declined
to say how much capital was freed up by the transaction.  Commerzbank sold about 150 million euros ($198 million) of
junior bonds against 2 billion euros of loans to small- and
medium-size companies in  Germany , the lender said in a Feb. 2
statement. The bank retained responsibility for the first 28
million euros, or 1.4 percent, of losses, said Martin Halusa, a
spokesman. Next, the bondholders would suffer any losses, until
they’re wiped out. The company is still on the hook for any
losses on the remaining 1.8 billion of euros of loans, he said.  The bonds pay a coupon of 14.5 percent over benchmark
short-term  interest rates , Halusa said. The Frankfurt-based bank
hasn’t released the amount of capital freed up by the deal,
“but the sum met our expectation and was in line with the
market,” he said.  AAA for Barclays  Barclays in January obtained a triple-A rating for the most
senior 5.1 billion euros of bonds backed by a 6 billion-euro
book of 667 loans to 541 large companies in the U.S. and Europe,
according to a Moody’s Investors Service press release. The
London-based bank, ranked second by assets in the U.K., sold
part of the most junior 300 million euros of bonds, which would
cover the first 5 percent of losses, a person with knowledge of
the transaction said.  Standard Chartered , the London-based bank whose origins
date to 19th-century British colonial rule in Africa and  India ,
has done at least two deals in the past year to cut its credit
risks on $5 billion of loans. In some cases, the bank was able
to garner AAA ratings for pieces of the bonds it held onto.
Owners of the junior portions receive interest payments as much
as 15 percent over short-term benchmarks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Paul Ewing-Chow, a Standard Chartered spokesman in
 Singapore , declined to comment on how much capital was freed up,
citing “regulatory considerations.”  Once Burned  Investors who remember getting burned by structured finance
have been wary of some new deals.  In February, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc -- which was bailed
out by the government during the financial crisis -- shelved a
planned sale of bonds backed by 2 billion British pounds of
potential derivatives-trading claims after investors balked at
the risk and complexity, three people briefed on the sale said.
The junior-most RBS bonds would have paid 15.5 percent interest
over benchmark rates, according to a November presentation.  Aside from about $20 billion of structured deals dubbed
“Bistro” by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s predecessor in the late
1990s, capital-relief transactions in the U.S. have been rare.  That’s because the nation’s lenders are still operating
under a set of rules adopted in 1988 that make the deals less
attractive than in Europe, which is under a newer regime, said
Alexandre Martin-Min, head of structured credit investments at
AXA Investment Managers. Some U.S. banks have started to
consider whether the deals might make sense once newer rules
adopted in 2010 are formalized by U.S. regulators, said Martin-
Min, whose firm manages 512 billion euros.  Private Deals  Most deals never become public because they’re privately
negotiated between banks and  hedge funds  or other financial
firms, typically with investments of $50 million to $100
million, said Olivier Renault, head of structuring and advisory
at StormHarbour Partners LP, a securities firm with offices in
 London  and New York. Regulators have clamped down in recent
years on transactions done in the shadows that did little more
than help banks push off loan losses into future reporting
periods, he said.  The Bank of International Settlements, which coordinates
global rulemakers, warned in a  December 2011 statement  that
“credit-protection transactions” may have “the potential for
regulatory capital arbitrage.”  “There is a little bit of suspicion on transactions that
have been done in the past that should not have been allowed,”
Renault said. “The deals that were abusing the rules were
always private transactions.”  ‘Flawed’ Assumption  In May 2011, the U.K. Financial Services Authority  told 
banks that any capital-relief deals would have to get public
ratings to qualify. The agency said that lenders using internal
mathematical models to calculate their  capital requirements 
could erroneously assume that there was “no systematic risk”
in the senior classes of securitizations that were retained.  “The performance of senior tranches of many
securitizations since 2007 has shown this assumption to be
flawed,” the FSA said.  Losses tied to CDOs created from 1999 to 2007 and packaged
from asset-backed securities ultimately may total $420 billion,
or 65 percent of their original balance, according to an August
2011 paper by the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia . Junior
portions of structured securities were wiped out, forcing
holders of the senior AAA portions to take writedowns and
contributing to the near-collapse of banks including Citigroup
Inc. and Merrill Lynch & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 