-- CVC’s Formula One Said to Add Banks for Singapore IPO
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-04-25T06:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/cvc-s-formula-one-said-to-add-banks-for-singapore-ipo.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. added
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  to help with the initial public
offering of Formula One, which could raise as much as $3 billion
in Singapore, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The two banks join  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , hired earlier
for the stock sale, as lead managers for the IPO, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the process is
private.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd (CIMB)  and
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  have also been retained to help manage the
IPO, the people said.  Formula One’s IPO may occur as early as in June, said one
of the people. An application for the IPO may be submitted as
early as this week, the person said. At $3 billion, the IPO
would be the biggest in the world since Spain’s  Bankia SA (BKIA)  raised
$4.4 billion in July. Drawing on Formula One’s growing
popularity in Asia, a Singapore listing may also help the cachet
of the city’s stock exchange, which is vying with Hong Kong’s
bourse to attract companies from across the world.  A CVC representative in London didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment yesterday.  Formula One Chief Executive Officer Bernie Ecclestone has
no plans to sell his 5.3 percent stake in the offering and will
keep his position under CVC’s plans, he said last month. F1
Group, the sport’s commercial rights holder, may post $657
million of pretax profit on sales of $2.3 billion next year,
according to London-based industry monitor Formula Money. It had
$1.6 billion of revenue in 2010.  United IPO  Singapore  last year gave the British soccer team Manchester
United Ltd. permission to do an IPO of about $1 billion. That
sale, scuttled amid stock market volatility in late 2011, may be
revived, people familiar with the deal said in March.  By listing in Singapore, where a Formula One race has been
held since 2008, the auto-racing series would take advantage of
its growing popularity in Asia. This year, pop star Katy Perry,
rock band Maroon 5 and Taiwanese singer Jay Chou will perform in
the city-state during the three-day race.  Formula One also holds Grand Prix races in China, Malaysia,
Japan, Korea, India and Australia. The Bahrain Grand Prix, held
on April 22 amid protests calling for the race to be canceled,
saw two-time defending world champion Sebastian Vettel winning
to move atop the drivers’ standings. Bahrain’s mostly Shiite
political opposition had stepped up its anti-regime protests in
the run-up to the race, with the Formula One chiefs resisting
the calls.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in  London  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  