-- Dana Gas Said to Hire Blackstone to Restructure Sukuk
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-04-24T10:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/dana-gas-said-to-hire-blackstone-to-restructure-1-billion-sukuk.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  hired  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity firm, to advise on
the $1 billion restructuring of Islamic bonds maturing in
October, three people familiar with the matter said.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is also advising the company, two people
with knowledge of the matter said in January. Dana Gas, whose
parent Crescent Petroleum Co. owns 3 percent of Hungarian
refiner  Mol Nyrt., (MOL)  said Jan. 17 it would continue to meet debt
obligations and appointed an unidentified financial adviser.  Dana Gas, which produces and explores for oil and gas in
Egypt and Iraq’s Kurdistan region, said in March money owed by
customers almost doubled last year to $501 million from $255
million. The company said $212 million of the total was owed for
more than four months. The yield on its 7.5 percent sukuk due
October 2012 climbed 23.69 percentage points so far this year to
61.17 percent at 2:35 p.m. in Dubai.  “At the end of the day, we don’t know if they have the
ability to repay their debt, and they haven’t given any
indication that they can,” Thomas Christie, fixed income sales
trader at Rasmala Investment Bank in Dubai, said by phone today.
There is “no information on whether they’re getting payments
out of  Egypt ,” he said.  The company’s board will meet on April 25 to consider the
progress of its projects, while shareholders will meet the
following day. Sharjah, United Arab Emirates-based Dana Gas may
restructure the sukuk at 61.5 percent to par value, investment
bank Exotix Ltd. said in January.  The outside public relations company for Dana Gas declined
to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. Blackstone and
Deutsche Bank also declined to comment.  The stock rose 2.2 percent to close at 47 fils in  Abu Dhabi 
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  