-- Darvish, Kuroda Meet in Japanese Matchup as Rangers Host Yankees
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-24T16:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/darvish-kuroda-meet-in-japanese-matchup-as-rangers-host-yankees.html
Yu Darvish of the  Texas Rangers 
will pitch in the highest-profile game of his young Major League
Baseball career tonight, facing the New York Yankees and fellow
Japanese starter  Hiroki Kuroda .  The matchup, which will be broadcast live in  Japan  by NHK
television, marks the seventh time that two Japanese-born
pitchers have started in the same major-league game.  Darvish has a 2-0 record through his first three
appearances for the Rangers, who have won the past two American
League championships and lead the AL West with a 13-4 record.
Kuroda is 1-1 in his first season with the 27-time World Series
champion Yankees, who are tied for the American League East lead
at 10-6.  “I don’t think I have to control Yu’s emotions,” Rangers
manager  Ron Washington  said, according to the  team’s website .
“I think he’s past that.”  Darvish in January signed a six-year contract with the
Rangers that MLB.com said is worth about $60 million. The deal
came after the Rangers paid a record $51.7 million to his
Japanese team, the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters, for the right
to negotiate with the 25-year-old Darvish, who went 18-6 with a
1.44 ERA in 28 games in Japan last season.  Darvish pitched to countryman Ichiro Suzuki of the  Seattle
Mariners  in his major-league debut on April 9, picking up the
win after allowing five runs over 5 2/3 innings and three hits
to the Mariners’ outfielder. Darvish has allowed one earned run
in each of his past two starts, getting no decision in an April
14 win in  Minnesota  and holding the Tigers to two hits over 6
1/3 innings in a 10-3 win in Detroit on April 19.  First Meeting  Kuroda, who never pitched in a game opposite Darvish in
Japan, signed a one-year, $10 million contract with the Yankees
in January after spending four seasons with the Dodgers.  “I’m aware that our team is going to be facing one of the
greatest pitchers that Japan has produced, but my concern is to
contribute as much as possible for our team to win,” Kuroda
said through an interpreter, according to MLB.com.  The 37-year-old right-hander has twice allowed six runs in
his starts with the Yankees and pitched eight shutout innings in
the other. In the Yankees’ losses at  Tampa Bay  on April 7 and
against Minnesota on April 18, six of the 12 runs Kuroda
surrendered were scored in the first inning.  Kuroda will be facing a Rangers’ lineup that leads the
major leagues with a .298 team batting average and 98 runs.  Home Runs  The Yankees, who have played one fewer game, rank second
with a .284 average and 97 runs scored while leading the majors
with 28 homers. The Yankees beat Texas 7-4 in the opener of the
three-game series yesterday.  “This is not a one-on-one game,” Kuroda said. “It’s the
Rangers against the Yankees.”  The last major-league matchup of Japanese starting pitchers
was on July 22, 2010, when Kuroda and the  Los Angeles Dodgers 
beat Hisanori Takahashi and the New York Mets 2-0.  Daisuke Matsuzaka of the  Boston Red Sox  has been a part of
two major-league games involving Japanese starting pitchers,
facing Kenshin Kawakami of the Atlanta Braves in 2009 and Tomo Ohka of the Toronto Blue Jays in 2007. Ohka also started against
Mac Suzuki of the  Kansas City Royals  in 2002.  In the first major-league game featuring two Japanese
starting pitchers, Hideki Irabu of the  New York Yankees  faced
Suzuki in 1999, while Hideo Nomo of the  Detroit Tigers  also went
up against Suzuki the following year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  