-- Drug-Resistant Malaria in Asia May Remain Contained, WHO Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-24T11:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/drug-resistant-malaria-in-asia-may-remain-contained-who-says.html
The  World Health Organization 
expects a drug-resistant malaria strain in Southeast Asia can be
contained amid signs it may have emerged in  Vietnam .  “We have good chances to keep it in the region,” Pascal
Ringwald, coordinator of the WHO’s drug resistance and
containment unit, told reporters in Bangkok today. “We need
more information but on the other hand, I haven’t the impression
it’s spreading very quickly.”  Studies in Cambodia and Myanmar have shown that
artemisinin-based malaria drugs are losing potency in Southeast
Asia. The WHO is conducting studies to confirm possible strains
in Myanmar and Vietnam, he said, adding that containment efforts
begin once resistance is suspected.  “To confirm artemisinin resistance you need to go to very
sophisticated research studies,” Ringwald said. “It’s
extremely complicated.”  Malaria strikes about  216 million  people each year and
kills about 655,000, mostly children under five in  Africa ,
according to the Geneva-based WHO. Resistance can emerge
independently in any part of the world, Ringwald said.  The disease is caused by a tiny parasite called Plasmodium
that’s carried in the saliva of female mosquitoes. Artemisinin-
based drugs clear most of the parasites within hours. Their main
drawback is they don’t last long in the body, so are usually
paired with another less powerful but longer-acting drug that
mops up the stragglers.  The use of artemisinin-based drugs without their companion
pills has contributed to the emergence of the resistant strain
because it clears all but the hardiest parasites. Counterfeit
medicines, which contain insufficient quantities of artemisinin,
may have also contributed to the resistance, the WHO said.  Artemisinin has been used in  Southeast Asia  more than
anywhere else in the world, Ringwald said. “Massive” use may
have contributed to the development of resistance, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  