-- Dutch Face Elections As Rutte Seeks Majority for Measures
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-04-24T16:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/dutch-face-elections-as-rutte-seeks-majority-for-measures.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte 
told politicians to face up to the country’s economic woes to
ensure the Netherlands evades the debt crisis, as opposition
lawmakers said there was no need to stick to budget targets.  Rutte, addressing parliament in The Hague one day after he
tendered his Cabinet’s resignation to  Queen Beatrix , said the
need to adopt reforms “hasn’t diminished” after  Geert Wilders ’s Freedom Party pulled out of budget talks, ending its
support for the minority government. A proposal for austerity
measures will be sent to parliament tomorrow for debate this
week, with new elections “possible” on Sept. 12, he said.  “The problems are too serious” to put off, Rutte told
lawmakers today. “The economy is faltering, employment is under
pressure and the nation’s debt is growing faster than we can
afford. These are the facts and nobody can run away from that.”  Rutte is seeking additional cuts of at least 9.5 billion
euros ($12.5 billion) needed to satisfy European deficit limits
after Wilders balked at proposed changes to state pensions.
Global equities slumped yesterday as Rutte offered to quit,
triggering uncertainty over new elections and investor doubts
about his country’s ability to retain its AAA credit rating.  Rutte, who was asked to stay on in a caretaker capacity
while the Queen considers his resignation offer, faces a 2013
budget shortfall forecast at 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product. His government has said it will ready plans on how to
pare it to the European Union’s 3 percent limit by April 30.  ‘Not Sensible’  Opposition lawmakers suggested disregarding the deficit
limit for next year. Emile Roemer, leader of the Socialist
Party, which polls suggest would double its seats if elections
were held now, called current government plans to cut the budget
by about 14 billion euros “unachievable and not sensible.”  Wilders told parliament that the 3 percent limit “is not
sacred” and that meeting the target in 2015 would suffice.  “We want to bring the government financing in order but
over a few years,” Wilders said. “We ourselves need to decide
what to do, and not Brussels. I say good-bye to this Cabinet and
it’s now up to the voter.”  Opposition Labor Party leader Diederik Samsom told Dutch
news agency ANP today that he no longer opposes elections in
September in order to give smaller parties time to prepare. The
Dutch electoral council has said that Sept. 5 would be the
earliest possible date for a new ballot.  Efforts to strengthen the economy, bolster growth and raise
tax revenue are more important than cutting the deficit, Charles Kalshoven, an economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, said in an
interview. “Now it looks like neither is going to happen as
there doesn’t seem to be a parliamentary majority willing to cut
the deficit below 3 percent.”  Bonds Gain  Dutch bonds rose for the first time in four days as the
nation sold 2 billion euros of debt amid optimism the collapse
of its government yesterday won’t derail efforts to implement
budget cuts. Two-year Dutch yields dropped the most in almost
five months as the government auctioned securities due in 2014
and 2037.  The Dutch two-year yield declined 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage points, to 0.36 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time
after falling as much as 18 basis points, the most since Nov 30.
The 15 percent security due in January 2014 rose 0.265, or 2.65
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 101.100. The extra yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of similar-
maturity German bunds shrank 15 basis points to 64 basis points
after closing yesterday at the widest since March 2009.  Wilders Objection  With budget deliberations dragging on for seven weeks, the
fate of Rutte’s minority government was thrown into doubt on
April 21 when Wilders unexpectedly withdrew his party’s support
over efforts to narrow the shortfall. He cited proposed cuts to
welfare benefits for the elderly, specifically the impact on the
incomes of those retirees with state pensions who form the
bedrock of his  Freedom Party ’s support. Rutte said new elections
were “an obvious scenario” to resolve the deadlock.  The Netherlands doesn’t need to take drastic action to trim
its budget in the face of lower revenues as a result of slower-
than-expected economic growth, Xavier Debrun, an International
Monetary Fund official, said today in a speech at Bruegel, a
Brussels research institution.  “They are not under market pressures; the numbers are not
catastrophic,” said Debrun, a deputy division chief at the
Washington-based IMF. If “disappointing” growth leads to lower
revenues, “don’t go into panic mode to compensate. That
wouldn’t be a good idea” for a country like the Netherlands
that has borrowing room, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  