-- Dutch Don’t Need to Panic at Lower Revenues, IMF’s Debrun Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-04-24T13:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/dutch-don-t-need-to-panic-at-lower-revenues-imf-s-debrun-says.html
The Netherlands doesn’t need to
take drastic action to trim its budget in the face of lower
revenues as a result of slower-than-expected economic growth,
said Xavier Debrun, an International Monetary Fund official.  “They are not under market pressures; the numbers are not
catastrophic,” said Debrun, a deputy division chief at the
Washington-based IMF. To the extent that the Netherlands misses
its budget targets because of a slowing economy, “our view is
that they should not respond.”  Skittish financial market conditions mean countries should
stick to their announced plans whenever possible, Debrun said
today in a speech at Bruegel, a Brussels research institution.
At the same time, if “disappointing” growth leads to lower
revenues, “don’t go into panic mode to compensate. That
wouldn’t be a good idea” for a country like the Netherlands
that has borrowing room, he said.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  pulled the plug on his
minority government this week after budget talks collapsed over
proposed pension reforms. Rutte tendered his resignation to
 Queen Beatrix  yesterday. She indicated that she’d consider his
offer and asked that the Cabinet handle current affairs in the
meantime. Rutte is seeking to build support for austerity
measures in a bid to meet European Union budget targets.  For countries that have trouble accessing financial
markets, the euro area’s rescue funds should be accessible if
needed, Debrun said when asked if  Spain  would need a bailout.  “Firewalls are there to be used if they need to be used,”
he said. “It’s not just a deterrent.”  For the EU as a whole, the IMF view is that “the current
speed of adjustment is broadly appropriate” as countries strive
to cut deficits and rein in debt levels, Debrun said. Countries
need to keep an eye out for “downside risks to growth” as they
plot their fiscal strategies.  “It is absolutely essential to get the speed right,”
Debrun said. “It would be a pity to go for fiscal overkill that
would ultimately destroy growth in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  