-- The Misguided Prosecution of John Edwards
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-04-24T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/the-misguided-prosecution-of-john-edwards.html
     April 25 (Bloomberg) -- Too many louts get away with being
one. So it was intensely satisfying to learn that the U.S.
government, in the form of the  Justice Department , was focusing
its considerable might on  John Edwards .  The former senator, vice presidential and presidential
candidate would be exposed in a court of law as a preening fraud
and disloyal husband. With a six-count  indictment  charging that
Edwards violated campaign-finance laws came the promise that
vengeance would be  Elizabeth Edwards ’s -- and ours.  But when the trial  opened on Monday  with the area around
the federal court in Greensboro,  North Carolina , resembling a
state fair (without the prize cow or butter sculptures), the
Edwards case looked more like political spectacle than political
justice. It was cathartic in June to see Edwards marched into a
federal courthouse for arraignment, a  mug shot  and
fingerprinting. It wasn’t so cathartic -- in fact, it felt like
overkill -- to see Edwards on Monday, his daughter Cate  at his
side , as the machinery of the judiciary began to turn against
him.  Yes, Edwards wove a terrible web of deception into which he
drew his staff and friends, including an elderly heiress. Even
as he pounded his chest about the “two Americas,” he really only
cared about one American as he tried to cover up his affair with
 Rielle Hunter , a campaign videographer who told him he was
“hot.” When that affair produced a child, Edwards took to the TV
studios of America to deny he was the father -- until a
paternity test showed he was.  Unlike Other Cads  For all of this, he did not lose custody of the children he
had with his wife, as most cads do. Elizabeth’s death, in 2010,
prevented that. John is the only parent they have, and one of
the sadder pictures of the trial is Cate standing beside him,
looking like his late wife. We get only one father; what’s she
to do?  The prosecutor’s case rests largely on the premise that
Edwards’s image as a devoted family man was at the center of his
candidacy. Therefore, any money he used to sustain that image is
a potential violation of laws that dictate how campaign
contributions can be spent.  One problem with this strategy is that those laws are
barely adequate to police misuse of large sums by politicians
running for office, much less politicians running around. Search
the legislative history and you won’t find Congress imagining
such perfidy. What prosecutors will try to do is show that
Edwards’s real purpose was to keep his secret from voters, not
from his wife, with money subject to disclosure and other laws.  Under any circumstances, Edwards needed money that his wife
wouldn’t notice to pay for a household for his mistress. He
turned to friends who were also contributors -- not to help his
campaign but to help him hide his affair.  Among them was Edwards’s finance chairman, Frederick Baron,
who  acknowledged in 2008  that he had helped Hunter financially.
He is now dead. Bunny Mellon, who is now 101 and donated more
than $700,000 to Edwards’s 2008 presidential campaign, is so old
that she isn’t taking the stand (her attorney is appearing for
her). If she did, she would just look foolish. Mellon’s checks
went for Hunter’s expenses, although Mellon  apparently thought 
they were going to Edwards so he could have all the $400
haircuts he wanted without ridicule.  All she asked for in return was that Edwards attend her
daughter’s funeral. Consistent with his character, he did not.  You could argue that the way Mellon sent her checks --
hidden in boxes of candy -- is evidence that she knew she was
violating the law. Good luck bringing her to account, however,
or proving that Baron gave money as a campaign contributor and
not as a friend. Meanwhile Andrew Young, the young Edwards staff
member in charge of arranging this whole financial extramarital
affair, has repeatedly lied about his role. Is a jury going to
believe him now?  Novel Legal Theory  It’s tempting for a prosecutor to try to prove the novel
theory that hush money to a mistress is a campaign expense, like
phone banks or handbills. Winning a political corruption case
can make a lawyer’s career, and once a case gets started it
tends to get a life of its own. Higher-ups may be reluctant to
stop such prosecutions for fear of being accused of political
interference.  Yet such prosecutions can hurt defendant and government
alike. Last month a judicial inquiry concluded that the 2008
trial of Senator  Ted Stevens  of  Alaska  was  driven by ambitious
prosecutors  who hid exculpatory evidence -- but the findings
came too late for Stevens, who lost his bid for re-election and
died in 2010.  Questioning the appropriateness of possibly sending John
Edwards to jail is not to say that he has suffered enough. It’s
clear, to me anyway, that he can never suffer enough. It’s just
that his crimes were so much greater than violations of
campaign-finance law.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on stopping  technology
sales  to tyrants and court hearings on  Arizona ’s  immigration
law ; Clive Crook on  conservative economics  in the age of
inequality; William Pesek on the  Reserve Bank of Australia ;
 Peter Orszag  on a post-election  budget compromise ; and Jack
Hedin on U.S.  crop insurance  subsidies.  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 