-- Hedge Fund Manager RK Capital Planning New Product in Metals
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-04-24T15:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/hedge-fund-manager-rk-capital-planning-new-product-in-metals-2-.html
RK Capital Management LLP plans to
introduce a hedge fund that will bet only on rising metals
prices, with a goal of raising as much as $1 billion.  The Red Kite Real Return Fund Ltd. will invest in
industrial and precious metals and will appeal to investors who
look at returns over six to 12 months, David Lilley, co-founder
of RK Capital Management, said in an interview in Lausanne,
 Switzerland , today. The London-based fund will start June 1 and
may close to new investors should it reach its maximum target,
he said.  “There are some positive stories out there, but it’s not a
one-way bet on all metals,” Lilley said, adding that declines
for aluminum, zinc and tin may be limited because of production
costs. “It should be a good environment for a discretionary
long-only fund.”  The London Metal Exchange Index of the six main  metals  more
than tripled in a decade as demand from  emerging markets  led by
China overwhelmed supply from mines. The gauge is up 4.3 percent
this year after a 22 percent drop in 2011.  RK Capital Management specializes in buying and selling
copper and has more than $1 billion under management. It
prospered by betting that copper would fall in 2011 as the pace
of construction in  China  slowed, investors say. Trading on the
LME rose 33 percent to $15.4 trillion of contracts last year.  Platinum, Tin  The new fund will be run by the current RK Capital
Management team and will aim to outperform the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Precious Metals Index Total Return and a similar gauge of
industrial metals. It will also target surpassing gains in
platinum, palladium and tin, Lilley said.  Industrial metals are likely to remain “range-bound” for
now as an economic recovery in the U.S. is balanced by slower
growth in China, the biggest consumer, according to Lilley. Red
Kite is positive on platinum and palladium because of rising
automotive demand amid supply constraints, Lilley said. Gold’s
outperformance may be coming to an end as the dollar strengthens
and investors reduce bullion holdings to buy equities, he said.  The company’s $400 million Red Kite Compass Fund topped
Bloomberg Markets’ ranking of midsize  hedge funds  for the first
10 months of 2011, with a return of 47 percent, according to
investors. The $200 million Red Kite Metals Fund rose 34 percent
and the $100 million Red Kite Prospect Fund surged 50 percent,
clients say.  The S&P GSCI precious-metals index is up 5.5 percent this
year after gaining 6.6 percent in 2011, an 11th annual advance.
Platinum for immediate delivery has risen 11 percent and
palladium is up 2.8 percent. Tin for three-month delivery on the
LME has gained 13 percent this year, the most among the six main
industrial metals traded on the exchange.  RK Capital Management earned a net 116.2 million pounds
($180 million) from 2006 to 2010. Lilley and co-founder Michael Farmer also trade copper on the physical market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  