-- Edwards Targeted Supporters for Mistress Cash, Aide Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-04-24T22:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/edwards-targeted-two-for-mistress-money-before-mellon-aide-says.html
Ex-presidential candidate  John Edwards , on trial for allegedly using campaign funds to hide an
affair, initially targeted a longtime friend and a successful
musician for money to support his mistress, a former aide said.  In the spring of 2007, Edwards asked his aide,  Andrew
Young , to approach his friend and ex-law partner David Kirby for
money to support Rielle Hunter, the woman with whom he was
involved in an affair, Young told a federal jury today in
Greensboro, North Carolina. Edwards told him to say the money
was a loan for a house Young and his wife were building in
 Chapel Hill , Young said.  Edwards “and Mr. Kirby had a decades-long close friendship
and he was loyal,” Young said.  Young’s testimony came on the second day of a trial over
allegations Edwards illegally used almost $1 million in
contributions from two wealthy donors to conceal his affair with
Hunter, an unemployed filmmaker he later hired as a campaign
videographer during the presidential race in 2008. Edwards, who
fathered a child with Hunter, faces a maximum five-year prison
term for each of the six counts against him.  Told the Truth  Young testified he told Kirby during that meeting in 2007
that the money was for Hunter, who began a relationship with
Edwards in February 2006. Kirby said no.  Edwards spoke to Kirby after the initial denial and told
Young to return to him again, Young testified. During the second
meeting, Kirby asked Young to sign an IOU before he would give
him $25,000. Young told prosecutors during questioning today
that he declined the offer.  “I wasn’t going to be responsible for paying Mr. Kirby
back for something that was for Mr. Edwards,” Young said,
noting that the amount was inadequate. “This was going to be a
long-term problem and Ms. Hunter had good taste.”  Young then suggested approaching fellow plaintiffs’ lawyer
 Fred Baron , whom he described as a longtime political supporter
with deep pockets. Edwards rejected the idea because Baron was a
“gossip,” Young said.  Baron later spent more than $200,000 on personal jets and
first-class accommodations for Hunter and the Youngs while
helping to hide the affair from the public, according to
prosecutors. Baron, who made millions suing companies over
workers’ exposure to asbestos-laden products, died in October
2008.  Wealthy Musician  Edwards then suggested a musician who was independently
wealthy and a good supporter, Young testified. It was Edwards’s
idea to have the musician, who wasn’t identified today in court,
put Young on the payroll and use that money for Hunter, Young
said. The idea didn’t pan out, Young said.  It was then that Young remembered a note he had gotten from
Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, a multimillionaire heiress who was
eager to see Edwards in the White House. The letter, sent by
Mellon after media reports on the price of Edwards’s haircuts,
suggested sending to her “all bills” necessary and important
for the campaign. Edwards told Young to follow up and find a way
to “work around” Mellon’s attorney, Alex Forger, Young said.  “He said he had spoken to her and she was good to go,”
Young testified of his conversation with Edwards. “He said to
say that this was for a non-campaign expense. Something that
would benefit him.”  Personal Account  Young said Mellon said she would give Edwards $1.2 million
over time and suggested writing the checks from her personal
account to an interior decorator who would then endorse them and
forward to the Youngs. The plan called for Young’s wife, Cheri,
to then endorse the checks in her maiden name and deposit them
into the couple’s bank account, Young told jurors.  “It was crazy,” Young said. “We were all scared to
death. He was a viable presidential candidate. This was a
truckload of money, much more than has ever flowed through our
accounts, and getting my wife involved.”  Young testified he asked Edwards perhaps five times about
the legality of the plan. Edwards assured him that he had spoken
to several campaign-finance experts and that it was “absolutely
legal,” Young said.  “We felt extremely uneasy about it,” Young said. “It
felt and smelled wrong but we believed he knew more about the
law than we did and we went along with it.”  Florida Hotel  To keep Hunter away from reporters in late 2007, Young and
his family took the campaign videographer to a  Florida  hotel,
the Edwards aide told jurors today.  In mid-December, Hunter, Young and his family checked into
the  Westin Diplomat  Resort and Spa in Hollywood, Florida. The
Edwards aide recalled that Hunter demanded a room upgrade at the
Florida facility.  “Rielle Hunter said she did not feel the energy was right
in the first set of rooms,” Young recalled. The party later was
given two luxury suites on the hotel’s top floor, he added. The
Westin brand is owned by  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT)   The group stayed at the Florida hotel until Christmas Eve,
when they flew to Baron’s home in Aspen,  Colorado , Young told
jurors. They left Baron’s house just before New Years and flew
to  San Diego ,  California , where they stayed at the Loews
Coronado Bay Hotel, he added. The hotel is owned by New York-
based  Loews Corp. (L)   Herb Garden  Hunter and the others stayed at the 439-room  hotel , which
features a 3,800-square-foot organic herb garden to supply its
kitchens according to its website, until Jan. 2, 2008, when they
flew back to Baron’s home in Aspen. Five days later, the party
flew to  Santa Barbara , California, where they stayed at the
 Biltmore  Four Seasons Hotel.  Nearly two weeks later, Hunter, Young and his family moved
into a $20,000-per-month rental home in Santa Barbara, Young
recalled. Baron co-signed with Young to lease the house, the
Edwards’ aide added. Hunter, Young and his family lived in the
house for the following eight months, Young testified.  Young, who published a book in 2010 detailing the affair,
is testifying for prosecutors under an agreement that granted
some immunity.  Lawyers for Edwards argued at the start of the trial
yesterday that Young is an opportunist who saw Edwards as his
“ticket to the top” and approached Mellon on his own.  Some of the more than $725,000 Mellon ultimately gave
Edwards went to build the Youngs’ $1.5 million home in Chapel
Hill, Allison Van Laningham, an attorney for Edwards, told
jurors during her opening statement.  The case is  U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of  North Carolina  (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ; John Peragine in Greensboro, North
Carolina, at  drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 