-- Tel Aviv Battles to Save Heritage of Bauhaus From Decay
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L u o n g o
-- 2012-04-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/tel-aviv-battles-to-save-heritage-of-bauhaus-from-decay.html
Tel Aviv ’s crumbling, sunbaked
smog-coated buildings make it hard at first to understand why
it’s nicknamed the White City.  Michal Minsky, a  Bauhaus Center  tour guide, compares the
city, on the Mediterranean beachfront, to ancient  Jerusalem , 45
minutes inland.  “When dust settles on stone, over the centuries, we think
it’s beautiful,” she says. “On concrete, it’s another story.”  Tel Aviv, which celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2009,
isn’t biblically blessed like Jerusalem. It has another
distinction: the world’s greatest concentration of Bauhaus
buildings, almost 4,000 structures. This architectural heritage,
born of a time when Jews fled 1930s Europe, was recognized by
UNESCO in 2003.  Bauhaus was a German architecture-and-design school founded
in 1919 by Walter Gropius. It closed in 1933 when the Nazis came
to power. Many students were Jewish and fled, creating a
building boom in Tel Aviv, making this artistically and
politically progressive architecture an integral component of
the Zionist movement.  The state of  Israel  was declared in 1948 from a Tel Aviv
building -- the Independence Hall on Rothschild Boulevard --
renovated during the 1930s in Bauhaus style.  Restoration is lacking.  Streamlined Style  “Many of the buildings we see will be quite neglected,”
Minsky says. “This is what the city could look like if we
renovated them all,” she says, showing Depression-era photos.
There are gleaming white buildings, some elegantly streamlined,
others razor-edged boxes. No flaking concrete, rebar rust,
alterations or gray schmutz.  Bauhaus, which inspired the influential International
Style, “was easy to build and had no local characteristics, and
it fit the society of immigrants who were starting a new life
here,” Minsky says.  Holy Land Bauhaus differs from that of its German homeland.
Window openings are smaller, blocking sunlight, and balconies
expanded.  “Balconies represent the free atmosphere that exists in
Tel Aviv,” a liberal, largely secular city, Minsky says. They
allowed people in a building to socialize with those in the
street, a cultural change for refugees.  Porch Dining  “Jews were afraid to be seen at times from the street, and
the notion of dining on the porch would have been unheard of in
 Europe ,” with its pogroms and Nazi attacks. Other Tel Aviv
touches are ventilation strips on balconies and shade edgings.  Being a Jewish city is written into urban design in a
manner certainly not found in  Germany . Unique to Israel and not
a Bauhaus element so much as local planning, traffic circles are
often six-point intersections, forming Stars of David, though
these proved circulation nightmares and were altered over time.  After the tour, I meet Dr. Micha Gross, bespectacled, quiet
yet excitedly intellectual, in the Bauhaus Center on Dizengoff
Street. He and his wife Schlomit co-founded the bookstore, mini-
museum and lecture center in 2000, along with Asher Ben-Shmuel.
A major role is teaching Bauhaus’s significance, says Gross.  “We are the holy city of Modernism, but we have to educate
and show our public it’s worthwhile to keep it,” he says.
Between 80 percent and 90 percent of the original Bauhaus
buildings remain.  Gross, though, isn’t a purist and regards Tel Aviv as a
living organism.  Hollywood Preservation  “You cannot preserve a whole city after all,” he says.
“Then it would be Hollywood.”  Yet preserving as much as possible is the city’s goal, says
Jeremie Hoffmann, director of Tel Aviv’s Municipal Conservation
Department.  “Seeing historic architecture as a public issue was not
part of the law until recently,” he says, adding that a 2008
ruling declared, “people are obliged to conserve their
houses.”  Until that point, he says, the laws were almost against
conservation. Locals fought preservation, claiming billions of
shekels in property value would be lost.  At the end of 2011, however, Tel Aviv passed a new law,
providing money for preservation: 30,000 shekels ($7,994) per
apartment unit, averaging 300,000 shekels per building.  “Cash money, not a loan,” Hoffmann says. “We are trying
to prove there is public interest, that people are not losing
money by that law but the opposite. Homes for conservation
became more expensive.”  Property Prices  They increase 5 percent in value over non-historical
properties, a point now made in real-estate advertising.  There’s still a long way to go.  “To see the critical mass you have to renovate all the
city to feel it,” says Hoffmann. “It is still far from where
we would like to get.”  Both he and Gross point out that conservation is difficult
when a city is full of people, not unoccupied like many
historical locations. Declaring Tel Aviv a World Heritage Site
was a challenge for  UNESCO .  “The issue of historical urban landscape is new for them,
Hoffmann says. “They usually deal with isolated areas,
buildings, ruins, not cities that are modern and alive.”  He’s excited about returning central Tel Aviv to its 1930s
look, “when Bauhaus represents the spirit of Zionism because of
the creation of a new society.”  Star Circle  Many forms of this “ideal city” have been lost,
particularly its heart, Dizengoff Circle, one of the six-pointed
traffic intersections. In the 1980s, a circulation redesign
separated cars from pedestrians and obliterated the vista.  Talked about for decades, Hoffmann says the circle finally
will be restored.  “It might be pretentious to say, but it’s the only Bauhaus
square in the world,” he says. Yet both of us then wonder if
such squares exist in Eritrea’s Asmara, another planned Bauhaus
city, or  Miami Beach , Tel Aviv’s U.S. cognate, also a palm-
fronded beachfront city with both Bauhaus and Art Deco elements.  Dizengoff Circle is my favorite part of Tel Aviv. It’s also
where the city’s secular nature collides with a certain
religiosity. Its most glorious architectural feature is the  
Cinema Hotel , formerly the Esther Cinema, with its curvaceous
insides strewn with reminders of past usage including 1930s
movie cameras.  Madonna Visits  A modern queen of song and screen, who goes by the name
Esther in Israel, but is best known as Madonna, is sometimes
found nearby at the Kabbalah Center for Jewish mysticism. Among
the city’s largest Bauhaus structures, the building’s facade
resembles an ocean liner.  The circle’s biggest religious contrast emerges on Friday
before Sabbath sundown as men in black with hats and long beards
try to tie up beachgoers with leather straps, in service to God.  That’s how I meet redheaded Tzvi Kilov, originally from
Atlanta and studying at the Chabad Lubavitch Yeshiva a few
blocks away. He’s offering prayer straps, called Tefellin, to
passersby.  Tel Aviv’s architecture doesn’t impress him.  “I’ve heard of Bauhaus, mostly in guidebooks, but I don’t
think anything about it,” Kilov says, looking at the circle’s
mix of renovated and decrepit buildings.  I had better luck at a restored Shimshon Hagibor Street
apartment complex. There I meet architecturally knowledgeable
newlyweds Naama and Ohad Toledano, sunning on their balcony.  “It’s not really a Bauhaus, it’s a Mendelsohn,” says
Naama. The 1937 building was designed by Erich Mendelsohn who
worked with streamlined elements, she says. Preservation poses
challenges but they love the historic center, they say.  “Basically, a house is a home, but here, you feel like you
are living in a piece of history,” says Ohad.  Information: Tel Aviv Tourism,  http://www.visit-tlv.com .
Bauhaus Center,  http://www.bauhaus-center.com .  (Michael Luongo writes on travel for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Farah Nayeri on  design
awards ; Ryan Sutton on  New York dining .  To contact the writer on this story:
Michael Luongo at  mtluongo@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 