-- El Nino May Cool U.S. This Summer, Cutting Electric Need
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-04-24T17:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/el-nino-may-cool-u-s-this-summer-cutting-electric-need.html
The possibility of an El Nino, a
warming of the mid-Pacific Ocean, has forecasters predicting
lower temperatures across the U.S. this summer, which may mean
less electricity will be needed to run air conditioners.  May will probably be warmer than normal, and then “we are
expecting a much different type of pattern” than last year,
said  Todd Crawford , chief meteorologist at Weather Services
International in Andover,  Massachusetts .  Commodities traders watch temperature outlooks to gauge
energy use and demand. About 51 percent of U.S. households use
natural gas for heating, according to the Energy Department,
while demand from electricity generators peaks in the summer
months to meet air conditioning needs.  June through August 2011 was the second-warmest summer on
record in the contiguous U.S., with an average temperature of
74.5 degrees Fahrenheit (23.6 Celsius), 2.4 degrees above the
1901-2000 average, according to the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration . The hottest summer in records going
back to 1895 was 1936, with an average temperature of 74.6.  “The combination of an emerging El Nino event,
expectations for relatively muted levels of atmospheric blocking
and a cooler North Atlantic all suggest a milder summer,” he
said.  Texas Cooldown  Crawford said the South, especially  Texas , will be notably
cooler than last year. Texas had the hottest summer of any U.S.
state in 2011, with an average temperature of 86.9 degrees,
according to NOAA. The previous high was in  Oklahoma  in 1934,
with an average temperature of 86.5 degrees.  Last year, a La Nina ocean cooling pattern held sway in the
central Pacific, contributing to warmer and drier weather across
the U.S. South. La Nina ended this month, according to a
statement today by the  Australian Bureau of Meteorology .  Some computer models suggest an El Nino may replace the
current neutral conditions in the Pacific and that may cause the
summer to be cooler, said  Matt Rogers , president of the
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Rogers said there is a 40 percent chance that the eastern
U.S. will be about 1 degree above normal from June to August and
a 35 percent chance it will be 2 to 3 degrees cooler.  Crawford said if the El Nino does develop, the hottest part
of the summer will be its start, with cooler weather arriving as
the season wears on.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  