-- Elpida Bankruptcy Hits Hynix, Micron: Chart of the Day
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-04-25T12:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/elpida-bankruptcy-hits-rivals-hynix-micron-chart-of-the-day.html
(Corrects location of Hynix in second paragraph.)  Elpida Memory Inc.’s bankruptcy is
fueling concern the company could be a burden to an acquirer,
with shares of SK Hynix Inc. and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) 
declining on takeover speculation.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the price of dynamic random
access memory chips and shares of DRAM producers Hynix, Micron
and Samsung Electronics Co. since Feb. 27, when Tokyo-based
Elpida’s filing sparked speculation the industry might lose 12
percent of its capacity. The three rivals all rallied in the
first few days, then differences emerged. Hynix, based in
Icheon,  South Korea , has plunged 11 percent starting from March
30, after saying it submitted an acquisition bid. Micron
declined 21 percent in New York trading through April 23.  By comparison, Samsung has gained 0.2 percent since Hynix’s
plan was revealed and about 9.6 percent since the initial
bankruptcy filing. The world’s biggest DRAM producer isn’t
interested in a takeover, spokeswoman Nam Ki Yung said by phone
from  Seoul . DRAM chips are the most common ones used in personal
computers.  Investors aren’t keen on a full or partial takeover by
Hynix or Micron because “they would need funds to buy Elpida’s
assets, and even after an acquisition, they would need a lot of
money to keep operations going,” said Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. “Elpida was
already in the red, and current DRAM prices aren’t enough to
make it profitable.”  Private-equity firm TPG Capital also plans to bid for
Elpida, a person familiar with the matter said April 6. Boise,
Idaho-based Micron may also try to buy all or some assets,
Japanese media including the Nikkei newspaper have reported.
Spokesmen for TPG and Micron declined to comment on possible
bids.  An investor will be chosen as part of Elpida’s
restructuring plan in early May, a Toshiba Corp. executive, who
asked not to be identified, said March 30. Toshiba held initial
talks with SK Hynix about a joint bid but has decided not to
proceed, Reuters reported April 23. The most-attractive assets
may be the company’s technology and the unit that makes DRAM
chips for mobile devices, including those sold by Apple Inc.,
according to analysts including Mitsuo Shimizu at Cosmo
Securities Co. in Tokyo and Amir Anvarzadeh, a manager for Asian
equity sales at BGC Partners Singapore Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  