-- Emirates Says India Carriers Unappealing Without Greater Control
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-04-24T15:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/emirates-says-india-carriers-unappealing-without-greater-control.html
Dubai-based Emirates, the world’s
largest airline by international traffic, won’t invest in Indian
carriers unless the government there gives outside investors
ultimate control, President  Tim Clark  said in an interview.  The imminent removal of a ban on foreign stakes won’t in
itself be enough to persuade Emirates to bid given the limited
influence on offer versus the poor financial records of Indian
airlines and the prices likely to be demanded, Clark said today.  “Part of the deal would be a requirement to do certain
things,” Clark said. “If we put money into an Indian carrier and
then said we wanted to take down the  labor force  by 50 percent
would they let us do it? No. If we wanted to drop airports that
were uneconomic, would they let us? Probably not.”  India  may delay a decision to allow foreign airlines to buy
49 percent of local operators until the parliamentary session
ends on May 22, a civil aviation ministry official said April
20. Emirates, which will next month report a decline in annual
earnings, according to Clark, has avoided major airline holdings
since selling a stake in SriLankan Airlines back to the island’s
government in 2010 following a failed a 10-year investment.  “Frankly it’s not something we’d be prepared to do at this
stage,” Clark said of an Indian investment, adding that his
company isn’t in talks about a stake in New Delhi-based  SpiceJet
Ltd. (SJET) , the country’s only listed discount airline, as reported
last week by CNBC TV-18, which cited sources it didn’t identify.  A380 Block  There’s also little prospect of Emirates being allowed to
serve India with the  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A380 superjumbo, given that the
government “has its hands full trying to keep its own aviation
sector afloat,” Clark said, adding that he’s still hopeful of
achieving an increase on the 54,000 weekly seats it flies there.  Earnings in the year ended March 31 were hurt by high fuel
costs and currency volatility involving the euro, pound and
rupee, which has damaged yields or average fares, Clark said.  That’s after net income rose 43 percent to a record 5.93
billion dirhams ($1.6 billion) in fiscal 2011 as the company
deployed the world’s biggest fleet of superjumbos to establish
Dubai as a global travel hub and strip traffic from  Air France-
KLM Group (AF) , Deutsche Lufthansa AG and British Airways.  “You’ll see our profits are down,” he said. “We’ve got to
start earning our living, working for our keep, because in the
old days it was easy. Now it’s hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Barcelona at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  