-- Tencent, Sohu, Baidu Unit to Form Online Video Alliance
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-04-24T19:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/tencent-sohu-baidu-unit-to-form-online-video-alliance.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  Sohu.com
Inc. (SOHU)  and  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ’s iQiyi.com unit said they will form an
alliance to offer online video services in China, a month after
industry leader Youku Inc. agreed to buy a rival to cut costs.  The agreement between Tencent, Sohu and iQiyi will cover
collaboration on content licensing and broadcasts, according to
a joint statement e-mailed by the companies yesterday. The
partnership will help restore “rational pricing” for video
content, it said.  Youku, China’s most-popular online video website, last
month agreed to buy  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  to add online users and
help boost pricing power over purchase of content. The deal,
valued at $1 billion at the time, would combine two companies
that together accounted for more than a third of  China ’s Web
video advertising revenue in the fourth quarter, according to
data from Analysys International.  Sohu accounted for 13.3 percent of China’s online video
advertising revenue in the fourth quarter, behind Youku’s 21.8
percent and Tudou’s 13.7 percent, according to Analysys. iQiyi,
a venture between Baidu and Providence Equity Partners, ranked
fourth with a market share of 6.9 percent, according to the
Beijing-based researcher.  Tencent,  China’s biggest Internet company  by market value,
rose 0.9 percent to HK$238.80 at the close in Hong Kong, valuing
the Shenzhen-based company at HK$440 billion ($56.7 billion).
Baidu, owner of China’s most-popular search-engine, and Sohu are
both based in Beijing, while their stock are traded in New York.  The deal with Tudou will generate as much as $60 million in
cost savings annually, Youku Senior Vice-President Michael Xu
said at the time. Both Youku and Tudou are unprofitable as the
costs of licensing video content soared for Chinese Internet
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  