-- Merck KGaA to Close Merck Serono Site in Geneva, Cut Jobs
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-04-24T11:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/merck-kgaa-to-close-merck-serono-site-in-geneva-cut-jobs.html
Merck KGaA (MRK)  plans to close the
Geneva headquarters of its Serono unit, five years after buying
 Europe ’s biggest biotechnology company for about $13.3 billion
to expand a drug business that has since faced development and
regulatory setbacks.  Merck plans to transfer 750 positions to other locations,
the Darmstadt, Germany-based company said in a statement today.
Merck expects to cut 500 jobs in Geneva as well as 80 positions
across three manufacturing sites in  Switzerland , according to
the statement.  The cuts are part of a restructuring program that Merck
announced in February. The drug-development unit Merck Serono
has had two headquarters and two centers for research and
development since the acquisition, and restructuring was needed
to eliminate redundancies, Stefan Oschmann, the head of unit,
said in a telephone interview today.  “This decision is intended to give us a footprint that is
lean and agile and competitive,” Oschmann said. “We are one of
the last of the pharmaceutical companies to restructure.”  The number of jobs that may be eliminated is at the upper
end of what was expected, Elmar Kraus, an analyst with DZ Bank
AG, said in a note to investors today.  “We expect more announcements on efficiency measures at
the capital markets day on May 15 and expect a positive share
price reaction,” he said. Kraus recommends buying the shares.  Merck rose 0.3 percent to 82.64 euros at 1:36 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . The stock has gained 23 percent in the last year.  Relocations  The relocations and reductions will begin in the second
half of this year and will be completed in the first half of
2013, pending a consultation process with employees.  Workers have until May 16 to suggest ways to avoid the
dismissals or limit their number, a spokeswoman said in an e-
mailed statement. The company will review the suggestions and
probably reach a final decision in early June, she said.  If carried out fully, the cuts could yield 72.5 million
euros ($95.5 million) in savings, assuming an average cost per
employee of 125,000 euros, Edward J. Dulac III, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital , wrote in a note to investors today.  Merck will keep 1,000 employees in Switzerland, mainly in
biotech manufacturing, Oschmann said. The company has begun
making cancer drug Erbitux at its newer manufacturing plant in
Corsier-sur-Vevey where it also makes multiple sclerosis
treatment Rebif, which was developed by Serono, he said.  Lake Geneva  Serono completed construction of its 725,000-square-foot
Geneva headquarters around the time of the takeover at a cost of
$1.25 billion, according to  Architectural Record . The building,
designed by architect Helmut Jahn, sits on a 6.5-acre site
overlooking Lake Geneva, and features an atrium with a 10,800-
square-foot glass-and-steel roof that tilts open to cool the
space in warm weather, according to the publication. Merck plans
to sell the building, Oschmann said today.  Rebif, Merck’s top-selling drug, faces increased
competition from newer therapies. In June, the company dropped
development of the multiple sclerosis pill cladribine, which had
been its most promising experimental medicine. European
regulators in 2009 rejected Erbitux for use in lung tumors.  Headquarters jobs will be moved to Darmstadt, while
research positions will be transferred to Darmstadt, Boston and
Beijing, the company said today. Merck will continue to make
biotech drugs at Swiss factories in Aubonne and Corsier-sur-
Vevey, in the canton of Vaud, the company said.  Savings Potential  “Although gross savings potential is probably twice the
amount of our estimated net savings of 360 million euros, we
believe management will look to reinvest behind more stable,
predictable businesses which could bolster the presence of the
company’s Millipore division,” Dulac wrote.  Merck’s Millipore division makes laboratory equipment and
water purification systems used in drug research and
development. The company is also the world’s biggest maker of
 liquid crystals , which are found in flat screen televisions and
electronic device displays.  Merck Chief Executive Officer Karl-Ludwig Kley told
investors at the company’s annual general meeting that he was
focused on restructuring the company over the next two years
before making any major acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  