-- Merkel Pushes Back Against Hollande Call to End Austerity Drive
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-04-24T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/merkel-pushes-back-against-hollande-s-call-to-end-austerity.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said balanced budgets are the best answer to the debt crisis,
rebuffing French Socialist presidential candidate  Francois Hollande ’s campaign pledge to reverse Europe’s austerity drive.  As Europe’s two largest economies head toward potential
conflict over quashing the crisis, Merkel and her ruling party
stood firm on German-led remedies, including the debt-cutting
fiscal pact signed last month by all 17 euro-area leaders.  “If Mr. Hollande were to say that he wants to increase
 government spending  and save less, he’ll lose the confidence of
the financial markets,”  Peter Altmaier , the parliamentary whip
of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , said in an interview in Berlin
yesterday. “We will stick to our fundamental principles because
there’s really no alternative.”  Germany , the largest country contributor to euro-area
bailouts, is facing growing resistance from traditional allies
to its anti-crisis prescriptions as a $1 trillion firewall and
unlimited European Central Bank loans to the region’s lenders
fail to stop the turmoil from threatening Spain and  Italy .  Hollande, who leads President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in polls for
France’s runoff election on May 6, said two days ago that budget
austerity across Europe is “bringing desperation to people”
and that he’ll refocus the economy on growth if he wins.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  urged politicians yesterday
to tackle the country’s economic woes after his coalition
collapsed over proposed budget cuts, raising investor concern
about his country’s ability to retain its AAA credit rating. A
proposal on austerity measures will be sent to parliament today.  European ‘Credibility’  Merkel, who faces two German state elections in May and a
national election in the fall of 2013, joined with Sarkozy to
craft the euro area’s crisis response over the past year and
backed him for re-election. She insisted on the need for
austerity yesterday, saying  Europe ’s “credibility” depends on
reducing deficits and debt.  “We’re not saying that saving solves all problems,” she
told a conference in Berlin. Still, “you can’t spend more than
you take in. You can’t live your whole life this way. Everybody
knows this.”  Dutch bonds rose for the first time in four days yesterday,
a day after the extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-
year Dutch debt instead of similar-maturity German bunds soared
to the most since March 2009. The euro rose 0.4 percent to
$1.3204 at 7:09 p.m. Berlin time and the Stoxx Europe 600 index
gained 1 percent to 254.37.  May Elections  Merkel may cede ground to austerity critics if the  Social
Democrats , the main German opposition party, increase their
support in May’s state elections as polls suggest, said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  If Hollande becomes French president and Merkel switches
allies to govern with the Social Democrats after the German
election in 2013, that “may further help to make views
converge,” he said in an e-mail. “The last bastion of
austerity could remain the Bundesbank.”  Hollande, at a campaign stop in Brittany, renewed his
criticism of German-led austerity and said the ECB needs to do
more to support Europe’s growth. On  France ’s TF1 television
station last night, he said he wants a different kind of Europe.  “Merkel has led Europe with Sarkozy and we can measure the
results,” he said. “If I am elected president, there will be a
change in the focus of Europe’s construction. Enough free market,
limitless competition, enough austerity. I want a serious budget.
I want to restore public accounts, which have worsened in the
past five years. Austerity for life? No. A rigorous budget? Yes.
I will renegotiate the treaty, Merkel knows it.”  ‘Another Europe’  Hollande has said he’ll seek to add growth and investment
measures to the fiscal treaty signed by Merkel, Sarkozy and 23
other EU leaders on March 2.  If he’s elected, his first visit will be to meet Merkel, so
he can bring her “French people’s vote for another Europe,”
Hollande said last night.  Merkel “is pretty resistant to pressure,” Altmaier said.
France’s presidential vote and the Dutch government’s collapse
don’t change the fact that “there’s no money in Europe, only
deficits everywhere you look. Knowing the chancellor, she will
await the outcome in France and then we’ll try to come to an
understanding with the new government, whoever leads it.”  Hollande said the absence of economic growth prospects
explained the record score for National Front leader Marine Le Pen in the April 22 first round of the French vote.  Anti-Austerity Front  Le Pen, who has called for France to leave the euro area
and criticizes the close ties between Sarkozy and Merkel, won
17.9 percent, or 6.4 million votes, the highest tally for the
National Front created by her father Jean-Marie Le Pen in 1972.
Hollande got 28.6 percent and Sarkozy 27.2 percent.  Europe’s front against austerity has expanded in recent
weeks after  Spain  struggled to meet EU-imposed deficit targets,
election campaigns in  Greece  faced anti-austerity rumblings and
the revolt against extra spending cuts in the Netherlands, a
traditional German ally, pushed Rutte’s coalition toward an
early breakup. The Netherlands is one of four remaining AAA
states in the euro area.  For all the turbulence, “nothing has happened in recent
weeks that would raise questions” about the need for area
countries to overhaul their economies and cut debt, German
Deputy Finance Minister Hartmut Koschyk said in an interview.  No financial backstop is big enough to arrest the debt
crisis and hold down borrowing costs on its own, he said. “It
doesn’t matter,” he said yesterday. “It is no substitute for
structural reforms” because “the readiness of markets to
tolerate out-of-control public debt has vanished.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  