-- Web Users Deserve Local TV Access Without Cable: Diller
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-24T19:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/let-web-users-watch-tv-online-diller-asks-u-s-senate.html
IAC/Interactive Corp. (IACI)  Chairman
 Barry Diller , who’s distributing television channels online,
urged U.S. legislators to rewrite communications laws to reflect
blurring lines between Internet, cable and broadcast providers.  “You’ve got to rewrite the communications act” of 1996,
Diller, whose company has invested in a service that lets users
watch broadcast TV on mobile devices, said at a  hearing  today
before the Senate Commerce Committee. “It’s overdue given the
Internet.”  Diller was among witnesses called to a hearing to examine
how new Internet-driven technology is changing television
viewing. Also asked to appear were executives from  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , whose Xbox gaming platform can be used to watch movies
and TV shows, and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which offers online video for
purchase or rent.  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat who is chairman
of the committee, told reporters after the hearing that the
rapidly evolving communications landscape “will require
legislation.” No telecommunications update will pass this year,
Rockefeller said.  “It’s not a simple business,” in part because many
devices and networks are involved, Rockefeller said. “It raises
a lot of questions which we’re not able to legislatively answer
at this point.”  ‘Escalating Bills’  Video delivered online is a “disruptive technology,”
Rockefeller said during the hearing.  “We’re paying for so many channels, though we usually only
watch a few,” Rockefeller said. “So I want to know if the
emergence of online video will do more than improve content and
expand choice.  ‘‘I want to know if it’s going to bring a halt to, or at
least a slowdown, to escalating bills’’ for cable and satellite
services, he said.  Diller has invested in closely held Aereo Inc., a service
based in  Long Island City , New York, that lets users access
broadcast TV on mobile devices for $12 a month. The service is
delivered via quarter-inch antennas placed in data centers. The
technology uses existing broadcasting signals, letting consumers
bypass cable or satellite providers.  Walt Disney Co.’s ABC and other networks said in two
complaints filed March 1 in federal court in Manhattan that
Aereo has no right to any of the programs that it offers through
its subscription-only  Internet service . Aereo has said its
service is lawful and called the lawsuits ‘‘meritless.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  