-- MetLife Says Castro-Wright Quits Board Amid Wal-Mart Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-04-24T19:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/metlife-says-castro-wright-quits-board-amid-wal-mart-bribe-case.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  said board member
Eduardo Castro-Wright has resigned after the New York Times
reported that the  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  unit he ran in  Mexico 
paid bribes to government officials.  “Recent events that will require my immediate and personal
attention” led to the departure, Castro-Wright said in a letter
released by the New York-based insurer in a regulatory filing
today.  Castro-Wright, 57, a member of MetLife’s Governance and
Corporate Responsibility Committee, joined the board in March
2008 and wasn’t up for re-election until 2014. He was “the
driving force behind years of bribery” in Mexico to speed the
opening of stores there before Wal-Mart named him vice chairman
in 2008, the Times reported April 21, citing former executives.  “It is my expectation that these outside distractions will
be resolved favorably within the next several months,” he said
in the letter to MetLife Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Steven Kandarian . “In the interim, however, they would not
allow me to perform my duties at the highest levels that both
the board and I demand. Accordingly, I now must focus my energy
in spending personal time with my family and in protecting my
good name.”  MetLife’s governance committee “oversees the management
and mitigation of risks related to failure to comply with
required or appropriate corporate governance standards,” the
insurer said last month in a proxy statement. Castro-Wright, who
also served on the compensation and investment committees, was
paid $259,124 for his work at the insurer last year, including
$145,000 in cash and $112,502 in stock awards, the filing shows.  ‘Leadership Roles’  MetLife cited Castro-Wright’s experiences outside the
country when he was appointed to the board.  “His leadership roles at several well-known brands in the
U.S., as well as in the  Latin America  and Asia-Pacific regions,
will undoubtedly benefit MetLife as we continue to grow our
businesses outside of the U.S.,” Robert Henrikson, the
insurer’s CEO at the time, said in a statement announcing
Castro-Wright’s selection.  Henrikson expanded MetLife in Latin America and  Asia  with
the 2010 purchase of American Life Insurance Co. for about $16
billion.  Wal-Mart said the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer is
taking steps to ensure compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and has met with the  U.S. Department of Justice 
and Securities and Exchange Commission to discuss the case.  Jeff Gearhart, general counsel and corporate secretary,
told employees in a memo that the alleged violations “occurred
more than six years ago” and aren’t “a reflection of who we
are or what we stand for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  