-- EU: Financial Tax Plan Favors Buy-and-Hold Pension Funds
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-04-24T18:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/eu-financial-tax-plan-favors-buy-and-hold-pension-funds.html
The European Union’s proposal for a
financial-transaction tax will favor pension funds that buy and
hold securities as part of a conservative long-term strategy,
according to a technical paper sent to member nations today.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, has
opposed exempting pension funds from the wide-ranging tax it
wants to impose on the trading of stocks, bonds, derivatives and
other financial contracts. The paper offers details on how the
tax would affect pension funds, repurchase-agreement markets and
other areas where opponents have flagged potential dangers.  The proposed transaction tax probably would affect actively
managed funds more than those that buy and hold securities, the
paper says. It cites research that actively managed funds earn
lower returns for their investors and that derivatives can harm
pension portfolios, while saying that affecting market behavior
is a “secondary” goal rather than the proposal’s objective.  “Asking for an exemption or special treatment under the
FTT directive for pension funds would undermine the level
playing field between various products available for savings and
requirement,” according to the technical paper, provided to
reporters in Brussels.  The commission continues to push for the broad tax it
proposed last fall. Many countries in the 27-nation bloc have
opposed the initiative outright or offered slimmed-down plans
that would tax only shares and bonds, not derivatives.  Less-Ambitious Proposal  A less-ambitious proposal that was adopted quickly could
win backing as part of a long-term strategy to put a tax in
place, an EU official, who requested anonymity because talks are
ongoing, told reporters in Brussels today. Such a lowest-common-
denominator approach should augment, not replace, efforts to
install a more comprehensive tax, the official said.  The commission says its version of the tax could raise 57
billion euros ($75 billion) annually, while also discouraging
transactions like high-frequency trading that it considers more
risky for the financial system.  The tax would depress long-term economic growth by 0.28
percent and increase the cost of capital by seven basis points,
according to today’s technical paper. This compares with the
commission’s previous estimate of a 0.53 percent hit to growth.  The commission proposal wouldn’t affect consumer
transactions and outright lending and borrowing. Stock, bond,
derivatives and repurchase-agreement markets would be covered.  The information paper says that 95 percent of European
companies have access to “alternative sources of finance that
are not subject to the tax” like bank loans and venture capital
funds. The EU official said the commission is not trying to
penalize  capital markets  or increase reliance on banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 