-- EU Salutes Hungary’s Steps on Central Bank, to Weigh Aid Plea
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-24T16:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/eu-salutes-hungary-s-steps-on-central-bank-to-weigh-aid-plea.html
The European Commission saluted
Hungary’s planned overhaul of a central bank law, potentially
moving closer to opening bailout talks with the economically
troubled country.  The commission is “satisfied” with revisions to a law
that threatened the central bank’s independence, spokesman
Cezary Lewanowicz said after commission President  Jose Barroso 
met Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  in Brussels today.  The commission’s chief “is satisfied with this personal
political commitment of Prime Minister Orban,” Lewanowicz said.
The commission, the European Union’s executive arm, will discuss
the possible start of aid talks tomorrow.  Orban’s move to limit the autonomy of the central bank
loomed as the biggest obstacle to the start of negotiations over
European and International Monetary Fund financial aid requested
by Hungary last November when the forint plunged to an all-time
low and the country’s credit grade was cut to junk.  The currency rose 1.1 percent to 296.39 per euro at 4:33
p.m. in Budapest after falling to a three-month low yesterday.
The currency dropped 3.4 percent since rising to a five-month
high on Feb. 21 as investor faith wanes in Orban’s willingness
to cut a deal with the EU.  The currency plunged 15 percent in the second half of last
year, the most in the world, before paring losses after the
Cabinet pledged Jan. 5 to reach a quick deal on an IMF loan.  ‘Serious Concerns’  Orban left Brussels with the sense that bailout talks were
drawing closer.  “The obstacles to starting talks with the IMF have
essentially been surmounted,” Orban told reporters. The start
of talks “is a lot closer than most people think.”  Hungary ’s government submitted amendments to the central-
bank law on April 17, heeding some of the commission’s concerns
while ignoring a European Central Bank opinion on what the
government needs to do to ensure monetary-policy independence.
The ECB on April 5 said “serious concerns” remained about the
law.  The government agreed to scrap an option to demote the
central bank president if the monetary authority is combined
with the financial regulator. The amendments don’t address the
EU’s concern for a 75 percent cut in the Magyar Nemzeti Bank
president’s salary or ECB objections to the planned enlargement
of the  rate-setting  Monetary Council.  Outstanding Issues  Barroso “welcomed” Orban’s pledges for “the prompt and
full implementation” of the revisions to the central bank law,
the commission said in an e-mailed statement today. Barroso also
acknowledged Orban’s commitments on the other outstanding issues
of the judiciary overhaul, the data protection authority and the
retirement age of judges, according to the statement.  The two politicians discussed Hungary’s request for
financial assistance, it said. Orban has striven to get the EU
to treat disputes over the central bank and justice system
separately from the aid negotiations.  “Disputes within the EU need to be separated from
financing packages,” he said. “Linking the two may be
justified in peace time, but only makes things more difficult in
hard times.”  The government also submitted amendments to parliament on
the judiciary, reducing the power of the new head of the court
system.  On the data-protection authority, parliament, where Orban’s
lawmakers have a two-thirds majority, has approved changes
limiting the prime minister’s influence over the firing of the
independent commissioner. The change failed to address EU
objections over the removal of the country’s data-protection
commissioner last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Brussels at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  