-- EU Says Carbon Auctions Review Won’t Reduce Amount of Permits
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-04-24T12:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/eu-says-carbon-auctions-review-won-t-reduce-amount-of-permits.html
The planned review of European
Union’s carbon-permit auctioning regulation would change the
timing of sales, while keeping intact the amount of allowances
to be sold in the next trading period from 2013, the EU said.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  announced last
week that the bloc’s regulatory arm plans to propose a revision
of the rules on auctioning carbon permits to be enacted before
the end of this year. The measure would help curb an oversupply
of allowances and could bolster prices by delaying sales of some
permits to companies in the EU emissions trading system.  “This short-term measure is an option that does not affect
the total amount of allowances being auctioned in 2013 to 2020,
but rather addresses the time when these allowances are
auctioned,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the
European Commission, said by e-mail today.  The oversupply of carbon allowances, stemming from a
recession that cut into industrial output, drove prices in the
world’s biggest greenhouse-gas market to a record low earlier
this month. The EU is moving toward auctioning allowances in the
next phase of the emissions trading system, or ETS, after giving
most of them to companies for free since 2005.  The emissions caps that the ETS imposes on more than 12,000
facilities were set before the debt crisis and economic slump.
The system will be oversupplied by permits and offset credits
covering about 1.1 billion tons of CO2 by 2012, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. This surplus may be transferred
into the next trading phase.  “Good Housekeeping”  Under the current EU rules, the amount of allowances to be
auctioned to companies is bigger at the beginning of the next
trading period of the ETS, known as Phase 3, and this pattern
that may need a change, according to Hedegaard.  Given the economic situation and the need for the market to
absorb a “large amount” of auctioned allowances, a review of
the auctioning profile is a measure of “good housekeeping,”
Valero-Ladron said today.  “It simply does not make sense to auction so many
allowances in the early years of Phase 3 and relatively fewer
allowances at the end of Phase 3, when our economy and the
carbon price will have recovered,” he said.  The commission is first planning to bring forward by a year
an annual report on the ETS that the bloc’s law requires to be
presented in 2013, according to Hedegaard. It will be a “golden
opportunity” to look into the auctioning regulation, she said
last week.  The planned changes to the auctioning rules would be
subject to the so-called comitology procedure, in which a
measure proposed by the commission needs qualified-majority
support from representatives of national governments to pass.
The process, which also involves scrutiny by the European
Parliament and ministers, typically takes about five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  