-- Europe Stocks Rebound From Three-Month Low; Nordea Gains
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-04-24T16:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/europe-stock-futures-gain-teliasonera-novartis-may-move.html
European stocks  rebounded from a
three-month low as earnings from  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  to  Kone Oyj (KNEBV) 
topped analyst estimates and sales of new homes in the U.S.
exceeded forecasts.  Nordea, the Nordic region’s biggest lender, rose 3.8
percent and Kone, a Finnish maker of elevators and escalators,
surged 8.2 percent.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  rallied 6.6 percent after
saying it will receive 22 billion kronor ($3.3 billion) in
dividends and proceeds from the sale of a stake in OAO MegaFon.
Michelin & Cie. climbed 6.1 percent on increased revenue.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 1 percent to
254.37 in London. The measure has advanced 4 percent this year
as the  European Central Bank  disbursed 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) to the region’s lenders to spur the availability of
credit and boost the economy.  “Equities are stronger than in the fall, as central banks
have moved to support the market with liquidity and removing the
structural risks to banks, so markets should weather the recent
turmoil better than last year,” said  Hans Peterson , the chief
investment officer of SEB Private Bank in Stockholm. “Investors
are concerned about growth prospects, which may turn into a drag
on the market, but that’s not the case yet.”  National benchmark indexes gained in all of the 18 western
European markets, except Greece. France’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  rose 2.3
percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased 0.8 percent and Germany’s
DAX Index added 1 percent.  Yesterday’s Drop  The Stoxx 600 fell 2.3 percent yesterday to the lowest
since Jan. 16 as reports showed that manufacturing contracted in
the euro area and China and the Dutch Cabinet resigned after
struggling to clinch an austerity deal. The gauge has lost 3.4
percent  in April  amid renewed concern that the euro-region debt
crisis is yet to be contained.  The backlash against austerity in Europe has expanded,
generating fresh doubts about the German-driven strategy for
getting to grips with the two-year-old debt crisis. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of his re-
election bid on April 22 and Greece’s politicians are facing
anti-austerity rumblings.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  won’t budge from her
insistence on budget austerity in  Europe  as unavoidable to
resolving the debt crisis, a senior lawmaker in her party said.  ‘Deficits Everywhere’  “The chancellor is pretty resistant to pressure,”  Peter Altmaier , the chief whip of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union ,
said in an interview today in Berlin. France’s presidential vote
and the Dutch government’s fall don’t change the fact “there’s
no money in Europe, only deficits everywhere you look.”  Sales of  new U.S. homes  were stronger than projected in
March, indicating cheaper borrowing costs are helping stabilize
the real estate market. Purchases ran at a 328,000 annual rate,
a decline of 7.1 percent from a revised 353,000 pace in February
that was faster than first projected, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . Economists forecast a
March rate of 319,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Other data showed manufacturing in the region covered by
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond grew more than forecast
this month and U.S.  consumer confidence  was little changed.  Nordea Bank climbed 3.8 percent to 56.60 kronor after
saying first-quarter profit rose 4.5 percent as loan losses
receded and it made more money from its lending business. Net
income grew to 773 million euros from 740 million euros a year
earlier. That beat the 738 million-euro average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Kone Climbs  Kone rallied 8.2 percent to 44.59 euros, the biggest jump
in three years. The company reported first-quarter net income of
108.6 million euros, compared with the 94.6 million-euro average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  TeliaSonera, the biggest Swedish phone company, rose 6.6
percent to 44.15 kronor after saying it expects to receive about
22 billion kronor in dividends and proceeds from the sale of an
indirect 8.2 percent stake in MegaFon to Alisher Usmanov’s AF
Telecom.  Michelin rallied 6.1 percent to 53.75 euros. The world’s
second-largest tiremaker said first-quarter revenue rose 5.1
percent to 5.3 billion euros on higher demand for specialty
tires to equip earthmovers, aircraft and agricultural vehicles.  Grifols Gains  Grifols SA (GRF) , Europe’s largest maker of blood-plasma
products, rose 12 percent to 18.57 euros in Madrid, the highest
price since September 2008. First-quarter net income of 67.5
million euros beat the 51.8 million-euro average analysts’
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  advanced 4.6 percent to 227 pence after
agreeing to be bought by Royal Dutch Shell Plc as Europe’s
largest oil company increased its bid to 1.12 billion pounds
($1.8 billion).  Capita Plc (CPI)  dropped 6.4 percent to 682.5 pence after the
company that provides a criminal-records service for the U.K.
Home Office sold 40.4 million new shares for 685 pence apiece.  Umicore SA (UMI) , the world’s largest precious-metals recycler,
sank 4.8 percent to 39.78 euros in Brussels trading after
forecasting profit this year below analyst expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  