-- Hewlett-Packard Appoints John Schultz as General Counsel
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-04-24T23:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/hewlett-packard-appoints-john-schultz-as-general-counsel-1-.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  said it
promoted John Schultz to executive vice president and general
counsel, permanently filling a job vacated when the company’s
top lawyer stepped down in December.  Schultz, who joined Hewlett-Packard in 2008, will be a
member of the company’s  executive council and report to Chief
Executive Officer  Meg Whitman , the Palo Alto, California-based
company said in a statement today.  “John will only continue to elevate HP’s standards of
excellence and integrity,” Whitman said in a statement.  Schultz takes the new job as Hewlett-Packard tussles in
court with rival Oracle Corp. The computer maker objects to
Oracle’s plan to stop developing products for  Intel Corp .’s
Itanium chip, a component of certain high-end Hewlett-Packard
machines. A trial is scheduled to begin May 31 in  San Jose ,
 California , Hewlett-Packard spokesman Michael Thacker said.  Whitman, in a memo obtained by Bloomberg, said the
appointment reflects her drive to elevate internal managers.  “I have said many times that my goal is to promote from
within HP and today’s announcement is a great example,” she
said.  Whitman said in February that Hewlett-Packard’s next CEO
will probably come from within.  Former general counsel Michael Holston, who had joined in
2007 under then CEO Mark Hurd, departed in December to pursue
other opportunities, Hewlett-Packard said at the time. The
company named David Healy, a partner at Fenwick & West LLP, to
serve as interim general counsel after Holston left.  Schultz previously worked at the law firms Morgan Lewis &
Bockius LLP, Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP and Latham & Watkins.  Merck & Co. said last month that Holston will become its
chief ethics and compliance officer, effective June 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  