-- Ex-BP Worker Accused of Destroying 2010 Gulf Spill Texts
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-04-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ex-bp-worker-accused-of-destroying-gulf-of-mexico-spill-data.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer was
arrested on charges of intentionally destroying evidence
requested by the U.S. about the size of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico
oil spill, in the first criminal case arising from the incident.  The U.S. said Kurt Mix, who worked on internal BP efforts
to estimate the amount of oil leaking from the well, deleted
text messages between him and a supervisor. Mix, 50, was charged
with two counts of obstruction of justice in a criminal
complaint unsealed yesterday in federal court in  New Orleans .  “Mix deleted numerous electronic records relating to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster response, including records
concerning the amount of oil potentially flowing from the well,
after being repeatedly informed of his obligation to maintain
such records,” FBI Special Agent Barbara O’Donnell said in a
sworn statement filed in the case.  A judge in New Orleans is set today to consider preliminary
approval of a $7.8 billion proposed settlement between BP and
lawyers suing the company over the spill. BP in March agreed to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill or pollution-related injuries.  The settlement, reached March 2, days before a scheduled
trial on liability for the 2010 spill, doesn’t cover federal
government civil claims for oil pollution law violations and
those of the Gulf Coast states  Louisiana  and  Alabama .  Halliburton Objection  Halliburton (HAL)  Co. is opposing the settlement, according to a 
court filing. The Houston-based company ``objects to the limited 
amount of time available to analyze the settlement agreements and 
files these preliminary objections,'' Donald E. Godwin, a lawyer 
for the Houston-based company, said in yesterday's filing.  Halliburton, which provided cementing services for the BP 
well, also objects to the agreement because it assigns BP's claims 
against the company to the plaintiffs lawyers and attempts to make 
Halliburton ``liable in part for settlement payments,'' Godwin 
said. The settlement also restricts Halliburton's ability to settle 
claims, he said.  Mix entered no plea at a hearing yesterday in federal court
in Houston. Mix, who appeared in court shackled at the wrists
and ankles, said little during the hearing. “I understand,” he
told U.S. Magistrate Judge  Stephen Smith  several times when
asked about the charges against him and what will happen next.  Smith set bond at $100,000 and ordered Mix to surrender his
passport, on the government’s request. The judge set a
preliminary hearing for May 3 in federal court in New Orleans.  `Misguided Charges'  “These misguided charges over failure to retain text
messages constitute startling government overreaching,” Joan
McPhee, Mix’s lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement. “We have
every confidence that Kurt will be exonerated at trial.”  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history. The  Justice Department  has been investigating the
incident and the spill-rate estimates, O’Donnell said in her
affidavit. A federal grand jury had been investigating the spill
estimates, she said.  “The Deepwater Horizon Task Force is continuing its
investigation into the explosion and will hold accountable those
who violated the law in connection with the largest
environmental disaster in U.S. history,” U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder said in a statement.  BP declined to comment on the case against Mix and said it
would continue to cooperate with the U.S. investigation. Mix
resigned from BP in January 2012, according to O’Donnell.  “BP had clear policies requiring preservation of evidence
in this case and has undertaken substantial and ongoing efforts
to preserve evidence,” the London-based company said in a
statement.  Mix surrendered to authorities yesterday, David Gerger, the
lawyer who represented him only for yesterday’s proceeding, said
before the hearing. Mix will be released on bond and appear at
court next week, Gerger said.  Travel Restricted  Mix can’t travel outside  Texas  and Louisiana, according to
Scott Cohen, an attorney with the Justice Department’s New
Orleans-based Deepwater Horizon Task Force. Cohen declined to
comment on Mix’s case or the criminal investigation after the
hearing.  “Kurt Mix was part of the team that responded to the
accident to figure out how to stop the well from flowing,” said
McPhee, of Ropes & Gray in  Boston .  “The government says he intentionally deleted  text
messages  from his phone, but the content of those messages still
resides in thousands of emails, text messages and other
documents that he saved,” McPhee said. “Indeed, the emails
that Kurt preserved include the very ones highlighted by the
government.”  David Uhlmann, a former head of the Justice Department’s
environmental crimes section, said it wasn’t surprising that the
U.S. would pursue a case concerning the deletion of information
about the spill.  ‘Testimony Against Others’  “The fact that the government announced the first charges
in the BP case against a relatively low-level employee may
suggest they intend to enter into a plea agreement with Mr. Mix
in return for his testimony against others,” said Uhlmann, a
law professor at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor .  Mix was involved in BP’s efforts to stop the flow of oil
after the explosions, according to O’Donnell, the FBI agent. On
May 18, 2010, BP employees including Mix and his supervisor
concluded that one method, called Top Kill, might work if the
oil was flowing at a rate of about 5,000 barrels of oil a day,
or BOPD, she said.  “BP’s internal data suggested that Top Kill was unlikely
to succeed if the oil flow rate was 15,000 BOPD or more,” she
said.  Mix texted a supervisor on May 26, 2010, that the flow rate
was too high, O’Donnell said.  ‘Too Large’  “Over 15,000 and too large an orifice,” Mix said,
according to the U.S. Mix later deleted this text, O’Donnell
said.  Two days later, “BP continued publicly to state that Top
Kill was broadly proceeding according to plan,” O’Donnell said.  The company abandoned Top Kill on May 29, 2010, and
publicly announced the failure, the U.S. said. “BP’s stock
price dropped approximately 15 percent on the next trading
day,” O’Donnell said.  Investors suing BP over the loss of share value from the
2010 oil spill have claimed that the company underestimated the
extent of the oil spilled to bolster the stock price. A federal
judge in Houston in February denied the company’s request to
dismiss the claims brought by holders of BP American  depositary
receipts .  The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against BP as
well as  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner
and operator of the rig, and Halliburton.  U.S. Suits  The U.S. also sued BP, Transocean and BP’s partners in the
well,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The Woodlands,
Texas-based  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging violations of
federal pollution laws. Louisiana and Alabama sued as well. MOEX
has settled the federal lawsuit.  The non-investor lawsuits have been combined before U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who will consider
preliminary approval of the partial settlement of claims at a
hearing today.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers and BP filed the proposed partial
settlement in Barbier’s court April 18. Both sides asked the
judge to hold a Nov. 8 fairness hearing before final approval of
the accord and to postpone any trial on liability until after
that hearing.  Barbier said this week he would consider this request at a
closed-door hearing May 3.  The U.S. will oppose postponing the trial, acting U.S.
Associate Attorney General  Tony West  said in an interview April
20.  Shrimp Processors  The proposed settlement doesn’t cover claims by
governments, or by multiple private parties including financial
institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of  Florida 
and Texas, and residents and businesses claiming harm from the
Obama administration’s moratorium on deep-water drilling
prompted by the spill.  The deal will allow victims who aren’t satisfied with it to
opt out and pursue lawsuits against BP. Plaintiffs not covered
in the overall settlement, such as those claiming harm from the
drilling moratorium, can continue to pursue their claims,
according to the April 18 court filing.  The American Shrimp Processors Association asked Barbier
this week to delay preliminary approval of the settlement,
calling it biased against some members of the shrimp industry.
The accord treats shrimp harvesters and boat captains better
than owners of docks and plants that receive the catch and
prepare it for market, the organization said in court papers
April 23.  The proposed settlement also cuts out some Florida
residents, Pam Bondi, the state’s attorney general, said in an
April 13 filing asking Barbier to delay immediate approval of
the deal.  Florida Claims  “It appears that the settlement will apply only to claims
from Florida businesses and residents located in the Panhandle
or along the west coast of Florida,” she said. BP and the Gulf
Coast Claims Facility have previously “paid claims from almost
every county in Florida.”  As prosecutors continue the criminal probe, some witnesses
have declined to testify for the civil lawsuits. Three BP
officials, including Mark Hafle, a Houston-based drilling
engineer who consulted with a supervisor on the rig the night of
the explosion, have taken their Fifth Amendment rights not to
testify, according to court filings.  The criminal complaint is U.S. v. Mix, 12-47-MAG, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans). The
civil spill lawsuits are combined in In re Oil Spill by the Oil
Rig Deepwater Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010,
MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The investor case is In re BP Plc Securities
Litigation, 4:10-md-2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 