-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Manager Appeals Insider Trading Convict
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-04-25T09:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ex-morgan-stanley-manager-appeals-insider-trading-conviction.html
Former Morgan Stanley Managing
Director Du Jun yesterday appealed a  Hong Kong   insider trading 
conviction for which he was sentenced to seven years in prison,
saying prosecutors didn’t prove he committed the crime.  “The prosecution failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt
that the defendant knew it was relevant information,” said his
lawyer John Griffiths, referring to an e-mail Du received from
Morgan Stanley colleagues before buying shares of  Citic
Resources Holdings Ltd. (1205)   Du is serving the longest jail sentence for the offense
since the former British colony criminalized insider trading in
2003. District Court Judge Andrew Chan in 2009 found Du guilty
of nine counts of the offense and one count of advising his wife
to trade Hong Kong-listed Citic Resources, a Chinese oil and
coal producer, in 2007.  Du’s lawyer argued today his client’s sentence was too
heavy in comparison to sentences for professionals convicted of
similar crimes. Court of Appeal Judge Michael Hartmann responded
that bankers were known as “masters of the universe” before
2008.  “These people are entrusted on a daily basis with highly
confidential information that could have major financial
implications,” he said.  $3 Million Fine  Du, who was also fined HK$23.3 million ($3 million), bought
shares of Citic Resources after learning of its plan to purchase
a Chinese oilfield while helping the company sell bonds. The
Beijing native sold half of the shares in July 2007 for a profit
of about HK$33.4 million after the company announced the deal on
May 9, according to prosecutors.  Griffiths told Hong Kong’s Court of Appeal yesterday that
an acquisition in  Kazakhstan , also announced on May 9, and the
resumption of trading after a one-week suspension, contributed
to the surge in Citic Resources shares. The lower court judge’s
evaluation of the relevance of the information Du had from the
e-mail was “fallacious,” Griffiths said.  Du worked for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in Hong Kong from 2001 until
May 2007, when he was fired. He returned to Hong Kong from
Beijing in 2008 after HK$46.5 million of his assets in the city
were frozen by the  Securities and Futures Commission .  He was arrested at the airport on his return. Du had
borrowed HK$50 million in margin financing from Morgan Stanley
for his transactions, more than double his 2006 basic salary and
bonus of HK$19 million, prosecutors said.  Judge Chan had also criticized the New York-based bank’s
compliance system as “deficient.” Morgan Stanley wasn’t
subjected to any penalties by the SFC.  “I think it’s fair to say that had he asked for permission
and they said no, he wouldn’t have traded,” said Charlotte Draycott, a lawyer for the  Department of Justice , referring
today to Morgan Stanley’s internal controls. “But seeing as
they said yes, he traded when he knew he shouldn’t have.”  The case is Hong Kong SAR v. Du Jun, CACC334/2009 in the
Hong Kong’s Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  