-- Former N.Y. Senator Espada Took Clinics’ Funds, Jury Told
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-25T22:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ex-n-y-senator-espada-took-clinics-funds-prosecutor-says-1-.html
Pedro Espada Jr., the former  New
York  state Senate Democratic majority leader, and his son stole
more than $500,000 from nonprofit health-care clinics they run,
a prosecutor said at the end of their trial.  “The evidence in this case has shown that the defendants
used Soundview as their ATM,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Todd
Kaminsky said yesterday in his closing argument in federal court
in  Brooklyn , New York.  Espada, 58, and Pedro Gautier Espada, 38, abused their
positions at Soundview Healthcare Center in the Bronx section of
 New York City , which gets more than $1 million a year in federal
funding, according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch. Pedro Espada started Soundview in 1978.  The Espadas, who continue to run Soundview, were charged in
December 2010 when the elder Espada was still in the Senate. He
had been defeated that September in the Democratic primary for
his Bronx seat. The Espadas engaged in several illegal schemes
from January 2005 to February 2010, prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Frederic Block is presiding over the
trial, which began March 14.  ‘Disregarded the Trust’  “The defendants have completely disregarded the trust that
was placed in them by the patients and doctors of Soundview, and
the American taxpayers,” Kaminsky told jurors.  Much of the Espadas’ alleged illegal activity centered on
two for-profit janitorial-services companies Pedro Espada
founded: Community Expansion Development Corp., or CEDC, in
1980, and Soundview Management Enterprises, in 2007. Both
provided services to the clinics. In January 2005, Espada
transferred ownership of CEDC to Soundview Healthcare, the
government said.  Soundview Healthcare was CEDC’s only customer, Kaminsky
said.  Even after Soundview Healthcare owned CEDC, the Espadas
operated it as if it was still theirs, using it to pay personal
expenses, including for political campaigns, prosecutors allege.
That scheme totaled $175,000, they said.  Extended Family  Maria Cruz, who was Espada’s executive assistant and who
left the company in 2011 after 30 years there, testified that
the senator put 10 members of his extended family on its payroll
and seven on its board.  Kaminsky said Espada claimed in federal filings that no
relatives were connected to Soundview Healthcare, which wasn’t
true. Espada’s uncle was the chairman of the board, the
prosecutor said.  Another assistant, Norma Ortiz, who retired after 23 years
there, testified that Espada had Soundview Healthcare pay a
$1,976 tab for his wife’s birthday party in April 2008 at the
 Harbor Restaurant  on City Island, east of the Bronx mainland. He
also had the company pay for his wife’s birthday gifts,
including $523 for a spa treatment, $344 for balloons and $76
for 13 peach-colored roses, Kaminsky said.  The prosecutor said Espada claimed the SpaFinder Inc. gift
was “a staff gift certificate,” which he called “a whopping,
jaw-dropping, flat-out lie.”  Kaminsky said Soundview Healthcare paid $20,000, including
a $109 mini-bar bill, for an Espada family trip to  Puerto Rico ,
when Cruz and Ortiz testified that the company struggled to pay
for medical supplies.  ‘Hitting the Mini-Bar’  “This is money meant for poor people to get charity and
they’re hitting the mini-bar every day,” he said.  In her closing argument today, Susan Necheles, one of Pedro
Espada’s lawyers, said Soundview Healthcare was short money
because the government wasn’t reimbursing it “the millions and
millions of dollars” it owed for treating patients under
Medicaid and Medicare.  “How dare they say it’s Mr. Espada’s fault when it’s the
government’s fault?” she said. “The government wants you to
believe that Soundview’s difficulties in paying its bills are
all Mr. Espada’s fault.”  In 2006, Pedro Espada tried to use a $49,000 CEDC check as
down payment for a $125,000  Bentley , according to the
indictment. He never got the car because his financing
application was rejected.  Necheles said the Bentley was an example of the prosecution
delving into irrelevant matters.  “He never even bought the Bentley,” Necheles said.  Personal Meals  Pedro Espada charged more than $100,000 for personal meals
on Soundview Healthcare’s corporate American Express card,
including more than $20,000 at Toyo Sushi in Mamaroneck, New
York, prosecutors said. He also failed to identify more than
$115,000 in charges on Soundview Healthcare’s credit card as his
own, they said.  “We have $103,090 of food purchases, none of which are
marked personal,” Kaminsky told jurors.  The Espadas took about $200,000 by renting Soundview
Healthcare conference rooms and other facilities to medical
professionals and religious groups and keeping the money for
themselves, according to the indictment.  The Espadas are being tried on embezzlement and conspiracy
charges. One count for conspiracy to defraud the federal
government involves corporate income taxes owed by CEDC and
personal income taxes owed by the Espadas. Each substantive
count carries a maximum sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment. The
conspiracy counts bring as many as five years each.  Dismissed Counts  On March 6, Block dismissed counts for  tax fraud  and making
false statements to the federal government, ruling they must be
tried in federal court in  Manhattan . The Espadas were indicted
on those charges in Manhattan on March 23. One tax count will be
tried later in Brooklyn.  In April 2010,  Andrew Cuomo , when he was New York’s
attorney general, sued Pedro Espada and 19 others in state court
in Manhattan. Cuomo accused them of looting Soundview
Healthcare, taking more than $14 million during five years.  Cuomo, who is now governor, sued Espada again a week later
over labor violations. The state cases are on hold until the
criminal matter is resolved.  At the time, Espada called the civil charges “political
payback” for his temporary defection to the Republicans in June
2009, which resulted in a monthlong Senate deadlock.  Then-Governor  David Paterson , a Democrat, appointed Richard Ravitch as lieutenant governor, giving him the tie-breaking vote
in the Senate. That brought Espada back to the Democratic
caucus, which then made him majority leader.  The case is U.S. v. Espada, 10-cr-985, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 