-- Ex-Vitesse Executives’ Criminal Case Ends With Mistrial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-24T20:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ex-vitesse-executives-criminal-prosecution-ends-in-mistrial-1-.html
The trial of two former  Vitesse
Semiconductor Corp. (VTSS)  executives on charges of inflating earnings
and backdating options ended in a mistrial after the jury
deadlocked on a verdict.  Jurors told U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty in  New York 
that they couldn’t reach a unanimous decision on any of seven
criminal counts against Louis Tomasetta, the ex-chief executive
officer of Vitesse, the Camarillo, California-based chipmaker,
and former Executive Vice President Eugene Hovanec.  “We understand the seriousness and importance of this
case, however, we do not see any way forward,” the jury wrote
to the judge yesterday afternoon.  Crotty declared a mistrial today, on the fourth day of
deliberations, after the jurors again told him they were unable
to agree. The two men had faced as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted of the most serious counts.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in  Manhattan , declined to comment on the outcome. Dan Marmalefsky, a lawyer for Tomasetta, and Gary Lincenberg, who
represents Hovanec, didn’t immediately respond to voice-mail and
e-mail messages seeking comment.  Tomasetta and Hovanec were fired in May 2006 in an internal
probe of options backdating. The men created phony documents,
including compensation committee minutes and a Palm Pilot entry,
to show the options were approved at earlier meetings and
weren’t backdated, prosecutors said.  Lawsuit Settlements  Vitesse agreed in 2007 to pay $8.75 million to settle
shareholder suits related to the alleged accounting fraud and in
2010 settled claims by the U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  for $3 million.  Yatin Mody, Vitesse’s former chief financial officer, and
its ex-director of accounting, Nicole Kaplan, pleaded guilty to
 securities fraud  and other charges in 2010. They testified
against Tomasetta and Hovanec in the trial.  In one note to the judge, jurors said they didn’t share the
same understanding of how to apply his instructions on
conspiracy or venue, which requires that particular criminal
acts were committed in New York.  The case is U.S. v. Tomasetta, 10-cr-01205, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  