-- Mexican Bond Yields Hold Near 7-Month Low After Inflation Data
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-04-24T23:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/mexican-bond-yields-hold-near-7-month-low-after-inflation-data.html
Mexico ’s peso bond yields held near
a seven-month low after a drop in consumer prices during the
first half of this month boosted speculation that policy makers
will trim benchmark borrowing costs this week.  The yield on Mexico’s fixed-rate peso-denominated debt due
in December 2013 finished trading little changed today at 4.41
percent. The close at that level yesterday was the lowest since
Sept. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso
increased 0.1 percent to 13.1567 per dollar at 4 p.m. in Mexico
City, after dropping 0.6 percent yesterday.  The bonds rallied earlier today after the national
statistics agency said  consumer prices  dropped 0.42 percent
during the first two weeks of April as seasonal electricity
subsidies went into effect. The median estimate of 14 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a decrease of 0.16 percent.
Traders are betting Mexico will join Brazil and  India  this week
in cutting borrowing costs, interest-rate futures show.  Today’s inflation data “reinforces somewhat” that  Banco
de Mexico  will cut rates, Kenneth Lam, a  Latin America  currency
and local rates strategist at Citigroup Inc., said by phone from
New York. “You’ve got very heavy positioning. There are a lot
of people in the trade expecting the cut.”  Policy makers in Latin America’s second-biggest economy are
scheduled April 27 to announce whether they will reduce the
nation’s target lending rate from a record low 4.5 percent.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.73 percent in March, the
statistics agency reported April 9. That’s within the country’s
target of 3 percent, plus or minus 1 percentage point.  “If current favorable conditions in the inflation outlook
are consolidated, it may be advisable to adjust downward the
benchmark  interest rate ,” the central bank said in the minutes
of its last policy meeting, published March 30.  Mexico’s economy expanded 6.24 percent in February from a
year earlier, the national statistics agency also said today.
The economy was expected to grow 5.5 percent, as measured by the
global economic indicator, according to the median estimate of
15 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Mexico sold all 7 billion pesos of 28-day Cetes and 8
billion pesos of the 91-day securities it offered today, the
central bank said on its website. Mexico also sold all 8.5
billion pesos in 175-day bills it auctioned, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  