-- Extortion Trial Begins Over Janus, American Century Bombs
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/extortion-trial-begins-over-janus-american-century-bombs.html
An Iowa man accused of sending
unarmed bombs and menacing letters to mutual-fund companies
 Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  and  American Century  Cos. went on trial
for extortion in federal court in Chicago.  John P. Tomkins, of Dubuque, was arrested in 2007 for
allegedly mailing parcels to a  Janus fund  in Denver and to
American Century in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , containing pipe bombs
and letters saying, “BANG!! YOU’RE DEAD.”  He is also accused of sending threatening letters to other
investment management firms instructing them to drive up the
value of two public companies and warning of dire consequences
if they failed.  “This is a case about a man who wanted money and who
terrorized people in order to get it,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Patrick Pope told the jury yesterday. “When he didn’t get it,
the defendant grew bolder and the threats got worse.”  Tomkins, 47, is accused of seeking to influence share
prices for 3Com Corp., a maker of computer-networking equipment,
and  Navarre Corp. (NAVR) , a software distributor, from May 2005 to
January 2007.  He pleaded not guilty after his arrest and again in 2009
after prosecutors obtained a revised indictment. Acting as his
own attorney, Tomkins made no opening statement yesterday.  He did cross-examine each of the five witnesses prosecutors
called after Pope made his opening statement.  ‘A Project’  No Janus or American Century representatives testified
today. Those who did came from four other firms that received
letters prosecutors attribute to Tomkins.  “You have been selected to help with a project,” said a
2005 letter identified by William F. D’Alonzo, chief executive
officer of Wilmington, Delaware-based investment adviser Friess
Associates LLC.  The letter writer set an Oct. 31, 2005, deadline for Friess
to drive 3Com stock to $6.66 a share.  “You will help. After all, its so easy to kill somebody,”
the author said, signing the letter, “The Bishop.”  D’Alonzo said he first took the missive for a joke, then
read it again and opted to call the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation.  On cross-examination, the executive told Tomkins his firm
also elected to contact the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and 3Com, now part of  Palo Alto , California-based
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   ‘No Excuses’  A 2006 letter, identified today by Wallace Weitz, principal
of Omaha-based Wallace R. Weitz & Co., demanded that his firm
drive Navarre shares to $6.66 by May 1.  “It must be done by then,” the sender wrote. “No
excuses.”  The U.S. government collected evidence from Tomkins’s car,
home, computer and a storage locker tying him to those mailings,
as well as the explosive devices mailed to Janus and American
Century from Rolling Meadows,  Illinois , in January 2007, Pope
told the jury in his opening.  “The device was determined to be technically functional,
but the firing circuit was not fully connected,” U.S. Postal
Inspector Kevin Freeman said in an April 2007 sworn statement
supporting the initial criminal complaint. “Had a partially
disconnected wire been connected to the device’s battery, the
device would have instantly exploded.”  ‘Keep People Safe’  “If you decide you want to keep the people around you
safe, you will do as I say,” the sender said in notes to
 American Century (ACITX)  and Janus executives packaged with each bomb.  Tomkins is charged with nine counts of allegedly mailing
threatening communications with intent to extort a thing of
value, each punishable by as long as 20 years imprisonment. Two
more counts are for possessing an unregistered destructive
device punishable by as long as 10 years in prison.  He is also accused of possessing and using a destructive
device while committing a crime of violence, which carries a
mandatory minimum sentence of 30 years in prison and must be
served consecutively with the sentence for any other conviction.  Selection of the jury of 10 men and six women, four of whom
are alternates who may not participate in deliberations, began
April 23 before U.S. District Judge Robert Dow.  The case is U.S. v. Tomkins, 07cr227, U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of Illinois ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  