-- EZchip Slumps as Rival’s Product Sours Outlook: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-04-24T23:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ezchip-slumps-as-rival-s-product-sours-outlook-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  slid the
most in two years in New York on concern 2012 revenue will
suffer after a competitor debuted a similar product.  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based chip developer  sank  9.3
percent to $39.28 yesterday, the largest drop since May 2010,
swelling its discount to Tel Aviv to the most on record. The
drop pushed the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest
Israeli companies listed in the U.S. down 1.1 percent to 89.86.
 Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM)  advanced to the highest level since
August on a report that the company may bid to construct a
semiconductor plant in India.  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , based in Irvine, California, will start
selling processors that allow customers including
telecommunications companies to facilitate faster transmission
of voice, video and other data on their networks, according to a
statement distributed by PR Newswire yesterday. The product will
compete with EZchip’s own processors and may siphon revenue in
the next couple of years, Jefferies & Co. said.  “This is an alert to investors,” Sundeep Bajikar, an
analyst at Jefferies, said by phone from  Los Angeles . “For a
long time EZchip was pretty clear and people didn’t assume there
would be any competition. The emergence of a legitimate
competitor like Broadcom changes the landscape.”  Sales will probably  drop  in the second and third quarters,
according to the median of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  EZchip has  advanced  39 percent this year, sending
valuations to 27 times estimated earnings, nearly twice the
average multiple for companies on the Nasdaq Composite Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Beating Rivals  The stock is outperforming competitors.  Cavium Inc. (CAVM) , which
also makes processors for communications networks, has dropped
4.5 percent, while  Altera Corp. (ALTR) , a maker of programmable
semiconductors, has declined 8.3 percent this year.  “EZchip has been a big outperformer when compared with
peers,”  Daniel Berenbaum , the executive director of MKM
Partners LLC, said by phone yesterday from Stamford,
Connecticut. “Going into the quarter, people are being
cautious. They’re taking profits ahead of earnings results.”  EZchip, whose biggest  customers  include  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , will probably report sales fell 11
percent to $15.3 million in the second quarter, according to the
median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company may have to reduce its 2012 earnings forecast
after Juniper, its second-largest customer, reported a drop in
first-quarter sales yesterday,  Jay Srivatsa  at Chardan Capital
Markets LLC, said in a phone interview from  New York .  Juniper Sales  Sunnyvale, California-based Juniper  said  that revenue in
the first three months of the year declined 6.3 percent to $1.03
billion. Revenue in the second quarter will rise to between
$1.03 billion and $1.06 billion, the company said in a
statement.  “If Juniper service provider numbers remain weak then I
think that could potentially be a pullback for EZchip,”
Srivatsa said yesterday. “EZchip may guide a flat quarter. The
stock is almost priced for perfection so if anything goes wrong
in the results the stock could pull back.”  Shares of EZchip fell 0.8 percent to 164.30 shekels, or the
equivalent of $43.77, in Tel Aviv. The discount on the New York
stock  swelled  to $4.49 below  Tel Aviv . The  TA-25 benchmark  index
gained 1.3 percent to 1,162.95 yesterday.  The Tel Aviv Stock Exchange is closed today and tomorrow
for Israel’s Memorial and Independence days.  Tower in India  The country, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in
size to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S.
after  China . Israel is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Tower, a maker of customized chips, rose 6.5 percent to 94
cents in New York yesterday, the highest level since August
2011. The company’s Tel Aviv shares gained 6.8 percent to 3.59
shekels, or the equivalent of 96 cents.  The Migdal Haemek, Israel-based chipmaker may partner with
International Business Machines Corp. to bid for the
construction of a semiconductor plant in India, The Hindu
Business Line reported on April 22.  Tower said on Feb. 16 that it signed a binding initial
agreement to build and operate a facility in India with two
partners it didn’t name.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  advanced 1.4 percent to $12.08 after
the Netanya-based company’s shares in Tel Aviv climbed 1.5
percent to 45.68 shekels, or $12.17.  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) 
added 1.1 percent to $7.34 after its Israeli stock rose 1.2
percent to 27.72 shekels, or the equivalent of $7.38.  Shares of Israel’s largest mobile-phone providers climbed
after TheMarker reported that Hallo 015, a new competitor on the
market, dismissed 15 of its 100 employees and failed to pay
salaries last month.  A message left on the voicemail of the office of Hallo’s
spokeswoman was not immediately returned.  “Disruptive new operators seem not to be as disruptive as
feared,” said David Kaplan, a Tel Aviv-based analyst at
 Barclays Capital .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  