-- MF Global Executives Will Not Receive Bonus Money, Trustee Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-04-24T16:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/mf-global-executives-will-not-receive-bonus-money-trustee-says.html
Senior  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) 
executives still working at the bankrupt firm will not receive
bonuses, the company’s trustee told lawmakers.  Louis Freeh , the former  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
director serving as trustee for the New York-based firm,
committed to lawmakers that he would not award bonuses to
current or former employees in the wake of reports that
compensation packages for Chief Operating Officer  Bradley Abelow , General Counsel Laurie Ferber and Chief Financial
Officer Henri J. Steenkamp, were being prepared.  “It was never my intention” to pay out bonus money to
executives from the firm, Freeh told members of the Senate
Banking Committee at a hearing today. Freeh committed to
lawmakers that he would not distribute bonus money to current or
former MF Global employees.  MF Global Holdings, once run by Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat
who served in the Senate before serving as  New Jersey ’s
governor, filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31
after getting margin calls and bank demands for money at its
brokerage unit, MF Global Inc. While the holding company is
returning funds to creditors under Freeh in a Chapter 11
bankruptcy, the brokerage unit is returning funds to customers.
That unit has a separate trustee, James Giddens, appointed under
the Securities Investor Protection Act.  U.S. lawmakers seized on the bonus issue last month, citing
the estimated $1.6 billion shortfall between the brokerage’s
assets and what it owes customers as a reason that the
distribution of any bonus money should be blocked. The Senate
adopted a non-binding resolution objecting to the distribution
of bonus money last month.  Bonuses ‘Not Acceptable’  “It is not acceptable for MF Global executives to be given
bonuses when customers have not recovered funds improperly taken
from them by MF Global,” Senator Tim Johnson, the chairman of
the Senate Banking Committee, said today.  Freeh, in his prepared remarks, said his team employs 15
non-executives, most of whom were former MF Global employees,
along with the senior executives. Freeh said he has considered
“a retention program” for them and added that “no formal
program was ever created for senior executives, nor was any
motion ever filed with the court for approval in connection with
any retention program for senior executives.”  The firm employees working for the trustee are on salary
and, should they need to be retained in the future, Freeh said
he would negotiate “fair and competitive salaries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  