-- MF Global Trustee Conflicts Delay Investigation, Freeh Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-24T02:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/mf-global-trustee-conflicts-delay-investigation-freeh-says.html
The trustees and foreign
authorities overseeing the bankruptcy of MF Global Holdings Ltd.
face competing and conflicting duties that are delaying the
return of customer and creditor funds, one of the company’s
trustees said in testimony prepared for a U.S. Senate hearing
today.  Louis Freeh , the New York-based firm’s trustee, said in
testimony prepared for the Senate Banking Committee that he’s
still trying to uncover what led to the company’s collapse, and
seeking funds that can go to repay creditors. Those funds,
according to his testimony, may include $1 billion transferred
in October to the broker-dealer subsidiary, MF Global Inc.  “It is clear even at this early stage that the competing,
and perhaps at times conflicting, obligations and duties of the
two trustees and various foreign administrators has and will
continue to have the effect of extending” the time needed to
“make distributions to customers and/or creditors,” Freeh said
in the prepared remarks.  MF Global filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct.
31, with debt of almost $40 billion, after making $6.3 billion
in bets on sovereign debt. Freeh said in his testimony that his
efforts to arrange repayment to MF Global creditors are
complicated because their interests can be at odds with the
customer claims at the company’s broker-dealer subsidiary, MF
Global Inc., whose trustee is  James W. Giddens.  Corzine’s Role  U.S. lawmakers, the  Department of Justice  and federal
regulators are probing the collapse of the firm and the role of
its former Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat
who served as  New Jersey ’s governor and U.S. senator. The
Banking Committee today becomes the fourth congressional panel
to hold a hearing on the bankruptcy of the firm that has left a
customer funds shortfall estimated at $1.6 billion.  “As investigators seek to recover MF Global customer funds
and hold accountable those responsible for any wrongdoing, this
committee will focus our attention on preventing future abuses
and the other critical public policy issues raised by the
collapse of MF Global,” Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat, said in an opening statement
prepared for the hearing.  Lawmakers should consider setting up an insurance fund for
smaller futures customers including farmers and ranchers,
Giddens, the MF Global Inc. trustee, said in testimony prepared
for the hearing. More than three-quarters of MF Global claims
seek a return of less than $100,000, he said in the statement.  ‘Farmers and Ranchers’  “A fund limited to protecting these smaller accounts --
representing many farmers and ranchers -- could be of relatively
modest size but would suffice to make these customers whole very
quickly even in a case with a shortfall the size of MF
Global’s,” Giddens said in the testimony. Giddens said a fund
could be replenished by industry assessments when needed.  Congress should also consider making chief executives and
other senior officers of futures brokers personally and civilly
liable for their statements about segregation of customer funds.
Officers and directors should be liable “without any
requirement of proving intent and without permitting them to
defend on the basis that they delegated these essential duties
and responsibilities to others,” Giddens said.  Freeh said his duties as Chapter 11 trustee involve trying
to recoup funds for creditors including money routed to the
broker-dealer unit, MF Global Inc. In October, before the
company failed, more than $1 billion in cash was moved from MF
Global Holdings and its MF Global Finance unit to MF Global
Inc., Freeh said.  $650 Million Transfer  The proceeds of $650 million of MF Global bonds sold in
2011 by MF Global Holdings were also transferred to MF Global
Inc., Freeh said.  Freeh also addressed criticism of a plan that would have
given bonuses to executives who oversaw the company before it
failed last year. In March, compensation packages that would
apply to Chief Operating Officer  Bradley Abelow , General Counsel
Laurie Ferber and Chief Financial Officer Henri J. Steenkamp
were being prepared, according to advisers to Freeh. Senators
objected.  Freeh’s team employs 15 non-executives, most of whom were
former MF Global employees, he said in his statement. Freeh said
he has considered “a retention program” for them and added
that “no formal program was ever created for senior executives,
nor was any motion ever filed with the court for approval in
connection with any retention program for senior executives.”  Freeh will submit a report by June 4 about his findings and
seeks authority to subpoena witnesses in connection with his
investigation, he said.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  