-- MF Global Debt Worth $325 Million Traded in March, Report Shows
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-24T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/mf-global-debt-worth-325-million-traded-in-march-report-shows.html
MF Global Inc. was the second most
actively traded bankruptcy case by dollar amount in March with
$325.8 million worth of claims changing hands, according to a
report.  Investors made 104 trades of customer claims in the defunct
brokerage, with an average value of $3.13 million per claim,
SecondMarket Holdings Inc. said in a report today. The most
actively traded claims were those in Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  The claims trading market encompassed $6.2 billion worth of
claims in March, an 88 percent increase from February, due in
part from heavy demand from MF Global, the report said.  Andrew Gottesman, a director at SecondMarket, said the
increased interest in MF Global was both a result of critical
mass in the market and news.  “In March the trustee made a motion for an additional
distribution,” he said. “People saw that as a positive
development -- that there was more expected to be in the
kitty.”  The trustee, James Giddens, said he would return another
$685 million to commodity customers, giving some of them as much
as 80 percent of their previously frozen assets. Since then,
Giddens has said he also plans to pursue a lawsuit in the U.K.
to recover another $700 million in customer funds.  Face Value  All amounts refer to the face value of the claims, not the
trading prices, which reflect payment prospects and aren’t
disclosed.  According to court filings, Jefferies Leveraged Credit
Products LLC, VonWin Capital Management LP, and Longacre
Institutional Opportunity Fund LP have been among the most
active buyers of MF Global Inc. claims this month.  Lehman had $5.8 billion of claims trade hands, with 981
transfers and an average price of $5.9 million. The third-most
actively traded bankruptcy case by dollar amount of claims
traded was Motors Liquidation Co, where $41 million worth of
claims changed hands, but only two transfers were made.  By number of claims traded, Lehman was first, and AMR Corp.
was second, with 135 transfers of claims worth $1.4 million.  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , the brokerage’s parent company,
filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy in  Manhattan  court on
Oct. 31 with debt of almost $40 billion. MF Global Inc.’s wind-
down is being overseen under the Securities Investor Protection
Corp. in the same court.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  