-- MF Global Inc. Customers Can Receive Another $685 Million
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-24T20:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/mf-global-inc-customers-can-receive-another-685-million.html
A trustee for MF Global Inc., the
failed brokerage, can distribute $685 million more to customers,
bringing them from 72 percent to about 80 percent of what
they’re owed, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  New York  today
approved the distribution request of trustee James Giddens. The
trustee has already distributed more than $4 billion, he
testified today in a U.S. Senate hearing.  The judge approved the motion after Giddens withdrew a
request to have customers sign a release before receiving the
money that would bar them from suing third parties over their
losses. The trustee has estimated there is a $1.6 billion gap
between available funds and what customers say they are owed.  Giddens “did not provide any legal authority for requiring
commodities customers to assign the customers’ claims against
third parties” to the trustee, Glenn wrote in his opinion.  Under the proposed distribution, commodity customers who
traded futures on foreign exchanges will get their first
payments of about $50 million. About $600 million will go to
customers who traded on U.S. exchanges. Holders of physical
assets such as precious metals are in line to get about
$35 million.  Glenn delayed ruling at an April 12 hearing after customers
had objected, questioning the releases. A group calling itself
the Commodities Customers also objected, saying the conditions
could make them give up claims against third parties.  Legal Basis Lacking  The judge said during the hearing that if customers hand
over their rights to sue parties to Giddens, it will result in
“the most equitable distribution” of proceeds from lawsuits to
all customers. At the same time, he questioned whether Giddens
has the authority to demand those releases.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case 
is  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 