-- Facebook, Krka, Kandi, AstraZeneca: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-24T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/facebook-krka-kandi-astrazeneca-intellectual-property.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is beefing up its
 intellectual property  arsenal by paying $550 million for some of
the patents  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  recently agreed to buy from  AOL Inc. (AOL)   Facebook, the world’s largest social network, will obtain
about 650 AOL patents and applications, as well as a license to
AOL patents and applications that Microsoft will purchase and
own, the companies said in a statement yesterday.  Patent disputes are increasing in the technology industry
as competitors fight over intellectual property rights to key
breakthroughs in areas such as mobile technology  The Microsoft transaction would be Facebook’s second major
patent acquisition since Yahoo sued. Facebook, based in  Menlo
Park ,  California , acquired 750 patents from  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , a person with knowledge of the matter
said on March 22.  Microsoft said earlier this month that it would pay $1.06
billion for a portfolio of AOL’s patents. Under the terms of the
auction, companies couldn’t band together to bid jointly, and
AOL didn’t permit offers for part of the portfolio, said a
person familiar with the matter who declined to be named because
the process was private.  “Anytime someone buys a huge amount of patents, there’s an
opportunity to sell the ones you don’t need,” said Ron Laurie,
managing director of Inflexion Point Strategy LLC in  Palo Alto ,
California, which counsels companies on intellectual property
purchases.  AOL, under shareholder pressure to make changes as revenue
shrinks, sold and licensed more than 800 patents to Microsoft
earlier this month.  Facebook made an offer for AOL’s patent portfolio before
losing out to the Microsoft bid, two people with knowledge of
the matter said last week. The proposal by Facebook was too low,
those people said.  Even though Microsoft didn’t want to own the majority of
the patents, it did want a license to all of them -- which it
will get through this agreement. Microsoft also would have
viewed a purchase by a rival like  Google Inc. (GOOG)  as negative, the
person said.  Facebook has lined up $8 billion of available credit from
its IPO underwriters. Like more established technology
companies, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google, it is buying
intellectual property to protect itself from patent-infringement
litigation.  Facebook in February filed for an initial public offering,
seeking to raise $5 billion in what could be the largest
Internet IPO on record. The company may seek a valuation of $75
billion to $100 billion, people familiar with the matter have
said.  Slovenia’s Krka Says Court Rules It Breached AstraZeneca Patent  Krka Group d.d. , Slovenia’s biggest drug company, said an
Oslo court ruled that its Swedish unit breached  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) ’s patent over the drug esomeprazole. The AstraZeneca product
is used to treat acid-reflux disease and is sold under the brand
name Nexium.  The Norwegian court ruled Krka infringed the patent because
the drug contained an optical purity above 98 percent, the Novo
mesto, Slovenia-based company said in a regulatory  statement 
yesterday. Krka said it was ordered to pay AstraZeneca about 1.9
million euros ($2.5 million) to compensate for lost profit from
the drug. Krka said it will appeal the decision.  Kandi Official Donates All His Patents to Electric Car Company  Kandi Technologies Corp. (KNDI) , the maker of the Coco electric
car, is receiving the donation of 11 patents related to electric
vehicles, the Jinhua, China-based company said in a  statement 
yesterday.  The patents were developed and previously were personally
owned by Xiaoming Hu, Kandi’s chairman and chief executive
officer. Transfer of the patents is being approved by the State
Intellectual Property Office of  China .  Two of the patents cover battery storage packs for electric
vehicles, while others are related to charging systems and quick
battery exchange technology.  Hu said in the statement that the patents that are being
transferred represent all the patents he owned personally.  Kandi Coco cars, which fall into the category of
 neighborhood electric vehicles  and sell for about $7,500 and up,
can be driven for 60 miles on a single charge, with a top speed
of 25 miles an hour,  according to the website  of one U.S.
dealer.  Comments Sought on ‘Economically Significant’ Inventions Secrecy  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is seeking comments on
the feasibility of placing “economically significant” patents
under a secrecy order.  According to a statement from the patent office, it’s
considering possible changes to existing policies for reviewing
applications that are potentially detrimental to national
security.  The office is responding to a request from Congress asking
whether national-security screening of patent applications
should be extended to cover economically significant patents
from discovery by foreign entities.  A report from the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related
Agencies Subcommittee issued in July 2011 said that the lag
between publication of the application and the issuance of the
patent enables competitors to design around U.S. technologies
and “seize markets before the U.S. inventor is able to raise
financing and secure a market.”  The subcommittee has told the patent office to develop
criteria “to evaluate the national security applications of
patentable technologies.”  The patent office said it’s seeking comments from “the
innovation community” on whether an economic security screening
procedure should be considered.  Presently all patent applications are screened to determine
whether publication or disclosure of the application would be
detrimental to national security. Those applications are
forwarded to the Defense Department and other agencies
designated by the president.  Foreign patent filings for applications under a secrecy
order are prohibited without the concurrence of the reviewing
agency that requested the secrecy order.  One of the 16 questions on which the patent office is
seeking input is whether patent practitioners presently try to
make an end run around possible secrecy orders by drafting
patent applications in such a way as “not to raise national
security implications of such an invention.”  Comments must be submitted by June 19, according to the
statement.  AstraZeneca’s Ardea Deal May Be First of Several in Works  AstraZeneca Plc’s $1.26 billion purchase of  Ardea
Biosciences Inc. (RDEA) , its biggest acquisition in five years, may be
the first in a series of deals for the company as it tries to
counter looming generic competition.  AstraZeneca is in talks with several companies about
possible licensing accords and acquisitions, said Shaun Grady,
head of business development, in a telephone interview
yesterday. The company would consider acquiring late-stage
assets outside its research and development focus on cancer,
diabetes and gastrointestinal ailments, he said.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker is seeking new products
as generic competitors challenge its top-selling medicines.
“We’re building some momentum here in R&D,”  Martin Mackay,
head of research and development, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “I would be disappointed if we didn’t announce
further deals by the end of this year. We’ve taken our hits but
we’re turning a corner.”  AstraZeneca will pay $32 a share for Ardea, the London-
based company said in a statement yesterday.  Ardea, based in  San Diego , was incorporated in 1994. The
U.S. company’s biggest  shareholder  is Baker Brothers Advisors
LLC, an investment firm founded by Felix and Julian Baker. Felix Baker sits on Ardea’s board.  AstraZeneca joins U.K. rival  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and
 Switzerland ’s  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  in pursuing purchases to fuel
growth.  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  rejected a $2.6 billion offer
from Glaxo, based in  London .  Two of AstraZeneca’s biggest-selling drugs, Nexium for
ulcers and antipsychotic medication Seroquel, lose patent
protection by 2014. Nexium and Seroquel generated about $10.3
billion of sales last year and accounted for 30 percent of
revenue. The drugmaker recently saw the failure or delay of
experimental drugs for diabetes and ovarian cancer.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Maker of Adult Films Claims File Sharers Infringe Trademark  John Stagliano Inc., an adult filmmaker doing business as
 Evil Angel Productions Inc. , has filed two suits against unnamed
defendants who allegedly used BitTorrent file-sharing protocol
to distribute and view unauthorized copies of one of its films.  What makes the cases novel is that the suits are alleging
trademark infringement rather than the more usual allegation of
copyright infringement.  According to the complaints filed April 19 in federal court
in Philadelphia, the unnamed defendants infringed the Evil Angel
trademark, which is embedded in the film. They did so by
distributing identical copies of the marked film using
BitTorrent.  In one suit Stagliano lists 12 unnamed defendants, and
another 17 in a second suit. The filmmaker says the defendants
were located geographically within the court’s area of
jurisdiction through the use of geotracker software.  The filmmaker asked the court to order the defendants to
quit infringing the trademark through unauthorized distribution
of the film, and for awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs. Additionally, Stagliano seeks a court order
for the removal of the file from each computer under the
defendants’ control.  One case is John Stagliano Inc. v. John Does 1-12, 2:12-cv-
02087-RBS, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia). The other case is John Stagliano Inc. v. John
Does 1-17, 2:12-cv-02080-JD, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Azerbaijan Parliament to Consider Changes to Copyright Law  A measure modifying existing intellectual-property law has
been approved by the Azerbaijan Copyright Agency for
consideration by that nation’s parliament, Trend Azerbaijan
 reported .  The new law covers such issues as the digitization of
content, the illegal use of information technologies, and
appropriate judicial and administrative proceedings related to
IP issues, according to Trend Azerbaijan.  Courts will be given the authority, under the new law, to
determine payment of damages by those who violate others’ IP
rights and to order seizure and destruction of infringing
materials, Trend Azerbaijan reported.  Additionally, the new law will give courts the power to
seize equipment and materials used to manufacture infringing
items, according to Trend Azerbaijan.  China to Crack Down on Art Counterfeiting This Year, Xinhua Says  China’s National Copyright Administration will crack down
on the use of forged signatures of famous artists and
calligraphers, Xinhua News Agency reported, citing a statement
from the government agency.  The adding of forged signatures to prints and phony new
works is “prevalent” and has developed into an “industrial
chain,” Xinhua said. The counterfeit-art industry will be a
focus of this year’s copyright protection campaign, it said.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  King & Spalding Hires Two Patent Litigators from Cadwalader Firm  King & Spalding LLP added two litigators to its IP
practice, the Atlanta-based firm said in a  statement  yesterday.  Tony V. Pezzano and Michale P. Dougherty joined the firm
from  New York ’s Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP.  Pezzano  has done patent litigation in federal courts and
before the U.S. International Trade Commission. He’s represented
clients in the consumer products, recreational products,
pharmaceutical products, chemical and petroleum products and
processes, wireless telecommunication equipment, computer
systems, and printing engines and systems industries.  He has an undergraduate degree in engineering mechanics
from  Columbia University  and a law degree from Hofstra
University.  Dougherty  has principally represented clients in the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Among his areas of
expertise is patent litigation arising from disputes under the
Hatch-Waxman act.  He has an undergraduate degree from Case Western Reserve
University and a law degree from the College of  William & Mary .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 