-- Fed’s 17 Rate Forecasts May Confuse More Than Clarify
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-04-24T17:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/fed-s-17-rate-forecasts-may-confuse-more-than-clarify.html
The  Federal Reserve  tried to bring
more clarity to policy making in January by releasing Fed
officials’ forecasts for interest rates. Instead, it may be
creating confusion.  Policy makers tomorrow will probably repeat their plan to
keep the benchmark interest rate low at least through late 2014,
economists say. At the same time, a Bloomberg News survey of
economists this month predicted that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs by June of that year.  One reason for the disconnect: Six policy makers in January
forecast a rate increase before 2014, and others may join their
ranks this week on signs the economy is improving. Yet the
Federal Open Market Committee’s time horizon won’t shift because
its most influential members -- including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and  Janet Yellen  -- probably won’t change their view,
said  Michael Hanson , a former Fed economist.  “The markets run the risk of getting a head fake” from a
chart the Fed will release showing policy maker’s forecasts as a
series of dots, said Hanson, senior U.S. economist for Bank of
America Corp. The central bank doesn’t reveal which official’s
forecast is represented by each dot.  “Some dots on these charts matter more than others,” said
 Dana Saporta , U.S. economist at Credit Suisse Securities in New
York. “The voting FOMC majority is still committed to the late
2014 language.”  Meeting Started Today  The FOMC, which began its meeting at 1 p.m. today in
 Washington , plans to release its policy statement at around
12:30 p.m. tomorrow. Its forecasts for interest rates, growth,
inflation and unemployment are due at 2 p.m. tomorrow, and
Bernanke will hold a press conference beginning at 2:15 p.m.  The Fed gives forecasts of all 17 participants of the FOMC.
Yet in any given year, only 10 members, including all the
governors, have a vote. Governors and New York Fed President
William C. Dudley have a permanent vote, and presidents of the
other regional Fed banks rotate.  All but one of the six officials favoring a rate increase
before 2014 have voiced their view publicly. Of those five, only
one -- Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  -- is a voting
member of the FOMC this year.  Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota said in an
April 10 speech in Nicollet, Minnesota that “conditions will
warrant raising rates sometime in 2013 or, possibly, late
2012.” Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  told reporters in
Washington on March 29 that the central bank may need to raise
interest rates as soon as the end of this year or early in 2013.  Tighten Policy  The St. Louis Fed’s  James Bullard  told reporters in Logan,
Utah on April 16 that the Fed will probably need to tighten
policy during “the last part of 2013.”  Richard Fisher  of Dallas hasn’t given a date, saying it
depends on the economy. He dissented twice last year against
moves to push down long-term rates and to keep the benchmark
borrowing cost near zero until at least mid-2013.  “If the data continue to improve, however gradually, the
markets should begin preparing themselves for the good Dr. Fed
to wean them from their dependency rather than administer
further dosage” of monetary stimulus, Fisher said in a Dallas
speech on March 5.  Lacker said the central bank will need to raise the
benchmark rate next year. He cast the only dissent to the Fed’s
March 13 statement that it would likely hold rates exceptionally
low at least through late 2014.  Near Zero  By the process of elimination, all but one of the remaining
FOMC participants, including all six who hold permanent votes,
favor keeping the main  interest rate  near zero at least into
2014.  The officials with permanent FOMC votes include Bernanke;
Fed Vice Chairman Yellen; and Governors  Daniel Tarullo ,  Sarah Bloom Raskin , and  Elizabeth Duke , as well as New York Fed
President William C. Dudley. The other regional presidents with
votes this year are Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart ; Cleveland’s
 Sandra Pianalto , San Francisco’s  John Williams  and Richmond’s
Lacker.  “Most of the people who think the Fed’s going to move
before 2014 aren’t voting,” said Joseph Lavorgna, chief U.S.
economist in New York at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “There’s
consensus on the committee with the people who matter” to hold
with the 2014 rate plan for now, he said.  Expectations for the first interest-rate increase were
pushed back as Bernanke and Yellen gave speeches calling for
caution on the economic outlook and as the Labor Department
reported that employers in March added the fewest jobs since
October.  Betting on Increase  Traders currently expect a fed funds rate of 0.5 percent by
September of 2014. As recently as March 20, they were betting on
an interest-rate increase in December 2013.  Benchmark 10-year Treasury  yields  have decreased to 1.96
percent as of 1:06 p.m. today in  New York  from 2.06 percent on
Jan. 24, the day before the previous FOMC forecasts were
released. The yield climbed to a four-month high of 2.39 percent
on March 19. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 4.3
percent since Jan. 24 to 1,371.23 today.  Dudley said April 12 in Syracuse that he hasn’t “seen any
set of information that should suggest to me we should change”
the 2014 time horizon. Yellen said in an April 11 speech in New
York that some economic models could warrant holding rates near
zero into 2015.  Lockhart and Pianalto said this month the 2014 date aligns
with their outlook. They have never dissented from a committee
vote.  Dissented Twice  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans, who dissented twice
from policy last year in favor of more accommodation, backs a
later interest-rate increase, saying in a March 22 speech that
“extending the time the FOMC keeps the federal funds rate at
zero would bring policy closer to the optimum.”  The central bank during the second quarter of 2014 will
probably raise its  target interest rate  to 0.75 percent from its
current level near zero, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 43 economists taken April 6-11. The Fed
will probably increase the rate again to 1 percent in the third
quarter of 2014, the survey showed.  “I think they’ve just underestimated the strength of the
economy,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic
Advisors Inc. in Holland, Pennsylvania, who forecasts the Fed
will raise rates in the second half of 2013. “The Fed is
notorious for their inability to forecast. Watch what those
forecasts look like in six months if the economy has been
growing at 3 percent.”  More Than Forecast  Consumer spending and service industries gained in March.
Retail sales in the U.S. rose more than forecast last month as
Americans snapped up everything from cars and furniture to
clothes and electronics, with sales rising 0.8 percent in March
and 1 percent in February.  Service industries in the U.S. grew in March, capping the
strongest quarter in a year and indicating the world’s largest
economy will keep generating jobs.  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
index fell to 56 from a one-year high of 57.3 in February, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed April 4. Last month’s
reading still topped the average for the previous economic
expansion.  Other reports since the March 13 FOMC meeting signal the
economy may lose momentum. Employers in the U.S. added 120,000
jobs last month, the least in five months. Housing starts
dropped 5.8 percent to a 654,000 annual rate, the least since
October and less than the lowest estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Biggest Economy  The world’s largest economy probably expanded by 2.5
percent in the first quarter, according to the median of 53
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce
Department report on April 27. That’s down from 3 percent growth
in the fourth quarter of 2011.  “The  U.S. economy  is moving forward, but it does have its
ups and downs,” said Jeffrey Joerres, chief executive of
Manpower Inc., the largest U.S. provider of temporary staffing,
in an April 20 earnings call. “Choppy growth is a little bit
difficult on a day-to-day basis, but it is pointing in the right
direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  