-- FIFA Advisor Pieth Backs Call to Publish Payments Document
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-25T09:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/fifa-advisor-pieth-says-soccer-body-should-release-document.html
An anti-corruption adviser to FIFA
says he agrees with a European rights watchdog’s call for
soccer’s governing body to identify officials who took millions
of dollars in payments.  Two senior executives got payments of at least 14.2 million
Swiss francs ($15.5 million) out of a total of 122.6 million
Swiss francs paid by FIFA’s now-defunct marketing partner ISL
between 1989 and 1998, according to testimony in an April 23
report by the Parliamentary Assembly of the  Council of Europe .  The officials weren’t named in the report by French
national assembly member Francois Rochebloine. Swiss magistrate
Thomas Hildbrand gave Rocheblione details of his investigation
into the 2001 collapse of ISL, which sold FIFA’s World Cup
television rights. FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  had promised to
publish the report more than a year ago. Its publication has
been held up by appeals from two individuals named as recipients
of the money.  Mark Pieth , a Swiss professor who heads a 13-member panel
formed by Zurich-based FIFA to suggest changes, said his
Independent Governance Committee has also demanded the ISL
document be published.  “It has called upon the Swiss authorities to fully
disclose the document as soon as legally possible,” Pieth said
in an e-mailed statement.  The Council of  Europe  quotes Hildbrand as saying there
isn’t any “absolute secrecy requirement” to a 2010 settlement
that identifies officials who admitted taking funds.  “It would therefore appear that FIFA is able to publish
the document in question without waiting for a decision from the
Swiss Federal Court,” the report said. Pieth didn’t respond to
a question asking whether he agreed the ISL settlement could be
published without the court’s permission.  “FIFA is not a party at the Federal Court in  Switzerland 
since we do not object to the publication of the ISL/ISMM
closing order,” FIFA said in an e-mailed statement. “The
decision regarding the publication of the closing order is now
up to the Swiss Federal Court.”  FIFA officials meet next month for its annual Congress in
Budapest, where it’s expected to make changes to its ethics
committee, which was criticized by both Pieth and Council of
Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  