-- Ford CEO Halfway to Winning Bet as Fitch Boosts Ford
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-04-25T20:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ford-ford-motor-credit-raised-to-investment-grade-by-fitch-1-.html
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  moved closer to reclaiming  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s valuable
blue oval logo, headquarters building and Mustang trademark
yesterday, as  Fitch Ratings  raised the automaker’s credit rating
to investment grade.  Fitch had ranked the second-largest U.S. automaker’s debt
as junk since December 2005. With yesterday’s upgrade, Ford now
needs only  Standard & Poor’s  or Moody’s Investors Service to
follow suit to regain control of the major assets it put up as
collateral to avoid the bankruptcy that engulfed other U.S.-
based automakers.  The higher rating “is an important milestone for the
company and can have real strategic implications on the funding
side,” Adam Jonas, a Morgan Stanley analyst, wrote in a note.  For Mulally, returning Ford to  investment grade  would
remove a burden the CEO inherited when he assumed the job in
September 2006. Ford’s borrowing costs would shrink and it would
have access to collateral it used to obtain $23.4 billion in
loans in late 2006. That gamble allowed Ford to avoid the fates
of the predecessors of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC
that restructured under government-backed bankruptcies in 2009.  Fitch yesterday lifted Ford to BBB-, the first level of
investment grade, from BB+, the ratings company said in a
statement. Fitch first cut Ford’s rating below investment grade
Dec. 19, 2005, as rising fuel prices began curtailing sales of
sport-utility vehicles and pickups that accounted for most of
the automaker’s profit.  Celebration Planned  Getting Ford’s blue oval logo out of hock will signify that
Ford’s comeback is complete,  Lewis Booth , Ford’s former chief
financial officer, said in Feb. 28 interview with reporters
before his April 1 retirement. Whenever the second ratings
company officially upgrades Ford, Booth said he will stop what
he is doing and toast the company’s success.  “The psychological impact will be enormous,” Booth said
of reclaiming the company’s logo. “Where ever I am in the world
that day, I shall be celebrating.”  Both remaining major ratings companies still have Ford at
one level below investment grade. S&P rates Ford BB+ and Moody’s
Ba1. Fitch, in its statement yesterday, said the upgrade
reflects “improved financial performance,  balance sheet  repair,
and product portfolio improvement that have taken place over the
past several years.”  No Retirement Plans  Fitch raised the issuer default rating of Ford and its
finance unit, Ford Motor Credit, and said the outlook for both
was stable.  “Since the last recession, Ford’s management has been
heavily focused on increasing profitability, growing liquidity,
lowering debt and reducing the company’s pension obligations,”
Fitch said.  Mulally, 66, has said he has no plans to retire. Executive
Chairman  Bill Ford  has that Mulally can remain CEO as long as he
wants. Bill Ford was Mulally’s predecessor as CEO.  “This upgrade has come at least several weeks earlier than
our credit team had expected,” Morgan Stanley’s Jonas wrote.
“Our credit team does not expect an upgrade from Standard &
Poor’s within the next six months and thinks it is more likely
that Moody moves Ford to investment grade within the next three
months.”  Profit Streak  Ford bonds yielded 3.09 percentage points more than
government debt on average two days ago, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. That’s down from about 36
percentage points at the peak of the credit crisis in March 2009
and compares with an average spread of 2.55 percentage points
for bonds rated BBB, the lowest tier of investment grade.  Ford rose 3 percent to $11.73 at the close in  New York . The
shares have gained 9 percent this year.  The automaker ended 2011 with its  11th consecutive 
profitable quarter, with fourth-quarter net income of $13.6
billion, or $3.40 a share, compared with $190 million, or 5
cents, a year earlier. Ford earned $29.5 billion in the last
three years after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through
2008.  Ford resumed paying a dividend last month following a five-
year suspension. The automaker March 14 declared a second-
quarter dividend of 5 cents a share payable June 1 to
shareholders of record on May 2.  “This is just the natural next step for the company,”
said Jody Lurie, a credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia. “The debt markets are pretty much seeing
investment grade and have factored this in already.”  “Getting the collateral back, getting the blue oval back
has been a huge rallying cry and one that we all feel
emotionally connected to,” Neil Schloss, Ford’s treasurer, told
reporters March 15. “Investment-grade companies feel better
about themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  