-- Ford Bets $4.9 Billion to Overcome Also-Ran Status in China
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-04-25T20:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ford-bets-4-9-billion-it-can-overcome-also-ran-status-in-china.html
When Qi Rui shopped for his first
car, the Beijing government worker asked his friends for advice.
Most of them drove Buicks from  General Motors Co. (GM) , China’s
largest foreign automaker. Only one friend drove a Ford.  Qi bought a Buick Excelle, the top-selling car in China.  “They are all famous automakers, but it is a big purchase
and I’d rather go for something that is more popular,” said Qi,
32. “There must be a reason why GM does better than Ford in
China.”  Ford Motor Co. (F)  is a distant also-ran in China, where GM’s
Buick and Chevrolet brands outsold it 5-1 this year, according
to researcher LMC Automotive. The Ford brand has just 2 percent
of China’s passenger-car market. Intent to catch up, the second-
largest U.S. automaker is spending $4.9 billion to build eight
factories and debut 15 new models in China by 2015.  “Ford is at last ready to get genuinely serious about
China,” said  Michael Dunne , president of Hong Kong-based
researcher Dunne & Co. “The key will be for Ford products to
connect with Chinese consumers on an emotional level just as
Buick and Chevy have managed to do.”  Making that connection has been challenging for Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford, which had a 14 percent sales decline in
China in the first three months of the year, while leading
sellers GM and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  gained buyers in a slowing market.  After Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  last June set a
target to derive one-third of Ford’s sales from Asia by 2020,
the company lost $92 million in the region in 2011 as flooding
in  Thailand  hobbled production. Ford has said it also may report
a loss in Asia in the first three months of this year.  ‘Transition Time’  The cost of rolling out all those new products, including
three sport-utility vehicles introduced this week at the Beijing
auto show, is driving up costs and driving down profit for now,
said Joe Hinrichs, chief of Ford’s Asian operations.  “This is a bit of a transition time,” Hinrichs said in an
April 18 interview. “The more dramatic payoff comes later.”  Ford shares rose 3 percent to $11.73 at the close in  New
York . The stock is up 9 percent this year.  The brand’s current image among Chinese consumers is
defined by the Focus family car, Hinrichs said. That’s outside
the fastest-growing categories: luxury cars and SUVs.  “To consumers in China, we’re viewed as not having as
broad a lineup as our competitors,” Hinrichs said. “Chinese
consumers are anxious for us to broaden our lineup, but it’s
never fast enough for anybody.”  ‘Two Markets’  Ford is stretching its lineup in two directions. It’s going
upscale with SUVs, including the Explorer, loaded with
technology such as voice-activated phones and dashboard touch-
screen controls, Hinrichs said. And it’s going to sell low-
priced “value models” to  China ’s emerging consumer class in
inland regions, he said.  “China is a tale of two markets,” Dunne said. “Every
brand has the challenge of marketing yesterday’s cars inland
while offering world-class products to the affluent buyers along
the east coast.”  Ford’s best growth potential is in China’s interior, which
is dotted with more than 600 cities with populations that exceed
500,000 people, said Jim Press, a former Toyota Motor Corp. and
Chrysler Group LLC executive who now is CEO of Yanjun Auto, a
luxury-dealer network based in Beijing.  “The real opportunities, if you look in the cracks, are in
the tier-two and tier-three cities where you can build a
reputation,” Press said in an interview. “Those customers are
the least satisfied and the least loyal to their brands.”  Thinking Small  Ford has said it is most rapidly expanding its dealer
network in China’s smaller cities. The automaker is opening an
average of two showrooms a week as it seeks to boost its dealer
total in China to 680 by 2015 from 400 at the end of last year.  The smaller cities are “where we expect most of the auto
industry’s growth because there’s a lot of saturation in the
large cities,” Hinrichs told reporters this week in Beijing.  The company will find it difficult taking on GM and VW in
big cities such as  Shanghai  and Beijing, where they are the
entrenched leaders and the Chinese government is putting
restrictions on new cars, Press said.  Ford has the added challenge of a brand with a limited
history of selling mostly utilitarian cars and commercial
vehicles. When Ford first pushed into China in 2002, it was
losing money at home and starting a wrenching restructuring.  “Ford was dogged by troubles at home through most of the
2000s, which prevented the company from offering compelling
products to Chinese consumers,” Dunne said. “Their all-
important-in-terms-of-setting-image first offering, a basic
Fiesta, was a disappointment to Chinese consumers.”  Decade Behind  The company arrived in China almost a decade behind GM,
which won a crucial partnership with Shanghai Automotive
Industrial Corp. in 1995. Ford’s partner, Changan Ford Mazda
Automobile Co., put its base of operations in the southwestern
city of Chongqing, far from the economic and political power
centers of Shanghai and Beijing in the east.  “Ford took it on the chin when GM was selected as SAIC’s
partner,” Dunne said. “This not only hurt in terms of timing,
but it also meant that not pairing up with China’s most powerful
and competitive municipality. You cannot overstate the power and
influence of the city of Shanghai.”  Ford is finally establishing a beachhead along China’s
affluent east coast with a $760 million assembly plant it is
building in Hangzhou that will double its output in the country
to 1.2 million vehicles annually.  ‘Competitive Footprint’  “This plant will give Ford a more competitive footprint in
China,” said  Jeff Schuster , senior vice president of
forecasting for LMC Automotive in Troy,  Michigan . “Sales are
concentrated along the coast and having a factory there will
raise their presence.”  The Hangzhou plant will open in 2015 and will build models
that Hinrichs declined to identify. Schuster said the factory
probably will produce upscale vehicles, such as SUVs, that
Chinese consumers in that area favor.  Mid-decade is when Hinrichs said he expects Ford’s fortunes
to change in China. By then, Ford’s 15 new models such as the
EcoSport subcompact SUV and Mondeo sedan should be winning
consumers in the interior and along the coasts, he said.  “To get consumers to connect with Ford is all about new
products and bringing the best of what we have around the world
to China,” Hinrichs said. “That’s what people have been
waiting for.”  Not Lincoln  Ford won’t be bringing its Lincoln luxury cars, which are
being overhauled in the U.S. in a bid to lure younger buyers.
The lagging luxury line, whose buyers now average 65 years old,
has seen U.S. sales slide 63 percent since peaking in 1990.  Hinrichs said there are no plans now to use Lincoln to fill
the Ford’s luxury void in China. Models such as the Explorer SUV
will represent the company’s “premium” offerings to Chinese
buyers, he said.  Given China’s growing affluence and appetite for luxury,
Ford eventually must bring Lincoln there, as GM has done with
Cadillac, said  Michael Robinet , managing director for industry
consultant IHS Automotive in Northville, Michigan.  “At some point, Lincoln will have to become a global
luxury brand,” Robinet said. “But first it has to earn it
stripes at home.”  Becoming more than a bit player in China will take years
for Ford, Dunne said. Still, Mulally can count on China to play
a big role in his drive to boost Ford’s global sales 50 percent
to 8 million vehicles by 2015, Dunne said.  “China and  Asia  are just getting started,” he said. “By
2015, people will have no memory of today’s lethargic growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Beijing at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  