-- Ford Credit Swaps Fall Most in 4 Months After Fitch Boost
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-04-24T21:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ford-credit-swaps-drop-most-in-five-months-after-fitch-upgrade.html
The cost to protect against a
default by  Ford Motor Co. (F)  dropped the most since November after
 Fitch Ratings  raised the automaker to investment grade.  Credit-default swaps on Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford fell
34.8 basis points to a mid-price of 269.6 basis points as of
5:29 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest decline since Nov. 30 when the
contracts fell by 34.9 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Fitch boosted the issuer default rating of Ford and its
Ford Motor Credit unit to BBB-, the lowest investment grade,
from BB+, the ratings firm said in a statement today, citing the
automaker’s improved liquidity, lower debt and reduced pension
obligations.  “We have for long considered Ford as worthy of investment
grade ratings given the superior turnaround in its earnings,
focused balance sheet repair alongside a product portfolio
revitalization,” Hitin Anand, an analyst at bond researcher
CreditSights Inc, wrote in an e-mail.  “The writing is on the wall for it to achieve full
investment grade ratings in the near term from even the other
two rating agencies,” he said. Moody’s Investors Service rates
Ford Ba1 while  Standard & Poor’s  gives the company BB+, both
below investment grade.  Fitch may change its outlook to positive or consider an
upgrade of the ratings, “if Ford’s margins and free  cash flow 
continue to grow.”  The company’s 7.45 percent notes maturing in 2031 rose 3.5
cents to 126 cents on the dollar at 11:53 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Home Sales  A benchmark gauge of U.S. company credit risk fell as U.S.
home sales in March topped estimates, indicating a stabilization
in the real estate market.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 1.3 basis points to a mid-price of 99.7 basis points at
5:37 p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg prices show.  The measure decreased as sales of new U.S. homes were
stronger than projected in March, running at a 328,000 annual
rate, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
 Washington . That’s a decline of 7.1 percent from a revised
353,000 pace in February which was better than initially
projected.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Ford had $13.1 billion of total debt as of Dec. 31,
according to its Feb. 21 annual filing.  Fitch warned that Ford’s rate of growth will be slower than
earlier projections because of “recessionary conditions” in
western  Europe  and slowing demand from “key  emerging markets 
like China and  India ,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  