-- Former MTR Chief Replaces Arculli at Hong Kong Bourse
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-04-24T08:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/former-mtr-chief-replaces-arculli-at-hong-kong-bourse.html
Chow Chung-Kong, former chief
executive officer of subway operator MTR Corp., was named
chairman of  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388)  and declared he
would capture opportunities for  Asia ’s biggest bourse.  The 61-year-old, who oversaw the MTR’s merger with another
train company and expansion overseas, replaces Ronald Arculli,
73, who stepped down after a maximum consecutive six years on
the job. Chow has also been CEO of Australian pallet provider
Brambles Ltd. and non-executive director for  Standard Chartered 
Plc. His initial term is for two years.  Hong Kong Exchanges was surpassed as the world’s biggest
bourse operator by CME Group Inc. amid global competition from
alternative venues and as large initial public offerings from
China slow. The exchange has accounted for 5.5 percent of world
IPOs this year compared with 13 percent in 2011 and 18 percent
in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Chow is quite qualified for this new role, having had
experience with diverse global and multinational companies,”
said Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer at Hong Kong-based
Value Investment Principals Ltd. “With  MTR (66)  he is imminently
familiar with local China issues and managing ‘on the ground’ in
Hong Kong. While he hasn’t operated a financial sector company
before, his long association as a board member of Standard
Chartered gives him strong credentials and certainly stature and
contacts for his new role at the exchange.”  Formal Approval  Chow, whose appointment requires formal approval from Hong
Kong CEO  Donald Tsang , said the bourse “will listen carefully
to market participants, particularly those in Hong Kong to
capture opportunity for the exchange.  “Hong Kong Exchanges is very much an integral part of the
international financial center of Hong Kong,” he told reporters
after a board meeting in the city today.  Chow has good credentials though lacks financial experience,
said  Steven Leung , Hong Kong-based director of institutional
sales at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., a brokerage in  Singapore .  Hong Kong Exchanges shares were unchanged at HK$127.70 at
the close, while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.3 percent.  Chow was appointed April 10 as a director of the  exchange 
for two years along with Timothy Freshwater, a former vice
chairman for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Asian unit. Arculli was
re-appointed to the board for one year. Of the 12 non-executive
board members, six are appointed by the city’s government.  ‘Right Candidate’  “Chow’s track record with the MTR and management skill has
been quite good, and he successfully managed public expectation
on the MTR operations, so he’s the right candidate to be chosen
by the government,” UOB-Kay Hian’s Leung said before the vote.
“His weakness is that he doesn’t really have any experience in
the financial field or relationship with the industry.”  During Chow’s tenure at the MTR, where he retired on Dec.
31, the company merged with another Hong Kong railway operator
and started work on a HK$66.9 billion ($8.62 billion) connection
to  China ’s high-speed-rail network. MTR also expanded operations
to London, Stockholm and  Melbourne , and last month reported a 21
percent increase in underlying profit for 2011 from a year
earlier.  Hong Kong Exchanges under Arculli attracted large
international listings, including luxury goods makers  Prada SpA (1913) 
and L’Occitane International SA. The bourse’s share price more
than doubled to HK$128.80 on April 20 from HK$56.55 on April 27,
2006, when Arculli became chairman.  Slow Growth  Growth has slowed, with the bourse reporting a 1 percent
increase in net income in 2011 as IPOs declined and trading
volume slumped amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and efforts by China to
cool its economy.  At $17.8 billion, Hong Kong Exchanges’ market value is
second in the  Bloomberg World Exchanges (BNWEXCH)  index behind CME Group,
which is valued at $18.1 billion. The Chicago-based derivatives
venue became the biggest exchange company on March 19, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chow “certainly has the capability, experience and vision
to be part of the whole Hong Kong board, even to the point to
lead the board to the next plateau,” Vincent Lee, an elected
board member of the Hong Kong Exchanges and chairman of
brokerage Tung Tai Securities Co. said before the decision. “To
be a good chairman, he doesn’t need to be a specialist. I look
forward to working with him.”  Jockey Club, Knighthood  Chow, like his predecessor, was born and raised in  Hong
Kong . He has also been involved with the city’s  Jockey Club  as a
steward since March last year. Arculli was chairman of the
organization.  Knighted for “services to industry” in 2000, Chow’s award
was  gazetted  on the same day as those of actor  Sean Connery  and
Virgin Group Ltd. founder  Richard Branson .  “My wife and a friend that I had invited to the ceremony
were quite excited,” he said. “I thought they were excited to
see me receive the knighthood, but in fact it was to see Sean
Connery. They were disappointed when he decided to receive the
knighthood in  Scotland .”  While Arculli was behind attracting companies from Prada
and L’Occitane to resource giants Vale SA and Glencore
International Plc, bourse CEO Charles Li has also strengthened
ties to China.  The exchange hosted the first  yuan-denominated  IPO outside
of China last year and plans to start offering yuan currency
futures in the third quarter. The company will spend HK$3
billion ($386 million) on technology upgrades over three years
to boost trading speeds, expand its derivatives business and
offer connections to mainland Chinese markets.  Chow declined to comment today on speculation the bourse
may bid for the London Metal Exchange.  LME Speculation  The exchange is seeking an acquisition loan to back a
possible bid for the LME, two people familiar with the matter
said on April 12. “Urgent action” is required to build
businesses in financial derivatives and commodities to meet its
goal of being a comprehensive financial center for China, the
bourse said in its earnings statement on Feb. 29. Arculli
declined to comment when asked if the bourse is bidding for
overseas exchanges at the annual general meeting yesterday.  “The future of Hong Kong, and the exchange, lies in the
combination of China’s high growth and rising economic power and
Hong Kong’s long history of international connection,” Chow
said April 12. “That’s the combination that will propel the
city forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  