-- French Bond Yields Test Hollande’s Economic Fealty
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-04-24T08:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/french-bond-yields-test-hollande-s-economic-fealty.html
Investors are steering away from
French bonds as they cast a wary eye on election frontrunner
 Francois Hollande ’s calls to ease austerity.  French government debt ranked as the third-worst performer
in Europe this month after Spanish and Italian securities as of
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The decline
in French bonds occurred in an anticipation of Hollande winning
the first round of balloting against President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
on April 22, which he did.  “It’s not time to buy French bonds,” said Tom Elliott, a
global strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in London. “The
 bond market  is still uncertain just how Socialist Hollande will
turn out to be, or whether he will turn out to be a fairly
centrist president.”  For Hollande, who leads in the polls for the decisive May 6
final round against Sarkozy, the jittery markets show investors
want to be reassured of his commitment to economic rigor in the
face of signs of crisis fatigue in  Europe  and at home. Hollande
plans to reverse Sarkozy’s plan to raise the  sales tax  and cut
labor costs. He also wants to renegotiate the euro area’s so-
called fiscal pact to include a commitment to growth.  A 1.2 percent loss puts French bonds in the same league
this month as Greek bonds, which declined 1.1 percent. The
premium France pays over  Germany  to borrow for 10 years climbed
to 141 basis points today, up from as little as 95 basis points
five weeks ago. In the period, yields on 10-year French bonds
rose to 3.1 percent from 2.9 percent.  Finding the Center  The cost of insuring French  government bonds  against
default is at the highest level since the start of the year.
Swaps on French debt cost 204 basis points, compared with 222 at
the start of the year and up from 156 last month.  Hollande got 28.6 percent of the vote in the first round of
 France ’s presidential election on April 22, leaving him to face
Sarkozy in next month’s runoff. Sarkozy won 27.2 percent.  “If we win, France will re-focus European construction and
put industry and sustainable growth at the center and Europe
will revive,” Hollande said in a speech in Brittany yesterday.
“It will be the end of imposing austerity everywhere, austerity
that brought desperation to people everywhere in Europe.”  The possibility of Hollande edging toward the center has
strengthened with the weaker-than-expected score in the vote by
Communist-backed Jean-Luc Melenchon, who immediately endorsed
Hollande for the second round. A strong showing for Melenchon
might have pushed Hollande further from the center.  “In the second round of a French election, the battle is
for the center,” said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at the
Institute of Political Studies in Paris. “For Francois Hollande,
there is nothing to lose on the left.”  Moderate Tone  “The market is already pricing in the possibility of him
winning the election,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy at Lloyds Banking Group Plc. “Many people expect him
to moderate his tone on what he actually does when he gets into
power. That’s the hope, but I’m not convinced.”  Hollande, 57, has promised to slash France’s budget deficit
to 3 percent of gross domestic product next year and to
eliminate it by the end of the next presidential mandate in 2017.
He wants to hire 60,000 teachers and public school employees and
5,000 police officers over the next five years, pull back the
 retirement age  to 60 from 62 for some people, and also rework
the fiscal treaty agreed to by European leaders in December to
focus on economic growth.  “You can argue that growth is what Europe needs,” Diebel
said. “But growth via fiscal spending or lack of fiscal
austerity can be a dangerous game to play in the world where
credit and credit evaluation increasingly matters.”  Poll Gains  Sarkozy, 57, has been dogged by a slowdown in Europe’s
second-largest economy as countries across the region were hurt
by a debt crisis that started in  Greece . With growth stalling,
French jobless claims rose in 2011 to a 12-year high.  In politics, Hollande has been the main beneficiary,
gaining the support of 53 percent to 56 percent of French voters,
while Sarkozy’s backing is at 44 percent to 47 percent, recent
polls show. The surveys were conducted after first round voting
ended by pollsters CSA, BVA, Ifop and Ipsos.  With the effect of the  European Central Bank ’s 1 trillion-
euro ($1.31 trillion) liquidity injection fading and signs that
turmoil in European sovereign debt markets are returning,
Hollande will have little room to maneuver if he does win.  “It is not unusual that politicians promise one thing
going into the election and then do the opposite afterward,”
said  Steven Major , head of fixed-income research at HSBC
Holdings Plc. in  London . “I think Hollande will stick to his
rhetoric for now. He doesn’t want to risk losing support. There
is a risk that people in the market are overstating their
concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  