-- LG Display Posts Third Loss on TV Demand, Missing Shipments
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-04-24T09:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/lg-display-reports-wider-than-estimated-loss-on-tv-demand-1-.html
LG Display Co. (034220) , the world’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, reported its third
consecutive quarterly loss after television demand slowed and
shipments of some products were delayed.  The  net loss  was 129.2 billion won ($113 million) in the
three months ended in March, from a loss of 115.4 billion won a
year ago, the Seoul-based company said in a statement today.
That compares with a 124.6 billion-won loss average of 23
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Worldwide TV shipments fell last year for the first time
since at least 2004, according to DisplaySearch, hurting demand
for the South Korean  company  that’s counting on 3-D screens and
mobile devices to return to profit. LG Display also was unable
to ship panels for the initial batch of the new Apple Inc. iPads
after failing to meet the Cupertino, California-based company’s
quality requirements, research company IHS Inc.’s iSuppli said.  “It was inevitable that the first quarter was going to be
bad because panel demand in  China  was so bad and they had
defects on the new iPad side,” said Choi Do Yeon, a Seoul-based
analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. “If the 3-D portion
increases, earnings will certainly improve, but we also need to
see how well they do on the new iPad.”  3-D TV  The company may return to profit in the second quarter as
global sporting events likely will spur demand amid low
inventory, LG Display said in the statement today. Higher-value
products, such as panels for 3-D TVs and mobile devices, will
also help improve profitability, the company said.  Delays in the development of some panels resulted in LG
missing its earnings goal for the first quarter, Chief Financial
Officer James Jeong said at a briefing, without elaborating.  “The level of difficulty for key new products has
increased,” he said.  LG Display likely will ramp up production of displays for
the new iPad in April, iSuppli said March 15. The company gets
about 2.1 percent of its revenue from Apple, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Shipments of all products will be normal
from the second quarter, Jeong said.  LG Display  shares  fell 0.9 percent to 26,350 won before the
announcement. The benchmark Kospi index declined 0.5 percent.  Operating loss, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative costs, was 178.2 billion won on sales of 6.18
trillion won, the company said.  OLED  Global LCD TV shipments were probably 206 million units
last year, falling short of an earlier projection of 211 million
units,  according to  research company DisplaySearch, part of NPD
Group. Last year, global TV shipments fell for the first time at
least since 2004.  The LCD industry likely won’t turn around this year as
supply outstrips demand and LG shifts focus to developing next-
generation TV panels, Jeong said today.  In May, LG will probably start mass producing 55-inch
panels using organic light-emitting diodes, or OLEDs, as
backlights, Jung Han Sup, a Seoul-based analyst at SK Securities
Co., said in an April 16 report.  The company is on track to start mass production of OLED
panels in the second half, with a capacity to produce 48,000 a
month, Jeong said. The company will switch some of its LCD
capacity to OLED production, he said.  OLED TVs are as thin as 4 millimeters (0.16 inches) and
produce images sharper than LCD models. LG Electronics Inc.
plans to start selling OLED sets this year.  Shipments of OLED TVs may grow to 2.1 million sets in 2015
from 34,000 in 2012, according to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS
Inc.’s iSuppli.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 