-- German Cable Operator PrimaCom Said to Be Put Up for Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-04-25T07:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/german-cable-operator-primacom-said-to-be-put-up-for-sale.html
PrimaCom (PRC)  Berlin GmbH, the German
cable company taken over by lenders last year after its parent’s
insolvency, is being put up for sale as German regulators pave
the way for consolidation among smaller network operators, said
people familiar with the process.  Investment bank  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  has been hired to
prepare the search for a buyer, said the people, who declined to
be identified because talks are private. Initial information may
be sent to potential bidders next month, one person said.  PrimaCom, based in Leipzig, offers television, Internet and
telephone services to more than 1 million households, mostly in
eastern Germany. Tele Columbus GmbH, a larger competitor based
in Berlin, is also being sold and has attracted interest from
 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and Unitymedia
GmbH, which is owned by  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ,
people familiar with the process said.  “This could be interesting for a strategic player as well
as for private equity companies,” said Jeffrey Vonk, an analyst
at ING, who estimated PrimaCom may be worth about 400 million
euros ($528 million) based on the number of connected
households. “A strategic player can afford to pay more because
they immediately get a better fit” by being able to market
directly to end customers.  Some potential buyers, including private equity firms,
might consider bidding for both PrimaCom and Tele Columbus in an
attempt to combine the assets, said one of the people.   Germany 
is set to grow faster than any other cable market in  Europe  as
fewer people in the country use digital and pay-television
technologies, said Guy Bisson, an analyst at IHS Screen Digest.  Antitrust Approval  Liberty Global in December won German antitrust approval to
acquire the cable operator Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH,
boosting the U.S. investor’s subscriber base to almost 7 million
after buying Unitymedia in 2009. That deal may lead to further
consolidation in the sector, the people said.  “The consolidation of Germany’s cable market is
continuing,” said Ulrich Trabert, an analyst at Bankhaus
Metzler in  Frankfurt . “It can be tough for the small operators,
because this market is very much about scale.”  Kabel Deutschland , which has backbone infrastructure in the
markets PrimaCom operates, could have an interest in the
company, because “it might offer direct access to its 1 million
connected households,” he said.  PrimaCom spokesman Mattias Persson and Deutsche Telekom
spokesman Andreas Fuchs declined to comment on a possible deal.
Representatives of Jefferies and Unitymedia were not immediately
available for comment.  Kabel Deutschland shares rose 0.83 percent today to 46.27
euros in early trading in Frankfurt, while Deutsche Telekom
shares slipped 0.27 percent to 8.54 euros.  Ziggo, Com Hem  The sale of Tele Columbus, which is also owned by creditors
after restructuring its debts, is being run by Rothschild, the
people said. The company could be valued at 600 million euros to
800 million euros, one person familiar said.  Kabel Deutschland, Germany’s biggest cable company, ended
takeover talks with Tele Columbus in 2007, two people familiar
with the situation said at the time.  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , the Dutch cable company owned by Warburg Pincus
LLC and Cinven Ltd., raised 804 million in an initial public
offering last month. Swedish operator Com Hem AB was sold to BC
Partners Ltd. last year in a $2.6 billion deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  