-- German Shipping Funds Die as Investors See Losses Rise: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-04-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/german-shipping-funds-die-as-investors-see-losses-rise-freight.html
When  Germany ’s  Container Flotten-
Fonds  filed for insolvency last year, more than 1,000 investors
who had been promised annual returns of as much as 15 percent
instead lost 37.5 million euros ($49 million).  The collapse of the fund, which was raised in 2005 and used
a mix of private capital and bank loans to finance four vessels,
is just one of at least 10 shipping funds that have become
insolvent in Germany in the past two years, according to the
Association of  Non-Tradable Closed-End Funds , as the maritime
industry was beset by rising fuel prices, excess capacity and
falling freight rates.  Shipping funds in Germany, with a total volume of 51.5
billion euros and almost 450,000 investors, are exempt from
corporate tax and thus can provide cheaper financing than banks,
according to the VGF fund association. They are fated to
disappear as a major financing source for ships, said Christian Nieswandt, head of domestic shipping clients at HSH Nordbank AG.  “The shipping fund market is more or less dead for years
to come,” Nieswandt said in an interview in Hamburg on April
18. “There will absolutely be further insolvencies.”  Along with tighter lending criteria and higher interest
rates at banks, the rising insolvencies may make it harder for
shipping companies to secure financing and probably will lead to
more loan losses at German banks that lent to the funds.  Thirteen of the world’s 19 largest shipping banks stopped
new loans to the industry amid an “extreme” vessel surplus
that cut cash flows and led to vessel seizures, Dagfinn Lunde, a
member of DVB Bank SE’s managing board, said on March 9. Some
lenders have also stopped promoting shipping funds to clients.  Falling Investment  Investments in new German shipping funds  slumped 49 percent 
to 506 million euros last year, from 997 million euros in 2010,
according to the VGF. That compares with 3.1 billion euros and
2.5 billion euros in  2007  and 2008, respectively.  Many shipping companies in Germany can’t service their
debt, according to the VDR German shipowners’ association. All
the largest container lines, including  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) 
and Hapag-Lloyd AG, posted losses last year because of high fuel
costs, oversupply and a price war on Europe-Asia routes.  Banks are also getting hurt.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the world’s
third-largest maritime lender, may see shipping loan losses of
2.1 percent of such lending this year, according to Morgan
Stanley. Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, the world’s
fifth-largest shipping lender,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the No. 20, and
KfW Group are other German banks involved in lending to the
maritime industry. Hamburg-based HSH Nordbank, a regional state-
owned German lender, is the world’s largest shipping bank.  Closed Fund  Shipping funds combine the investment capital of
potentially thousands of private investors, according to the
VGF. Unlike open funds or shares, an investment in a  closed
shipping fund  is normally time-limited and involves a specific
object, such as a container ship or a chemical tanker.  The average investment volume in German closed funds, which
also put money in real estate, airplanes and infrastructure, was
26,000 euros in 2008, according to the VGF. Investors’ returns
are paid out annually for as long as the fund operates. The
German funds pay no corporate tax, only a lower so-called
tonnage tax.  Many of the funds financed their ship purchases with a
majority of borrowed money from banks rather than just using
cash from investors, leaving them vulnerable when lenders raised
 interest rates , Christian Luber, a Munich-based lawyer at  CLLB ,
which represents investors in failed German shipping funds, said
in a telephone interview.  Little Equity  “It is like when you buy a house: the less equity you put
in, the more interest you have to pay,” Luber said, adding that
some shipping funds financed their vessels with 30 percent of
investors’ money and the rest with credit from banks.  Some funds have been unable to service their debt “for
years” and their ships may have to be sold, Christian Murach,
transportation finance head at KfW IPEX-Bank, said in an
interview on April 16. Such auctions may lead shipping banks to
write down the value of their portfolios if prices turn out to
be low, he said, adding that bank loan losses may rise.  As with the  housing crisis  in the U.S., many ships were
bought at the price peak, in 2007. After asset values slumped,
the size of the loan in relation to the value of the ship used
as collateral for the funding from banks rose.  The contract price for a new container ship able to carry
8,500 standard containers dropped 31 percent to 92.5 million
euros in 2011, from a peak of 134 million euros in 2007,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Panamax Value  Values probably will decline further, to 89.5 million euros
in 2012, according to the bank. A five-year-old Panamax tanker
was valued at 32 million euros last year, almost half of its
2007 value of 60.5 million euros.  More than half of Container Flotten-Funds was financed with
bank loans, according to Hanse Capital Gruppe, which created the
fund. It promised investors  annual returns  of 9 percent from
2007, which would then rise to as much as 15 percent. The fund
bought four container ships, all built in 1995:  HC Julia , HC
Klara, HC Laura and HC Maria. They were chartered out to
companies including Maersk, the world’s largest container line.  “The fund started really well in an extremely high market
in 2005,” Burkhard Tesdorpf, Hanse’s co-chief executive officer,
said by telephone on April 24. “The biggest problem for the
fund was that the three charter contracts ended in the last
quarter of 2008, exactly at the beginning of the shipping
industry crisis. In the end, the bank wasn’t willing to support
these ships anymore and liquidated the fund.”  Credit Refused  Atlantic Flottenfonds , which had invested in four chemical
tankers, is another fund that  filed for insolvency , according to
the website of the German judicial authorities of the federal
and state governments. The fund made the filing in Bremen after
banks refused to extend credit, CLLB’s Luber said.  Atlantic Gesellschaft zur Vermittlung Internationaler
Investitionen mbH & Co. KG, which created the fund and is owned
by Rickmers Holding GmbH & Cie KG, started 36 shipping funds
that have raised a total of 525 million euros since 1998,
according to information on Atlantic’s  website . The company
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if there are more insolvencies
among German KG funds,” Murach said. “Many funds have come to
the end of their resources, and banks may lose patience as well,
especially if they haven’t seen any loan repayments for years.”  KfW IPEX-Bank’s $18-billion shipping portfolio makes it the
world’s seventh-largest shipping lender. Still, it is dwarfed in
size by HSH Nordbank. At $42 billion, the bank’s shipping book
is almost  30 percent bigger  than the portfolio of  DNB ASA (DNB) , the
world’s second-largest shipping lender, and 50 percent larger
than Commerzbank’s ship lending book, according to data from
Athens-based vessel-finance consultant Petrofin SA.  “I don’t think the shipping fund market will survive in
its current shape, or come back to the same magnitude where it
was before the crisis,” KfW’s Murach said. “While some brave
companies are still trying to sell new funds, some banks have
already stopped distributing them to their customers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  