-- GM CEO Says He Prefers Successor to Come From Within
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-24T12:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/gm-ceo-says-he-prefers-successor-to-come-from-within.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson said he prefers his successor to come from
within the automaker to ensure a smooth handover.  “My preference would be for it to be an internal candidate
just because as you might expect, in any company in any
industry, it’s less disruptive,” Akerson, 63, said at the
Automotive News China Conference in Beijing.  Akerson, who took the helm in 2010, said he didn’t know
when he would leave the company. Under his watch GM retook the
title of the world’s top-selling  automaker  in 2011 and the
company is now counting on refreshed products such as the
Chevrolet Malibu sedan to help it rebound from a U.S. market
share that dipped to a 90-year low.  “When the  board  has had enough of me or I can’t do the job
to what I think is an adequate level of performance then I’m
gone,” Akerson said. Company boards in general should pick CEO
successors, he said.  The U.S. automaker is preparing a renewed Cadillac push in
 China  with plans to introduce new products, increase local
production and expand sales outlets as it aims to boost sales in
the country at least fivefold to match U.S. deliveries by mid-
decade.  China Dealers  GM’s dealers in China will increase to 3,500 by the end of
this year,  Kevin Wale , president of the company in the country,
said in Beijing today.  SAIC-GM-Wuling Automobile Co., its joint venture in the
Asian nation, will boost exports 50 percent this year, and will
probably reach 20,000 units,  Karl Slym , executive vice president
of the venture, said.  The automaker is starting major “knocked down” kit
exports to Egypt, India and  Colombia  this year, Wale said. It’s
also studying exports to other markets, he said, without
elaborating.  Akerson touched on a range of topics, from reiterating that
U.S. rival  Ford Motor Co. (F)  should sprinkle “holy water” on its
Lincoln luxury brand to complaining about Fox News coverage of
the Chevrolet Volt.  “A little bit of holy water wouldn’t hurt, I won’t back
off that,” he said of the Lincoln brand. Similar comments to
the  Detroit News  last year taught him about expressing his point
of view on competitors, he said.  Volt’s Battery  “This is the funniest industry,” he said. “Most
industries people are straight up with it. Here everybody slaps
everybody on the back, you just got to make sure they don’t have
a knife with it.”  As for the Volt, “it’s become a political football,”
Akerson said of the plug-in hybrid sedan. “One night I watched
Fox News talk about explosions. There was never an explosion. No
Volt has ever had a fire.”  The safety of the Volt’s battery was investigated by the
U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety after a test vehicle caught
fire three weeks after a crash test last year. In November, when
the fire became public, an investigation began that ultimately
found the Volt to be as safe as other cars.  As chief executive, Akerson is working to stem losses in
 Europe , referring to operations there as “a four-alarm fire.”  “It’s something we need to address,” he said. “It’s
something we have to resolve.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  