-- Good, Old-Fashioned Soot Traps Heat as It Fouls Air
-- B y   R e g i n a   C l i n e
-- 2012-04-24T20:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/good-old-fashioned-soot-traps-heat-as-it-fouls-air.html
Diesel engines and burning of biomass are responsible for the lion's share of
black carbon emissions in the United States, according to an EPA report to
Congress on emissions of the carbon particulates. EPA's report on black carbon--
the most effective form of particulate matter, by mass, at absorbing solar
energy--holds some interesting facts in regard to the largest U.S. sources. First, here’s the breakdown of total U.S. black carbon emissions that appears
in the agency’s  Report
 to Congress on Black Carbon  released March 30: As detailed in a March 30  World Climate Change Report  article ,
EPA
was charged by Congress to provide an inventory of black carbon emissions, which
is the soot that results from inefficient combustion of fossil fuel and biomass,
and its health effects. Black carbon in the atmosphere, while short-lived (several days to weeks),
absorbs large amounts of heat from the sun. And due to its dark color, when it
falls on glaciers and polar ice caps it absorbs additional heat and contributes
to the melting of those ice formations. Mobile Sources: No Surprise Here Not surprisingly, emissions from diesel engines (both on-road and nonroad)
accounted for 93 percent of black carbon emissions from mobile sources. The report said that since 1990, significant reductions have occurred from
the mobile source category, and the decline is expected to continue due to
existing EPA regulations that will be in effect through 2030. What About Wildfires? About, 60 percent of black carbon biomass emissions are attributable to
wildfires, and of note, 33 percent are the result of Alaskan wildfires, directly
impacting ice and snow in the Arctic, the report said. EPA stipulated that emissions from U.S. wildfires can vary greatly from year
to year, and that estimates are based on 2002 numbers, which is consistent with
an average of wildfire activity in the United States over a 10-year period from
2001-2010. However, the report found that emissions from biomass burning contain more
light-absorbing organic carbon, also known as brown carbon. How much of the
inventoried brown carbon emissions are light-absorbing is not yet known and more
research is needed. The report also said more research is needed to determine if black carbon’s
effect on cloud formation causes either a cooling or warming effect (although
most scientific findings indicate the latter). A Surprise: Natural Gas a Big Carbon Black Emitter? Surprisingly, the report lists natural gas combustion as the largest source
of black carbon from the energy/power sector. But hold on, the agency said its numbers likely are due to “severe
constraints on the data used to generate the estimates,” and it believes that
additional source testing and research will indicate that natural gas combustion
sources that follow good combustion practices are not a dominate source of black
carbon emissions. Other emissions of black carbon--from the generation of electricity from the
burning of coal and other fuel types--represent relatively small contributions
to the U.S. black carbon inventory due to control technologies currently in
place, such as baghouses and scrubbers. `Potential Interest’ Found in the `Other Source
Category’ Finally, black carbon emissions in the “other” source category, which
includes manufacturing, also is relatively small due to control technologies
installed to comply with EPA regulations for particulate matter emissions, the
report said. However, one “potential interest” for additional controls is existing
stationary diesel engines, such as generators and emergency equipment. EPA’s new
source performance standards for new engines, which became effective in the
mid-2000s, will continue to result in lower black carbon emissions, but existing
sources remain uncontrolled. In fact, as detailed in a March 2010,  article , a slew of witnesses before
the
now defunct House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming
testified that steps should be taken to reduce black carbon emissions from
existing diesel engines, which garnered support by some Republicans. Other categories in this sector with relatively high emissions include
charbroiling and fugitive dust. How to Decrease Emissions? To further control stationary source emissions, the report said deployment of
cleaner fuels, use of control technologies, such as diesel particulate filters,
and improvements in diesel engines can be a cost-effective way to reduce black
carbon. Expanded efforts for the prevention and containment wildfires also would
result in reduced black carbon emission, EPA said. Regina Cline  is Senior Web Editor for Bloomberg BNA's  World Climate
Change Report  blog .  Visit   www.bloomberg.com/sustainability 
 for the latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and
global business.