-- Google to Sell Android Phones Online Again After Flop
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-24T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/google-to-sell-android-phones-online-again-after-flop.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
largest search engine, will begin selling an Android handset
made by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  about two years after the
company ended an earlier effort to sell phones online.  The Galaxy Nexus will be offered on the new-devices section
of the  “Play”  service, which features Android applications,
music, books and movies, Google said on a company blog today.
The initiative should fare better than an effort to sell  HTC
Corp. (2498)  devices in 2010, because Play service users are already
looking for Android and Google services, said Jamie Rosenberg,
the  Mountain View , California-based company’s director of
digital content.  “We’ve come a long way since then; this is a different
world now,” he said. “We wanted to offer in Google Play a
great instantiation of the Google Play experience and the
experience with Google services generally on a mobile device.
Nexus has always represented that.”  Google, which makes most of its money from advertising on
computer searches, is stepping up its focus on mobile devices
and services. Android smartphones accounted for 51 percent of
all smartphone sales to end users in the fourth quarter, up from
31 percent a year earlier, according to  researcher  Gartner Inc.  While Google had offered HTC’s Nexus One online in early
2010, it closed that Web store after less than six months saying
it remained a niche service for “early adopters” and failed to
meet expectations.  The “unlocked” Galaxy Nexus handsets will cost $399 in
the U.S. and run the latest Android software, Ice Cream
Sandwich. They are designed to run on network technology that
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and T-Mobile USA employ, the company said. The device
also comes pre-installed with Google Wallet, which lets users
make purchases with the tap of a phone at some retail locations.  -- Editors: Niamh Ring, Cecile Daurat  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  