-- Google Service Moves Content on Hard Drives to Cloud
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-24T16:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/google-service-moves-content-on-hard-drives-to-cloud-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  stepped up competition
with Apple Inc. and  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. in cloud computing, enabling
users to store documents, audio clips and videos through a Web
connection.  The Google Drive service, beginning today, gives users
online storage similar to a hard drive’s, allowing access to
files from computers and other devices, said Sundar Pichai,
Google senior vice president. As much as 5 gigabytes of cloud-
based storage is provided free, while users may pay $2.49 a
month for 25 gigabytes and higher fees for more.  Google’s service helps the company expand beyond its search
engine and query-based advertising. Apple has a similar offering
called iCloud, while Microsoft provides one called SkyDrive.
Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , says its service
will encourage users to spend more time online with features
that, among other things, enable creation of Web-based documents
and sharing of photographs.  “Drive is something we intend to be at the center of our
users’ online experience,” Pichai said in an interview by video
link. “We see this as a primary place for people to go to
create and collaborate and live in the cloud across devices and
across applications and have their important data available to
them seamlessly.”  Google rose 1.2 percent to $604.52 in  New York  at 12:33
p.m. The shares had advanced 14 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday.  File Sharing  Users can put a Google Drive folder on multiple computers,
including those that run on Windows, Macintosh or Android
programs. Any document, photo or other file that is dragged onto
the folder becomes accessible from almost anywhere, such as from
an Android phone or tablet. Google says compatibility with
 Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhone will be added to the service soon.  Once a file is stored, the files can be shared with others
or discussed online. In addition, Google Drive is open to third-
party applications so users can create, open and share files
from a variety of other software programs.  Google aims to make stored files easily searchable. Users
can search by using a keyword, as when they use the search
engine. The word could be anything from the title of the file to
a term in the text of a scanned newspaper article.  The company may find users in the consumer arena, said
Aaron Levie, chief executive officer of  Los Altos , California-
based Box Inc., which targets businesses with its online storage
service. More than 100,000 businesses use Box.net and that will
be a more-difficult market for Google to compete in, he said.  “We’ve been building a pretty substantial platform and
base of enterprise customers over the past seven years; we think
we’re in a very strong position,” he said.  “GDrive, we think,
is going to be just an interesting kind of complement to the
market; we think it will be a very competitive product on the
consumer side.”  -- Editors: Jeffrey Tannenbaum, John Lear  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  