-- Google Was Never Told by Sun to License Java, Schmidt Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-24T20:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/google-was-never-told-by-sun-to-license-java-schmidt-says-1-.html
Google Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
testified that his company developed the Android operating
system using the Java programming language after partnership
talks with Sun Microsystems Inc. fell through and Sun made no
demand for a license to use Java.  Sun sought $30 million to $50 million and tight control
over Java’s use for Android, Schmidt told jurors today in
federal court in  San Francisco  during  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s trial
against Google. When deal negotiations fell through in 2006,
Google built the Android software for mobile devices using
aspects of the Java platform without infringing on Sun’s
intellectual property, he said. Oracle now owns Java.  Schmidt said that based on his understanding of Sun’s
licensing requirements for Java, Google’s use of the programming
language’s tools in Android without a license was
“permissible” and “legally correct.” He said Jonathan Schwartz, who started as Sun’s chief executive officer in April
2006, never asked the search engine operator to take a license.  Oracle is seeking $1 billion in damages and a court order
blocking sales of Android, now running on more than 300 million
smartphones, unless  Mountain View , California-based Google pays
for a license.  “Schwartz didn’t express any concerns about the use of
Java?” Robert  Van Nest , Google’s lawyer, asked Schmidt today.
“Did he complain?”  Technical Officer  “He did not,” said Schmidt, a former chief technical
officer at Sun who was the primary executive in charge of Java.  “Did he tell you that you needed a license to use Java’s
APIs,” or application programming interfaces? Van Nest asked.  “He did not,” Schmidt said.  Google plans to call Schwartz as a witness, according to a
court filing.  Oracle acquired Java as part of its 2010 takeover of Sun.
The  Redwood City , California-based database maker alleges that
Google infringed copyrights on 37 APIs -- tools programmers use
to create applications using Java -- and infringed two Java
patents.  Schmidt said Java, a free programming language, is useless
without the APIs, which are used to tell computers how to print,
sort and perform other applications. Google implemented the Java
language and APIs, not Java source code, which would require a
license, he told the jury.  David Boies , Oracle’s attorney, showed Schmidt e-mails
written by Google engineers saying the company needed a Java
license.  ‘People Responsible’  “Were you told in 2005 that the people responsible for
Android believed Google must take a license for Java?” Boies
asked.  “I don’t recall, but given the way the Sun licensing model
works this is actually not correct,” Schmidt said.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who is presiding over
the trial, said Schmidt’s answer wasn’t responsive to the
question and ordered jurors to disregard it.  Schmidt said today that Sun co-founder Scott McNealy, who
preceded Schwartz as CEO, saw the Android partnership with
Google as a way to boost revenue.  “He understood the benefit of having a billion users,”
Schmidt testified. “I took that to mean he wanted money.”  McNealy said in an e-mail shown to the jury that he
supported “taking a risk with Java” to develop open source
smartphone software. “I just need to understand the
economics,” McNealy said in the e-mail.  Witness Lists  McNealy isn’t on either companies’ lists of potential
witnesses at this time.  The trial, expected to last eight weeks, is divided into
three phases. Oracle rested its case today for the first phase,
which deals with copyright infringement. Google began its
defense of those claims today, and the jury is expected to
deliberate on those claims as early as next week.  The next phases of the trial will be patent claims and
damage claims.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  