-- Government Keeps Picking Winners, Losers on the Farm
-- B y   J a c k   H e d i n
-- 2012-04-24T23:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/government-keeps-picking-winners-losers-on-the-farm-jack-hedin.html
Here’s the first thing to
understand about federally subsidized crop insurance: In an era
when direct payments to farmers are increasingly difficult to
justify, crop-insurance subsidies are becoming the main way in
which public policy supports commodity crop farmers.  The farm bill negotiations taking place this week in the
 Senate Agriculture Committee  will undoubtedly enshrine insurance
subsidies -- and fund them -- at an unprecedented level. Look at
any chart showing the rate of growth in federal spending on  crop
insurance  over the past decade, and you will see what I mean.  Large corn and soybean producers that I know in my area
love this program. They would go to the mat to defend the
insurance subsidies as important vehicles of public policy. As
one agriculture researcher recently told me, current insurance
programs and federal subsidization levels have made it almost
impossible for an Iowa corn producer to lose money in a given
season.  There are many reasons public support for agriculture is
critical to rural economies, to the security and stability of
our nation’s food supply, and to the American public. The point
isn’t to argue that support should be eliminated or even
reduced; with 2 percent of the nation’s population producing all
the food, society has a strong interest in providing a safety
net for this tiny minority.  Farm Safety Net  But as a vegetable producer interested in seeing a
diversity of crops return to parts of the Grain Belt, I am
troubled by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s increasing
reliance on crop insurance as the primary element of the farm
economy safety net.  Here’s the second thing to understand about the issue:
Crop-insurance subsidies have the effect of picking winners and
losers among crops on the farm landscape. When the Agriculture
Department rewards four commodity crops -- corn, soybeans, wheat
and cotton -- with 75 percent of the public crop-insurance
subsidies, and when the absolute value of those subsidies is
rising at a double-digit rate for yet another year, it’s no
wonder these crops dominate.  With Agriculture Department support and big money so firmly
behind commodity crops, there are inevitably other crops -- and
producers -- that are left out in the cold. As a practical
matter, it is impossible for me to purchase insurance for any of
my vegetable crops, federally subsidized or otherwise. In fact,
in the first 15 years of its existence, my  farm  received not a
single dollar of federal support of any kind.  Decades of research have demonstrated that Americans should
be eating more fresh fruits and vegetables, and fewer processed
foods sweetened with corn syrup. My farm’s history of steady
growth has shown that there is a huge market for quality fresh
vegetables throughout the Midwest; the public is crying out for
locally and regionally grown produce. Why then is federal policy
so skewed?  There is a glimmer of hope in the farm bill negotiations on
 Capitol Hill  and lawmakers have an opportunity to address this
issue. The Agriculture Department’s Risk Management Agency
created a pilot whole-farm revenue program in 2006, allowing
farmers like me to insure revenue rather than crops.  The trouble is that a  report  released yesterday by the
Union of Concerned Scientists found that the program, as it
stands, has significant design flaws. The policy’s premiums are
too high relative to the level of coverage, making the policy
less effective. It’s also not available nationwide, with
Washington, Oregon and California accounting for almost 80
percent of the whole-farm revenue policies sold in the past two
years.  Yet, research funded by the  Risk Management Agency  itself
has demonstrated that a few critical changes to the program’s
structure could make it a viable tool to manage risk for farms
like mine. Congressional negotiators should include whole-farm
revenue insurance -- and the funding for it -- in this year’s
bill.  Fairness and Priorities  The crop-insurance issue is ultimately one of fairness and
public priorities. By directing so little money and attention to
vegetables and alternative crops, Congress and the Agriculture
Department are rewarding some farmers at the expense of others.
Many of these neglected farmers are producing healthful crops
for a part of the food economy that has been booming in recent
years: local food. But federal policy has the effect of
discouraging the production of fresh fruits and vegetables for
local and regional markets.  If the American public wants to see more and better fresh
produce options on supermarket shelves, it will want to see
growers like me step up and take risks to expand their
production. The way to do that is to correct the imbalances in
federal crop-insurance subsidies.  (Jack Hedin owns Featherstone Farm in Rushford,  Minnesota .
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on stopping  technology
sales  to tyrants and court hearings on  Arizona ’s  immigration
law ;  Margaret Carlson  on the start of the John Edwards  trial ;
Clive Crook on  conservative economics  in the age of inequality;
William Pesek on the  Reserve Bank of Australia ; and  Peter Orszag 
on a post-election  budget compromise .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  To contact the author of this article:
Jack Hedin at  jack@featherstonefarm.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 