-- Grainger Slumps as Citigroup Sees Amazon Threat: Chicago Mover
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-04-24T20:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/grainger-slumps-as-citigroup-sees-amazon-threat-chicago-mover.html
W.W. Grainger Inc. (GWW)  had its biggest
two-day loss in more than three years, on concern that its
revenue and profit growth will be crimped by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
foray into online tool distribution.  Grainger  slid  3.4 percent to $204.01 in  New York , resulting
in a two-day retreat of 7.2 percent that was the most since
December 2008. The shares have gained 36 percent in the past 12
months.  Amazon’s AmazonSupply website began operations yesterday,
allowing business and industrial customers to purchase more than
500,000 items, including abrasives and hand dryers. That creates
a new competitor to Grainger’s online business serving similar
buyers.  “Amazon’s entry has potential to slow Grainger’s online
sales growth and margin expansion,”  Deane Dray , a Citigroup
Inc. analyst in New York, said yesterday in a note to clients.
Amazon is the “800-pound gorilla,” said Dray, who has a sell
rating on  Lake Forest , Illinois-based Grainger.  Online sales make up about 27 percent of Grainger’s
revenue, and have been growing twice as fast as the company’s
U.S. branch-based business, Dray said.  “Grainger’s management has been questioned repeatedly over
the past couple of years as to ‘what happens if Amazon becomes a
serious online competitor?’” he said. “Looks like that day has
come.”  High-Value Proposition  Maintenance, repair and operations products such as the
ones Grainger sells are a service and relationship business,
according to Ryan Merkel, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in
 Chicago . Amazon’s greatest challenges will be breaking existing
distributor relationships, matching the high-value proposition
that professionals demand, and earning the trust of business-to-
business customers, Merkel said.  Still, “the Amazon threat has certainly increased with
this dedicated and improved website,” Merkel, who rates
Grainger shares outperform, said in a note to investors
published yesterday.  First-quarter net income was $187.5 million on revenue of
$2.2 billion, the company said April 17. Per-share profit rose
18 percent from a year earlier to a record $2.57, spurring the
company to raise its full-year target to $10.40 to $10.80 a
share.  Grainger isn’t concerned by the arrival of Amazon, said
Robb Kristopher, a spokesman for the company. Grainger has
expanded its catalog of maintenance, repair and operations
products about fivefold in the past five years to better serve
customers, he said.  ‘Highly Fragmented’  “This market is highly fragmented,” Kristopher said in a
telephone interview. “Over the years we have seen many online
retailers entering this market. Customers have told us they
really value the fact they can lean on us to help them navigate
toward more productivity.”  Grainger has 413,000 professional maintenance, repair and
operations products in the company’s print catalog, Kristopher
said in an e-mail. Through  Grainger.com , business and
institutional customers have access to more than 800,000
products.  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment on what the retailer expects from its new
website.  Amazon rose 1.1 percent to $190.33.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  