-- Groupon Is Said to Seek New Directors After Restatement
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-04-24T22:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/groupon-is-said-to-seek-new-directors-after-revenue-restatement.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  is seeking to hire at
least two new directors to its board as it attempts to regain
investor confidence following a restatement of revenue last
month, two people familiar with the matter said.  The largest provider of online daily deals aims to recruit
a new director who could eventually lead its  audit committee ,
said one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
plan is private. Potential candidates include chief financial
officers at publicly traded companies, the person said.  Groupon is responding to criticism that it misled investors
after reporting a “material weakness” in financial controls
and lower fourth-quarter revenue than previously stated. The
stock has dropped 35 percent since the March 30 announcement,
and Groupon officers, directors and underwriters were named in a
lawsuit filed by investor Fan Zhang in Chicago federal court
this month.  “New blood would be good, particularly if they have
strength in some of the areas they seem to be lacking right
now,” Edward Woo, an analyst at Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC,
said in an interview. “They need somebody with a skill set to
help them stop doing these accounting irregularities.” Irvine,
California-based Woo recommends selling shares of Groupon.  Eight-Person Board  New directors would add to an eight-person board that
includes founder and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason ,
Executive Chairman Eric Lefkofsky and  Howard Schultz , the
founder and CEO of Starbucks Corp. The company held an initial
public offering in November 2011.  “Companies who have gone through an IPO begin to look at
board structure, and Groupon is no exception,” Paul Taaffe, a
spokesman for Chicago-based Groupon, said in a telephone
interview. He declined to comment further on potential changes
to the company’s board.  Ted Leonsis , the current chairman of Groupon’s audit
committee, is an Internet entrepreneur, sports-team owner and
film producer. There are no current plans to replace Leonsis as
head of the committee, one person said. His partnership in
Revolution Growth, an investing fund that owns stock in Groupon
rival LivingSocial, has been called a potential conflict by
 corporate governance  experts such as  Charles Elson , director of
the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the
 University of Delaware .  Investor Lawsuit  Zhang, the investor who sued Groupon, seeks class-action
status on behalf of anyone who bought the stock from Nov. 4 to
March 30, and an award of unspecified money damages. Zhang owned
as many as 3,000 shares from Feb. 9 to March 6, bought for as
much as $21.75.  Groupon’s restatement raised questions about why its
auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, didn’t point out concerns sooner.
The coupon provider has been working with KPMG LLP to address
the causes of the material weakness, Taaffe said earlier this
month.  The company has struggled to get its financial statements
in order since filing for its IPO last June. Groupon abandoned
an accounting method for operating income after a review by
regulators, and later restated 2010 results.  Groupon  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $11.96 at the
close in  New York , reversing an earlier decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  