-- Gundlach Says Fed Won’t Preemptively Raise Rates
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-04-24T16:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/gundlach-says-fed-can-t-preemptively-raise-rates.html
The  Federal Reserve  won’t
preemptively raise interest rates to suppress inflation, said
 Jeffrey Gundlach , chief executive officer of DoubleLine Capital
LP.  “That is just not going to happen as long as we’re in this
debt morass,” Gundlach said today at a conference in National
Harbor, Maryland, held by the Investment Management Consultants
Association, a membership group for brokers and investment
advisers.  “With all of this debt building up, one thing that’s been
saving us is the interest rate on the debt has been
collapsing,” Gundlach said. U.S. federal  debt  has risen to more
than $15 trillion in 2011 from about $863 billion in 1980,
according to the Federal Reserve.  The Fed has held the federal funds rate at near zero since
December 2008. In January the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
economic conditions will probably warrant holding rates
“exceptionally low” through 2014.  Raising rates would be “like shooting yourself in the
head,” Gundlach said. Los Angeles-based DoubleLine manages more
than $32 billion, primarily in fixed income. Treasury 10-year
yields fell to 1.93 percent yesterday from about 4.64 percent
five years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fund Returns  Gundlach’s  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX)  returned 10.3
percent in the last year, beating about 99 percent of rivals,
Bloomberg data show. Investors deposited about $15 billion into
the fund over the last year, according to Chicago-based data
provider  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The fund held about 79 percent of
assets in mortgage-related securities as of March.  Some areas of the economy, such as  home prices  and wages,
aren’t currently exhibiting inflation while others, such as
commodities, are, Gundlach said. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values fell 3.5 percent through February from a year
earlier, the smallest 12-month drop since February 2011, a
report from the group showed today in New York.  Inflation was about 2.7 percent for the year through March
before seasonal adjustment, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  Investors may want to hold investments that perform well
during deflation, such as government bonds, in addition to
investments that will rise in an inflationary environment, such
as mortgages and natural gas, Gundlach said.  “There is a massive policy change coming in this
country,” to deal with the U.S. debt, which may include raising
taxes on the wealthy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in  New York  
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 