-- Gupta Judge Limits Release of Data on Second Goldman Tipper
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-24T19:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/gupta-judge-limits-release-of-data-on-second-goldman-tipper-1-.html
The judge presiding over the
prosecution of former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  limited the release of information about a second employee
of the bank passing tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, in New York, ordered that
none of the material turned over to Gupta’s lawyers about a
criminal probe of the Goldman Sachs employee can be made public,
and it can only be used to defend Gupta in this case.  The U.S. notified Rakoff at an April 20 hearing that
federal prosecutors in Los Angeles are investigating the
unidentified Goldman Sachs employee. In January, prosecutors
disclosed that Rajaratnam had another source who passed him
inside information, a Goldman Sachs executive Rakoff dubbed
“Mr. X.” The government said those tips weren’t related to the
crimes Gupta is charged with.  All material produced by the prosecutors in  Los Angeles 
that isn’t publicly available otherwise is “restricted
information and will be designated as such upon production by
the government,” Rakoff said in an order signed yesterday and
made public today.  Rakoff also said the material must be returned to the
government at the conclusion of the trial. The order was agreed
to by Alan Friedman, one of Gupta’s lawyers, and Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Reed Brodsky , who is prosecuting the case.  Illegal Tips  Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, is scheduled to go
on trial May 21, accused leaking illegal tips to Rajaratnam
about the bank holding company as well as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,
where Gupta was also a director. He pleaded not guilty to six
counts of  securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy.  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s lead lawyer, has sought information
from the government about Rajaratnam’s sources of illegal tips
from Goldman Sachs. Naftalis, who argues the “wrong man” is on
trial, has said there’s evidence that the “Goldman Sachs
executive” was caught on a wiretap leaking information to
Rajaratnam about  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Naftalis didn’t immediately return a voicemail message left
at his office seeking comment on Rakoff’s order.  Naftalis said at the April 20 hearing that he had been told
by Brodsky that prosecutors in Los Angeles were “conducting an
investigation involving another Goldman Sachs person.”  ‘Additional Source’  “We obviously would request of the government to get us
any and all information relating to this additional source that
Mr. Raj Rajaratnam had at Goldman Sachs of nonpublic information
as soon as possible,” Naftalis said at the hearing.  Brodsky gave Rakoff a copy of the letter he had sent
Naftalis informing him of the probe.  Such evidence about Goldman tippers may show one of
Rajaratam’s other sources was the real culprit and not Gupta,
Naftalis has said.  Rakoff at the April 20 hearing pressed prosecutors to
provide the defense with the name of “Mr. X.” He also quoted
from a letter Brodsky sent U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in
Los Angeles him to provide the Gupta’s defense team with
documents and other information.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  