-- IBM Boosts Stock Buyback by $7 Billion, Raises Dividend
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-04-24T20:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ibm-boosts-stock-buyback-by-7-billion-raises-dividend.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s biggest computer-services provider, boosted
its stock-buyback plan by $7 billion and raised its dividend to
return cash to shareholders as earnings increase.  The quarterly payout will rise 10 cents to 85 cents a
share, IBM said today in a statement before a shareholder
meeting in North Charleston,  South Carolina . IBM had $5.7
billion remaining from a previous buyback plan, bringing the
total available for repurchases to $12.7 billion.  IBM is increasing profit by focusing on higher-margin
software and services, a strategy that has allowed it to boost
 payouts  to shareholders each year for more than a decade. The
company’s buybacks have reduced its share count by a third since
2000, helping IBM lift its earnings per share and stock price
and winning praise from investors including  Warren Buffett .  “A key driver behind the increased share buyback and larger
dividend is that IBM’s software growth continues to grow at or
above market,”  Mark Moskowitz , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  San Francisco  with an overweight rating on the stock,
said today in a note to clients. “Today’s news signals no
pullback in its shareholder-friendly focus.”  IBM  rose  0.7 percent to $200 at the close in  New York . The
Armonk, New York-based company’s stock has more than doubled in
the past five years and closed above $200 for the first time
last month, factoring in stock splits.  Rometty’s Strategy  IBM is making progress in a plan to get half of its
earnings from software, which is more profitable than hardware,
within the next three years. Businesses and governments have
bolstered sales by buying programs that analyze data and project
trends. Chief Executive Officer Virginia “Ginni” Rometty, who
took over in January, is also seeking to expand in faster-
growing economies.  Rometty, speaking to investors at the meeting in North
Charleston, said she has met with more than 100 CEOs in the past
couple of months and visited countries all over the world to
expand the company’s business. Companies and government agencies
are seeking IBM’s help to tap so-called big data -- the vast
stores of information spread out across networks.  “That new generation of leaders is absolutely convinced
that analytics applied to this new big era of big data, will be
critical to their success,” Rometty said. “The ability to help
them capture that opportunity is what’s opening up IBM to many
new types of clients -- be that mayors, be that health-care
leaders or chief marketing officers.”  Golf Controversy  Formerly IBM’s sales and marketing head, Rometty, 54,
succeeded  Sam Palmisano  and became the first female CEO in the
company’s 100-year history. Palmisano, who had been CEO since
2002, remains chairman.  At today’s meeting, the first live question Rometty faced
was regarding a conflict between her and  Georgia ’s Augusta
National Golf Club men-only membership policy. A shareholder
inquired whether the club had admitted her as a member.  IBM is one of the sponsors of the  Masters Tournament , held
at Augusta National, where no woman has been offered membership
since its founding eight decades ago. Historically, the club has
offered a membership to the CEO of IBM, allowing him to don the
club’s green member blazer.  “I’m certainly very happy about our CEO and be anxious to
know if she’s a member of Augusta?” the unidentified male
shareholder asked today. “No response is required,” he added.  Rometty didn’t answer while the room was filled with
laughter. Palmisano, standing next to her on the stage, thanked
the shareholder for the “very kind comment.”  “We were all curious as to when that would come up,”
Palmisano said. “But thank you again. Can I have another
question, please?”  Buffett Praise  Buffett, who spent more than $10 billion building a stake in
IBM at his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , in February commended the
computer-services company’s former CEOs Lou Gerstner and
Palmisano for boosting investor returns.  “I can think of no major company that has had better
financial management, a skill that has materially increased the
gains enjoyed by IBM shareholders,” Buffett, 81, wrote in a
 letter  to shareholders of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire. “The
company has used debt wisely, made value-adding acquisitions
almost exclusively for cash and aggressively repurchased its own
stock.”  Contrary to popular opinion, the bet will do better if the
stock swoons for the next several years, allowing IBM to buy
back a greater percentage of the stock, Buffett said. That would
increase Berkshire’s ownership and share of future IBM earnings,
the billionaire said. Berkshire held about 64 million IBM
shares, or more than 5 percent of the company, as of Dec. 31.  More Acquisitions?  Rometty inherited a five-year plan that targets annual
operating earnings of at least $20 a share by 2015, up from
$13.44 last year, by growing technologies, acquisitions and
share buybacks. IBM is tapping a “gusher of data” through its
Smarter Planet and Smarter Commerce initiatives to achieve its
2015 growth targets, Rometty said in her first letter to
shareholders in the 2011 annual report.  The company last week raised its full-year earnings
forecast after posting a 7.1 percent increase in first-quarter
profit, helped by software margins. Operating earnings will
increase to at least $15 a share this year, IBM said April 17,
boosting its January forecast of at least $14.85.  IBM has set goals of adding $20 billion in new revenue and
spending about $20 billion on acquisitions, from 2010 through
2015, as it expands offerings to business customers.  The increased dividend and buybacks still leave IBM with
billions of dollars for potential takeovers or asset purchases,
said Eyal Ofir, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in  Vancouver ,
who has a hold rating on the stock and a price target of $205.  “They still have significant amounts of cash left for
acquisitions,” Ofir said. “This is a positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in Charleston at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  