-- High Court Can Bring Bush Immigration Plan Back From Dead
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-24T23:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/high-court-can-bring-bush-immigration-plan-back-from-dead.html
The Supreme Court hears arguments
today on the constitutionality of  Arizona ’s immigration law, SB
1070. The legal conflict, which centers on the duties and limits
of local enforcement of national immigration laws, is
provocative. But it is ultimately beside the point, given the
practical and political realities of illegal immigration.  As an especially vulnerable border state, Arizona endures
what it calls a “seriously disproportionate share of the
burden” imposed by the national paralysis on immigration
reform. Under the state’s previous governor, Democrat  Janet Napolitano , who now runs the U.S. Department of  Homeland
Security , the state declared that its inability to control its
370-mile border with  Mexico  constituted an “emergency.”  Arizona’s problems with illegal immigrants are ( mostly )
real, requiring increased spending for public education, health
care and prisons. The question now is whether the  Supreme Court 
will allow the state to compound its difficulties by affirming a
law that is unfeasible, politically unwise and economically
self-defeating. Given that other states, including Alabama and
 Georgia , have emulated Arizona’s approach, the court’s answer is
sure to reverberate.  According to the Obama administration, Arizona’s “papers,
please” policy, which adds state penalties to immigration
enforcement, violates the Constitution by running roughshod over
federal prerogatives: If every state can set its own course on
immigration, chaos will ensue. This reasoning cannot be
dismissed. The emergence of wildly divergent enforcement methods
subverts the national character of immigration law. What is to
prevent another state -- or a municipality -- from declaring
itself Arizona’s polar opposite, with a promise of lax
enforcement and minimal cooperation with federal officials?  Blocking Implementation  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 9th Circuit  affirmed  a
lower court ruling blocking implementation of four specific
provisions of the Arizona law, including the requirement that
local law enforcement officials make a “reasonable attempt” to
verify the immigration status of people whom they “reasonably
suspect” of being in the country illegally.  The court found the state’s argument unconvincing. It’s
hard to fathom how a local police department is supposed to
master the intricacies of U.S. immigration law while
simultaneously performing its public safety duties. There are an
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the U.S., yet they
make up only a fraction of noncitizens inside the country in the
course of a year. In 2010, more than 46 million noncitizens --
tourists, students, seasonal workers, others -- were lawfully in
the U.S. on various visas. Requiring local police to sort
through the muddle would divert untold hours from the work they
are trained to do.  In addition, the law remains an invitation to ethnic
profiling. Even the most fair-minded and conscientious law
enforcement officer would be inclined to use skin color or
similar traits when assessing whom to “reasonably suspect.”  For these and other reasons, the Supreme Court should
uphold the 9th Circuit’s ruling in Arizona v.  United States .  No matter how the court rules, the conflict in Arizona, as
elsewhere, will only be resolved in the political arena.
Although recent history isn’t encouraging, there is reason for
hope. As the Pew Hispanic Center  reported  this week, the flow of
undocumented immigrants into the U.S. has sharply declined, and
the number of people returning to their countries of origin,
Mexico chief among them, has increased. In the past three years
the Obama administration has deported more than 1 million
undocumented immigrants -- a record. Arizona’s law fits
 awkwardly  with these facts.  Rubio’s Role  The  Republican Party , the main force behind the Arizona law
and its ilk, seems bound to reconsider. Its all-but-certain
presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney , has recently made a point of
appearing with Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida . Arguably the
Republicans’ brightest Hispanic prospect, Rubio is growing more
 vocal  about a softer stance on immigrants. Meanwhile,
agricultural interests in states like Alabama and Georgia, where
crops have rotted in the field for lack of immigrant labor, have
sought to blunt the harshest elements of their states’ laws.
Eventually, the demographic realities of an aging population
will encourage a reassessment of the value of young immigrants.  A final thought: President  George W. Bush  rightly
championed comprehensive reform that would have legalized much
of the undocumented population over time while increasing border
security. Regardless of how the court rules on Arizona’s law,
that is still the right approach.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on stopping  technology
sales  to tyrants;  Margaret Carlson  on the start of the John
Edwards  trial ; Clive Crook on  conservative economics  in the age
of inequality; William Pesek on the  Reserve Bank of Australia ;
 Peter Orszag  on a post-election  budget compromise ; and Jack
Hedin on U.S.  crop insurance  subsidies.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 