-- Immigration Case Should Prod U.S. Action, Arizonans Say
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-04-24T13:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/illegal-immigration-case-should-prod-u-s-to-act-arizonans-say.html
Arizona  business and political
leaders say the U.S. Supreme Court’s consideration of the
state’s illegal-immigration crackdown should prompt more
sweeping change: a federal overhaul of how the government
polices the border and handles undocumented residents.  The justices tomorrow will hear arguments on whether a
measure known as Senate Bill 1070 goes too far by requiring law
officers to check the status of those they suspect are in the
U.S. illegally, and to arrest those they believe eligible to be
deported.  Fallout from the 2010 law, which sparked boycotts and
charges of racism, shows that federal action is needed, said
Todd Sanders, president and chief executive officer of the
Greater Phoenix Chamber of Commerce. People on both sides of the
issue say that no matter what the court decides, they want
Congress to secure the U.S.- Mexico  border, create a guest-worker
program and find pathways to legal status for some long-time
residents.  “There are enough people out there talking about the need
for a national solution so it will spur the folks at the
congressional level to take a hard look at it and make realistic
suggestions,” Sanders said.  During the last four decades, 12 million immigrants came to
the U.S. from Mexico, most illegally, according to a report
released today by the Pew Hispanic Center in  Washington , a
nonpartisan research group. Net Mexican migration to the U.S.
has now stopped and may have reversed, the report found.  ‘No Answer’  “Senate Bill 1070 doesn’t solve the problem,” said
Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, 67, a Republican who signed the
law, in an April 19 interview. “We need to address those
issues. How we address them, I have no answer for you.”  The high court probably will rule by the end of June in a
decision that will lay out how far states can go in passing
immigration rules. The decision may affect similar measures in
 Georgia ,  South Carolina ,  Alabama  and  Utah .  The Obama administration argues that the Arizona law, much
of which hasn’t taken effect because of legal challenges, would
intrude on the federal government’s exclusive power over
immigration. While states may help the U.S. government enforce
those laws, Arizona is interfering, the administration says.  Arizona contends that it has the right to tackle a law-
enforcement matter that the national government has failed to
address. President  Barack Obama ’s Republican challengers have
said his administration hasn’t done enough to secure the nearly
2,000-mile (3,200-kilometer) border with Mexico.  Failure of Legislation  Obama in 2008 called for an overhaul of immigration law,
including a path to citizenship for undocumented workers. He
called the failure of the Dream Act “maybe my biggest
disappointment.” It would have provided permanent residency to
most college graduates and military veterans who arrived as
children illegally.  During the presidency of  George W. Bush , bipartisan
measures to add security to the U.S.-Mexico border, increase the
number of guest workers and provide a path to legal status
failed in Congress.  Congressional action is unlikely until after the election,
said William A. Galston, a senior fellow at the Washington-based
 Brookings Institution , a research organization. The influence of
the  Tea Party  has made it difficult for Republicans to
compromise with Democrats, he said.  “One certainly hopes that whatever the court does,
Congress will feel compelled to act,” Galston said.  Arizona Boycotts  After the law passed, boycotts of Arizona called by groups
including the National Council of La Raza, a Washington-based
Hispanic civil-rights organization, cost the state conventions
and contracts. Dozens of protests also have been held in the
state since the law was approved, and a march is planned in
Phoenix tomorrow.  Civil-rights groups have filed legal challenges, saying the
law will lead to racial profiling by police and the harassment
of Hispanic citizens.  “Regardless of what the court does, Congress is going to
have to act,” said Todd Landfried, executive director of
Arizona Employers for Immigration Reform, a group formed in 2007
whose 350 members include  Arizona State University ,  KB Home (KBH)  and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Arizona has been at the forefront of immigration policy
fights for more than a decade. Brewer blames the federal
government’s increased border enforcement in California and
 Texas  in the mid-1990s for pushing more migrant traffic through
the state and turning its 368-mile (592-kilometer) border with
Mexico into a deadly desert gateway.  Identification at Polls  In 2004, Arizona became the first state to pass a law
requiring voters to present identification at the polls. A
provision requiring proof of citizenship to register to vote by
mail was struck down by an 11-judge panel of the San Francisco-
based  U.S. Court of Appeals  on April 17.  State voters have passed measures banning benefits, in-
state tuition and bail for undocumented migrants. In 2007, then-
Governor Janet Napolitano, a Democrat who is now U.S. Homeland
Security secretary, signed legislation that requires employers
to confirm workers’ eligibility for employment using federal
databases. It threatens those who hire illegal workers with loss
of licenses.  This measure, called “a model” by Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  during a Feb. 22 debate in Mesa, Arizona,
was upheld by the  Supreme Court  in May.  ‘Secure Border’  “From the time that employer sanctions were introduced and
passed in 2007, through SB 1070, the entire mantra was, ‘We have
to do this because the federal government isn’t doing its
job,’” Landfried, 55, said.  Brewer said she signed the immigration law because of
federal failures.  “We wouldn’t have Senate Bill 1070 if we would have had a
secure border,” she said. “It is not just the present
administration that hasn’t done it. It’s the previous
administration and the previous administration prior and back to
 Ronald Reagan  when he let everybody stay, and amnesty was
granted but the border wasn’t secured.”  Brewer has said border security must come before
immigration reform. She said that she is grateful for an
increase in federal detentions and deportations during the past
year -- and that more should be done to stop illegal entrants.  The U.S. deported 396,906 illegal  immigrants  in the fiscal
year ending Sept. 30, a record, according to U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement.  Arizona’s Unauthorized Immigrants  Arizona’s population of unauthorized immigrants fell to
360,000 in 2011 from 560,000 in 2008, according to the Homeland
Security Department.  Lisa Urias, co-founder of the Real Arizona Coalition, a
joint effort started last year by business and civil rights
groups to rebuild the state’s image and foster fruitful
conversations about federal reform, said SB 1070 galvanized the
business community and encouraged more cooperation. Measures
that would have required schools and hospitals to report
undocumented immigrants died after opposition from business
leaders.  “There are always good things that come out of crisis,”
Urias, 49, said in a telephone interview. “I do believe SB 1070
was a crisis point for Arizona with this collide of political
ideals.”  The case is Arizona v.  United States , 11-182.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  