-- Illinois Taxpayers Penalized by Unpaid-Bill Backlog: Muni Credit
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/illinois-taxpayers-penalized-by-unpaid-bill-backlog-muni-credit.html
Illinois  residents, whose income
taxes rose by a record last year to help close a  budget deficit ,
are paying the price again for the state’s fiscal mismanagement.  With its pile of unpaid bills growing about 30 percent this
year, the weakest pension-funding ratio among states and falling
federal aid, Illinois and its municipalities are paying a
penalty above AAA debt that’s twice their  five-year average .  Illinois plans to issue $1.8 billion of debt as soon as
next week, yet asset managers such as Schroder Investment
Management North America and BNY Mellon Wealth Management said
they’re reluctant to buy.  “We’re not going to participate in this sale because we
think the  credit quality  could get worse before it gets
better,” said Eric Friedland, head of municipal credit research
in New York for Schroder, which oversees $2 billion of munis.  Illinois state- and local-government bonds yield about 3.72
percent on average for 10-year maturities, or 1.66 percentage
points more than AAA debt,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The
gap is more than double the average since 2007. The extra yield
for issuers from California, with a lower  Standard & Poor’s 
credit grade, is within 0.05 percentage point of the average.
The two have the lowest credit marks among states.  12-Month Return  The extra yield helped bonds from Illinois beat the $3.7
trillion muni market in the past six months, 6.5 percent to 5.6
percent, according to Barclays Capital indexes tracking interest
and price changes.  S&P may cut Illinois’s rating from A+, fifth highest, by
multiple levels “if there is no progress on structural budget
solutions and if Illinois does not address the significant
pension liabilities and associated cost pressure,” the company
said last week.  California  is graded A-, two steps lower, and
S&P said in February the state may get a higher rating if
revenue comes closer to Governor  Jerry Brown ’s projections.  While revenue from personal and corporate taxes grew last
quarter, “Illinois’ financial position has not improved,”
Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka said in a report yesterday. Unpaid
bills rose by $1.3 billion to $5.6 billion since Dec. 31 and
exceed $9 billion when including obligations such as Medicaid.  The Democratic-controlled General Assembly passed the 67
percent boost in income taxes in January 2011 and raised
corporate income taxes 46 percent to help plug a projected $13
billion budget deficit.  ‘Credit Concerns’  “We have more credit concerns about Illinois than any
other state, including California,” said David Litvack, senior
tax-exempt research analyst at New York-based U.S. Trust, a unit
of Bank of America Corp., in an interview. “We are cognizant
that those are temporary,” he said of last year’s tax boosts.  Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  last week proposed a
voluntary 3 percent increase in pension contributions from
current employees and lower cost-of-living increases for
retirees.  “The comptroller’s report stresses the need to fix these
challenges and fix them now,”  Kelly Kraft , a spokesman for
Quinn, said in an e-mail.  In fiscal 2010, Illinois had the lowest-funded state
pension in the U.S., with assets equal to 45.4 percent of
projected obligations, Bloomberg data show.  Investors aren’t convinced the state will act to shrink
that deficit.  ‘Guilt by Association’  “We’re not buying long-term Illinois anything, because of
guilt by association,” said John Flahive, senior vice president
and director of fixed income at BNY Mellon Wealth Management in
 Boston , which manages $22 billion of munis. “If we’re going to
own it, we’re going to own it down the curve, predominantly
inside of 10 years.”  Illinois sold $575 million of tax-exempt general-obligation
bonds in March, with a 10-year part yielding 3.56 percent. That
was 1.39 percentage points more than  top-rated debt , according
to a Bloomberg Fair Value index. That difference increased 25
percent from when the state sold debt in January.  At next week’s sale, Illinois may price bonds maturing in
seven years or longer to yield as much as 1.70 percentage points
above top-rated debt, said Tom Boylen, a trader at Chicago-based
Performance Trust Capital Partners. That’s similar to where the
securities have been trading, he said.  Following are pending sales:  LOUISIANA plans to sell $515 million in tax-exempt revenue
bonds as soon as next week, according to an offering document.
The debt will be used to refund securities and will be backed by
gasoline and fuel taxes, the statement said. Moody’s Investors
Service rates the bonds Aa1, second-highest. (Added April 24)  CENTRAL PLAINS ENERGY PROJECT will sell about $609 million
in tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as next week. The proceeds
will be used to purchase a 30-year supply of natural gas from J.
Aron & Co. A group of utilities and municipalities in  Nebraska ,
 Iowa  and  South Dakota  will take delivery of the fuel. Moody’s
Investors Service assigned the debt a rating of A1, fifth-
highest. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which owns J. Aron, and  RBC
Capital Markets , are managers on the deal. (Added April 19)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  