-- IMF Staff Says Orderly Bank Restructuring May Shield Taxpayers
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-24T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/imf-staff-says-orderly-bank-restructuring-may-shield-taxpayers.html
The restructuring of a bank’s
balance sheet in an orderly way may mitigate risks and protect
taxpayers from exposure to bank losses posed by too-big-to-fail
institutions, the  International Monetary Fund  staff said in a
report.  “Large-scale government support of the financial
institutions deemed too big or too important to fail during the
recent crisis has been costly and has potentially increased
moral hazard,” IMF staff said in a report released today.
“Various reform initiatives have been undertaken at both
national and international levels, including expanding
resolution powers and tools.”  One tool is the resolution authority, or a “bail-in,” to
restructure the liabilities of a distressed bank and “mitigate
the systemic risks associated with disorderly liquidations,
reduce deleveraging pressures, and preserve asset values that
might otherwise be lost in a liquidation,” according to the
report. Such restructuring could include writing down the bank’s
unsecured debt and possibly converting it into equity.  Global watchdogs are seeking ways to prevent any repeat of
the government rescues of lenders that were judged necessary
following the September 2008 bankruptcy filing of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The  Financial Stability Board , which
brings together officials from the Group of 20 countries, the
U.K. and the European Commission are working on bail-in
proposals, the report said.  “The design and implementation of a bail-in power,
however, need to take into careful consideration its potential
market impact and its implications for financial stability,”
the report said. “It is especially important that the
triggering of a bail-in power is not perceived by the market as
a sign of the concerned institution’s non-viability.”  In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act requires firms deemed
systemically important to file plans with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the  Federal Reserve  setting out how they
could be resolved if they should collapse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  