-- India Court Delays Phone Permits Cancellation by 3 Months
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-04-24T11:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/india-court-delays-phone-permits-cancellation-by-3-months.html
India’s  Supreme Court  postponed by
three months the deadline for cancellation of 122 mobile-phone
licenses to Sept. 7 and said the government must complete its
auction of the wireless airwaves within that time.  “If you file for any further direction, we will impose a
fine because you will be wasting the court’s time,” Supreme
Court Judge G.S. Singhvi said today, rejecting the government’s
request for a 400-day window to complete the auction of the
canceled airwaves permits. The court had earlier set a four-
month deadline for the completion of the auction.  Companies including Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,  Russia ’s  AFK
Sistema (AFKS)  and  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , or Etisalat, will
now gain an extra three months to continue providing services to
their Indian subscribers, while considering their options.
 India ’s telecommunications regulator yesterday proposed an 11-
fold increase in license fees for the spectrum to offer second-
generation mobile-phone services, a move that the Cellular
Operators Association of India said could deter incumbents from
“reacquiring their spectrum.”  Today’s decision comes almost a month before the Supreme
Court’s June 2 auction deadline which it set in February as part
of its decision to cancel the 122 permits following a report by
the nation’s auditor that said they were sold at “unbelievably
low prices” in 2008. The sales may have cost the exchequer as
much as $31 billion, according to the report.  “The order comes as a huge relief to our customers,
employees, investors and all members of the telecom ecosystem,”
Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd., Sistema’s local venture,  said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Telenor spokesman Glenn Mandelid did not answer two calls
to his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  