-- Indonesian Bonds Decline on S&P Rating, Inflation; Rupiah Steady
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-04-24T09:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/indonesian-bonds-decline-on-s-p-rating-inflation-rupiah-steady.html
Indonesia ’s bonds fell, lifting 10-
year yields for a second day, after  Standard & Poor’s  held off
from raising its debt rating and fuel-policy shifts fanned 
concern inflation will pick up.  S&P refrained from joining Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings in upgrading Indonesia to investment grade, citing
“policy slippages” in a statement yesterday. The decision
wasn’t expected by  Bank Indonesia , Perry Warjiyo, director for
economic and monetary policy research at the central bank, said
yesterday. The monetary authority predicts consumer-price gains
will reach 4.7 percent this year if sales of subsidized fuel are
limited, compared with 3.97 percent in March, Warjiyo said. The
rupiah was little changed.  “Investors are now taking a wait-and-see approach on
Indonesian assets,” said Artanavaro Gasali, the Jakarta-based
head of global markets at PT Bank ICBC Indonesia. “The domestic
concern is still inflation.”  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
climbed one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.92
percent, according to closing prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association.  The government plans to prohibit vehicles with an engine
size equal to or greater than 1,500 cubic centimeters from
buying subsidized fuel starting in May, Evita Legowo, director
general of oil and gas at the energy ministry, said April 23.
Policy makers backtracked on plans to raise fuel prices last
month.  The rupiah traded at 9,195 per dollar as of 4:01 p.m. in
Jakarta, after closing at 9,192 yesterday, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 6.5 percent for a
fourth day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 