-- IPad Onslaught Sends Taiwanese Laptop Makers to the Cloud
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-24T06:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ipad-onslaught-sends-taiwanese-laptop-makers-to-the-cloud-tech.html
The world’s two biggest laptop
assemblers are seeking shelter in the cloud as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad
threatens the future of personal computers.  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382)  and  Compal Electronics Inc. (2324) , the
Taiwanese companies that together make half of all portable
computers, are turning to servers and the tablets that access
them. Revenue from building notebooks for clients such as
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  at Taoyuan, Taiwan-based
Quanta fell last year for the  first time  since the company
listed in 1999 as the U.S. PC market declined for the first time
in a decade.  Sales of the  iPad , cheaper and lighter than most laptops,
have forced a slowdown in the $233 billion PC market, pushing
the assemblers to chase orders from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  for servers and tablets. The Taiwanese companies are taking
a cue from their customers. Dell is cutting its reliance on PCs
and HP considered spinning off the business, seven years after
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  exited the market.  “The golden era for notebooks is over,” said Arthur Liao,
an analyst at  Fubon Financial Holding Co. (2881)  in Taipei, who rates
Quanta an add and has no rating on Compal. “Quanta and Compal
need to diversify into cloud computing devices like tablets and
servers if they want to survive and grow.”  The success of iPads and other tablets has accelerated the
growth of the cloud. Unlike PCs, tablets don’t store reams of
data, but rather rely on frequent access to remote servers to
run their applications, stream videos and music, and tap into
all manner of other data.  Cloud Computing  Sales at Quanta, the world’s biggest laptop assembler, from
cloud-computing products will climb 80 percent this year as
Google and Amazon boost orders, said  Kirk Yang , an analyst with
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Compal last year more than doubled the proportion
of its revenue from devices other than notebooks, said Jimmy Chen, an analyst with  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  in Taipei.  Sales of cloud-computing products, including servers,
tablets such as Amazon’s Kindle Fire and Internet routers, at
Quanta will account for 13.4 percent of revenue this year from
8.7 percent last year, Yang said. Analysts estimate revenue
growth will be 9 percent this year after dropping 1.3 percent
last year,  according  to data compiled by Bloomberg. Quanta Chief
Financial Officer and spokesman Elton Yang declined an interview
request.  Facebook, Twitter  “Quanta and Compal recognized a while ago that notebook
growth is slowing and they needed to look for new products,”
said Chen, who rates both companies hold and estimates that
combined they made about half the world’s laptops in the past
decade. “Moving into cloud devices is new and risky territory
for them, but it’s a move they need to make.”  Quanta’s shares have climbed 20 percent this year in Taipei
and Compal’s have added 12 percent, compared with a 6 percent
advance in the benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index.  With social-networking sites such as  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Google
and Twitter Inc. gaining in popularity and more people using the
Internet to buy and store music and data, demand for servers
continues to climb.  That same can’t be said for PCs. Global  computer shipments 
climbed 0.5 percent last year to 353 million units, trailing the
7 percent rise in sales volume for servers, according to
researcher  Gartner Inc.  Significantly, server revenue gained
even higher, at 7.9 percent, Gartner said, indicating average
prices increased during the year.  Reign of PCs  Computer prices have declined annually since 2008,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The average price on
Dec. 31 was $660.07, compared with $786.90 on Dec. 31, 2008.  Tablet shipments will almost double to 119 million units
this year, while computer shipments will climb 4.4 percent,
according to Gartner. Sales of smartphones, which also can
access cloud-based services, will climb 34 percent this year to
660 million units,  according to  IDC Corp.  In the past seven months, Google has announced more than
$700 million of spending on Asian data centers, which are large
warehouses that host its servers. That’s because increasingly
more users in the region are accessing sites such as YouTube
from handheld devices, Asia-Pacific President Daniel Alegre said
in an April 3 interview.  Amazon, the largest Internet retailer, almost doubled
 capital spending  last year to $1.9 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. The Seattle-based company boosted technology and
infrastructure expenses to support its Web services, Chief
Financial Officer Tom Szkutak said Jan. 31.  Apple Products  “The reign of the personal computer as the sole corporate
access device is coming to a close,” Stamford, Connecticut-
based Gartner  said  March 12. “By 2014, the personal cloud will
replace the personal computer at the center of users’ digital
lives.”  Compal, based in Taipei and lagging only Quanta in laptop
assembly, is the manufacturer of  Acer Inc. (2353) ’s Iconia tablet.
Compal boosted revenue from non-notebook devices such as
tablets, all-in-one PCs, televisions and smartphones, to 16
percent of sales last year from 7 percent the year before,
Masterlink’s Chen estimates.  That figure may climb to about 20 percent this year, though
the company’s decision not to manufacture servers makes Compal
less diversified than Quanta and more at risk from the notebook-
industry slowdown, Chen said.  Compal Chief Financial Officer Garry Lu, who also is the
company’s spokesman, didn’t answer calls seeking comment.  Besides servers for Amazon, Quanta is manufacturing the
online bookseller’s Kindle Fire. The device was the second-best
selling tablet in the fourth quarter behind the iPad, according
to DisplaySearch Inc.  Quanta also is the biggest assembler of Apple computers and
laptops, making it an indirect beneficiary of the iPad, which
has helped Apple lure consumers to its Mac devices from
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows-based models, Liao said. Apple
accounted for 24 percent of Quanta’s revenue in 2011, and that
should climb to 34 percent this year, he estimated.  “Cloud computing is their future.” Barclay’s Yang said.
“The challenge is that it’ll take a few years to get there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 