-- Iran Talks Won’t Halt Oil Sanctions, Societe Generale Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2012-04-24T08:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/iran-talks-won-t-halt-oil-sanctions-societe-generale-says-1-.html
Negotiations to halt Iran’s
nuclear-enrichment program will probably fail, setting the stage
for full implementation of U.S. and European Union sanctions
against the nation’s oil exports,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said.  A release of strategic oil stockpiles will probably happen
in June before the next wave of measures,  Michael Wittner ,
global head of oil market research at the bank, said in a note
dated yesterday. About 60 million barrels may be sent out with
only a “brief, temporary” lowering of prices, according to the
report.  “There will not be any quick resolution to the nuclear
standoff,” New York-based Wittner said in the report. “We
expect U.S. and EU sanctions, which take effect by 1 July, to be
fully implemented.”  The U.S. and EU plan new sanctions against Iran’s central
bank to cut off oil revenues, and the EU has agreed to embargo
purchases of Iranian crude from July.  Iran  denies that it is
developing nuclear weapons and has threatened to block the
Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for a fifth of the world’s
oil, in retaliation for an embargo.  Representatives from the U.S., Britain,  China , France,
Russia and Germany, known as the P5+1 group, are scheduled to
meet Iranian delegates in Baghdad on May 23. The parties held
talks in Istanbul on April 14 for the first time in 15 months.  Even if the framework of a deal can be reached, the talks
may fail on whether sanctions should be lifted before or after
Iran verifies that it has stopped enriching uranium, according
to  Societe Generale . “The result would be deadlocked, drawn
out, and probably failed negotiations,” Wittner said.  ‘Very Narrow Cushion’’  EU countries and  Japan  have cut imports of Iranian crude by
a combined 638,000 barrels a day this year, according to the
report, spurring  Saudi Arabia  to boost production to 10 million
barrels a day in February and March.  Saudi Arabia’s increased output means its spare capacity is
“only 1.6 million barrels a day, a very narrow cushion,”
Wittner said. “Saudi production will have to go even higher in
the coming months, as sanctions are fully implemented and as
refinery crude demand and runs increase seasonally, beginning in
May.”  A sale of strategic reserves coordinated by the
International Energy Agency is probable because the U.S., U.K.
and  France  want to bring down  oil prices , according to Wittner.
A drop in prices would be temporary because any emergency
release will “occur against a strongly bullish backdrop of
stockdraws and tightening spare capacity,” he said.  Citigroup Inc. yesterday also said an emergency crude
stockpile release is possible later this year.  “It is pretty likely that that the release will be timed
to start when the Iran embargo begins, around July,” Seth Kleinman, a London-based analyst at the bank, said on a
conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  