-- Irish Bank Evicts Pensioner After $155 Billion Losses: Mortgages
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-04-25T13:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/irish-bank-evicts-pensioner-after-155-billion-losses-mortgages.html
Brendan Kelly’s televised eviction
from his Dublin house hit close to home for many of those
watching in Ireland, where one in seven mortgages is in trouble.  Bailiffs dragged the shouting, 71-year-old pensioner away
from his five-bedroom residence in the affluent Killiney
neighborhood last week after he failed to keep up payments on a
2 million-euro mortgage ($2.6 million). It was a rare moment in
a country where  lenders  dealing with about 20 billion euros of
distressed loans have seized less than one percent of the
properties backing them.  “I’m here on behalf of the people of Ireland,” Kelly said
April 18 before being led from the property.  The country’s 10 largest banks, including four overseas-
owned lenders, lost more than $155 billion on soured loans,
mainly in commercial real-estate, in the past four years,
according to Bloomberg calculations. Now lenders and the
government are grappling with how to handle failing mortgages
while avoiding widespread evictions amid concern that banks may
need more money than they raised following a third round of
stress tests last year.  “It is right to offer people a way out through
restructuring, but that will create sizable losses for the
banks,” said  Michael Saunders , head of European economics at
Citigroup Inc. in  London . “Some of that has been allowed for in
recapitalization, but I’m not sure enough has been done given
the continued drop in  house prices .”  Real-Estate Bubble  Ireland’s decade-long  real-estate bubble  burst in 2008,
leading to a 67.5 billion-euro international rescue and the
nationalization of five of the country’s biggest lenders. The
government helped cover bank losses after the sale of more than
70 billion euros of assets to the National Asset Management
Agency, the country’s so-called bad bank.  Most of the mortgage debt remained on the books of domestic
banks and foreign lenders with operations in Ireland. By value,
late or restructured loans account for some 17.6 percent of the
113.5 billion euros of Irish private residential mortgages and
the amount is set to increase, according to the  Central Bank .  The four state-guaranteed banks were ordered to raise 24
billion euros, the majority of it from the government, after the
stress tests were completed. The central bank earmarked 9
billion euros for a worst case-scenario of mortgage losses over
three years, equal to 9.2 percent of all the Irish home loans
held by the banks. By the end of the first year, the lenders had
already set aside 5.2 billion euros of that amount to cover
losses, according to Stephen Lyons, an analyst with Dublin-based
securities firm Davy.  Average Irish Homebuyer  So far, banks have been reluctant to resolve defaulted
mortgages through foreclosures and repossessions and the
government has pushed for solutions that keep people in their
homes.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  was quick to distinguish
Kelly’s case from the average Irish homebuyer. Speaking two days
after the eviction, he pointed out that Kelly is a professional
landlord with numerous properties.  While the government “has pledged as far as possible to
keep people in their homes,” it has made no promise to those
like the Kellys with “21 different homes.”  The Irish Times reported April 20 that the Kellys bought 21
properties over the past two decades.  At the end of 2011, Irish banks held just 895 owner-
occupied homes, equivalent to 0.12 percent of loans in arrears,
according to the Central Bank. By contrast, U.K. lenders have
been holding as much as 12 percent of their problem mortgages in
repossession and re-sold a significant amount of properties,
according to Glas Securities, a Dublin-based fixed-income firm.  Irish Economy  That may prove costly for lenders as Ireland’s economy and
its housing market head towards the Central Bank’s worst-case
scenario, as residential values continue to fall and arrears
mount.  About 14 percent of private home mortgages in Ireland were
either more than 90 days in arrears or had been restructured as
of the end of last year, and that’s likely to rise according to
the Irish Central Bank.  Home prices  may drop as much as 70 percent from their 2007
peak, according to Dublin-based securities firm Davy. The
central bank assumed prices would fall 55 percent to 60 percent
when it tested the banks’ financial strength in March 2011. The
central bank forecast this month that  unemployment  will be 14.4
percent this year, above its 12.7 percent base estimate in the
 stress test  and below the worst-case forecast of 15.8 percent.  “We’re migrating towards the three-year stress-case
 capital loss ,” said  Michael Cummins , an analyst at Glas. “The
big issue is whether the banks will be able to return to a level
of operating profitability beyond 2013 that could absorb future
losses beyond that point.”  ‘Breathe Down the Necks’  Regulators are pushing banks to face up to their bad loans,
regardless of how they are resolved. Deputy Central Bank
Governor Matthew Elderfield on March 2 pledged to “breathe down
the necks” of lenders to make them identify and deal with
unsustainable home loans. State-guaranteed banks must make
“substantial progress” on working out the cost of expected
loan restructuring by the time a fourth round of stress tests is
conducted at the end of this year, he said.  “It’s too early to tell whether the banks will require
additional capital,” said Cummins at Glas. “But continued
property market declines and growth in mortgage arrears as
experienced over the last 12 months will undoubtedly raise
concern.”  Insolvency Laws  Some 11.7 percent of owner-occupier mortgages by value were
classified as restructured by the central bank at the end of
last year. That mainly involved extending terms, allowing
borrowers to pay interest only or adjustments to account for
late payments. More than half of restructured loans were still
in arrears at the end of December.  Though the previous stress tests assumed a surge in home
repossessions, they didn’t consider the effect of proposed
insolvency laws that would help borrowers obtain out of court
settlements with lenders.  “In the most extreme cases of troubled loans, banks
probably stand the best chance of recovery by doing deals with
existing borrowers,” said Seamus Coffey, an economics lecturer
at University College Cork. “That said there’s nothing in any
government proposals offering borrowers a free lunch. All the
current proposals would see the debtor forgo ownership.” Still,
bankers are concerned that the new laws may encourage strategic
defaults, according to John Reynolds, president of the Irish
Banking Federation and chief executive of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s Irish
unit.  Strategic Defaulters  “The unintended consequences of what are termed strategic
defaulters will have a very negative impact, not just on the
banking system but also on broader national interests,”
Reynolds said in a March 29 speech in Dublin. “In circumstances
where there are financial incentives to categorize oneself as
someone who can’t pay, it will be difficult to determine the
difference between someone who can’t pay and someone who won’t
pay.”  As Ireland seeks to make a full return to international
 credit markets  by the middle of next year, the government may
not want to spook international investors by forcing banks to
find more capital if needed.  Instead, banks could be allowed to use some of the capital
set aside to cover losses on asset sales as well as 5.3 billion
euros of so-called contingent capital to absorb bad-loan losses,
according to  Stephen Lyons , an analyst at Davy. The company
estimates that banks have 10 billion euros left to cover asset-
sale losses out of the 13 billion euros raised.  ‘Worst Case’  “In a worst case, the banks may need concessions from
Ireland’s bailout partners to delay their deleveraging plans to
free up some of this capital,” he said. “But at least it would
avoid opening a Pandora’s box of the banks having to raise more
capital.” The biggest lenders, including four overseas banks
with Irish operations, have reported 117.8 billion euros of loan
losses since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
includes impairment charges and losses on disposals and is the
equivalent of a fifth of their total loans four years ago.  Some of the largest losses have come at the foreign banks
that expanded in Ireland during the property boom.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  has pumped as much as 10 billion pounds
($15.7 billion) into its Ulster Bank unit since 2008, while
Lloyds Banking Group put about 8 billion euros into its Irish
business.  Bank Losses  Domestic banks have also taken a huge hit. Nationalized
lender Irish Bank Resolution Corp. Ltd., formerly  Anglo Irish 
Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building Society, recorded the
biggest loan losses over the past four years, at 35.5 billion
euros, including discounts on the sale of assets to NAMA.  The figure excludes Irish Nationwide’s 6.47 billion
euros of loan losses before its merger last year with Anglo
Irish.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , 99.8 percent state owned, posted
the second-highest level of loan losses over the four years, at
28.1 billion euros. The figure excludes 1.16 billion euros of
losses at EBS Ltd. before Allied Irish took it over in July.  The government has been forced to inject about 62 billion
euros into the six domestic lenders it guaranteed in September
2008, as the financial system came close to collapse. That
amounts to about 40 percent of gross domestic product, making
the Irish banking collapse among the most expensive in history,
according to  Alan Ahearne , who was an adviser to former Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan .  The size of the taxpayer-led bailout means many Irish
expect banks to be lenient when it comes to evicting owners,
even wealthier ones like Kelly. Members of the Occupy Ireland
movement staged a protest in his support at the Dublin Sheriff’s
Office on the day of the eviction. His wife, Asta, greeted
campaigners in front of her former house two days later.  “It is really a time for land leagues,” she said,
referring to a 19th century Irish political movement that sought
to protect tenant farmers against landlords. “I have very good
neighbors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  