-- James Murdoch Again Blames Subordinates for Hacking Scandal
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-24T14:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/james-murdoch-tells-inquiry-legal-risk-controls-insufficient-.html
James Murdoch , the News Corp.
executive whose leadership has been called into question over
phone hacking at the company’s U.K. unit, continued to blame his
subordinates in testimony to a media-ethics inquiry.  Murdoch said, under repeated questioning about his
knowledge of the scandal, that News of the World Editor Colin Myler failed to tell him in 2008 that voice-mail interception
was common at the paper. Myler and the newspaper’s lawyer Tom Crone have said they discussed the evidence with Murdoch.  “Their assurances to me were consistent, as I’ve said --
the newspaper had been investigated thoroughly, outside people
had come in to investigate, no evidence was found, and the
police found nothing,” Murdoch,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s deputy chief
operating officer, said today in London. “That was entirely
consistent with Crone and Myler all the way through.”  Murdoch, 39, and his father, Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , 81, are testifying over three days this week at the
panel set up by Prime Minister  David Cameron  to help quell
public outrage over phone hacking. The scandal, which widened to
include police probes of computer hacking and bribery, has led
to 45 arrests and the closing of the best-selling News of the
World tabloid, where the hacking started.  James Murdoch, who oversaw News Corp.’s U.K. operations,
also described his relationships with the country’s leaders,
including Cameron, as the inquiry probes the ties between the
press and politicians. He described a Dec. 23, 2010, Christmas
dinner with the prime minister and others in which he discussed
News Corp.’s then-proposed 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) bid
for the 61 percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group (BSY)  Plc it
didn’t already own.  ‘Tiny Side Conversation’  “I imagine I expressed a hope that things would be dealt
with in a way that was appropriate and judicial,” Murdoch said
of the government’s review of the proposed takeover. “It was a
tiny side conversation at a dinner where other people were
there.”  Murdoch also said there was nothing improper about e-mails
showing Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , who had to approve the
BSkyB deal, told the company in advance that he supported the
bid. Inquiry lawyer Robert Jay described the evidence as
indicating that it was “almost game over for the opposition.”  The sharing of Hunt’s opinion and other information about
the approval process was private and may have been inappropriate
to share given Hunt’s quasi-judicial role at the time, Jay said.  ‘Entirely Reasonable’  “It was entirely reasonable to try to communicate with the
relevant policymakers about the merits of what we were
proposing,” Murdoch said.  Testimony earlier focused on James Murdoch’s role in
approving a settlement for  Gordon Taylor , the chief executive
officer of the Professional Footballers’ Association. Jay asked
Murdoch if the 700,000 pound ($1.1 million)-settlement, the
first in a phone-hacking case, was reached because of the risk
it would hurt News of the World.  “This wasn’t a rehash of old news, but this was something
new,” Jay asked Murdoch.  Murdoch has said he didn’t read a 2008 e-mail from Myler
about phone hacking potentially being much more widespread than
the reporter who was jailed a year earlier. He said he didn’t
read it because it was sent on a Saturday, he had jet lag and
was preoccupied with his two children swimming in a pool at
home. “I’m telling you that was not what was communicated to me
in that meeting.”  Goodman, Mulcaire  Jay repeatedly asked how James Murdoch seemed to ignore key
evidence on whether phone hacking extended beyond reporter  Clive Goodman  and private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , both of whom
had gone to jail over the crime.  “Either you were told about the evidence which linked
others at the News of the World about Mulcaire and this was in
fact a cover-up, or you weren’t told,” Jay asked. “You didn’t
read your e-mails properly and there was a failure of governance
within the company. Do you accept those are the only two
possibilities?”  Murdoch responded that he didn’t agree.  ‘Same Assurances’  “I was given the same assurances that they gave outside,”
he told Jay.  Myler didn’t return a message left at the  New York  Daily
News, where he is now the editor.  Murdoch told the inquiry that he only read the tabloid from
“time to time” and that the publisher didn’t have enough
transparency when he took over in 2007, the same year the
tabloid’s royal reporter and private investigator were jailed
for phone hacking. He said new controls were put in place and
the scandal was believed to be contained.  “You didn’t feel it was necessary to get into any more
detail when your senior management team, at least according to a
judge, had got it spectacularly wrong?” Judge Brian Leveson,
who is overseeing the inquiry, asked Murdoch today.  The U.K. Parliament questioned the Murdochs last year about
how much they knew about reporters’ illegal activities. Since
the July appearance before lawmakers, additional evidence has
emerged in litigation by phone-hacking victims, police
investigations and the company’s own internal probe.  ‘Friendly’ With Osborne  The controversy has been a blow for the younger Murdoch, as
the scandal prompted News Corp. to drop the bid for the rest of
the BSkyB shares it didn’t own. It also led to his resignation
this month as chairman of BSkyB, the pay-TV operator he built
into one of News Corp.’s most  profitable  businesses.  He said that before the BSkyB bid was dropped, he also
complained to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , with
whom he is “friendly,” about the government’s review of the
deal taking too long and its referral to media regulator Ofcom.  “I don’t think there’s any evidence of an advantage,”
Murdoch said of the company’s relationships with politicians.
Approval of the BSkyB deal was sought “on the merits of the
business.” News Corp. ultimately dropped the bid as a result of
the phone-hacking scandal.  James Murdoch’s resignation as BSkyB chairman came after he
had moved a step closer to succeeding his father with his
promotion to News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer in New
York in March 2011. The role at BSkyB had been crucial for
Murdoch after he departed from other boards in the wake of the
hacking scandal to focus on overseeing News Corp.’s
international TV business.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  