-- JPMorgan Taps Urwin for Asia Pacific CEO, Replaces Abdelnour
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-04-24T09:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/jpmorgan-taps-urwin-for-asia-pacific-ceo-replaces-abdelnour-2-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank by assets, named Jeff Urwin chief executive officer of
Asia Pacific, replacing Gaby Abdelnour, who is leaving the firm.  Urwin, 56, will add the role to his duties as head of
global investment banking coverage, the New York-based firm said
in a statement today. He will move to  Hong Kong  from  New York  in
May and report to Jes Staley, CEO of the investment bank.
Abdelnour told JPMorgan last month he planned to step down this
summer to pursue personal interests, according to a March memo.  “Basing our global head of investment banking in Asia
Pacific further cements our ongoing commitment to the region and
its importance,” Staley said in the statement. This is the
first time JPMorgan’s global head of  investment banking  will be
based in Asia Pacific, the company said.  JPMorgan, the third-ranked adviser on mergers globally this
year, is second in the Asia-Pacific region after Morgan Stanley,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm has advised on
$24.1 billion of deals in the region this year, including Hong
Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s 1.3 billion-euro ($1.7
billion) purchase of Orange Austria in February.  Abdelnour was tapped to run the firm’s Asia-Pacific unit in
July 2006. Under his leadership, JPMorgan set up a securities
joint venture in  China , bought a stake in a trust and a
guarantee company, and established a locally incorporated bank.  Urwin joined JPMorgan from Bear Stearns Cos. in 2008, where
he was co-head of global investment banking. He also worked at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  