-- Juniper Shares Rise After Quarterly Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-04-25T20:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/juniper-surges-after-first-quarter-revenue-tops-estimates-1-.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , the No. 2
maker of computer-networking equipment, fell after reporting a
first-quarter profit margin that was less than the company had
forecast.  The shares declined 3.6 percent to $20.85 at the close in
 New York . The  stock  has climbed 2.2 percent this year.  Juniper yesterday reported a gross margin of 62.6 percent
for the quarter -- three months after projecting a 63 percent to
64 percent margin -- citing price competition and a glut of
parts purchased for new products. Low router sales also
depressed margins, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group.  “If Juniper could have posted gross margins within the
63-64 percent gross-margin guidance range, the quarter would
have been a ‘clean’ beat and the stock would be up about 15
percent today,” said Marshall, who recommends buying the shares
and has a $30 price target, in a research report today.  Margins can “rise quickly” with the introduction of
Juniper’s new  T4000 router , which is the most profitable in the
company’s product portfolio, he said.  “Many people are asking if it is ‘time to throw in the
towel?’” Marshall said. “We do not think so.”  Juniper’s fortunes are closely tied to spending by
telecommunications service providers, which supply more than 60
percent of the company’s revenue. Demand for switches and
routers from cable companies and Internet businesses is helping
Juniper bounce back from the market-share losses and order
delays that battered the company last year.  Revenue Beat Estimates  First-quarter revenue was $1.03 billion and profit
excluding some items was 16 cents a share, the Sunnyvale,
California-based company said in a statement yesterday. That
compared with analysts’ average projections for sales of $977.1
million and profit of 13 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  First-quarter net income fell to $16.3 million, or 3 cents
a share, from $129.8 million, or 24 cents, a year earlier, the
company said.  For the current period, Juniper forecast revenue of $1.03
billion to $1.06 billion, compared with an average estimate of
$1.05 billion, according to Bloomberg  data . Profit excluding
certain items will be 15 cents to 17 cents a share, Juniper
said, less than the average 20-cent estimate.  Kevin Johnson , Juniper’s chief executive officer, said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday that there are “still
significant headwinds in  Europe ,” and that telecommunications-
service providers there are “very cautious” about spending.
Still, he said spending by large U.S. providers has picked up.  ‘Dynamic Environment’  “It’s still a fairly dynamic environment,” he said.  Juniper controls about a fifth of the market for the
routers and switches used by  Internet providers , while  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest computer-networking equipment maker,
has more than 50 percent, according to ACG Research. Cisco is
dominant among large corporations, a market Juniper is trying to
penetrate.  Juniper has been losing market share to Cisco, said  Joanna Makris , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York, in
an interview yesterday.  “By no means have they found solid footing,” Makris said
in an interview. Cisco’s price cuts and newer products have
helped lure business away from Juniper, she said.  Juniper’s router sales to telecommunications-service
providers should be stronger in the second half of 2012 than the
first half, said Nikos Theodosopoulos, an analyst at UBS
Securities LLC.  “The overriding thing here is not so much loss of share --
there has been some -- but a bigger part is the target market
isn’t growing as fast as it once was,” Theodosopoulos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  