-- Juventus May Pay $40 Million for Van Persie: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-04-24T08:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/juventus-may-pay-40-million-for-van-persie-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Juventus Chases Van Persie  Juventus may offer as much as 25 million pounds ($40
million) for Arsenal striker Robin  van Persie , the  Daily Mirror 
reported, saying his agent has held talks with the Italian club.  Van Persie, who was named the U.K. Footballer Writers’
Footballer of the Year last weekend, could be offered a four-
year deal including a 5 million pound signing fee, the paper
said.  The Dutch player is also on the radar of other European
clubs such as Real  Madrid ,  Barcelona  and  Manchester City .  Reading’s Palace Raid  Reading may spend as much as 8 million pounds on Crystal
Palace players Wilfried Zaha and Nathaniel Clyne, the  Daily
Mirror  reported. Both may get selected for the British Olympic
football squad.  Fergie Keen on Hazard  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  wants to sign Lille
midfielder Eden Hazard, the  Daily Mail  reported.  “He is a very good player and has a lot of qualities,”
the paper quoted Ferguson as saying. “He is particularly fast
over the first ten yards,” said the United manager, who watched
the 21-year-old play against Lyon recently.  Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur are also interested
in Hazard, the Mail said.  Adebayor Exit  Emmanuel Adebayor’s loan spell at Tottenham Hotspur may not
be made permanent after the club’s recent poor run of form, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  The striker, who is on loan from Manchester City, had a
“frank exchange of views” with Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp ,
the paper said.  Redknapp had suggested earlier on in the season that he’d
like to sign the Togo player on a permanent basis but Spurs’
recent slump, winning only one game in the past nine, has made
him change his mind, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports
desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  