-- Juwi Talking to Companies for Renewable Ventures in South Africa
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-24T13:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/juwi-talking-to-companies-for-renewable-ventures-in-south-africa.html
Juwi Holding AG, a German
renewable-energy developer, is talking to companies about
partnerships to develop solar and wind power projects in South
 Africa , which is striving to cut its reliance on coal.  Juwi is looking for businesses that have clean-energy
projects ready for bidding and need help with their development,
Christof van den Bruck, managing director of Juwi’s South
African office, said by e-mail.  “South Africa will be a very important branch for us,”
said Jochen Magerfleisch, chief operating officer of Woerrstadt-
based Juwi. “The demand is very high and the resources are very
good so the government has to do something to support the
installation of new solar or wind plants.”  The country “could become a hub for Africa for renewable
energy and I think many players are looking very closely at what
 South Africa  is doing,” he said.  South Africa on Aug. 3 invited tenders to build 3,725
megawatts of clean power by the end of 2016 under its $15
billion renewable energy program. In December, the government
named 28 preferred bidders to build the first 1,416 megawatts.
It closed a second round of bidding last month, receiving 79
proposals. Winners will be announced May 14.  Interest is high by foreign companies to invest in South
Africa because they see the potential even though “very few”
local banks are investing in renewable energy at the moment, van
den Bruck said.  The country, which gets about 95 percent of its power from
state-owned Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., plans to develop 17,800
megawatts of renewable energy by 2030. Eskom is the only nuclear
plant operator in Africa.  One challenge in South Africa is an old infrastructure that
needs a large-scale investment upgrade to accommodate all the
megawatts in the pipeline, the managing director said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  