-- Korean Won Climbs, Bonds Fall on IMF Forecast, Spain
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-04-24T06:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/korean-won-climbs-bonds-fall-on-imf-forecast-spain.html
South Korea ’s won fell to its
lowest level in almost two weeks as political shifts in  Europe 
fanned concern the region’s debt crisis will worsen.  Government
bonds  were little changed.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered to resign yesterday
after struggling to clinch an austerity deal. French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of his re-election bid as
the anti-euro National Front won a record share of the vote.
Foreign investors sold $761 million more Korean shares than they
bought this month through yesterday, exchange data show.  “There is a cycle as to how sensitive investors are to
Europe’s problems, and it seems the market is more reactive of
late,” said Ryu Kyungwon, a Seoul-based currency trader for the
Bank of New York Mellon. “With overseas investors net sellers
of Korean stocks, we see more demand for dollars as they
repatriate funds.”  The won declined 0.1 percent to close at 1,140.80 per
dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 1,143.00 earlier, the weakest since April 12.  Exporters may sell dollars as the end of the month nears
and investors will be on alert for possible intervention to
support the won at levels weaker than 1,140 per dollar,Hong Seok Chan, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Daeshin Economy
Research Institute wrote in today’s report.  One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.75 percent.  North Korea  A North Korean special action squad will turn South’s
President Lee Myung Bak and his government into ashes within
three to four minutes using “unprecedented peculiar means and
methods of our own style,” the communist regime’s military said
in a statement carried by its official Korean Central News
Agency yesterday, without giving further details.  North Korea 
regularly threatens attacks on South Korea and its government.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent bonds due December
2014 was little changed at 3.47 percent, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show. Three-year debt futures slid 0.01 to 104.12 and the
one-year interest-rate swap was steady at 3.50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  