-- KPN Plans to Reach Job-Cut Goal in 2013, Two Years Early
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-04-24T11:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/kpn-accelerates-workforce-reduction-target-by-two-years-to-2013.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the largest Dutch
phone operator, said it will reach a workforce-reduction target
two years early after “making progress” with job cuts. Its
shares jumped the most in almost eight months.  KPN now plans to eliminate as many as 5,000 positions in
the Netherlands by 2013, when it has a “tough but achievable”
goal of cutting costs at headquarters by 30 percent to 40
percent, the Hague-based company said today in a statement.
First-quarter profit dropped 51 percent because of the increased
costs of reorganization as well as investment spending on its
struggling domestic mobile operations, KPN said.  “At the end of the year we hope to have achieved a
sustainable profit level in the Netherlands,” Chief Executive
Officer Eelco Blok said in a conference call today. Earnings and
 cash flow  will probably improve in the second half of the year
as cost savings and new mobile-phone subscription models will
start to have an effect, he said.  Phone companies such as KPN,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  are struggling with changing consumer
behavior as customers increasingly communicate with calling
software such as Skype or the WhatsApp messaging technology on
smartphones. In the Netherlands, competition may widen as the
government reserves some space for new operators in an auction
of mobile frequencies later this year.  KPN rose as much as 5 percent to 6.90 euros, the biggest
intraday gain since Sept. 6, and traded up 2.9 percent as of
12:34 p.m. in Amsterdam. That pared the stock’s decline this
year to 26 percent.  Net Income Falls  First-quarter net income dropped to 288 million euros ($379
million) from 591 million euros a year earlier. Profit missed
the 311 million-euro average of 10 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue and other income declined 1.4 percent to 3.19
billion euros.  “Investors are still counting on a dividend increase in
2013 and for this year the dividend is still guaranteed at 90
cents -- that’s what the market seems to be focusing on given
the weak results,” Jos Versteeg, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers, said by phone.  KPN may raise its dividend to 94 cents for 2013, according
to a  Bloomberg estimate . Operators including  France Telecom SA (FTE) 
and Telefonica SA have cut dividend targets.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and excluding restructuring charges decreased 12 percent to 1.12
billion euros. For the full year, KPN is targeting Ebitda of 4.7
billion euros to 4.9 billion euros.  Blok  predicted  at the start of the year that profit and
free cash flow will decline in 2012 as the company accelerates
Dutch investments to ensure “suitable” earnings.  KPN said April 16 that it has started a review of the
future of its Belgian mobile phone unit BASE, which people
familiar with the matter estimated may fetch about 1.8 billion
euros in a sale. The company said today that the results of the
review are “not yet clear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  