-- Krugman Slams Austerians, Pleads to ‘End Depression Now’: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/krugman-slams-austerians-pleads-to-end-depression-now-books.html
Reading  Paul Krugman ’s “ End This
Depression Now! ” got me thinking about “The Zax” by Dr. Seuss.  Written for children ages 4 to 99, the fable unfolds in the
prairie of Prax, where a North-Going Zax and a South-Going Zax
collide and stop in their tracks, each refusing to step aside.  “Never budge! That’s my rule,” yells one spiky-haired
beast. “Never budge in the least! Not an inch to the west! Not
an inch to the east!”  The Zax  game of chicken  resembles today’s stalemate over
how to speed recovery in the U.S. and  Europe . On one side stand
the  Austerians , as Krugman calls them: They are determined to
slash deficits. On the other loom what we might call the
Stimulators, who seek more  government spending  to create jobs.  Krugman’s own stance is clear. A Princeton University
professor who won the 2008  Nobel Prize  in economics, he’s best
known as a New York Times columnist who hews to the teachings of
John  Maynard Keynes .  “Now is the time for the government to spend more, not
less, until the private sector is ready to carry the economy
forward again,” he writes, seeking to light a bonfire under
policy makers.  ‘Magneto Trouble’  The U.S. is suffering from what Keynes called “magneto
trouble,” Krugman says. Our economic engine remains strong; it’s
just the alternator that’s kaput. Stimulus can provide the
sparks to get the car cruising again.  We’ve heard the argument before, of course. What sets this
book apart is Krugman’s readiness to address the anxieties of
the Right-Going Zax.  Yes, says the Left-Going Zax (taking a step to one side),
we shouldn’t minimize what a burden heavy government borrowing
can be: Consider Ireland. And, yes, excessive debt did cause the
crisis, he says, embracing Hyman Minsky’s explanation of how
insouciant leverage in good times gives way to panicked
deleveraging in bad.  Krugman even takes up the trepidation of people scarred by
the memory of 1970s stagflation (though he doesn’t mention how
neo-Keynesian efforts to suppress the business cycle stoked that
wage-price spiral).  Now, however, is the wrong moment to worry about all that,
he says. The U.S. and many other nations are, after all, mired
in a slump that has entered its fifth year.  About  15 percent  of the American workforce is unemployed or
underemployed, and things are even grimmer for the young. Youth
unemployment has reached 17 percent in the U.S., 28 percent in
 Italy , 30 percent in Ireland and 43 percent in  Spain , he says.  ‘Spend Now’  The suffering is gratuitous, he argues, citing the torrent
of government spending during World War II that dragged America
out of the Great Depression. Now as then, we need to “spend now,
pay later,” he says.  What would he have the U.S. government do? For starters, it
could give states and local governments enough aid to rehire
some of the workers -- including about 300,000 schoolteachers --
let go during recent budget cuts.  Another way to get people back to work fast: Restart
investments in roads, rails and water systems that austerity
measures delayed or canceled. And it’s time to get less timid
about debt forgiveness for the more than one in five U.S.
mortgage borrowers now under water.  Krugman is aware of the arguments against these proposals.
Sure, he says, the Obama administration tried stimulus with the
$787 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. It
didn’t fail, he says; it was just too small and too poorly
designed, as he and economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said at the time.  Morality Play?  He recognizes, too, that debt relief will be seen as
rewarding profligates. Get over it, he says: “Economics is not a
morality play.”  Maybe not, but economics does hinge on human behavior. And
humans hate unfairness, as today’s polarization shows.  The Zax who scrimped to buy their homes and save for
retirement are reluctant to bail out the prodigal Zax who
partied with fatted calves on the barbecues next door. The
prudent Zax also remain skeptical about the  Federal Reserve ’s
ability to restrain inflation.  Krugman argues that central banks should aim for 4 percent
inflation rather than 2 percent. Can the Wizard of Fed keep 4
from becoming 6? Research by economist William Barnett suggests
not. The Fed’s monetary data are so poor, he says, that it may
have inadvertently fueled the last two asset bubbles.  Cautious Zax also know that the government, come what may,
will grow, as Paul Samuelson noted in his classic textbook
“Economics.”  “Each period of emergency -- each war, each depression,
each epoch of enhanced concern over poverty and inequality --
expands the activity of government,” he wrote. “After such a
period is over, expenditures never seem to go back to previous
levels.”  The Other Keynes  As you can see, the two little Zax inside me are torn. If
the answer is “spend now, pay later,” let’s remember where
Keynes himself stood on the subject. Though Keynes is thought of
as a champion of cheap money, he also called for dear money to
choke inflation once recovery returns.  “Just as it was advisable for the Government to  incur debt 
during the slump,” he wrote in 1937, “so for the same reason it
is now advisable that they should incline to the opposite
policy.”  Will our political leaders remember that when the next boom
rolls around?  “End This Depression Now!” is published by  Norton  (259
pages, $24.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include an interview by  Manuela Hoelterhoff 
and  Jeremy Gerard  on theater. See more business book reviews by
 Jim Pressley .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 