-- N.J. Suspends Two State Troopers Amid ‘Death Race’ Probes
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-04-24T18:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/n-j-suspends-two-state-troopers-amid-death-race-probes.html
New Jersey  removed two state
troopers from active duty amid investigations into a high-speed
caravan of Porsches, Lamborghinis and Ferraris led by police
cruisers on the Garden State Parkway last month.  Sergeant First Class Nadir Nassry, 47, and Trooper Joseph
Ventrella, 28, were suspended without pay, Attorney General
Jeffrey Chiesa said yesterday in a statement. Additionally,
State Police said a previous escort is under investigation.  “We’re going to put the entire State Police and everybody
in the state who’s ever requested this sort of stuff on trial,”
said Charles Sciarra, a Clifton lawyer who represents Nassry.
The attorney said escorts are routinely provided for funerals,
public figures and groups that travel together.  Motorists reported two cruisers on March 30 leading a pack
of sports cars in a “Death Race” convoy at speeds of 100 miles
(160 kilometers) an hour toward  Atlantic City , according to
complaints filed with the New Jersey Turnpike Authority. The
drivers said two cruisers led the sports cars past them. The
cars were weaving in and out of traffic, almost forcing some
vehicles off the road, according to one of the statements.  “The state is very lucky no one was killed today,” said
Wayne Gantt, of Little Egg Harbor, in one of the written
complaints to the agency that runs the toll road.  ‘Dumb’ to Do  “It shouldn’t have happened; it was a dumb thing to do,”
Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, said yesterday. “Those
people who made this mistake should be held accountable for it,
and I’m sure they will.”  Gantt dubbed the incident “Death Race 2012” in his
complaint. The State Police cruisers had their lights flashing,
and the  sports cars  had their registration plates taped over,
according to the complaint from the other driver, John W.
Kennedy. He said they passed him between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m.  Former New York Giants football player  Brandon Jacobs , 29,
was among the group, according to the Newark Star-Ledger, which
cited a person with knowledge of the trip that it didn’t name.
Jacobs did drive to Atlantic City last month, while it wasn’t
clear if he was involved in the occasion under investigation,
his agent, Justin Schulman, said yesterday.  “Yes, he went down to Atlantic City in a group that
included a police escort,” Schulman, the  Irvine , California-
based agent representative, said by telephone. “I don’t know,
nor does he know, if that was his caravan.”  Signed by 49ers  Jacobs was released as a running back in March after seven
seasons with the Super Bowl-winning Giants of the  National
Football League . He signed a one-year contract in April with the
 San Francisco 49ers .  Nassry knows Jacobs from charity work, Sciarra said. Jacobs
contacted the trooper to request an escort for the drivers, who
were heading to the seaside resort to discuss raising money for
their next cause, Sciarra said by telephone yesterday.  “Jacobs is a guy who feels blessed and wants to give
back,” the lawyer said. “So he calls him up and says, ‘Look,
we’re going to get together with some guys. Could you give us an
escort?’”  “Why the escort? You get pretenders who want to come in,”
Sciarra said. “You have guys doing charitable work and they
don’t want to get rear-ended.”  “There’s a whole protocol that has to be followed,” the
lawyer said. Nassry, who is from Phillipsburg and has an
“unblemished record,” was on duty at the time of the exotic-
car caravan, Sciarra said.  ‘Public Safety’ Purpose  Troopers do provide escorts “to enhance public safety” in
such instances as funerals for fallen soldiers, Lieutenant
 Stephen Jones , a State Police spokesman, said by telephone. He
declined to comment further, citing the ongoing investigation.  A spokesman for Chiesa didn’t immediately respond to a
voice-mail message or an e-mail seeking comment on Sciarra’s
remarks.  The lawyer said he doesn’t represent Ventrella. A woman who
answered a telephone listed to a Joseph Ventrella in Oakland
hung up without comment when asked if he was there.  The complaints filed with turnpike authority, which
oversees the 173-mile parkway, spurred the probe, Jones said.  In a joint statement, Chiesa and State Police
Superintendent Rick Fuentes said preliminary inquiries warranted
immediate action.  “If people are going to put the public safety at risk as
these two individuals did, we’ll take swift action,” Chiesa
told the Senate Budget Committee today during a hearing on
Christie’s spending plan. “When the need arises to take action,
we will.”  Experienced Troopers  Nassry has served on the force for 25 years and was based
at the Totowa station, according to the statement, which said
Ventrella has six years of service and was assigned to the Troop
B Tactical Patrol Unit.  In a related move, the commander of the Totowa barracks was
transferred until any involvement on his part can be determined,
according to the statement. It indicated that an earlier escort,
turned up during the probe, is the subject of another inquiry.  “We will not tolerate any conduct by a member of the State
Police that puts the public in jeopardy, as this unauthorized
caravan had the potential to do,” Chiesa said.  No citations have been issued stemming from the incident,
according to the statement.  “I had the great pleasure today of nearly being killed by,
not one, but two, Lamborghinis traveling in excess of 110 mph in
a NJSP-escorted caravan of approximately 30 exotic vehicles all
traveling well over 100 mph,” Gantt said in his complaint,
dated March 30 and provided by the authority. Gantt didn’t
respond to a voice-mail message left at his home yesterday.  Dodging the Pack  In his statement, Kennedy said he was traveling to Atlantic
City with his wife when the group approached as he drove in the
left lane. After pulling over, he said he saw many cars struggle
to dodge the police-led pack. Once at his destination, Kennedy
said he spotted one of the cars parked on a side street, where
someone removed the tape from its plates before driving off.  “I felt bad for all of the drivers pulled over during the
trip, because it was obvious that the authorities were abetting
others to break the laws,” Kennedy said in the complaint.
“Some remain above the law.”  Kennedy, a vice president for Cofely Airport Services and a
Madison resident, said in a telephone interview yesterday that
he didn’t want to discuss the incident.  “I sent a complaint based on an observation,” Kennedy
said. “The fact that it was leaked was very disappointing.”  The incident was  reported  earlier by the Star-Ledger, a
newspaper in  Newark , the state’s largest city.  Corzine Crash  It’s not the first time speed has drawn scrutiny to the
State Police. A trooper driving then-Governor  Jon Corzine  at 91
miles an hour on the parkway in April 2007 caused a near-fatal
crash. Corzine, riding without a seatbelt in the front passenger
seat of the sports utility vehicle, was injured. Investigators
sanctioned the trooper, saying he could have avoided the wreck.  Christie said the new investigation left him chagrined.  “I just shook my head, but what are you going to do?” he
said. “It’s a completely ridiculous story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  