-- Nabucco Faces ‘Terminal Blow’ as Hungary Woos Russia Link
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-04-24T16:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/nabucco-faces-terminal-blow-as-hungary-woos-russia-link.html
The Nabucco natural-gas pipeline
project to ship Caspian fuel to  Europe  may have been dealt a
“terminal blow” as Hungary seeks to attract a rival link
planned by OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly.  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , the country’s largest company by market
capitalization, is leaving the 7.9 billion-euro ($10.4 billion)
Nabucco project, Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said
yesterday in Brussels.  Nabucco is a joint venture of Mol,  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE) ,
Vienna-based  OMV AG (OMV) , Bulgargaz EAD,  Romania ’s Transgaz SA and
Ankara-based Boru Hatlari ile Petrol Tasima AS. Backed by the
European Union, it has faced repeated delays after struggling to
secure fuel sources. It may be scaled down and linked up with
the Trans-Anatolia Pipeline, known as Tanap, at the EU’s
southern border, Nabucco Managing Director Reinhard Mitschek
said last month.  “Mol and Hungary have a link function due to their
geographic location, so should Mol really bail out, this would
be a potentially terminal blow to Nabucco,” Philipp Chladek, an
oil and gas industry analyst at Bloomberg Industries in  London ,
said today by telephone.  South Stream  Orban’s comments come less than a week after the Hungarian
leader met with Gazprom Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller in
Budapest to discuss South Stream, which according to Gazprom
“meets the strategic interests” of both countries.  “We would like to see a South Stream which is related to
the territory of  Hungary ,” Orban said yesterday. “It’s far
better to have it running through the country than avoiding the
country.”  Mol didn’t approve Nabucco’s 2012 budget “because of the
uncertain costs and gas sources and with the current structure
and project management the implementation of the Nabucco project
is not secured,” the company said today in an e-mailed
statement. “We believe in the South Corridor concept, that
could eventually also include a re-considered Nabucco.”  Nabucco has “no indication” Mol will leave the group,
spokesman Christian Dolezal said yesterday by e-mail.  IMF Loan  Orban made the comments in Brussels, where he is meeting
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso to revive
bailout talks. The commission has blocked Hungary’s request for
an International Monetary Fund loan over concern that Orban’s
concentration of power in the past two years undermined the
independence of state institutions including the central bank.
The prime minister last month likened the EU to Soviet
oppressors and has compared his resistance to its demands to a
“freedom fight.”  “This move by Mol is not going to endear Orban to Barroso,
and will further undermine the already difficult relationship
this government has with Brussels,” Mujtaba Rahman, a New York-
based analyst at Eurasia Group, said per e-mail today.  The Nabucco agreement was “with the Hungarian government
and it has nothing to do with” Mol,  Marlene Holzner , an EU
spokeswoman, said today in Brussels.  “Nabucco is a private project,” Orban said today. “So
it’s a company decision. It’s not the authority of the
government.”  ‘What Alternative’  Hungary currently gets more than 80 percent of its gas from
Russia and Orban said links with Slovakia and  Croatia  may be
alternatives to Nabucco as the country seeks to reduce its
dependence.  The nation “will have to diversify its gas sources, so the
question arises, what alternative will Hungary seek instead of
Nabucco?” Chladek said. “It could only be one of the competing
projects, and thus Nabucco may be able to re-enter through the
back door by teaming up with one of the rival pipelines.”  BP Plc (BP/)  and its partners in the Caspian Sea Shah Deniz gas
field plan to make a final decision on an export route to Europe
by the middle of 2013. The group will choose between Nabucco and
the South-East Europe Pipeline, or SEEP, by the middle of this
year. BP proposed SEEP. Shah Deniz may hold as much as 1.2
trillion cubic meters of gas.  The Trans-Adriatic Pipeline, or TAP, and the Interconnector
Turkey-Greece-Italy, or ITGI, are also vying to carry gas from
the  Caspian region  to Europe.  “Mol’s decision may reflect the reality that Nabucco’s
chances of being chosen for Shah Deniz gas shipments have
diminished,” Julia Nanay, director for  Russia  and Caspian
Service at PFC Energy, said by e-mail today. “If SEEP were
chosen, Hungary could still get gas through that option.
Otherwise the near-term supply source will remain Russian gas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  