-- New York, Delaware Seek to Intervene in Countrywide Accord
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-24T22:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/new-york-delaware-seek-to-intervene-in-countrywide-accord-1-.html
The New York and Delaware  attorneys
general  urged a judge to approve their participation in
litigation over  Bank of America Corp .’s $8.5 billion settlement
with mortgage-bond investors.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and Delaware
Attorney General  Beau Biden  have criticized Bank of America’s
proposed settlement and asked Justice Barbara Kapnick of New
York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  today to approve their
requests to intervene in the case.  “This is a massive waiver of liability for Bank of America
and Countrywide,” Steven Wu, a lawyer with the New York
attorney general’s office, told Kapnick.  Kapnick said she wouldn’t rule today on the states’
requests. The judge denied a motion by some investors to prevent
the settlement from moving forward as an Article 77 proceeding,
which is used in  New York  to resolves issues related to trusts.
The investors argued the case was too large and complex to
proceed as an Article 77.  Schneiderman argues that the settlement, reached with
investors in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds, is
unfair and settles investor claims for “a small fraction” of
losses, his office said in court papers.  The attorney general also says  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. , which acts as the trustee for investors and has sought
approval of the settlement, was involved in negotiating the deal
without the participation of the vast majority of affected
investors.  Biden Request  Biden said intervention should be approved because the
settlement, which includes provisions for servicing  mortgage
loans , affects homeowners who aren’t involved in the case. The
servicing proposals are vague and don’t provide an incentive for
servicers to help struggling borrowers, the office said in court
papers.  BNY Mellon and the institutional investor group that
negotiated the settlement, which includes  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
Pacific Investment Management Co., opposed the interventions.
The investor group argued the attorneys general don’t have
standing to intervene in a private contract dispute.  Delaware’s “sweeping assertion of standing is
unprecedented and would have significant adverse consequences to
private settlements and business transactions,” BNY Mellon said
in a court filing.  Greg Strong, a deputy attorney general for Delaware, said
his office isn’t seeking to “throw a huge wrench” into the
proceeding.  “We need more information to be able to evaluate it,”
Strong told the judge.  The case is In the application of the Bank of New York
Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  