-- Newcastle Strikers May Spearhead Senegal’s Olympic Soccer Charge
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/newcastle-strikers-may-spearhead-senegal-s-olympic-soccer-charge.html
Demba Ba and Papiss Cisse, whose
goals have lifted  Newcastle United  to the brink of Champions
League qualification, are likely candidates to spearhead
 Senegal ’s Olympic soccer push.  The 26-year-old strikers, who’ve scored 27 goals in
Newcastle’s rise to fourth place in the Premier League, may line
up together as two of Senegal’s three permitted overage players
for the men’s Olympic tournament. The competition, unlike the
women’s event, is open to only three players over age 23.  “I think Papiss Cisse and Demba want to come,” national
team coach Aliou Cisse said in an interview after yesterday’s
Olympic draw at Wembley Stadium in London. “It’s a big
opportunity for them.”  Senegal will meet Great Britain in its opening Olympic
match July 26 at Old Trafford in Manchester. The African nation
was the last to qualify for the 16-team event, beating Oman 2-0
in a playoff two days ago. It will also play Uruguay and the
 United Arab Emirates  in Group A.  Ba has 16 goals since joining Newcastle on a free transfer
from relegated West Ham at the start of the season, while Cisse
has scored 11 times since arriving in January for about 10
million pounds ($16 million) from German club Freiburg. They’ve
helped lift Newcastle above the likes of Chelsea and Tottenham,
teams with budgets several times larger than the Magpies.  Newcastle owner Mike Ashley’s strategy of replacing
established high-earning stars with lesser-known foreign imports
may yield the fourth-place finish needed to secure a Champions
League berth for the first time since 2003. The Magpies are
three points ahead of fifth-place Tottenham and four above
Chelsea with four games remaining in the season.  Qualifying Begins  Qualifying for the  Champions League ,  Europe ’s elite club
competition, begins in August, a few days after the end of the
London Olympics. Clubs have tried to block players from
participating in the Olympics in the past, arguing the
tournament isn’t as important as the  World Cup  or regional
championship, but soccer’s governing body FIFA says they must be
released.  “Not many players have an opportunity to play in these
events,” Aliou Cisse said. “The World Cup you have an
opportunity to play every four years and it’s the same here.”  Little was known about Papiss Cisse before he arrived in
 England . Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  said he’s been trying to
aid his transition to the U.K. by providing home comforts such
as goat curry in the team’s canteen.  “I think for the players it’s very important to have a
good environment at the club and I feel that he’s a happy boy,”
said Aliou Cisse. “And if you’re happy, it makes a
difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  