-- Nokia Debt Rating Cut to Junk at Fitch
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-24T11:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/nokia-debt-rating-cut-to-junk-at-fitch.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s rating was cut to junk
for the first time by a debt rating company as the Finnish
mobile-phone maker loses its grip on a market now dominated by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Asian suppliers such as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Fitch Ratings today lowered Nokia’s long-term debt ranking
to BB+, one step below investment grade, citing a deterioration
in the handset business in the first quarter and a “general
lack of visibility.” Fitch said it may further cut the rating
if Espoo, Finland-based Nokia’s revenue doesn’t stabilize and
operating margins don’t return to positive. The decision covers
about 4.9 billion euros ($6.5 billion) in debt.  The cost of insuring against default on Nokia’s debt surged
to a record. Nokia is burning cash 14 months after linking up
with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to make phones that run on the  Windows
operating system . The company this month reported a first-
quarter operating loss for its handset unit and said the margins
would be similar or worse in the current period.  “In order to avoid further negative rating action, Nokia
needs to demonstrate substantial improvements” through 2013,
Fitch analyst Owen Fenton wrote in a report. “Given the
potential headwinds facing the company, Fitch is currently not
convinced that Nokia can attain this over the course of 18
months.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Nokia bonds rose 55 basis points to
590 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  In 2002, Fitch rated Nokia’s debt A+, the fifth-highest
investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s currently rank
the debt one step above junk.  The shares fell 3 percent to 2.63 euros at 2:10 p.m. in
Helsinki, the lowest since December 1996.  Nokia that took in almost half the global revenue from
smartphones in 2007 now claims only 10 percent of the $219
billion per year market, Bloomberg data show. Nokia will
continue to increase its focus on lowering the company’s cost
structure, improving cash flow and maintaining a strong
financial position, Chief Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila said
in a statement.  The company had about 4.9 billion euros in net cash at the
end of the first quarter.  “In terms of the cash, Nokia has announced quite
significant restructuring charges that will probably be front-
end loaded and they will probably start paying them down quite
fast,” Fenton said in an interview. “The cash balance could
also be depleted by continuing negative operating  cash flow .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  