-- Nordea Net Rose 4.5% Last Quarter as Loan Losses Fell
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-04-24T07:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/nordea-profit-rose-4-5-in-first-quarter-after-loan-losses-fell.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s
largest lender, said first-quarter profit rose 4.5 percent after
loan losses receded and as it made more money from its lending
business.  Net income grew to 773 million euros ($1.02 billion),
compared with 740 million euros a year earlier, Nordea said in a
statement today. That beat the 738 million-euro average estimate
of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net interest income, the
difference between what the bank earns from lending and what it
pays on deposits, increased to 1.42 billion euros, from 1.32
billion euros. Net loan losses narrowed to 218 million euros
from 242 million euros a year earlier, it said.  “Loan losses declined slightly from last quarter and our
 credit quality  remains solid,”  Christian Clausen , chief
executive officer at the Stockholm-based bank, said in the
statement. “There are still two areas where we have special
attention -- Denmark and shipping. We have good insights in the
development and close cooperation with customers facing
potential problems.”  Sweden , whose bank industry is four times the size of the
economy, is pushing through tougher capital rules than elsewhere
and will require lenders to meet the standards earlier than the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s 2019 deadline. The
government argues more rigorous standards are needed to protect
taxpayers from the risk of losses. Nordea, which had a core Tier
1 equity ratio of 11.6 percent of its risk-weighted assets at
the end of March, has warned stricter rules threaten
competitiveness and growth.  ‘Very Positive’  Overall results were “very positive,” Jyske Bank A/S said
in an e-mailed note to clients. “Costs and writedowns on loans
aren’t surprising and the high income level therefore secures a
bottom line above expectations.”  Nordea shares rose 2.9 percent to 56.15 kronor at 9:01 a.m.
in Stockholm trading, rebounding from yesterday’s 5.8 percent
slump. The 43-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial
Services Index climbed 1.1 percent.  Local rival SEB AB, Sweden’s fourth-biggest bank, also
reported earnings that beat estimates today, as first-quarter
net income rose 2 percent to 2.65 billion kronor ($392 million).
The average in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts was for 2.6
billion kronor. SEB’s shares gained 1.5 percent to 44.45 kronor.  Shipping, Denmark  Nordea said it continues to face losses from its ship
finance business and its Danish operations, where a regional
banking crisis claimed another two lenders over the weekend.  “As expected, provisions for future loan losses in
shipping and Denmark remained at elevated levels, whereas in
other areas the losses decreased from already moderate levels,”
Nordea said.  The bank’s loan loss ratio in shipping climbed to 176 basis
points during the first quarter, up from 41 basis points a year
earlier, while losses in its Danish banking unit increased to 64
basis points, up from 47 points a year ago, it said.  The tanker and bulk markets are struggling to overcome a
slump in freight rates sparked by lower global demand and
swelling overcapacity. Denmark’s economy entered a recession in
the third quarter as the nation struggles to emerge from the
fallout of a housing bubble that burst in 2007.  Housing Bubble  Denmark’s “housing market remains weak and  house prices 
have continued to decline somewhat, reflecting increased forced
sales and overall cautiousness in private spending and
investments,” Nordea said.  Danish property prices will have slumped 25 percent by next
year since the crisis started in 2007, the government-backed
Economic Council said in November.  Still, Sweden’s banks have steered clear of Europe’s fiscal
crisis and their balance sheets aren’t weighed down by assets
linked to the region’s most indebted nations. That’s given
lenders in the Nordic country better access to funding markets
than many of their European peers, and allowed them to avoid
resorting to emergency three-year loans provided by the  European
Central Bank  since December.  “Nordea has maintained its strong funding position,”
Clausen said. “We have an excellent access to all funding
markets.”  The bank issued 11.5 billion euros of long-term funding in
the first quarter, in both senior unsecured and covered bonds as
well as lower tier 2 instruments, he said.  “We maintain our market-based funding strategy at strong
terms and did therefore not participate” in the ECB’s longer-
term loans, Clausen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  