-- Novartis Quarterly Profit Drops as Diovan, OTC Sales Slump
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-24T15:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/novartis-first-quarter-profit-drops-8-as-consumer-sales-slump.html
Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  first-quarter profit
dropped 8 percent on generic competition and manufacturing
glitches at a consumer-health products factory in  Nebraska .  Net income excluding some costs fell to $3.09 billion, or
$1.27 a share, from $3.4 billion, or $1.41 a share, a year
earlier, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement today. Analysts predicted profit of $1.28 a share, the
average of 10  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  is facing the loss of
billions in revenue as the company’s top-selling drug, Diovan,
loses patent protection this year. The company, Europe’s biggest
drugmaker, bought the Alcon eye-care business and has introduced
new medicines such as Gilenya, the first pill for multiple
sclerosis, to offset the losses.  “We expected a challenging quarter, and we delivered in
line with our expectations,” Jimenez said on a conference call
with reporters.  Sales, which fell 2 percent to $13.7 billion, were hurt by
the entry of generic forms of Diovan in  Europe . The drug loses
U.S. patent protection in September. The company’s own generics
business, Sandoz, also lost exclusivity on products including a
copy of Sanofi’s blood-thinner Lovenox.  Stock Drop  Net income according to generally accepted accounting
principles, which includes one-time charges, fell 18 percent to
$2.3 billion.  The company repeated that it expects sales this year to be
in line with 2011’s at constant exchange rates, while its core
operating margin will be “slightly below” last year’s.  Novartis fell 1.5 percent to 50.15 Swiss francs in Zurich.
The stock has gained 2.9 percent this year including reinvested
dividends,  compared  with a 20 percent return for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceuticals Index of 18 companies.  “Nobody wants to own a declining earnings stream when it
declines for over a year,” Tim Race, an analyst with Deutsche
Bank AG in  London , said in a telephone interview today. “With
Novartis you’ve got huge patent hits with Diovan, particularly,
happening now, and it doesn’t really end for another five or six
quarters.” Race rates the stock buy.  Consumer Health  Consumer-health sales slumped 20 percent to $932 million.
The company suspended production at the Lincoln, Nebraska,
factory in January and recalled some products because they may
have contained broken or stray tablets from other medicines. The
head of the unit, Naomi Kelman, quit less than two months later
and was replaced by Brian McNamara, an executive in the
division.  Novartis said it made progress in addressing the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration ’s concerns at the Lincoln plant, which
produces Excedrin headache pills and NoDoz stimulant and
accounts for about 25 percent of over-the-counter sales. The
company expects a “limited portfolio of products” to ship in
the second half of year and has engaged external manufacturers
to help maintain supply, Jimenez said.  “That’s probably more cautious than I was hoping for, but
not too dissimilar from expectations,” Race said.  The company also took a $147 million charge related to
restructuring its pharmaceutical division in the U.S. after
halving its expectations for sales of the hypertension drug
Tekturna. Novartis in December scrapped a test of the medicine
among patients with diabetes because some of them had more
strokes and kidney complications.  Diovan Slumps  Sales of the Diovan blood-pressure pill fell 15 percent to
$1.2 billion, in line with analysts’ forecasts, because of the
competition from cheaper copies. Novartis will lose about $2.5
billion of sales to generic competition this year, including
$1.5 billion of Diovan revenue, Jimenez said in January.  Pharmaceutical sales increased 2 percent to $7.8 billion,
lifted by new products including the multiple-sclerosis drug
Gilenya. “It’s clear that our new product launches are more
than offsetting the beginning of the Diovan patent expiration,”
Jimenez said on the call.  Gilenya sales jumped to $247 million, beating the average
analyst estimate of $215 million. Sales were $59 million a year
earlier. Novartis expects revenue from the drug to spur growth
after U.S. and European regulators completed a three-month
review last week triggered by the death of 15 patients. The
company said uncertainty over the review had held back
prescriptions.  Revenue from the eye drug Lucentis rose 28 percent to $567
million, surpassing the average analyst forecast of $547
million.  Smoker’s Cough Drug  A trial of an experimental treatment for smoker’s cough
showed the once-daily drug, called QVA149, improved the lung
function of patients more than  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s twice-daily
Seretide, also marketed as Advair. The trial is the fourth of 10
studies of the inhaled treatment and Novartis expects to apply
for U.S. regulatory approval of the drug by the end of 2014.  Novartis filed applications in the U.S., Europe and  Japan 
for approval of Gleevec for use in patients with pulmonary
arterial hypertension. The treatment would compete with Actelion
Ltd.’s Tracleer and Gilead Sciences Inc.’s Letairis. Gleevec,
also sold as Glivec, has marketing clearance for certain forms
of cancer and had $1.13 billion in sales in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  