-- Obama Preferred Over Romney in Harvard Poll of ‘Millennials’
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-24T17:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/obama-preferred-over-romney-by-young-americans-in-harvard-survey.html
President  Barack Obama  holds a 17-
point lead over  Mitt Romney  among younger voters, a nationwide
survey by Harvard University’s Institute of Politics shows.  Obama is preferred over the former Massachusetts governor
by 43 percent to 26 percent among Americans ages 18 to 29, a
group often referred to as millennials because they came of age
in this millennium. Almost a third in the age group are
undecided.  In 2008, voters 18 to 29 supported Obama 66 percent to 32
percent for Republican presidential nominee Senator  John McCain 
of  Arizona , exit polls showed.  “We’re seeing an uptick in support among America’s younger
voters for the president, for his job performance and for his
electoral chances in November,”  Trey Grayson , the institute’s
director, told reporters on a conference call today. “However,
in potentially good news for Mitt Romney’s presidential
campaign, the president continues to struggle with key segments
of the millennial demographic, even those which helped power him
to victory over Senator McCain in 2008.”  The Harvard survey found that Obama’s job approval among
all the millennials sampled has risen 6 percentage points, to 52
percent, since a comparable poll four months ago. Among
Hispanics in this age group, the president’s approval has jumped
14 percentage points, to 66 percent. Among white millennials,
Obama’s approval is 41 percent.  Smaller Lead  The  survey , taken online March 23 through April 9, included
3,096 randomly selected participants and has a margin of error
of plus or minus 1.7 percentage points. Voters 18 to 29
represented 18 percent of the electorate in 2008, according to
 exit polls .  Obama’s lead over Romney, the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee, is smaller among those closest to college
age, the Harvard survey shows. Among those 18 to 24, he leads
Romney by 12 percentage points. For those 25 to 29, the
advantage grows to 23 percentage points.  John Della Volpe, the institute’s director of polling, said
there is “a slight increase in conservative principles” among
the youngest portion of the age group and that Obama’s youth
support is somewhat less than four years ago.  “This generation isn’t necessarily as supportive of Obama
and Democrats as they had been in 2008,” he said. “It doesn’t
necessarily imply that they’re more supportive of Republicans,
either.”  ‘More Committed’  In a possible measure of intensity, those backing Obama are
three times more likely -- 17 percent to 5 percent -- than
Romney supporters to say they would be “very likely” to
volunteer for the campaign, if asked.  “The Obama voters at this point seem more committed and
more passionate” about helping, Della Volpe said. “On a
completely separate question, we’re seeing less interest in
voting, less interest in electoral politics generally through a
variety of different ways we asked the question in the survey
compared to four years ago.”  The economy remains the top issue of concern for this age
group, with 58 percent of the survey’s participants citing it
and jobs when asked which national issue is most on their minds.  The age group has a lower opinion of  Wall Street  than
Congress, with 13 percent saying they trust the financial
community to do the right thing all or most of the time,
compared with 23 percent for the lawmakers.  Student Loans  Romney, 65, yesterday joined Obama in advocating a
temporary freeze in  interest rates  on  student loans , now
scheduled to double on July 1. Campaigning earlier this year
when the Republican race was still in doubt, Romney told
students asking him about financing college costs not to expect
government money.  Obama, 50, will urge congressional action as he addresses
college audiences in battleground states this week. He is
visiting the University of  North Carolina  and University of
 Colorado  today and the  University of Iowa  tomorrow.  Romney said yesterday he has a chance at winning over more
young voters.  “This is a time when young people are questioning the
support they gave to President Obama 3 1/2 years ago,” Romney
told reporters in  Pennsylvania . “He promised bringing the
country together; that sure hasn’t happened. He promised a
future with good jobs and good opportunity; that hasn’t
happened. And the pathway that he pursued is one which has not
worked. Young people recognize that and I think that’s why
they’re going to increasingly look for a different approach.”  On a Romney campaign conference call with reporters today,
Representative Aaron Schock of  Illinois  echoed that sentiment.  “Half of the young people who graduated last year are
still unemployed or underemployed,” he said. “Nearly the same
percent still live with their parents. This is not the America
that they dreamed of living in. It’s certainly not the hope and
promise that President Obama made to these young people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  