-- Obama Presses on College Costs as Romney Vies for Youth Vote
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-04-25T14:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/obama-duels-with-romney-in-competition-to-win-younger-voters.html
President  Barack Obama  hit college
campuses and late night television to urge Congress to freeze
student-loan  interest rates  as he engaged Republican  Mitt Romney 
in a competition for young voters.  Obama and Romney tailored their economic message to attract
college-age voters in what both sides say will be a close
election in November as graduates face a weak job market and a
ballooning debt load from education loans.  “I’ve been in your shoes, I know what I’m talking about,”
Obama told students last night at the University of Colorado at
Boulder, his second stop on a trip through three electoral
battleground states. The president said that he and first lady
Michelle Obama carried student debt until about eight years ago.
“We’ve got to make college more affordable for you,” he said.  Romney, who declared himself the Republican presidential
nominee last night after sweeping five primary contests, has
agreed with Obama on stopping the rise in  student-loan  rates
while blaming the administration for an economy in which “50
percent of recent college graduates are unemployed or
underemployed.”  Voters age 18 to 29 were a key constituency for Obama in
the 2008 election, with national exit polls showing he received
66 percent of their vote. He holds a 17 percentage point lead
over Romney among those voters in the current campaign,
according to an online survey by Harvard University’s Institute
of Politics.  Support for Obama  Forty-three percent preferred Obama with 26 percent backing
Romney, according to the survey conducted from March 23 through
April 9, with 30 percent saying they are undecided. The margin
of error was plus or minus 1.7 percentage points.  Between speeches at the University of  North Carolina  at
 Chapel Hill  and in Boulder, Obama, 50, taped an appearance on
NBC’s “Late Night With  Jimmy Fallon ” to emphasize his message.
Today he’ll talk to an audience at the University of  Iowa  in
Iowa City.  Coinciding with the trip to the three campuses, Rolling
Stone magazine put the president on its cover and published an
interview with Obama.  ‘Out of the Mainstream’  Obama told the publication that Republicans in Congress and
on the presidential campaign trail have moved “far out of the
mainstream” of voters, and that will provide a “sharp”
contrast for the general election. Reflecting his broader
campaign strategy, Obama indicated he would seek to paint Romney
as extreme on issues such as regulation, immigration and the
budget that played prominently in the primary campaign.  “I don’t think that their nominee is going to be able to
suddenly say, ‘Everything I’ve said for the last six months, I
didn’t mean,’” Obama said in Rolling Stone. “I’m assuming that
he meant it.”  Romney’s campaign went on the offensive before Obama left
 Washington  yesterday morning.  “Four years ago, the president was able to fool a number
of our college students into supporting his campaign and the
result has been the highest level of  unemployment  for youth in
our country’s recorded history,” Hank Brown, a former
Republican U.S. senator who also served as president of the
 University of Colorado , said on a conference call organized by
the campaign.  College Voters  Brown predicted a “dramatic turnaround” on college
campuses with larger numbers voting for Republican candidates,
including Romney, who he said is “younger and more dynamic”
than the party’s 2008 nominee, Senator  John McCain , who was 72
at the time of the election. Romney is 65.  Obama sought to show the students he identifies with their
financial plight. Without mentioning his rival’s name, he also
drew a distinction with Romney, who helped form the private-
equity firm Bain Capital LLC in  Boston  and is the son of a
former auto industry executive. He said in North Carolina that
he and  Michelle Obama  “didn’t come from families of means” and
only finished paying their  student loans  about eight years ago.  “I didn’t just get some talking points on this,” Obama
told the crowd at the university’s Carmichael Arena. Obama drew
cheers and shouts of “four more years” from the crowd before
and after the speech  The three states Obama is visiting were crucial to his 2008
victory. Iowa and Colorado have been swing states, while Obama’s
win in North Carolina was the first by a Democratic presidential
candidate since 1976.  Rate Freeze  The president first proposed the student loan rate freeze
in his fiscal 2013 budget. The rate on federally-subsidized
Stafford loans is scheduled to increase to 6.8 percent on July 1
from 3.4 percent unless Congress acts. The increase would affect
about 7.4 million students, according to the White House, adding
an average of $1,000 in payments overall. The  Congressional
Budget Office  estimates a one-year freeze would cost $6 billion.  Romney said he wants Obama and Congress to extend the
freeze “responsibly” by offsetting the cost in “a way that
doesn’t harm the job prospects of young Americans.”  Obama also is calling on Congress to increase funding for
work-study programs and extend a tuition tax credit.  Of the three states where Obama is making his pitch, only
Iowa ranks near the top in terms of undergraduate debt,
according to an analysis by The Institute for College Access &
Success, an Oakland, California-based policy and advocacy group.  Student Debt  North Carolina ranked 38th nationally both in average
undergraduate student debt for the class of 2010, at $20,959,
and percentage of graduates with debt, at 53 percent.  Colorado  ranked 32nd for average debt, at $22,017, and 33rd
for percentage with debt, at 55 percent.  Iowa ranked third nationally in average undergraduate
student debt for the class of 2010, at $29,598, and fourth in
terms of percentage of graduates with debt, at 72 percent.  New Hampshire  topped the rankings for average undergraduate
debt, at $31,048, while  South Dakota  topped the list for percent
with debt, at 75 percent.  The average cost of tuition and fees at a public, four-year
college has almost tripled since the 1995-1996 academic year and
has more than doubled for a private-school education, according
to data from the  College Board , a New York-based nonprofit group
whose members include universities.  Educational-loan debt has ballooned to $1 trillion,
surpassing the amount owed on credit cards in the U.S.,
according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. That
includes federally backed and private loans taken out by
students and their parents to pay for college and graduate
school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Boulder, Colorado at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  