-- Obama Campaign Asks Unions to Help Cover Convention Costs
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-04-25T19:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/obama-campaign-asks-unions-to-cover-convention-cost-shortfall.html
President  Barack Obama ’s political
advisers are pressing labor unions to contribute to the
Democratic convention in September to cover a fundraising
shortfall resulting from their self-imposed ban on corporate
donations, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Democratic officials gave representatives of the major U.S.
unions, including the AFL-CIO, the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters and the  United Auto Workers , a tour of the convention
sites in Charlotte,  North Carolina , April 23 in advance of a
request for donations, according to the two people, who
requested anonymity because they weren’t authorized to discuss
internal strategy.  The three-day convention will culminate in Obama’s re-
nomination in Bank of America Stadium on Sept. 6. So far, the
host committee in  Charlotte  is roughly halfway to its $36.6
million goal.  Four years ago, unions contributed more than $8 million to
the Democratic convention in Denver, according to financial
disclosure reports.  “The AFL-CIO’s political focus is on empowering working
people with the information they need at the ballot box by every
grassroots means available, from old fashioned door by door,
phone calls and community engagement to cutting-edge online
organizing,” said Mike Podhorzer, the political director at
AFL-CIO.  Republican Funding  The  Republican National Committee  has not imposed a similar
ban on corporate donations for its convention, scheduled for
Aug. 27-30 in Tampa,  Florida . It has secured contributions from
companies including  AT&T Inc. (T) , Microsoft Corp. and  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO) , to meet their $55 million target, said Aileen Rodriguez,
spokeswoman for the Tampa host committee.  “They are great supporters of the host committee,” she
said.  As the Charlotte host committee struggles to raise money,
some Democratic fundraisers are urging the Obama campaign to
lift the restrictions on corporate cash. That would require the
Obama campaign to amend the “master contract,” which also
prohibits the Charlotte committee from accepting contributions
from registered federal lobbyists and limits individual
donations to $100,000.  The Obama campaign has told Democrats arguing to amend the
rules that they won’t be changed, said  Ben LaBolt , press
secretary for Obama for America.  Political Priorities  While relying on the unions may help close the Democrats’
convention shortfall, it might siphon funds away from other
Democratic political efforts.  “It’s a huge switch not to take corporate money,” said
Anna Burger, a former Secretary-Treasurer at the  Service
Employees International Union . “I understand the president’s
decision to do that, but it makes it that much harder to fund
all the things that need to be funded.”  The convention’s predicament echoes the debate earlier this
year when Obama reversed course and began encouraging his top
donors to contribute to Priorities USA, a so-called independent
super-political action committee backing his re-election. Obama
campaign manager  Jim Messina  said in a Feb. 6 e-mail to
supporters that Democrats can’t “unilaterally disarm” while
the Republican candidate benefits from unlimited spending by
super-PACs.  While Obama had a 10-to-1 campaign cash advantage over
likely Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  at the start of this
month, Republican super-PACs and other groups are out-raising
Democrats with the help of multimillion-dollar donations from
wealthy individuals and corporations.  ‘Pretty Big Challenge’  Mike Dino, who was chief executive officer of the Denver
convention host committee, said Obama’s donation rules hamper
the convention organizers while providing little political
benefit.  “I have a hard time discerning whether anyone really cares
that the Democrats are trying to approach this in a different
way,” Dino said in an interview. “As you look at what the
parameters are for Charlotte and the limitations on the amount
of money and who it comes from, that’s a pretty big challenge to
overcome.”  When the  Democratic National Committee  signed the contract
with the Charlotte Host Committee, it placed a $100,000 limit on
and individual donations and on contributions from non-profit
foundations attached to corporations. Companies that had
outstanding loans through the Troubled Asset Relief Program are
prohibited from in-kind contributions. Corporations are allowed
to give unlimited in-kind contributions, such as telephone and
technology services or gift cards.  Denver Precedent  Obama’s advisers considered similar restrictions in 2008.
They eventually agreed to accept corporate and high-dollar
contributions on their way toward raising $61 million for the
event, Dino said.  A review of the 2008 donations reveals the magnitude of the
challenge for Charlotte under the new rules, he said.  In 2008, donations of less than $100,000 accounted for five
percent of total Denver receipts, according to the Campaign
Finance Institute, a policy research organization in  Washington .
Almost three-fourths of the funding for the Denver convention
came from contributions of more than $250,000 from individuals
and organizations, and a quarter came for a dozen donors who
gave between $1 million and $1.7 million, the group’s data show.  Corporate Funds  Corporate entities that contributed $100,000 or more,
accounted for more than $33 million of the amount raised for the
Denver convention, according to campaign finance reports.  Many corporations donate to both party conventions, when
allowed. Sixty-eight companies gave both to the Denver
convention and the Republican event in  St. Paul , Minnesota,
providing 50 percent of the Democratic budget and 72 percent of
the Republican funding, according to the institute.  In addition to the host committee’s fundraising,
conventions receive a contribution from the  Federal Election
Commission  for staff salaries and a grant from the Department of
 Homeland Security  to offset security costs. This year, the FEC
grant is about $17.7 million and $50 million from the DHS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  