-- Obama Honors Californian as 2012 Teacher of the Year
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-04-24T14:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/obama-honors-californian-as-2012-teacher-of-the-year.html
President  Barack Obama  honored
Rebecca Mieliwocki of  California  as the 2012 National Teacher of
the Year, saying government has an obligation to support the
best educators to preserve “the basic promise of America.”  “Rebecca is the definition of above and beyond,” Obama
said at a White House ceremony honoring Mieliwocki, a seventh-
grade English teacher at Luther Burbank Middle School in
Burbank, which has about 1,100 students. “She knows her
students are depending on her.”  Obama has said increasing spending on education and raising
graduation rates are critical to the nation’s success as it
faces growing global competition in the 21st century. “No issue
will have a bigger impact” on the country’s future than
bolstering the education system, he said.  Mieliwocki, 46, said the best teachers share qualities,
including passion for their work and their students and a belief
that education can make a difference in the lives of their
students.  “I am not the best teacher in America, there isn’t one,”
she said in remarks as she accepted the award. “I have an
unshakable understanding that children can do anything they set
their minds to.”  Obama was joined by Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , former
chief executive of the Chicago Public Schools System, and  Jill Biden , wife of Vice President  Joe Biden  and an educator for more
than 30 years who currently teaches at a community college in
Virginia.  The National Teacher of the Year is chosen from state
winners by a national committee representing major U.S.
education groups and is organized by the top education officers
in each state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  