-- Oil Near Two-Day Low on Forecast of Rising U.S. Supplies
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-24T12:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/oil-near-two-day-low-on-forecast-of-rising-u-s-supplies.html
Oil traded near the lowest closing
level in two days in  New York  before data that may show
inventories rose to an 11-month high in the U.S., the world’s
biggest consumer of the commodity.  Futures for June settlement were little changed, having
slipped as much as 0.3 percent. U.S. stockpiles increased 2.65
million barrels last week to 371.7 million, according to the
median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a government report tomorrow. The U.S. may still tap
strategic reserves to limit price gains stoked by tension with
 Iran , with a release probably before a European Union embargo
starts on July 1,  Societe Generale  SA said.  “There’s a moderate oversupply,” said  Hannes Loacker , an
analyst at Raiffeisen Bank International AG in Vienna who
predicts crude will retreat about $5 a barrel next month.
“Supply concerns are fading despite the geopolitics.”  Oil for June delivery was at $103.48 a barrel in electronic
trading, 37 cents higher at 1:14 p.m. London time on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . The contract fell 77 cents to $103.11
yesterday, the June future’s lowest close in two days. Front-
month prices are 4.2 percent higher this year.  Brent crude  for June settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange dropped as much as 61 cents to $118.10 a
barrel. It was at $118.71 at the same time, leaving the European
benchmark contract at a  premium  of $15.23 to New York futures.
The difference was $15.60 yesterday, the most in six days.  Geopolitical Concern  “Without the geopolitical concerns, there would be no
reason why Brent should trade above $110 at this time of year,”
Loacker said.  Oil in New York is in a technical downtrend, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. On the daily chart, the top of a
downward-sloping channel going back about two months is $104.53
a barrel today and represents price resistance, a level at which
sell orders tend to be clustered.  U.S. crude stockpiles are forecast to climb for a fifth
week to the highest since May, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  Gasoline supplies  probably dropped 750,000 barrels last
week, the survey showed. Distillate-fuel inventories, a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, gained an estimated
625,000 barrels.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
supply data today. The industry group collects stockpile
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the Energy Department for its weekly
survey.  Strategic Oil Release  A release of strategic oil stockpiles will probably happen
in June, before the start of the sanctions on July 1,  Michael Wittner , global head of oil-market research at Societe Generale
in New York, said in a note dated yesterday. About 60 million
barrels may be freed up, with only a “brief, temporary”
lowering of prices, according to the report.  A decision to tap the reserves is “pretty likely” when
the EU embargo starts, Seth Kleinman, a Citigroup Inc. analyst
in  London , said on a conference call yesterday. The Persian Gulf
nation has threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit
route for a fifth of the world’s oil, in retaliation against
sanctions.  Iran can compensate for lost EU markets by redirecting oil
supplies to  Asia  if the bloc implements its ban, Deputy Foreign
Minister Abbas Araqchi said yesterday in Astana,  Kazakhstan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  