-- Oil Trades Near One-Week High as U.S. Stockpiles Decline
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-04-25T06:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-as-u-s-stockpiles-decline.html
Oil traded near the highest level
in a week in  New York  after the  American Petroleum Institute 
said crude inventories fell in the U.S., the world’s biggest
consumer of the commodity.  Futures were little changed after rising 0.4 percent
yesterday. U.S. stockpiles decreased by 985,000 barrels last
week, the industry-funded API said. An Energy Department report
today is forecast to show a gain of 2.8 million barrels. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said crude prices will rise as demand growth
outpaces production capacity.  “The API inventory is being accepted as a bullish
factor,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivative sales
manager at Newedge Group in Tokyo who sees prices trading from
$100 to $105 a barrel until at least the end of next week.
“Because of the decrease in crude and products inventories, now
we can see some gains in the oil market.”  Crude for June delivery was at $103.64 a barrel, up 9
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 2:52 p.m. Singapore time. The contract rose 44 cents to
$103.55 yesterday, the highest close since April 17. Front-month
prices are 4.9 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for June settlement gained 4 cents to $118.20 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $14.56, compared
with $14.61 yesterday.  Oil’s advance in New York may stall as futures remain in a
technical downtrend, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On
the daily chart, the top of a downward-sloping channel going
back about two months is $104.38 a barrel today and represents
technical resistance, where sell orders tend to be clustered.  Falling Inventories  Gasoline stockpiles decreased 3.64 million barrels and
distillate-fuel inventories dropped 3.56 million barrels, the
API’s weekly report showed. Today’s Energy Department data may
show a 1.5 million-barrel decline in gasoline supplies,
according to the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. Distillates are predicted to gain 500,000
barrels.  The government requires that reports be filed with the
Energy Department for its weekly survey. The API collects
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines.  Oil prices  will rise as demand is expanding faster than
production capacity even as the global economy slows,  Goldman
Sachs (GS)  said in a report e-mailed today.  Spare Capacity  “It is only a matter of time before inventories and OPEC
spare capacity become effectively exhausted, requiring higher
oil prices to restrain demand,” said  Jeffrey Currie , head of
commodities research at Goldman Sachs in  London .  Increased output by  Saudi Arabia , the biggest producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has left
global spare capacity at less than 1 million barrels a day,
according to the report. Goldman reiterated a recommendation to
buy September futures for West Texas Intermediate oil.  U.S. gasoline prices at the pump fell below year-earlier
levels for the first time since at least October 2009, according
to data from AAA, the largest U.S. motoring club. The  national
average price  for regular gasoline slid 0.9 cent on April 23 to
$3.849 a gallon, according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA.
That’s down from $3.86 a year earlier and the lowest level since
March 19.  Demand for the motor fuel was little changed last week and
lower than consumption a year earlier, according to  MasterCard
Inc. (MA)  Drivers bought 60.81 million barrels of gasoline in the
week ended April 20, versus 60.8 million the week before,
MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report showed. That was 6.1 percent
below the year-earlier level, the 34th straight decline in that
measure.  Libyan Protests  The  Arabian Gulf  Oil Co.,  Libya ’s largest crude producer,
warned that it may have to cease production because of protests,
according to the state-run Libya News Agency. Arabian Gulf, or
Agoco, will have to shut its  oil fields  if protesters blocking
the entrance to its offices in Benghazi do not disperse, Jalil
Mayouf, a company spokesman, was quoted by Libya News as saying.
He didn’t explain why fields hundreds of miles away from the
office would be shut.  The demonstrators are demanding jobs for unemployed young
people and greater transparency on  government spending . Agoco
said last month that it expected to reach full capacity of
425,000 barrels a day by the end of April, or about 25 percent
of Libya’s pre-war output of 1.6 million barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  