-- Lombard Odier Bets Euro Will Decline as Crisis Progresses
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-04-24T16:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/lombard-odier-bets-euro-will-decline-as-crisis-progresses.html
Lombard Odier  Investment Management
is betting the euro will weaken and has cut holdings of
emerging-market sovereign bonds as  Europe ’s debt crisis enters
its “second wave.”  Investors should favor  government securities  issued by
countries including  Austria , Finland and the Netherlands, said
Stephane Monier, who helps oversee more than $150 billion as
head of fixed income and currencies at the Swiss  money manager 
in Geneva. The company turned bearish on the debt of developing
nations such as China, India and  Russia  last month as the effect
of the  European Central Bank ’s efforts to boost liquidity
through its longer-term refinancing operations waned, he said.  “There was a window for taking a little bit more risk on
during the months of January and February, and in March we
turned negative again,” Monier said in an April 16 interview.
“What allowed this risk-on trade was related to restructuring
of the Greek debt and the LTROs that were buying time.”  Monier said he started reducing his holdings of emerging-
market bonds at the end of February on concern the crisis in
Spain and  Portugal  was worsening and as a restructuring of Greek
debt earlier this year sparked concern other markets could
impose losses on their bondholders. He said he also saw a risk
the ECB’s loans were increasing banks’ holdings of their own
nation’s sovereign debt, weakening the common currency area.  ‘Planting the Seeds’  The LTROs “were clearly not solving the situation but
rather planting the seeds for financial problems going
forward,” Monier said.  The ECB pumped a total of more than 1 trillion euros ($1.32
trillion) into the European banking system in December and
February to boost liquidity in a step that helped lower
borrowing costs in nations such as Spain and  Italy .  The Spanish Treasury missed its maximum target at an
auction of bills today even after reducing the goal. The
nation’s borrowing costs almost doubled at the sale, while Italy
paid 1 percentage point more than a month ago at an auction of
zero-coupon bonds.  The euro strengthened 3 percent against the dollar in the
first quarter before weakening 1 percent this month to $1.3205
at 5 p.m. London time today. The 17-nation currency will decline
to $1.29 by June 30, according to foreign-exchange estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Havens Preferred  Monier says he prefers the Swiss franc and dollar,
traditionally seen as havens. The euro has fallen 5.8 percent
over the past year according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar
gained 4.9 percent and the franc appreciated 1.4 percent.  A bond-investment index based on economic fundamentals
compiled by Lombard Odier was updated this month to reduce the
weightings of Italy and  France  and raise those of Finland,
Austria and the Netherlands.  Germany ’s weighting was also lowered as economic reports
including the nation’s gross domestic product and current-
account balance deteriorated relative to the Finnish, Austrian
and Dutch indicators. The index remains overweight German bonds,
Monier said.  Italian, Spanish and French bonds have all declined this
month as the effect of the ECB’s loan operations has waned.  Italy’s securities have handed investors a loss of 2.7
percent since the start of April, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies as of April 23. Spanish debt has dropped 3.1 percent
and French bonds declined 1.2 percent.  Over the same period,  Finland ’s bonds have returned 0.5
percent and Germany’s debt rose 1.1 percent, the indexes show.  “During the second quarter of 2012 the euro-zone situation
is going to get worse and the spreads are going to widen, the
euro’s going to weaken,” Monier said. “Ultimately, when the
situation gets very difficult there will be another round of
measures to try and fix the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  