-- Hon Hai Is Target for Taishin Fund as Tax Cuts Valuations
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-24T07:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/hon-hai-is-target-for-taishin-fund-as-tax-cuts-valuations.html
Taiwan ’s proposed capital-gains tax
on  stock trading  would cut trading volumes and valuations,
making stocks such as  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  cheaper,
the manager of the  Taishin (TAIMAST)  Mainstream Fund said.  Taishin will purchase more shares of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  supplier
Hon Hai if the stock falls below NT$100 ($3.39), Taishin
Securities Investment Trust Co.’s Alex Lu, said by phone on
April 18. His NT$500 million fund has outperformed this year 671 
other funds that are domiciled in Taiwan. Hon Hai, the Taishin 
fund’s top holding, rallied 25 percent in 2012 to NT$102, more 
than the benchmark Taiex Index's 6 percent gain. The stock
surged 3.6 percent, the most since March 28, to NT$103.50 today.  The Taiex has fallen 6.7 percent since the Economic Daily
News reported on March 29 that the government was considering
the levy, compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 3.4
percent decline. The Taiwanese gauge is valued at 14.4 times
estimated profit, down from 15 times on March 29. It’s still at
a 38 percent premium to the  MSCI Emerging-Markets Index (MXEF) ’s
multiple of 10.4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The tax proposal will reduce volume in the market and
subsequently cut the valuations,” said Lu. “That would give
investors opportunities to enter the market.”  Individual investors who earn more than NT$3 million
annually from trading stocks, futures, and options will incur a
20 percent tax from next year, Finance Minister Christina Liu
told reporters on April 12 after her ministry proposed the duty
to Cabinet. Local institutional investors who earn in excess of
NT$500,000 will face a 12 percent levy, while overseas investors
without offices and direct business operations in Taiwan will be
exempt, she said.  Apple Contribution  The Cabinet has yet to give a timeline for the tax
proposal’s implementation. The  Ministry of Finance  is aiming for
the tax to take effect from 2013, meaning taxpayers making gains
from trading next year will pay the tax in May 2014.  The  Taiex (TWSE)  climbed 1.6 percent on April 13, the day after
the tax was proposed by Liu’s ministry to Cabinet. The negative
impact has been reflected in stock prices and the overall
reduction to  earnings  at companies besides financial services
should be less than 2 percent, according to an April 12 report
from Credit Suisse Group AG. The Taiex has declined 3.7 percent
since then.  There is “no question” the tax is negative to the equity
market,  Kevin Chang , a strategist at Fubon Securities Co. wrote
in a report on April 13. The jitters provide entry points
because the tax’s impact would be limited in the long run, he
wrote. He predicts a support level of about 7,400 for the Taiex,
which closed at 7,498.84 today.  Hon Hai  The Taiex slid 21 percent last year and has risen in 2012
on signs of a recovery in the  U.S. economy  and speculation Ma
Ying-jeou’s re-election as president will lead to stronger
economic ties with  China .  Taishin would buy more shares of Hon Hai, the world’s
largest contract manufacturer of electronics, if the stock
declined because the company will earn more profits from Apple
sales, Lu said.  Hon Hai posted a  record  quarterly profit in the October-to-
December period as sales of Apple’s iPhones and iPads climbed.
Apple, which outsources its iPad assembly, most of its iPhones
and some of its MacBooks to Foxconn Technology Group, Hon Hai’s
parent, posted record revenue for the three months ended Dec. 31
with 15.4 million iPads sold, exceeding analyst estimates for
13.5 million units.  “Apple is returning more margins to its suppliers and Hon
Hai is set to benefit more than the others,” said Lu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  