-- Hong Kong Exports Fell in March on Lower Asia Demand
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-24T09:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/hong-kong-exports-fell-in-march-on-lower-asia-demand.html
Hong Kong ’s  exports  fell 6.8
percent last month, missing estimates, as sales to the U.S. and
some Asian nations dropped.  Overseas shipments in March declined to HK$262.4 billion
($33.8 billion) from a year earlier, the government said on its
website today. That compared with a 14 percent gain in February
and the median estimate of 4 percent growth in a Bloomberg News
survey of 12 economists.  Hong Kong’s rebound from the global financial crisis is
being tempered by slowing exports on “sluggish’” U.S. growth
and debt turmoil in Europe, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said
in Hanoi yesterday. Stocks tumbled yesterday as weakness in
China’s economy and political uncertainty in  France  and the
Netherlands fueled concern about the outlook for world expansion.  “The short-term trade outlook remains sluggish,” Lily Lo,
a Hong Kong-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said
before the announcement. Exports to  Europe  will continue to
worsen, and the U.S. economy’s performance “is the wild card,”
Lo said.  Tsang in February forecast Hong Kong’s economy to grow 1
percent to 3 percent this year. “At the end of the day, our
performance will depend to some extent on the pace of recovery
in the  euro zone  and the U.S.,” he said in a speech yesterday.  Imports decreased 4.7 percent in March from a year earlier
to HK$306.3 billion, leaving a trade deficit of HK$43.9 billion.  “Merchandise exports relapsed to a rather noticeable year-
on-year decline in March, mainly dragged by marked deceleration
in exports to many major Asian markets, amid the continued
lull” in the U.S. and European Union markets, the government
said in the statement.  The data showed exports to mainland  China , Taiwan and India
fell from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  