-- Oracle May Win Software License Resale Case, Court Aide Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-24T15:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/oracle-may-win-software-license-resale-case-court-aide-says-1-.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the largest maker of
 database software , may win a European Union court challenge
seeking to prevent a German company from reselling Oracle
software licenses, a court aide said.  Advocate General Yves Bot, a legal adviser to the EU’s
Court of Justice, said Oracle may oppose the resale of “used”
licences which allow their programs to be downloaded from the
internet again, according to a statement on his non-binding
opinion today  Still, Bot said, companies such as Oracle may not prevent
the resale of used copies of software, downloaded by their own
customers from the internet, “given that their exclusive right
of distribution relating to those copies is ‘exhausted’.”  Oracle is seeking to prevent Hhs Usedsoft GmbH, based in
Munich,  Germany , from selling computer software and licenses
that are no longer being used by the original buyer.  Oracle viewed the court opinion as “positive” and is
convinced that the final ruling from the court would “create a
precedent that protects software developers of all sizes and
protects innovation in the technology industry,” said Karl Cox,
Oracle’s vice president for public policy in a statement
published on the company’s website.  UsedSoft’s Managing Director Peter Schneider said the court
opinion may lead to “total legal certainty for the market in
second-hand software” if Bot’s views are supported by the EU’s
highest court and Germany’s federal court, according to an e-
mailed statement.  Although the advocate general’s opinion isn’t binding, it
is followed by the court in the majority of cases.  The case is:  C-128/11  Axel W. Bierbach (liquidator of
UsedSoft GmbH) v Oracle International Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 