-- Orban Says Hungary’s Bailout Talks With EU Moving Closer
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-24T14:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/orban-says-hungary-s-bailout-talks-with-eu-moving-closer-2-.html
The European Commission and Hungary
have moved “a lot closer” to proceeding with bailout talks
even as several issues are unresolved and will end up in court,
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said.  Hungary hopes the EU’s executive arm will decide tomorrow
to allow discussions on a credit to move forward as “the
obstacles to starting talks with the IMF have essentially been
surmounted,” Orban told reporters after meeting commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso today in Brussels.  “This is exclusively the commission’s decision,” Orban
said. The start of talks “is a lot closer than most people
think.”  The commission has blocked Hungary’s request for an
International Monetary Fund loan over concern that Orban’s
concentration of power in the past two years undermined the
independence of state institutions including the central bank.
Orban asked for IMF aid in November as the forint plunged to a
record and the country’s credit grade was cut to junk.  Barroso “welcomed” Orban’s pledges for “the prompt and
full implementation” of the measures regarding the independence
of the central bank, the commission said in an e-mailed
statement today. Barroso also acknowledged Orban’s commitments
on the other outstanding issues of the judiciary overhaul, the
data protection authority and the retirement age of judges,
according to the statement.  The two politicians discussed  Hungary ’s request for
financial assistance, it said.  Issues such as new Hungarian regulations on the central
bank and the judiciary should be settled outside of the
framework of bailout talks, Orban said.  Separate Issues  “Disputes within the EU need to be separated from
financing packages,” he said. “Linking the two may be
justified in peace time but only makes things more difficult in
hard times.”  The forint rose 1.1 percent to 296.39 per euro at 4:33 p.m.
in Budapest after falling to a three-month low yesterday. The
currency dropped 3.4 percent since rising to a five-month high
on Feb. 21 as investor faith wanes in Orban’s willingness to cut
a deal with the EU.  The currency plunged 15 percent in the second half of last
year, the most in the world, before paring losses after the
Cabinet pledged Jan. 5 to reach a quick deal on an IMF loan.  Orban’s government submitted amendments to the central-bank
law on April 17, heeding some of the commission’s concerns while
ignoring a European Central Bank opinion on what the government
needs to do to ensure monetary-policy independence. The ECB on
April 5 said “serious concerns” remained about Hungary’s
central-bank law.  ECB Objections  The government agreed to scrap an option to demote the
central bank president if the monetary authority is combined
with the financial regulator. The amendments don’t address the
EU’s concern for a 75 percent cut in the Magyar Nemzeti Bank
president’s salary or ECB objections to the planned enlargement
of the  rate-setting  Monetary Council.  The government also submitted amendments to Parliament on
the judiciary, reducing the power of the new head of the court
system. Council of  Europe  Secretary-General Thorbjoern Jagland
on March 21 said further changes were needed to allay criticism
by the Venice Commission, which said the right to a fair trial
is at risk under the new regulation.  On the data-protection authority, parliament, where Orban’s
lawmakers have a two-thirds majority, has approved changes
limiting the prime minister’s influence over the firing of the
independent commissioner. The change failed to address EU
objections over the removal of the country’s data-protection
commissioner last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  