-- Orban Hardens Stance on EU Disputes With Bailout at Stake
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-24T07:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/orban-hardens-stance-on-eu-disputes-with-bailout-at-stake-1-.html
Hungarian Premier  Viktor Orban  will
meet European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso after
hardening his rhetoric on disputes with the European Union that
have stalled bailout talks.  Orban will indicate to Barroso the issues that Hungary
won’t compromise on and is ready to defend in court, the premier
told reporters in Brussels yesterday. Orban meets Barroso at
11:30 a.m. today in the Belgian capital.  The commission has blocked Hungary’s request for an
 International Monetary Fund  loan over concern that Orban’s
concentration of power in the past two years undermined the
independence of state institutions including the central bank.
Orban asked for IMF aid in November as the forint plunged to a
record and the country’s credit grade was cut to junk.  “Markets probably got too optimistic about the EU/IMF
deal,”  Win Thin , global head of emerging-markets strategy at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said in an e-mailed note
yesterday. “If the euro zone deteriorates, we can easily see
the forint back up to 305 or 310” per euro.  The forint pared this week’s losses today, rising 0.4
percent against the euro to 298.3 at 8:42 a.m. in Budapest after
falling to a three-month low yesterday. The currency dropped 4.1
percent since rising to a five-month high on Feb. 21 as investor
faith wanes in Orban’s willingness to cut a deal with the EU.  The currency plunged 15 percent in the second half of last
year, the most in the world, before paring losses after the
Cabinet pledged Jan. 5 to reach a quick deal on an IMF loan.  ‘We’ll Try’  Orban said he and Barroso will make a list of contested
issues and divide them into three groups: ones that  Hungary  has
addressed, others where the government may still compromise, and
a last one on which the Cabinet won’t bend.  Asked whether he can convince the commission to allow
bailout talks to proceed amid lawsuits against the country,
Orban said yesterday: “I can’t tell you, we’ll try.”  The commission on March 7 threatened to sue Hungary to
force it to change regulations on the judiciary and the data-
protection agency, while asking for more information related to
the central-bank law. The EU executive is reviewing Hungary’s
response, which the Cabinet sent on March 30.  Orban’s government submitted amendments to the central-bank
law on April 17, heeding some of the commission’s concerns while
ignoring a European Central Bank opinion on what the government
needs to do to ensure monetary-policy independence. The ECB on
April 5 said “serious concerns” remained about Hungary’s
central-bank law.  Central Bank  The government agreed to scrap an option to demote the
central bank president if the monetary authority is combined
with the financial regulator. The amendments don’t address the
EU’s concern for a 75 percent cut in Magyar Nemzeti Bank
President’s salary or ECB objections to the planned enlargement
of the rate-setting Monetary Council.  The government also submitted amendments to Parliament on
the judiciary, reducing the power of the new head of the court
system. Council of Europe Secretary-General Thorbjoern Jagland
on March 21 said further changes were needed to allay criticism
by the Venice Commission, which said the right to a fair trial
is at risk under the new regulation.  On the data-protection authority, parliament, where Orban’s
lawmakers have a two-thirds majority, has approved changes
limiting the prime minister’s influence over the firing of the
independent commissioner. The change failed to address EU
objections over the removal of the country’s data-protection
commissioner last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  