-- Emerging Stocks Rebound as U.S. Home Sales Boost Riskier Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-04-24T21:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/most-emerging-market-stocks-fall-on-china-economy-europe-woes.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded
from their steepest drop in almost three weeks, with Hungarian
equities leading gains, as rising new home sales in the U.S.
boosted the global outlook and appetite for riskier assets.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,011.13 in  New York  as telecommunication services and consumer
companies lead the gauge’s advance.  Tata Consultancy Services
Ltd. (TCS) ,  Asia ’s largest computer services provider by market value,
surged the most since July 2009. Hungary’s BUX Index jumped the
most since February, while  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index rose for the
first time in four days.  Sales of new homes in the U.S. in March climbed more than
the median in a Bloomberg survey of economists, while an index
of leading Chinese indicators gained a preliminary 0.8 percent
from the previous month, data today shows. Confidence among U.S.
consumers was little changed in April from the previous month,
according to a Conference Board index.  “A string of better than expected data is going to flip
the switch and put investors in more of a tolerant mood for
taking on emerging-market risk,” said  Ed Kuczma , an emerging
market analyst at Van Eck Associates in New York.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.3 percent yesterday,
the most since April 4. The benchmark has climbed 10 percent
this year, while the MSCI World Index added 7.5 percent.
Companies on the gauge of developing nations are valued at 10.5
times estimated profits, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple
of 12.3 times.  Brazil, Russia  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded 
fund, the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
rose 0.2 percent to $41.61 in New York.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, declined 3.5 percent to 26.24
after jumping 7.4 percent yesterday.  Brazil’s Bovespa rose 0.7 percent in  Sao Paulo , with 44
companies advancing and 22 falling. Fibria Celulose S.A. and Oi
S.A. climbed more than 6.6 percent to lead gains while freight
transporter All American Latina Logistica fell 2.3 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index fell 0.6 percent in Moscow with
declines led by United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum
supplier. Mosenergo, the Russian capital’s biggest power
supplier, climbed 4.7 percent, the most since August 2011.  Hungary Leads Gains  The  BUX Index (BUX)  gained 2.1 percent for its biggest gain in
two months as Hungary is near a “breakthrough” in its campaign
to convince the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  to allow stalled bailout talks to proceed, Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  gained 0.4 percent in
 South Africa  while the  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  fell 0.7 percent
in Istanbul as trading resumed following a holiday yesterday.
The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  jumped 0.6 percent in Warsaw.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  gained 0.3 percent and the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was little changed with 317 companies gaining
and 633 retreating.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  dropped 0.5 percent while
 Taiwan ’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  added 0.2 percent.  The Sensitive Index, or Sensex, gained 0.7 percent in
Mumbai as Tata Consultancy Services jumped 12.2 percent after it
said  net income  rose 23 percent to 29.3 billion rupees ($556
million) in the three months ended March 31. The median of
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was profit of 28.3
billion rupees.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 353, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  