-- Apple Found to Violate One Patent on Android Phones
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-04-24T20:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/motorola-mobility-wins-partial-ruling-in-apple-iphone-case.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  won
a partial U.S. International Trade Commission judge’s ruling in
its bid to block imports of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s devices including the
iPhone and iPad tablet computer.  Apple violated one of four Motorola Mobility patent rights
being contested, ITC Judge Thomas Pender said in a  notice  posted
today. The patent relates to 3G technology. The other three
patents weren’t violated, according to the notice. Pender’s
findings are subject to review by the six-member commission,
which can block imports that infringe U.S. patents.  The findings, along with a separate determination yesterday
in a Motorola Mobility patent case against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , are
part of a global fight in a mobile-device market  Yankee Group 
projects will expand to $360 billion this year.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has
said its $12.5 billion purchase of Motorola Mobility and its
trove of patents may protect it against litigation by rivals to
its Android operating system.  “These are long wars, and it’s one more battle in the
war,” said  Carl Howe , an analyst with Yankee Group. “It’s
about accumulating as much intellectual property as possible.
It’s not good for innovation if you do that, but that seems to
be where we’re heading.”  Apple Confident  The six-member commission is scheduled to complete the
investigation by Aug. 23. Should it decide an import ban is
warranted, that decision is subject to review by both President
 Barack Obama  and an appeals court that specializes in  patent
law .  “A court in  Germany  has already ruled that Apple did not
infringe on this patent, so we believe we will have a very
strong case on appeal,”  Kristin Huguet , an Apple spokeswoman,
said in a telephone interview, referring to the one patent Apple
was found to have violated.  Apple slid $11.42, or 2 percent, to $560.28 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. Motorola Mobility fell 29
cents to $38.14 at 4:15 p.m.  “We are pleased that the ALJ’s initial determination finds
Apple to be in violation of Motorola Mobility’s intellectual
property, and look forward to the full commission’s ruling in
August,” Becki Leonard, a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility,
said in an e-mailed statement.  IPhone, Android  Motorola Mobility filed the complaint Oct. 1, 2010, amid
statements by Apple that phones running on Google Inc.’s Android
operating system copied the iPhone. Android has become the most
popular platform for mobile devices.  Apple, which had  $108.2 billion  in sales last year, has
denied infringing Motorola Mobility patents and challenged their
validity. The patent it was found to have violated covers
industry-standard technology and Motorola has refused to license
it to Apple on reasonable terms, Huguet said.  The European Union is investigating complaints by Microsoft
and Apple that Motorola Mobility is unfairly using standard-
essential patents to block competition.  Patent lawsuits over smartphone technology were filed on
four continents, with a dozen at the ITC alone. Companies are
fighting for an added share of a market that researcher Gartner
Inc. said rose 47 percent in the fourth quarter. Cupertino,
California-based Apple has pending ITC complaints against
Android-phone makers HTC Corp. and  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co.  Google Acquisition  Apple lost its own ITC case, filed Oct. 29, 2010, in which
it sought to block imports of Motorola Mobility’s Android
phones. Apple is appealing the decision.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , agreed to buy
Motorola Mobility after the case was filed and will inherit the
dispute once the deal is completed. European and U.S. regulators
have approved the acquisition, which is under review by Chinese
authorities.  The patent that was found to be infringed covers a way to
eliminate noise so signals are clearer. A Wi-Fi patent is
invalid because it doesn’t cover a new invention, the judge
said. No infringement was found on two other patents, for a way
the server tracks which applications are available, and a sensor
to determine the proximity of a person’s head to the phone so it
doesn’t accidentally hang up or dial unwanted numbers.  Pender’s full decision will be posted after both sides get
a chance to redact confidential information.  ITC Judge  David Shaw  said yesterday that Microsoft was
infringing four other Motorola Mobility patents, including three
that read on Wi-Fi and video-decoding standards. If the
commission agrees, it could block imports of Microsoft’s Xbox
gaming system.  Smartphone Market  Apple had 29 percent of the smartphone market in 2011,
compared with less than 8 percent for Motorola Mobility,
according to researcher  Strategy Analytics . When it comes to
operating systems, the Android platform had 55 percent, Apple
held 29 percent, and Microsoft’s Windows Phone had about 3
percent.  Android was introduced on handsets to further Google’s
advertising business and is provided free to device makers
including Motorola Mobility, Samsung and  HTC. (2498)  Apple’s operating
system, which it developed, is available only on Apple products.  The case against Apple is In the Matter of Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, Computers and Components Thereof, 337-745, and Apple’s
case against Motorola Mobility is In the Matter of Mobile
Devices and Related Software, 337-750, both U.S. International
Trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  