-- Tower Bersama Seeks Mezzanine Debt as Banks Fund Senior Loan
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-04-24T11:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/tower-bersama-seeks-mezzanine-debt-as-banks-fund-senior-loan-1-.html
PT Tower Bersama Infrastructure (TBIG)  is
seeking a mezzanine debt facility of $50 million even as it has
received more funds than it needs for a separate $325 million
loan, according to Singapore-based Gavin Caudle, an adviser to
the board of directors and a founder of the company.  The Jakarta-based provider of telecommunications
infrastructure to wireless carriers is seeking a 3 1/2-year
mezzanine loan instead of more senior level debt because the
senior facility is borrowed under a program which limits
borrowings to no more than 4.5 times earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, Caudle said. Eleven banks
have pledged to commit funds to the $325 million senior level
loan, he said.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., DBS Bank Ltd., Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. and United Overseas Banking Ltd. were hired by Tower
Bersama to help arrange the senior debt facility more than two
months ago, Caudle said. Proceeds from that facility will be
used to help partially fund Tower Bersama’s purchase of 2,500
mobile phone towers from PT Indosat and for other capital
expenditure requirements.  The five banks underwrote $250 million of the senior debt
facility and were subsequently joined in senior syndication by
PT Bank Central Asia, PT Bank Negara  Indonesia ,  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Credit Agricole CIB, HSBC Holdings Plc and  Qatar
National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , which pledged a combined $360 million. That
brought the total raised to $610 million before the loan began
to be marketed in general syndication to an even wider group of
lenders earlier this month, Caudle said.  “We’re going ahead with general syndication because we
want more banks to become familiar with us,” Caudle said.
“We’re growing fast, we need capital and we’ll be coming to the
loan market every year as long as it can support us.”  Tower Bersama’s current borrowings under its debt program
are equal to three times EBITDA. The mezzanine debt is being
borrowed by a holding company which isn’t covered by the debt
program.  The $325 million facility pays a margin of 400 basis points
and 425 basis points over the London interbank offered rate to
offshore and onshore lenders respectively. The margin drops to
275 basis points after six months, Caudle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  