-- Hoyer Says House Talks ‘Pretty Close’ to Export-Import Deal
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-04-24T18:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/hoyer-says-house-talks-pretty-close-to-export-import-deal-1-.html
Representative  Steny Hoyer , the No.
2 Democrat in the House, said negotiators “are pretty close”
to an agreement on legislation to extend the U.S. Export-Import
Bank’s lending authority.  Hoyer, the Democratic whip from  Maryland , said he didn’t
expect the legislation to be ready for a vote this week as House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  seeks support within his Republican
conference.  The Ex-Im bank, which provides loan guarantees, insurance
and loans to purchase U.S. goods and services, is seeking to
raise its lending cap from $100 billion to $140 billion by the
end of the 2014 fiscal year.  “We are pretty close to agreement” on legislation,
including a time frame for authorizing the bank’s continued
lending activity, Hoyer told reporters.  Hoyer said Cantor, of  Virginia , was still trying to shore
up support among Republicans by providing assurances that “they
ought to have a comfort level with the bill he has agreed to.”  Hoyer predicted that Cantor will need Democratic votes to
pass the legislation, even though the majority leader is trying
to marshal the needed support among Republicans.  Lending Cap  The House is not likely to vote on the legislation this
week, so the earliest it could take up the measure would be the
week of May 7, following a one-week recess. Bank officials have
estimated that the current lending cap may be reached by the end
of May.  The bank estimates that it may need a lending cap of as
much as $159 billion by the end of the 2015 fiscal year,
according to an April 19 letter to congressional leaders from
Robert L. Nabors II, the White House legislative affairs
director.  The collapse of financial markets in 2008 and 2009 and the
European debt crisis, which has tightened credit from
conventional lenders, resulted in greater demand for Ex-Im bank
financial services, Nabors wrote.  Critics, including some Republican lawmakers and the Club
for Growth, a group that promotes smaller government, argue that
the bank distorts markets.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  of Atlanta has
raised objections to Export-Import lending practices, arguing
that they undercut U.S. airlines by giving subsidized loan
guarantees to foreign competitors.  “Delta raises issues that are worthy of concern,” Hoyer
said. Negotiators are “trying to work those out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  