-- Pakistan’s Gilani Faces Contempt Ruling That May End Premiership
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-04-24T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/pakistan-s-gilani-faces-contempt-ruling-that-may-end-premiership.html
Pakistan’s Supreme Court will
tomorrow rule whether Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  is
guilty of contempt for refusing to probe the country’s president
for graft, a verdict that may further destabilize a key U.S.
ally in the fight against regional militancy.  The court charged Gilani with contempt Feb. 13 for failing
to act on its earlier order to seek the reopening of corruption
investigations against President Asif Ali Zardari in Swiss
courts. If found guilty, Gilani may be barred from holding the
National Assembly seat that he needs to remain as premier and be
sentenced to a jail term.  While the judgment is unlikely to trigger the collapse of
Zardari’s Pakistan People’s Party-led government, which has the
parliamentary majority it would need to select a new premier if
Gilani is removed, it may weaken the ruling alliance at a time
when the U.S. is trying to mend a strained relationship with
 Pakistan  that is central to the Obama administration’s bid to
stabilize neighboring  Afghanistan .  “Any conviction will plunge the country into a new
crisis,” Hasan-Askari Rizvi, an independent political and
military analyst based in Lahore, said in an interview
yesterday. “It will increase political uncertainty and divert
the government’s attention from the key issues.”  The coalition government has survived a series of crises
during its four-year rule, including its sharpest confrontation
with the nation’s generals over a memo seeking U.S. help to
avert a military coup soon after the killing of  Osama bin Laden .  Economy Struggling  Gilani’s government is struggling to revive an economy hurt
by political instability, militant attacks, and shortages of
energy. The government in January cut its growth forecast for
the year that ends in June to 4 percent from 4.2 percent, after
registering one of the lowest expansions in this decade during
the previous 12 months.  “According to the law, the maximum punishment is six
months” in prison, Aitzaz Ahsan, Gilani’s lawyer, told
reporters yesterday, confirming that his client had been ordered
to attend tomorrow’s verdict. “The president has the right to
issue a pardon, but in this case we will not seek one,” he said
after the court had ended its hearings.  During three months of court hearings, Ahsan had argued
that Gilani couldn’t be found guilty of contempt as Zardari
enjoys constitutional immunity from prosecution locally and
internationally while head of state. Zardari leads the ruling
PPP of which Gilani is a key member.  Judges issued a contempt notice to Gilani on Jan. 16 after
saying he violated his oath of office by failing to re-open
graft probes against Zardari and others that former military
ruler  Pervez Musharraf  suspended in 2007.  ‘Soft’ Punishments  Negotiating with political parties to stay on as a civilian
president, Musharraf decreed an amnesty to halt corruption cases
against 8,000 politicians and officials, including Zardari and
his wife, former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto .  The  Supreme Court  in 2009 ordered the government to
formally ask Swiss authorities to revive cases there against
Zardari and Bhutto, who was assassinated at a political rally.  “The punishment in contempt cases is usually very soft,”
Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui, a former judge at the Supreme Court, said
in an interview yesterday. “The prime minister will still have
the right to appeal, and if it’s accepted the court will suspend
the verdict.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  