-- Pentagon Cyber-Sharing Project Expanding to 200 Companies
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-24T16:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/pentagon-cyber-sharing-project-expanding-to-200-companies.html
The U.S. Defense Department wants
to expand a pilot project for sharing information on
cybersecurity threats among its contractors to 200 companies
from the current 37, Teri Takai, the Pentagon’s Chief
Information Officer said.  The department expects to get approval from the White House
for the expansion within 60 days, Takai said today at a
conference in Arlington,  Virginia , organized by U.S.
Representative Jim Moran, a Virginia Democrat.  “We provide information to them as it relates to threats,
and they also share in a confidential manner the threats they
face and the actions they’re taking,” Takai told reporters at
the conference, referring to defense contractors. “We all get
hit by the same kinds of things but also different” threats
from time to time, she said.  The Pentagon started the Defense Industrial Base
Information Sharing Environment two years ago to test how the
Defense Department and companies could share information on
attacks aimed at the  computer networks  of  contractors that
design, develop and build U.S. weapons. Companies’ participation
in the program is voluntary.  Approval from the White House Office of Management and
Budget is required because the project involves “agreement
between government and private entities,” Takai said. Clearance
may also may pave the way for a project led by the Department of
 Homeland Security  that is intended to bolster corporate
cybersecurity, she said.  China’s Hackers  The Homeland Security project would let  Internet service
providers  such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and defense
contractors such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  receive classified
intelligence data that would be used to protect other companies
from cyber attacks.  Expanded information-sharing is needed because hackers,
especially in China, are accelerating efforts to penetrate
computer networks such as those of defense contractors, Rear
Admiral Samuel Cox, director of intelligence for the U.S. Cyber
Command, told reporters at today’s conference.  “The rate of amount of cyber exploitation by China
continues to increase significantly,” he said. “The changes
are in regards to the sophistication of what they are going
after.”  Contractors are coming under increasing attack because the
Pentagon has greatly improved its capability to defend its
classified networks, Cox said.  “They go after the weaker links, and they are having
significant success in that regard,” Cox said.  Asked if Chinese hacking efforts were state-organized or
carried out independently, Cox said, “When you look at  China ’s
system of government, there is very little that goes on in that
country the government doesn’t know about.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  