-- Pimco to Open Active ETF Focused on Inflation-Linked Debt
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-04-24T13:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/pimco-to-open-active-etf-focused-on-inflation-linked-debt.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
next week will start an actively managed exchange-traded fund
that invests in global inflation-linked  government bonds 
denominated in local currencies.  The Global Advantage Inflation-Linked Bond Strategy Fund,
set to begin trading May 1 under the ticker symbol ILB, will
have about 70 percent of the portfolio in developed markets and
about 30 percent in  emerging markets ,  Mihir Worah , a managing
director and head of Pimco’s real return portfolio management
team, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “The inflation in bond markets are somewhat inefficient,
which gives a fair amount of opportunity to active managers to
outperform,” Worah said. Pimco decided to create the fund now
because of low  interest rates  in developed markets as a result
of central-bank policies, as well as higher inflation in
emerging countries because of commodity prices, Worah said.  The new inflation-linked fund will be  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco’s sixth actively managed ETF as the firm
pushes into new products. Last month, Pimco opened an active ETF
version of  Bill Gross ’s $252 billion Total Return Fund, which
became the world’s largest mutual fund in 2009. The Pimco Total
Return ETF has $509 million in assets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has returned 3.3 percent from its
March 1 trading debut through yesterday, compared with 1.3
percent for the Total Return mutual fund.  The new ETF will reflect Pimco’s Global Advantage
Inflation-Linked Bond Index, which weights countries according
to gross domestic product instead of market capitalization. The
traditional practice of using market value in fixed-income
indexes results in larger allocations to countries that have
issued the most debt, according to Worah.  Passive Dominance  Active ETFs, which are designed to blend the trading
flexibility and accessibility of ETFs with the stock- or bond-
picking ability of active management, haven’t attracted much
investor interest. They accounted for less than 0.5 percent of
the $1.06 trillion in U.S.-registered ETF assets as of Feb. 29,
according to the  Investment Company Institute .  Pimco, which has about $1.77 trillion in assets under
management, is a unit of insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)  Pimco, known for
its bond funds run by Gross, began expanding into other asset
classes including stocks more than two years ago. The firm has
said it will pursue strategies with a global focus, in line with
its “new normal” philosophy that describes an era of lower
returns, heightened  government regulation , diminishing U.S.
clout in the world economy and a bigger role for developing
nations.  Seed Capital  The inflation-linked ETF will start with seed money of
about $5 million to $10 million, according to Worah. The fund
will try to beat the average real yield of about 1.45 percent
for the Global Advantage Inflation-Linked Bond Index, he said.
Pimco doesn’t have a comparable mutual fund in the U.S., Worah
said. The firm started one last year in  Europe .  The fund’s primary benchmark is listed as a Barclays index
for regulatory purposes.  ETFs typically hold baskets of securities while trading
throughout the day like stocks, instead of being priced once a
day like most mutual funds.  Active versions seek to combine the skill of fund managers
in selecting securities with the lower fees, market trading and
tax advantages of ETFs. Passive products, which seek to closely
track broad market benchmarks such as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, dominate the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  