-- Platts to Offer Staff New York Move to Escape Olympics
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-04-25T13:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/platts-said-to-offer-staff-new-york-move-on-olympics-congestion.html
Platts, the energy and pricing unit
of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , plans to temporarily relocate some London
employees during the  Olympic Games  to ensure market coverage
isn’t disrupted, three people familiar with the matter said.  Staff involved in oil-price assessments who rely on public
transport to get to the company’s office in  Canary Wharf  have
been asked to work from  New York  or Maidenhead, west of London,
the people said, declining to be identified because the plan
hasn’t been made public. Elizabeth Catalano, a spokeswoman in
London, said yesterday Platts will make use of other cities
during the games, without specifying which locations.  Canary Wharf, where Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc have
their global headquarters, is less than 3 miles (5 kilometers)
from the Olympic stadium. The number of journeys on the city’s
tube, bus and rail network will rise by 25 percent to 15 million
a day during the event, according to Transport for London, an
agency that oversees the city’s travel routes. The games run
from July 27 to Aug. 12.  “Every crude market and product market in  Europe  and the
U.S., apart from the odd exception, is dependent on Platts for
their assessments,” Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior market consultant at
KBC Energy Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England , said by
phone. “Nowadays there’s enough communication available that as
long as the same people are doing the assessments, the fact they
are located in different countries shouldn’t be a problem.”  Stress Test  Businesses in the capital are scheduled to undertake a
“ stress test ” on May 8 and May 9 to simulate conditions during
the games, when companies will try out plans such as flexible
working hours, according to Canary Wharf Group Plc, the
developer and manager of the 97-acre estate in London’s former
docklands.  BP Plc (BP/) , which runs its global oil-trading operations from
the same building as Platts in Canary Wharf, will allow some
employees to work from other locations,  Sheila Williams , a
spokeswoman, said by phone yesterday from London. About 160,000
commuters travel daily into Canary Wharf on the underground’s
Jubilee Line, according to Transport for London.  “Many organizations are already putting their plans in
place to ensure they can continue to run effectively and
profitably during the Olympic and  Paralympic Games ,” Mark Evers, director of Games Transport, said in an April 10
statement from the network operator.  Tube Journeys  Transport for London advises Canary Wharf commuters to make
their return journey before 4 p.m. local time or after 8 p.m. on
weekdays during the competition. The business district is on the
Jubilee Line and the Docklands Light Railway, both of which also
serve the Olympic site at Stratford.  An additional 20 million trips will be made by spectators
within  London  during the 2012 Games, including three million on
Aug. 3 which is expected to be the busiest day, according to
London 2012, the event organizer.  Platts assesses various grades of crude and oil products,
as well as other energy commodities, often using a so-called
Market on Close session where traders and brokers declare bids,
offers and trades until about 4:30 p.m. in London. Bloomberg LP,
the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with Platts in providing
energy-markets news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  