-- Post Offices Tougher to Close Under U.S. Senate Overhaul
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-04-24T22:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/post-offices-tougher-to-close-under-u-s-senate-overhaul.html
A Senate bill to overhaul the cash-
strapped U.S.  Postal Service  would make it more difficult to
shutter post offices considered too costly to maintain.  The legislation would create an appeal process to let
customers protest plans to close individual offices. The Senate
began voting today on proposed amendments to the bill,  S. 1789 ,
including at least eight that would delay decisions on shutting
down postal sites.  Lawmakers have struggled with how to reduce the cost of
programs or benefits their constituents rely on, such as Social
Security and Medicare, as budgets grow tighter. When the  Cold
War  ended during the late 1980s, Congress created a series of
Base Closure and Realignment Commissions to recommend military
base closings in a process that insulated lawmakers from
opposition by people back home who lost their jobs.  “Individual congressmen can try to save their post office
this year or next year and get some brownie points with the
electorate for that, but this thing doesn’t work anymore,” said
Elaine Kamarck, a Harvard University lecturer who led government
modernization efforts in the 1990s, during President  Bill Clinton ’s administration.  “This is a long-term structural trend, and it’s like
buggy-whip makers and candle manufacturers -- it’s just going to
be mostly obsolete,” she said about the decline in the use of
first-class mail.  3,700 Post Offices  The Postal Service proposes to close as many as 3,700 post
offices and more than 220 mail-processing sites across the
country. The closings, which may take effect starting May 15,
had been postponed by a five-month moratorium urged by a group
of senators in December. The Postal Service has estimated the
cuts could save $6.1 billion a year to help stave off a default.  The Senate measure would authorize the Postal Service to
provide non-postal products and services, revise its payments to
two federal funds that provide worker retirement benefits, and
install a chief innovation officer to help adopt new business
practices.  The measure’s revisions to the postal closure process would
allow “stakeholders and community members” more opportunities
to provide feedback on potential shutdowns, bill co-sponsor Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement. The
process is “critical to ensuring that postal customers support
the Postal Service’s larger reform efforts,” he said.  Limited Internet Access  Senators have said they worry that post office closings
could hurt constituents, especially those in rural areas with
limited access to broadband Internet, and that the harm may
outweigh the cost savings.  “I know we have a problem here, but when we look at the
numbers, closing rural post offices doesn’t help,” Missouri
Democrat  Claire McCaskill  said April 18 during floor debate.
“In 167 different communities in my state, something that is
essential far beyond the bricks and mortar to those communities
would close, all in the name of less than 1 percent” of the
Postal Service budget, she said, citing an independent estimate.  The Senate today adopted McCaskill’s amendment to prohibit
rural post office closings for at least one year, except for
those carried out in the interest of public health and safety
and in communities that don’t express significant opposition.  Maryland Democrat Barbara Mikulski placed a hold on the
bill March 20 because of the Postal Service’s plan to close a
mail-processing facility in Easton, a town on her home state’s
Eastern Shore. The procedural tactic didn’t block the Senate
from taking up the bill, and Mikulski today withdrew a proposed
amendment that would have required a state governor’s signature
to shut down a postal facility.  Community Safety  “The Post Office is not a business, it is a public
utility, and we need to think of it as a public utility which
provides a universal service to keep the juice and electricity
of our economy going,” Mikulski said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  One proposed amendment would keep all facilities in vote-
by-mail states open until after the November election. Another
would retain offices in areas where the next closest postal
facility is more than 50 miles away.  “This is tough stuff politically and I understand the
instinct” to push back against closures, said Paul Light, a
federal government expert at  New York University . “But you’ve
got to get at the big-cost items, and they actually roll up
through the closure of a number of small units.”  Speeding the Process  Some senators are trying to speed the closure process.
Republican  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky  proposed an amendment to cut
the number of post offices on  Capitol Hill  from seven to a
maximum of two.  Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  proposed allowing the Postal
Service to close rural-area post offices based solely on
unprofitability. Senate leaders have agreed that no amendment
can be adopted unless 60 senators support it.  The proposed closures are “intricately linked” to other
revenue-raising efforts, said Kamarck, who was hired to submit a
2009 report to the Postal Service on its business model.
Congress “has to face reality” by accepting the closures and
developing plans to ease negative effects such as job losses,
she said.  The Senate plans a vote on final passage this week. The
House hasn’t considered its main Postal Service overhaul bill,
 H.R. 2309 , which would create a commission modeled on the
 Defense Department ’s base-closing commissions to oversee closing
postal facilities.  “The Postal Service urgently requires the enactment of
comprehensive legislation to return to profitability and long-
term financial stability,” Postal Service spokesman Dave Partenheimer said in an e-mail. Partenheimer declined to comment
on the Senate’s proposed changes to the closure process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  