-- Power Shortage Hurts Chile’s $100 Billion Copper Push
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-04-25T19:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/power-shortage-hurts-chile-s-100-billion-copper-push.html
The biggest-ever pipeline of copper
projects is under threat as Chile, the world’s top producer,
struggles to contain rising opposition to new power plants.  At least 5,000 megawatts of capacity, including a $5
billion coal-fired plant proposed by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , are facing delays or have been shelved as companies
including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   and Anglo American Plc  spend as much
as $100 billion on copper and other mining projects in Chile.  The country, struck by a power blackout as recently as this
week, needs to boost capacity by 47 percent within 8 years to
keep pace with consumption. Protesters from fishermen to
university students oppose the plants, prompting miners to
consider their own projects to help meet China’s copper demand.  “Chile will have to shelve many of the country’s mining
investments due to the high cost and scarcity of electricity,”
Joaquin Villarino, president of mining lobby group  Consejo
Minero , said in Santiago on April 19. Delays will jeopardize a
“significant” part of the proposed mine investments, he said.  BHP Billiton , the world’s largest mining company, may
solicit offers to build a power station in northern Chile, Peter Beaven, head of the Melbourne-based company’s base metals unit,
said April 10.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  is considering options for
the location and providers of a power station in the Atacama
Desert to supply its Quebrada Blanca mine, the company based in
 Vancouver  said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Chile needs to add 8,000 megawatts to its 17,000-megawatt
power system by 2020, according to  National Energy Commission 
estimates. The mining industry accounts for about a fifth of the
country’s energy demands.  Earthquake  Transmission lines damaged by an 8.8-magnitude earthquake
on Feb. 27, 2010 also need investment. The grid will be prone to
blackouts for years to come, Chile’s former energy minister
Rodrigo Alvarez said Feb. 17. The latest blackout struck this
week as supply was cut from the capital Santiago to the southern
region of Los Lagos on April 23.  Power prices on  Chile ’s central grid rose from about $100 a
megawatt hour at the start of 2010 to more than $150 a megawatt
hour at the end of 2011, according to the Energy Ministry.  “It is a challenge that the government is well aware of
the need to ensure that economic growth is not constrained by a
lack of power,”  John MacKenzie , head of Anglo’s copper
business, said in an April 10 interview in the Chilean capital.  Alvarez resigned after a conflict related to fuel subsidies
in the southern region of Aysen. President Sebastian Pinera then
appointed Jorge Bunster on April 3 as his fifth energy minister
in two years.  Environmental Opposition  Opposition from environmentalists and community groups are
slowing construction of power projects, including HidroAysen in
Patagonia that would become the country’s biggest power
generator, according to Villarino.  HidroAysen , which is being developed by  Colbun SA (COLBUN)  and
 Empresa Nacional de Electricidad SA , would generate 2,750
megawatts for Chile’s central grid. State-owned Codelco, the
world’s largest copper producer, operates three mines in that
region of the country. Last year’s approval of the project
sparked protests that led to hundreds of arrests and millions of
dollars in damage in public infrastructure.  HidroAysen still requires approval to build a 1,900-
kilometer (1,180-mile) transmission line.  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , controlled by Batista, faces delays to its
Castilla project after fishermen won an injunction to halt its
development. The plant will provide power to new mines proposed
by Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and Teck.  “If Castilla doesn’t get approved then these projects will
get delayed,” Pedro Litsek, who heads MPX’s Chilean operations,
said in an interview in Santiago today.  GDF Suez  In 2010 Pinera asked  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) ,  Europe ’s largest natural-
gas network operator, to scrap plans to build a 540-megawatt
coal-fired power plant on the coastal site of Barrancones after
environmental opposition.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  has partnered with  Australia ’s  Origin Energy
Ltd. (ORG)  to develop its  Energia Austral  hydroelectric project in
southern Chile.  “Energy risk is significant and we need to ensure that the
risks are properly mitigated,”  Charlie Sartain , the head of
Xstrata’s copper business, said in an April 17 interview.  Liquefied natural gas imports can be increased to Chile
through the two LNG terminals already operating in the country,
BHP’s Beaven said.  The government is taking a more prominent role in taking
decisions to improve power supply in Chile, Codelco’s Chief
Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said in an April 18 interview
in Santiago. Previously, the government limited itself to
regulating the sector, he said.  Economic Growth  Pinera aims to achieve average economic growth of 6 percent
during his four-year term as part of a goal for Chile to become
a developed nation by 2018. That plan is contingent on approving
power projects, according to a Feb. 28  speech .  “If we don’t win this battle to have cheap, clean and safe
energy, we won’t become a developed country,” Pinera said.  Chile will seek to “substantially” increase hydroelectric
generation to solve the country’s shortages, Juan Manuel
Contreras, executive secretary of the  National Energy Commission 
said April 19. Chile has 9,000 megawatts of untapped
hydroelectric power generating capacity, he said.  Chile’s gross domestic product expanded 6 percent last year
and 6.1 percent in 2010, the fastest in more than a decade.
Economic growth will slow this year to 4.1 percent as the euro-
zone crisis reduces demand for exports, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The South American country can reduce consumption by 12
percent through power-saving measures, according to Deputy
Energy Minister Sergio del Campo.  Renewable Energies  The country is considering a law that would set  Latin
America ’s highest renewable energy goal and spur $10 billion of
investments in clean power projects. Dozens of companies have
applied to the environment regulator to build solar farms in the
Atacama Desert, the driest place on earth.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold
Chile’s bonds due in 2021 has fallen to 94 basis points from 116
basis points at the end of 2011. The country’s credit-default
swap, a measure of the cost of insuring against default for five
years, fell to 97 basis points from 132 basis points on Dec. 30.
The benchmark equity index has gained 9.3 percent this year.  Mining companies are considering $100 billion of projects
in Chile, home to the world’s largest copper reserves, according
to data compiled by mining association  Sonami . Peru, the world’s
third-largest copper producer, may get $50 billion in mining
investments over the next decade, according to the country’s
energy and mines ministry.  Lower Quality Ore  More energy is needed as mining companies develop deposits
with lower quality ore, as they need to move more earth to
extract the same amount of copper.  Chile’s copper output has slumped this year due to
declining ore at mines including Codelco’s flagship Chuquicamata
that is a century old.  Codelco needs to spend more than $20 billion to boost
output to 2.1 million metric tons by 2020 from about 1.7 million
now, Hernandez said. Without those investments, Codelco’s output
will slump to 800,000 tons a year in that timeframe as the
company exhausts profitable ore at its mines.  China ’s copper demand will probably grow more than 8
percent annually in the next five years,  Andrew Harding , the
head of Rio Tinto Group’s copper division, said in an April 17
interview.  Copper for three-month delivery rose 0.6 percent to
$8,197.50 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange by 10:42
a.m. local time, as all six main metals traded on the exchange
gained. The metal has advanced 7.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  