-- Pro-Romney Group Amends FEC Filing for $400,000 Contribution
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-04-24T17:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/pro-romney-group-to-amend-name-behind-400-000-contribution.html
Restore Our Future, a group backing
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , today
amended its  Federal Election Commission  reports to change the
source of a $400,000 donation.  The March 1 contribution, originally attributed in FEC
reports to Seaspray Partners LLC, is now  listed  in two $200,000
checks from Gerald and Darlene Jordan of  Palm Beach ,  Florida .  In FEC reports made public April 20, Restore Our Future
tied the donation -- the political action committee’s sixth-
largest last month -- to Seaspray Partners and included its Palm
Beach address. A review of public documents, including Florida
corporate filings, showed Scott DeSano registered Seaspray
Partners.  DeSano said he didn’t give any money to the super-PAC and
said he is the sole owner of the company.  Brittany Gross, a spokeswoman for Restore Our Future, said
on April 21 that a “clerical” error had led Restore Our Future
to list the wrong address for the donor. She said the
contribution had “nothing to do” with DeSano.  In an e-mailed statement yesterday, Gross said the super-
PAC had “received a request to change the name on the
contribution from Seaspray Partners to individual contributions
of $200,000 each” from the Jordans.  Gross didn’t say whether there is a connection between
Seaspray and the Jordans.  Gerald Jordan is a senior executive at Boston-based Hellman
Jordan Management Co., according to the company’s website. Susan
Lynch, an executive at Hellman Jordan, told the  Associated Press 
that the Jordans received money as members of Seaspray Partners
LLC and directed it to Restore Our Future instead of their own
checking account.  The Jordans have hosted several fundraisers for Romney,
according to the AP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  