-- Sales of New U.S. Homes Exceeded Estimates in March: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-24T20:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/purchases-of-new-homes-in-u-s-exceed-forecasts-in-march-1-.html
Demand for  new U.S. homes  was
stronger than projected in March, showing more jobs and cheaper
borrowing costs are helping stabilize the market.  Houses sold at a 328,000 annual rate, down from an upwardly
revised 353,000 pace in February that was the highest in two
years, according to Commerce Department data issued today in
Washington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast a rate of 319,000. Other reports showed home prices are
stabilizing and  consumer confidence  was little changed.  Job gains,  mortgage rates  close to all-time lows and
cheaper properties are underpinning residential real estate,
which has been the economy’s weak spot. At the same time,
immediate progress will be limited by distressed properties that
will continue to hold down property values.  “Housing is going to gradually dig out of this deep hole
because the job market is going to be firming,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , the only analyst to correctly forecast
the sales pace.  “The one thing is the foreclosure pipeline,” Sweet said.
Home values “may still have a little more room to fall, but
this will probably be the year that prices find a bottom.”  Stocks rose, helped by homebuilder shares. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent to 1,371.97 at the close in
 New York . The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding  gauge  was up 2.4
percent.  Elsewhere today, reports showed Britain’s budget deficit
unexpectedly widened in March and inflation in  Australia  cooled.  February Revision  The February reading for U.S. new-home sales was the
strongest since April 2010, and was revised up from an
originally reported 313,000. It provides evidence of the boost
from unseasonably mild temperatures that was missing from the
figures as first reported, said Sweet.  “The drop in sales last month was disappointing, but it’s
probably payback from the usually mild weather” in prior
months, said Sweet. “In hindsight, the favorable weather and
the improving job market should have translated to favorable
numbers for February and the revisions now show that.”  Estimates of the 78 economists in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 300,000 to 337,000.  Another report showed  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped
at a slower pace in the year ended February, pointing to
stabilization in the real-estate market. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values fell 3.5 percent, the smallest 12-month
drop since February 2011. The gauge climbed from the prior month
on a seasonally adjusted basis for the first time since April of
last year.  Prices Stabilize  A report from the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  sent a
similar signal. Those figures showed property values rose 0.3
percent in February from the prior month. Prices were up 0.4
percent from the same time in 2011, the first positive reading
since the 12 months to July 2007.  Confidence among consumers was little changed in April,
other figures showed. The Conference Board’s  confidence index 
was at 69.2 compared to a revised 69.5 in the prior month,
figures from the New York-based private research group showed
today.  New-home sales have lost their ability to forecast the
broader market as demand shifts to previously owned houses. New
properties made up almost 7 percent of the market last year,
down from a high of 15 percent during the last decade’s housing
boom.  Existing Homes  Sales of previously owned homes fell in March for a second
month, dropping 2.6 percent to a 4.48 million annual rate, the
National Association of Realtors reported last week. Purchases
of existing homes are calculated when a deal closes about a
month or two after a contract is signed.  The recent pickup in new properties has helped reduce
inventory. There were 144,000 new houses on the market at the
end of March, the fewest in data going back to 1963. The supply
of homes at the current sales rate climbed to 5.3 months’ worth
from a six-year low of 5 months in February.  The median sales price increased 6.3 percent in March from
the same month last year to $234,500, today’s report showed.  Purchases rose in two of the four U.S. regions, led by a
7.7 percent jump in the Northeast. They were also up 3.1 percent
in the South. Revisions to the February data reflected stronger
readings in the South and West than initially reported.  Sales in the first three months of 2012 may have benefited
from warmer weather, making it possible to go house-hunting. The
first quarter of 2012 was the warmest since record-keeping began
in 1895, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Builder Confidence  Builder  confidence  fell in April for the first time in
seven months, a report showed last week. The National
Association of Homebuilders/Well Fargo sentiment gauge dropped
to 25 from 28 in March. Readings less than 50 mean there were
more negative than positive responses. The measure had been as
low as 14 in September.  At the same time, borrowing costs are conducive to a pickup
in housing. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage was
3.90 percent last week, close to the record-low of 3.87 percent
reached in February, according to  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  data.  To help hold down borrowing costs, Federal Reserve policy
makers last month said they will continue to swap $400 billion
in short-term securities with long-term debt to lengthen the
average maturity of the central bank’s holdings, a move dubbed
Operation Twist. The program is scheduled to come to a close by
the end of June. Central bankers meet today and tomorrow to
determine the course of policy.  Suppliers Benefit  Construction suppliers, meantime, are among the companies
that stand to benefit from a pickup in housing demand.  At paint manufacturer  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) , stronger demand
led to the Cleveland-based company’s highest volume of first-
quarter sales since 2004, Chief Executive Officer Christopher Connor said on an April 19 earnings call.  “We do take great comfort in all the anecdotal
conversations that we have with thousands and thousands of
painting contractors in our stores every day,” Connor said.
They are hiring crews and purchasing the kinds of equipment and
supplies that points to a pickup in demand, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 