-- Rangers Get Yearlong Embargo on Trades, Owner Handed Life Ban
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-24T02:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/rangers-get-yearlong-embargo-on-trades-owner-handed-life-ban.html
Rangers owner  Craig Whyte  was
banned for life from involvement in Scottish soccer and the club
he placed in  bankruptcy protection  two months ago was given a
yearlong embargo on signing new players.  Glasgow-based Rangers also was fined 160,000 pounds
($258,000), the Scottish Football Association said in a
statement last night, and Whyte was ordered to pay 200,000
pounds within 30 days -- which he indicated he won’t do in an
interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. Whyte didn’t
attend the disciplinary hearings.  “It’s a joke, a complete joke,” Whyte told the  BBC .
“It’s farcical.”  Whyte took control of the record 54-time Scottish champion
last May with money he borrowed against future season-ticket
sales. On Feb. 14 he placed the club in administration, a form
of bankruptcy, as HM Revenue & Customs pursued it for unpaid
taxes. The administrators, Duff & Phelps, have said the
liability to U.K. tax authorities may reach 75 million pounds,
with total potential debts of 134 million pounds.  The SFA sanctions were issued after Whyte was declared an
unfit person to run a  soccer club  by the governing body, which
also accused the owner and the club of bringing the game into
disrepute.  Duff & Phelps are considering two bids for Rangers, from a
group led by former club director Paul Murray, and from  Bill
Miller , a U.S.-based businessman.  “All of us working on behalf of the club are utterly
shocked and dismayed by the draconian sanctions imposed on
Rangers,” the administrators said in a statement last night.  During the transfer ban, Rangers only can sign players 18
years old or younger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 