-- Rangers Beat Senators 3-2 to Force Game 7 in NHL Playoff Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-24T02:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/rangers-beat-senators-3-2-to-force-game-7-in-nhl-playoff-series.html
The  New York Rangers  beat the
Ottawa Senators 3-2 to avoid elimination in the National Hockey
League playoffs and send the first-round series back to  New York 
for a decisive seventh game.  The Rangers, the top seed in the Eastern Conference, got
second-period goals from Derek Stepan,  Brad Richards  and rookie
Chris Kreider to erase a 1-0 deficit at Scotiabank Place in
Ottawa and tie the series at three games apiece.  Henrik Lundqvist stopped 25 of 27 shots for the Rangers,
who avoided becoming the second top seed to exit the playoffs in
as many nights. The Los Angeles Kings yesterday ousted the
 Vancouver Canucks , who were the top seed in the Western
Conference after posting the NHL’s best regular-season record.  The Rangers tied for the second-most points in the NHL
during the regular season, earning the top seed in the East for
the first time since they last won the  Stanley Cup  in 1994.
They’ll host Game 7 on April 26 at Madison Square Garden.  New York has been knocked out of the playoffs in the first
round the past two years and hasn’t won a postseason series
since 2008, when it beat the  New Jersey Devils  in the opening
round. The Senators are seeking to advance in the playoffs for
the first time since reaching the Stanley Cup finals in 2007.  Ottawa took the lead 7:05 into the first period, as Chris Neil ripped a 59-foot (18-meter) slapshot past Lundqvist on a
power play.  Power-Play Goals  The Rangers, after going 0-for-3 with a man advantage in
the opening period, scored two power-play goals in the second.  Stepan tied it 8:55 into the period, tapping in a rebound
less than a minute after Ottawa’s Milan Michalek was sent off
for a holding penalty. Richards then gave New York a 2-1 lead by
firing a 28-foot slapshot past Senators goaltender Craig Anderson with 2:52 left.  Kreider, the first player since 1987 to appear in the NHL
postseason in the same year that he won a national college
championship, scored his first professional goal with 41 seconds
left in the second period. Kreider, who this month helped  Boston
College  to the National Collegiate Athletic Association title,
beat Anderson with a 31-foot wrist shot to push the Rangers’
advantage to 3-1.  The Senators pulled Anderson for an extra skater in the
closing minutes and scored with 39 seconds left when a shot by
Jason Spezza trickled past Lundqvist.  Also tonight, the  Chicago Blackhawks  are hosting the
 Phoenix Coyotes  in Game 6 of their Western Conference series and
need a victory to send the teams back to Phoenix for a decisive
seventh game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  