-- Rangers Administrators Seek Immediate Appeal of Club Sanctions
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-24T15:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/rangers-administrators-seek-immediate-appeal-of-club-sanctions.html
The administrators for Rangers
Football Club said they will seek an immediate appeal of
sanctions imposed on the Glasgow-based team by Scottish soccer’s
governing body.  Administrators Duff & Phelps said the penalties issued
yesterday by the  Scottish Football Association , which include a
yearlong ban on signing players over the age of 18, could have a
“very detrimental” effect on a possible sale of the club,
which was placed in  bankruptcy protection  two months ago.  “The decision to prohibit the club from signing new
players is akin to a court ordering the administrator of a
trading company not to buy stock.” David Whitehouse, one of the
administrators, said in a  statement  today. “The principal
operating and trading asset of a football club are its players
and an inability to sign new players frustrates both the ability
of the company to trade and the statutory objectives of
administration.”  The  SFA  also banned Rangers owner  Craig Whyte  for life from
involvement in Scottish soccer and fined the club 160,000 pounds
($258,000). The sanctions were issued after Whyte was declared
an unfit person to run a  soccer club  by the governing body,
which also accused the owner and the club of bringing the game
into disrepute.  Whyte took control of the record 54-time Scottish champion
last May with money he borrowed against future season-ticket
sales. On Feb. 14 he placed the club in administration, a form
of bankruptcy, as HM Revenue & Customs pursued it for unpaid
taxes. The administrators have said the liability to U.K. tax
authorities may reach 75 million pounds, with total potential
debts of 134 million pounds.  Duff & Phelps are considering two bids for Rangers, from a
group led by former club director Paul Murray, and from  Bill
Miller , founder of U.S.-based Miller Industries, a towing
equipment company.  “The football authorities are fully aware that we are in
the throes of an extremely complex insolvency situation,”
Whitehouse said. “There has been widespread support across the
political spectrum and in the football world for Rangers to be
saved as a club and a viable business, last night’s decision can
only hinder rather than help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 