-- Rangers Win 3-2 to Force NHL Playoff Decider With Senators
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-24T10:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/rangers-win-to-force-nhl-playoff-decider-against-ottawa-senators.html
The top-seeded  New York Rangers 
avoided a first-round exit from the National Hockey League
playoffs by winning on the road to force a decisive seventh game
against the  Ottawa Senators .  The Rangers won 3-2 at Scotiabank Place in Ottawa last
night against the eighth-seeded Senators to tie their series at
three games apiece. The final game will be played at Madison
Square Garden in New York on April 26.  Derek Stepan scored the first of New York’s three goals
midway through the second period to tie the game and added two
assists.  Brad Richards  and rookie Chris Kreider scored the other
two goals late in the period.  “It’s tough to close out a series when you know you have
another game to play, so we knew that if we could just stay in
the game, get a little momentum, it was going to be tough for
them,” Richards told reporters. “We like our chances.”  Kreider, who turns 21 next week, is the first player since
1987 to appear in the NHL postseason in the same year that he
won a national college championship. Kreider, who this month
helped  Boston College  to the National Collegiate Athletic
Association title, scored his first professional goal by beating
Craig Anderson with a 31-foot wrist shot.  Asked whether he thinks it’s surprising for his first NHL
playoff series to go to a seventh game, Kreider said, “Nothing
surprises me at this point. It’s just another awesome
opportunity.”  Kreider’s teammates said they’re impressed by the
youngster’s play.  Favored Teams Struggling  “That’s big games that he’s stepped himself in there in
the beginning of his career,” Rangers defenseman Ryan McDonagh
said. “He got an opportunity there and buried his big shot.
That’s what we like to see.”  The scoring in the second period marked New York’s first
goals since the opening period of the fourth game, breaking a
streak of six full shutout periods plus 2 minutes 42 seconds of
overtime.  The Rangers are not the only favored team to have trouble
in the opening round of this year’s playoffs. The second-seeded
Boston Bruins need to win tomorrow against the  Washington
Capitals  to advance in seven games.  The  Pittsburgh Penguins , who entered the playoffs as
oddmakers’ favorite to win the Stanley Cup, lost in six games to
the  Philadelphia Flyers . The  Vancouver Canucks , who lost last
year’s Stanley Cup Finals to the Bruins and were the top seed in
the Western Conference, were eliminated by the  Los Angeles
Kings .  Failures  The Rangers failed in the first round on their previous two
visits to the playoffs, last year and in 2009, and haven’t won
the NHL championship since 1994, the last time they were a top
seed.  “After the first goal I felt like we got a lot of
confidence and started building our game,” said goaltender
 Henrik Lundqvist , who stopped 25 of 27 shots including a second-
period save against Senators captain  Daniel Alfredsson , who
returned after missing three games with a concussion. “I’m just
happy that we played a really good game.”  The Rangers are still at risk of joining a club of 10 No.
1-seeded teams that have lost to an eighth seed under the
playoff format created in 1994.  “We knew it was going to be a long series, we knew it was
going to be a hard-fought battle and we’re in it until the
end,” Senators goalie Anderson said. “It’s going to come down
to one game and who wants it more.”  Scoring  The Senators are seeking to advance in the playoffs for the
first time since reaching the  Stanley Cup  finals in 2007. They
took the lead 7:05 into the first period last night when Sergei
Gonchar’s slapshot from the point was tipped in by Chris Neil on
a power play.  Ottawa pulled Anderson for an extra skater in the closing
minutes and scored with 39 seconds left when a shot by Jason Spezza trickled past Lundqvist. The goal stood after officials
reviewed the video to see if Neil had kicked the puck in.  New York coach  John Tortorella  continued his practice of
giving brief responses to most questions after the victory,
including two answers that had a combined total of eight words.  “We did what we had to do to win a hockey game,”
Tortorella said. “That’s all we want to do is win one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn at Scotiabank Place in Ottawa
at   gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  