-- Rate Swaps a Hedge Too Far for U.K. Fish Fryers, Dentists
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/rate-swaps-a-hedge-too-far-for-u-k-fish-fryers-dentists.html
David MacGregor, owner of the
Winking Willy’s fish and chip shop in the British seaside resort
of Scarborough, never wanted to make a complex bet on interest
rates when he took out a loan with  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “I fry fish and chips,” he said in a phone interview. “I
don’t know anything about international derivatives.”  MacGregor sued the lender after taking the advice of his
bank manager in 2007 and buying a so-called collar agreement, a
swap to protect against rising rates, according to court papers.
The move turned costly when interest rates fell and the price
for MacGregor to keep up his end of the swap went from 169
pounds ($273) a month to 3,000 pounds a month by March 2009, on
top of loan repayments of about 7,000 pounds.  If he hadn’t reached an out-of-court settlement with HSBC
after a trial last year, MacGregor said he would have lost his
business. Hundreds of other firms, ranging from dentists to
elderly care homes, have also sued, claiming banks sold them
interest-rate swaps they didn’t understand or need. About 40
lawmakers held a closed-door meeting in Westminster yesterday to
discuss what action should be taken over the derivatives.  The claims against lenders including London-based HSBC,
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  may turn into another costly scandal for U.K.
banks still paying back customers wrongly sold payment-
protection insurance on personal loans. Sixteen financial firms
 paid  1.9 billion pounds ($3 billion) on PPI claims in 2011,
according to the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which
carried out a six-year probe into the banks’ conduct.  Hundreds of Cases  Guto Bebb , the Member of Parliament for Aberconwy in  Wales 
who organized the lawmaker meeting, said in a phone interview he
knows of several hundred cases involving the swaps.  “Those people have not been aware of the fact that they
were buying a risky product which would result in them having to
pay penalties,” Bebb said.  The Treasury Select Committee , the parliamentary body that
examines financial matters, should hold a public hearing on the
improper sale of  interest-rate  swaps, he said.  HSBC declined to comment on the suit involving Winking
Willy’s specifically.  “We strive to meet our customers’ needs and believe we
have extensive processes to ensure our customers are provided
with appropriate products,” the bank said in an e-mailed
statement.  Rate swaps are contracts that convert floating-rate debt
into fixed-rate debt, or vice versa. They are supposed to keep
payments within a specific range. When interest rates fall, for
example, customers might pay less interest on a loan to balance
out the higher cost of the swap.  FSA Interest  “Interest-rate hedges and forward foreign-exchange
contracts are useful tools,” the British Bankers’ Association
said. “Customers should seek suitable independent advice if
they are not confident about the nature of the contract they are
entering into.”  The FSA is examining the claims and has asked the banks to
provide detailed information about how the products were sold.
It will take action “if we find widespread evidence of breaches
or mis-selling,”  Joseph Eyre , an agency spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  “The banks were very quick to extol the benefits of
fixing” interest rates, said  Max Hotham , an attorney at Enyo
Law whose clients include a dentist and shop owners. “What they
didn’t do is explain what would happen if base rates fell.”  The  Bank of England  has kept its  benchmark interest rate  at
a record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009.  20-Year Swaps  Some banks also sold 20-year swaps paired with five-year
loans, or swaps covering 2 million pounds of debt when only 1
million pounds were borrowed, Hotham said. He estimates there
could be as many as 5,000 claims against banks over interest-
rate derivatives, totaling as much as 2.5 billion pounds.  “Barclays is satisfied that it provides sufficient
information to enable a client to make an informed, commercial
decision about the products it offers,” the bank said in an e-
mailed statement. A very high percentage of complaints made to
the Financial Ombudsman Service, which settles disputes between
companies and consumers, were decided in the bank’s favor, it
said. The bank’s record on ombudsman complaints couldn’t
immediately be verified.  While disputed swaps contracts haven’t yet attracted much
attention in the U.K., they have sparked controversy in the U.S.
and across continental  Europe .  Milan to Alabama  Municipal governments from Milan in  Italy  to Jefferson
County,  Alabama , bought swaps from firms such as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Deutsche Bank AG. Such derivatives have cost Italian
taxpayers more than $1.5 billion, according to the country’s
central bank, and U.S. taxpayers about $4 billion by 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lloyds said in a statement it hadn’t sold a large number of
swaps, as most customers preferred fixed-rate loans. The bank
reviews each sale to see if the product is suitable and
customers are given information about the risks and benefits of
the securities, it said.  In one of the biggest swaps lawsuits yet filed in the U.K.,
the owners of Guardian Care Homes Ltd. sued Barclays for about
12 million pounds in a Bristol Court yesterday over swaps sold
on two loans in 2007 and 2008.  Gary Hartland, a director at the company that looks after
900 elderly residents, said the bank pressured him into a
hedging agreement he didn’t want.  “They said it was a condition of the loan and a must-
have,” Hartland said in a phone interview.  12 Million Pounds  The swaps, billed as a money-saver, have so far cost the
company about 12 million pounds, Hartland claims. Under the
contract, he will have to keep making payments for at least 10
years after both loans have been paid off. Guardian wants its
money back and for the swaps to end without having to pay a
break fee.  Barclays said it couldn’t comment on the case because of
client confidentiality.  Hartland’s lawyer Sinead O’Callaghan, a partner at  Cooke
Young & Keidan , said the banks had so far settled all claims,
except MacGregor’s suit against HSBC, before trial because they
are keen to avoid a ruling against their conduct.  “It is quite clear that the banks know they have a major
vulnerability and are struggling to design strategies to deal
with these claims,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  