-- Raytheon Warhead Failure Costing Pentagon $1 Billion
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-24T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/raytheon-warhead-failure-costing-pentagon-1-billion.html
Test failures of  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s
interceptors, the most advanced U.S. anti-missile warhead, will
cost the Pentagon more than $1 billion to remedy, according to
military data.  The cost estimate includes the two failed tests of the
interceptor in January and December 2010, a board to review what
went wrong, warhead redesign, further upgrades and at least two
more flight tests to be carried out through 2013, according to
the Missile Defense Agency. Congressional auditors estimate the
cost may exceed $1.2 billion.  “It isn’t just the work” on the warhead, defense agency
spokesman Rick Lehner said in an e-mail. The cost encompasses
“everything else that goes along with the work plus all the
additional tests to verify performance.” The failures were
caused by a quality glitch and a separate guidance system design
flaw that remained undetected in ground testing.  The  Missile Defense Agency ’s estimate of $1.16 billion is
up from an earlier projection of $236 million, the Government
Accountability Office said in an  April 20 report . That compares
with the missile agency’s $7.75 billion request for its total
fiscal 2013 budget.  The Raytheon warhead is a non-explosive, hit-to-kill
weapon, designed to pulverize an incoming ballistic missile by
colliding with it at high speed. It separates from its booster
and flies on its own for an interception, guided by internal
sensors.  Halt in Production  The failures to intercept a target replicating an enemy
intercontinental ballistic missile led in January 2011 to a halt
of production of completed warheads at Raytheon’s Tuscon,
Arizona, missile systems plant and of additional intercept tests
of the $39 billion ground-based system designed to defend the
U.S. against limited attacks by ICBMs from  North Korea  or  Iran .  The system hasn’t had a successful intercept since December
2008. The government will bear the $1 billion cost rather than
the contractors, Lehner said.  The agency “is currently undergoing an extensive effort to
overcome the design problem and return to intercept tests,”
auditors at the GAO, the investigative arm of Congress, said in
the report.  Ten of the unproven warheads are among 30 in silos at U.S.
bases in Alaska and  California , the GAO said. The 20 first-
generation warheads on interceptors in those states “do not
have this design issue,” the Missile Defense Agency said.  Topic at Hearing  Lieutenant General Patrick O’Reilly, director of the
Missile Defense Agency, may be asked about the $1 billion
estimate tomorrow during a scheduled hearing on missile defenses
by the Senate Armed Services Committee.  The agency won’t conduct any additional test flights to
verify fixes “until our engineers and independent government
and industry experts have been convinced we have resolved all
issues and will be successful in our next test,”  O’Reilly told
the Senate defense appropriations panel April 18.  Raytheon of Waltham,  Massachusetts , and Chicago-based
 Boeing Co. (BA) , the prime contractor for the ground-based anti-
missile system, don’t have to reimburse the government for
“flight-test failures or equipment malfunctions” under the
“cost-plus” contract, Lehner said.  John Patterson , a Raytheon spokesman, referred requests for
comment to Boeing. Jessica Carlton, a Boeing spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail that the company “continues to partner with the
Missile Defense Agency on all activities” involved in returning
the interceptors to flight.  ‘Exceedingly Technical’  Issues facing the ground-based missile defense system “are
exceedingly technical, complex and one of the toughest
challenges encountered by American aerospace,” Carlton said.
“We continue to conduct extensive qualification, state-of-the-
art testing and multifaceted integration activities to provide
our customer with the highest level of mission assurance.”  The 2010 tests were intended to demonstrate the new warhead
works as designed. The Missile Defense Agency has continued a
practice started by then-President  George W. Bush ’s
administration in 2002 to accelerate the purchase and fielding
of unproven systems while development tests continued, the GAO
said in its report.  “Because MDA continues to employ concurrent strategies, it
is likely that it will continue to experience these kinds of
acquisition problems,” the GAO found.  The  Defense Contract Management Agency  told the
congressional investigators that repairing the hardware problems
that contributed to the failures may “well be very expensive
and time-consuming,” the GAO said.  ‘Guidance Error’  In the January 2010 test, the Raytheon interceptor failed
to hit its target when its warhead thruster malfunctioned
because of a missing “lockwire,” the Missile Defense Agency
said. The test in December of that year failed in the final
seconds because of a “guidance error,” according to the
agency.  The Missile Defense Agency’s cost estimate includes $475.2
million for two failed test flights, $410.8 million for two
planned verification tests, $180 million to retrofit the 10
fielded warheads and $91.4 million for a failure review board
and warhead redesign.  The projection doesn’t include one-time development costs
or the targets used in each test and costs for fixing the
interceptors already built.  “It is possible that costs to implement fixes will
continue to grow,” GAO missile defense analyst Cristina
Chaplain said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  