-- Canadian Real Estate Trusts Surge Near Five-Year High
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-04-26T16:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/real-estate-trusts-surge-near-five-year-high-corporate-canada.html
(Corrects location of analyst in seventh paragraph of
story published April 24.)  Canadian real estate investment
trusts have rallied to the  highest levels in five years  as
rising occupancy and investor demand for yield outweigh concern
the  Bank of Canada  will raise interest rates to cool the market.  The S&P/TSX Capped REIT Index has climbed to within 0.2
percentage point of a March 13 peak of 162.75, the highest level
since July 2007, fueled by dividend yields almost twice the
average for the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. The gauge
has gained 6.3 percent this year, beating the 0.3 percent
increase in the broader index.  The investors in properties from shopping centers and
office buildings to rental apartments have benefited as the  10-
year Canadian bond yield  fell by more than half, boosting the
value of their holdings. The national office vacancy rate fell
to 8.2 percent in the first quarter from 9.3 percent a year
earlier, according to CBRE Group. Apartment vacancy dropped to
2.2 percent in October from 2.6 percent a year earlier.  “Fundamentals are very strong in  Canada ,” Michael Missaghie, a portfolio manager at Sentry Investments, said in an
April 16 phone interview. “Both occupancy and rents continue to
improve,” said Missaghie, whose firm has C$7 billion ($7
billion) under management. “The REIT sector is one of the only
places you’ll be able to get a sustainable yield in the Canadian
investment landscape.”  The REITs have rallied even as Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  warned of the risks of record consumer debt and soaring
housing prices that some investors say may be inflating a bubble
in the condominium markets in Toronto and Vancouver.  Biggest Gainers  Artis Real Estate Investment Trust (AX-U) , which focuses on retail
and industrial properties in Western Canada, has surged 17
percent in 2012, the biggest gain in the Canadian REIT index,
while  Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust (BEI-U) , an apartment and
residential properties owner, has rallied 16 percent, the
second-biggest increase in the measure.  Dundee Real Estate
Investment Trust (D-U) , an owner of office properties in Canada, has
jumped 13 percent.  The REITs have benefited from a drop in the 10-year
Canadian bond yield from 4.7 percent in 2007 to 2.04 percent
April 23. Yields at current levels push capitalization rates
lower, boosting net asset value, Jimmy Khing Shan, an analyst at
GMP Securities LLC in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
The cap rate, a measure of investment yield, is a property’s net
income divided by purchase price.  “A lot of investors have probably already hedged a 100
basis point rise” in the bond yield, Shan said. “If we get to
3 percent and we see a further sharp rise in rates, I think we
should be a little bit worried about REIT valuation.”  Yield Retreats  The Canadian REIT index had slipped 2.2 percent from its
peak by the end of March after the 10-year Canadian bond yield
surged as high as 2.29 percent. As the yield retreated, the REIT
index surged back to 0.2 percentage point below the March peak.  “With interest rates moving higher, people thought to move
away from Canadian REITs so they’d be more exposed to growth in
an improving economic environment,” Missaghie said. “When the
10-year bond yield crept lower again, money flowed back in. Now
there are a few fundamental factors that are going to stay in
place for the rest of the year and keep valuations where they
are, if not even higher.”  The Bank of Canada, while keeping its benchmark  interest
rate  at 1 percent, reiterated on April 17 that the consumer debt
burden is among the country’s biggest domestic risks, and higher
interest rates “may become appropriate.” Property prices in
Toronto and  Vancouver  almost tripled over the past decade.  Rental Apartments  While these concerns may lead to restrictions on real
estate financing, the government’s efforts to curb consumer debt
may work in favor of REITs that own rental apartments, Brad Cutsey, an analyst at Dundee Securities, said in a telephone
interview.  “It sounds like all policies are geared towards tightening
underwriting standards,” said Cutsey. “That makes it harder
for first-time homebuyers to purchase. They’ll stay in the
rental pool longer.”  Cutsey said units of  Transglobe Apartment Real Estate
Investment Trust (TGA-U)  are cheap compared with the industry. The REIT
trades at 12.5 times funds from operation, lower than the
average of 15.5 times for the 13 stocks in the S&P/TSX Capped
REIT Index.  Development Cycle  Canadian office construction is “primed for a development
cycle,” Heather Kirk, an analyst at National Bank Financial,
said in a telephone interview. She sees Calgary, Toronto and
 Montreal  as major growth areas.  Office property values probably will rise 20 percent this
year in Calgary and about 10 percent in Toronto and Vancouver,
according to  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , fueled by a boom in the oil and
gas industry.  Cutsey said  Cominar Real Estate Investment Trust (CUF-U) , which
owns office properties in the Quebec area, is attractively
priced. The REIT trades at 14.4 times FFO.  Retail property is the asset class with the least potential
to gain, according to Cutsey. RioCan, which specializes in
shopping center investments, trades at 21 times FFO, 35 percent
higher than the index average.  “Retail is more fully priced,” said Kirk, the  highest-
ranked analyst  covering RioCan, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “There are certainly positive drivers, but with
where a lot of stocks are priced right now, you’d probably have
to pay up for it more than you would in other sectors.”  Adding to Earnings  Some Canadian REITs are driving growth through
acquisitions, which generally add to earnings and help cash flow
growth, Kirk said. Dundee completed the purchase of Whiterock
REIT for C$1 billion ($1 billion) on March 6, a move that
bolstered its office presence in Toronto. Cominar acquired the
85 percent it didn’t already own of Canmarc REIT for C$1.5
billion on the same day.  “If you look at what’s happening in terms of internal
growth, rents moving up and space being leased out, the market
is healthy,” Kirk said. “If the next couple of quarters see
solid growth in adjusted funds from operations, we could
certainly argue for the stock prices moving higher even on the
assumption of stable multiples.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  