-- Treasuries Advance on European Debt Crisis, U.S. Slowdown
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-04-24T09:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/treasuries-hold-advance-on-european-crisis-u-s-slowdown.html
Treasury 10-year yields were within
four basis points of an eight-week low as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis
and forecasts for slowing U.S. economic growth spurred demand
for the safest securities.  Ten-year notes rose earlier as the  Federal Reserve  prepares
to start a two-day meeting, with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
scheduled to hold a press conference tomorrow. Bernanke said
March 26 that continued accommodative monetary policy is needed
to bring down unemployment. The U.S. plans to sell $35 billion
of two-year notes today, the same amount of five-year debt
tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year securities on April 26.  “Treasuries are the safe-haven of choice in the current
environment,” said  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London. “Yields are close to two-month lows,
so we are wandering into the area where the risk-reward starts
to become rather pernicious. It’s an important period in terms
of market perception, both about the  U.S. economy  and what the
Fed does next.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.95
percent at 10:24 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent note maturing in February 2022
traded at 100 14/32. The yield dropped to 1.91 percent
yesterday, the lowest since Feb. 28. It fell to a record 1.67
percent on Sept. 23.  Ostwald said the yield’s decline below 1.96 percent
yesterday puts “1.85 percent in focus.”  French Elections  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of
his re-election bid, and he faces a runoff against Socialist
Party challenger  Francois Hollande  on May 6. Hollande said
yesterday a victory by his party would “be the end of imposing
austerity everywhere, austerity that brought desperation to
people throughout Europe.”  A revolt against spending cuts in the Netherlands led Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte  to offer to quit.  Treasury yields “are headed lower,” said Ali Jalai, who
trades Treasuries in  Singapore  at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of the 21 primary dealers that underwrite the
U.S. debt. “The economy is just chugging along. It’s not
accelerating. Problems in Europe are going to be around for a
long time.”  Jalai said he favors five- and seven-year notes because
they offer a higher yield than shorter maturities. He said he’d
be more bullish on 30-year bonds if inflation slows.  Seven-year Treasuries  yield  1.08 percentage points more
than two-year debt. Demand for the longer-term note has narrowed
the spread from this year’s high based on closing prices of 1.38
percentage points in March. Thirty-year bonds are among the most
sensitive to inflation because of their long maturity.  U.S. GDP  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 2.5 percent
annual rate in the first quarter, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Commerce Department report on April 27. Growth was 3 percent in
the previous three-month period.  Commerce Department figures tomorrow will show durable
goods orders declined 1.7 percent in March, after rising 2.4
percent in February, according to a separate Bloomberg survey.
 New home sales  rose in March, another survey showed before the
government releases the data today.  Higher Yields  Ten-year yields may rise to 3 percent by year-end,
according to at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which oversees the
equivalent of $61 billion, including  Asia ’s second-largest
mutual fund. Bonds with yields less than 2 percent appear “a
bit expensive,” said Kei Katayama, who invests in  U.S. debt  for
the company in  Tokyo .  Ten-year yields may be in a range of 2 percent to 2.5
percent with the potential to rise to 2.75 percent in 2012,
according to Charles Schwab Corp., which is based in  San
Francisco  and manages $199 billion.  “We don’t anticipate that the Fed will change policy this
year and it seems unlikely at this juncture that they will
engage in more quantitative easing,” Kathy A. Jones, a fixed-
income strategist at the company, wrote in an e-mail.  The central bank is scheduled to buy as much as $5 billion
of Treasuries due from April 2018 to February 2020 today,
according to the New York Fed’s  website . The purchases are part
of the bank’s effort to replace $400 billion of shorter-term
debt in its holdings with longer maturities to hold down
borrowing costs.  Fed Buying  U.S. central bankers bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2.
They’ve also said they will probably keep their target for
overnight lending between banks at almost zero at least until
late 2014.  The two-year notes being sold today yielded 0.27 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 0.34 percent at the previous
sale of the securities on March 27, the highest since July.
Investors bid for 3.69 times the debt on offer last month, up
from 3.54 times in February.  The  two-year yield  fell to 0.254 percent yesterday, the
lowest since Feb. 10.  The yield is below the 200-day moving average of 0.2628
percent and may encounter resistance at 0.25 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield may find support at the
100-day moving average of 0.2763 percent, the data show.  Resistance refers to an area on a chart where technical
analysts anticipate orders to sell a security to be clustered
and a support level is an area where they anticipate buy orders
will be grouped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  