-- REC Closing Norway Solar Wafer Plant on China Competition
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-04-24T21:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/rec-to-cut-460-jobs-closing-heroya-plant-on-chinese-competition.html
Renewable Energy Corp ASA (REC) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest polysilicon producer, is closing its second wafer
factory in five weeks after competition from Chinese rivals
drove down  prices  by more than two-thirds for the material used
in solar panels.  REC will cease production at the plant in Heroya,  Norway ,
in the second quarter, eliminating 460 jobs, REC said today in a
statement.  Polysilicon spot prices fell to a record low last week of
$24.27 a kilogram, down from $78.46 a year ago and $475 in 2008,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Manufacturers have
expanded production capacity, especially in  Asia , leading to a
glut, Ole Enger, president and chief executive officer of the
Sandvika, Norway-based company, said in the statement.  “Despite solid demand growth, overcapacity continues to
negatively affect wafer prices,” he said.  REC announced plans in March to close its other Norway
wafer factory, in Glomfjord, which has annual production
capacity of 300 megawatts, according to an investor presentation
in March.  The Heroya plant makes enough polysilicon wafers to produce
650 megawatts of solar cells a year. When the Norway factories
close, REC will produce wafers at a Singapore factory that has
700 megawatts of wafer capacity and also make solar cells and
panels.  In polysilicon, “hardly anyone in the industry makes
profits,” REC said in the  presentation . The company produces
polysilicon, which it turns into wafers that are cut into
individual solar cells and assembled into panels.  Competition  Polysilicon makers including  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) 
and  OCI Co. (010060)  almost doubled capacity in the past two years to
feed a surge in solar installations, creating a glut after
output exceeded demand for the first time, according to New
Energy Finance.  “This is part of the ongoing process of the industry
consolidating,” Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst at Auriga
USA in  New York , said today in an interview.  REC is competing against Chinese companies that are
“juiced on ample provision of credit” and aren’t financially
sound, he said. Many of REC’s competitors “shouldn’t exist.”  REC’s efforts to cut its costs by more than 25 percent
annually in each of the last two years weren’t sufficient to
reduce the impact of falling polysilicon prices and increased
competition, especially from  China , Enger said in the statement.  The company expected “significant continued losses” at
the plant, he said. “We therefore have no choice but to
discontinue our operations in Norway.”  REC shares gained 0.5 percent to 3.03 kroner at the close
in Oslo, before the company announced the closing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  