-- Remy Cointreau Revenue Declines on Early Chinese New Year
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-04-24T09:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/remy-cointreau-revenue-declines-on-early-chinese-new-year-1-.html
Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) ,  France ’s second-
biggest distiller, said fourth-quarter sales fell as an earlier
Chinese New Year pushed sales linked to the event into the
previous three-month period.  So-called organic sales, which exclude the effects of
acquisitions and currency fluctuations, slid 8.3 percent in the
three months ended March 31, the Paris-based company said today
in a statement. That was a steeper decline than the 3.4 percent
median estimate of eight analysts. Third-quarter sales rose at
double the pace analysts expected.  Chinese New Year took place on Jan. 23 this year, 11 days
earlier than in 2011, leading fourth-quarter cognac revenue to
drop 9.8 percent compared with 55 percent growth in the previous
three months, when consumers in  Asia  bought expensive bottles of
the spirit as gifts ahead of the weeklong festival.  While quarterly sales were at the lower end of
expectations, “underlying trends remain very good with double-
digit organic growth in Asia and the U.S.,”  Melissa Earlam , an
analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote today in a note.  Remy advanced 1.33 euros, or 1.7 percent, to 79.77 euros as
of 11:30 a.m. in Paris.  ‘Substantial Increase’  Sales for the year rose 13 percent to 1.03 billion euros
($1.4 billion), or 16 percent on an organic basis, Remy said.  The distiller said it expects to report a “substantial
increase” in full-year results, “with significant double-digit
growth in current operating profit” for the 12 months through
March. It had previously forecast growth on the same basis of 15
percent to 18 percent and said in January that it expected
profit growth to slow in the second half of the year.  “We have finished the year like we thought and are ready
to confirm that figure, with a slight potential for an upside,”
Finance Director Frederic Pflanz said today on a call with
analysts, referring to growth in current operating profit.  Sales at the liqueurs and spirits unit slid 3.7 percent in
the fourth quarter, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  