-- Tribune Creditors Seek to Add $222 Million Claim in Lawsuits
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-04-24T17:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/tribune-creditors-seek-to-add-222-million-claim-in-lawsuits-1-.html
Two creditors of Tribune Co., the
biggest newspaper publisher in bankruptcy, want $222 million in
unpaid notes included in lawsuits claiming shareholders wrongly
gained from the company’s 2007 leveraged buyout.  Citadel Equity Fund Ltd., a Cayman Islands firm, and Los
Angeles-based Camden Asset Management asked the judge overseeing
Tribune’s bankruptcy to clarify how the notes they hold should
be treated.  The two investors claimed in court papers filed yesterday
the right to collect money in two different court proceedings
related to billions of dollars that Tribune’s creditors contend
they lost because of the leveraged buyout.  The $222 million face value of the notes should be used in
a group of lawsuits claiming the LBO was a fraud on creditors,
according to the filing. The investors also say that the notes
give them a separate right to collect as much as $26 million in
bankruptcy court under Tribune’s reorganization plan.  The creditors “continue to have the right to be plaintiffs
for the full amount,” Citadel and Camden said in a motion filed
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  The motion is related to a ruling earlier this month about
how $1.24 billion in so-called phone notes would be treated
under Tribune’s proposed reorganization plan. The phones have a
lower priority than other Tribune debt, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Kevin J. Carey ruled. Some of the phones were converted just
before Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, reducing
the face value of the notes to $759.3 million, Carey said.  Notes Exchanged  Citadel and Camden exchanged their notes just before the
bankruptcy filing, cutting the amount they were able to collect
on each phone to $18.26 from $155.49. The two investors now
argue that they should be allowed to file a claim in the LBO
lawsuits for the higher amount and also collect the lower amount
in  bankruptcy court .  Tribune, the Chicago-based owner of the Los Angeles Times
and the Chicago Tribune newspapers, filed for bankruptcy one
year after a leveraged buyout led by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell . Since then, the company and  hedge funds  holding Tribune’s
senior debt have sought approval for a plan to divide ownership
among the lenders that financed the $8.3 billion buyout. Pre-
buyout creditors oppose that plan, claiming Zell’s deal was
doomed from the start.  Tribune, valued earlier this year by the company at more
than $7 billion, owes creditors about $13 billion.  Gary Weitman , a Tribune spokesman, declined to comment on
the filing.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  