-- Rising Italy-to-Spain Yields Keep Banks on Life Support
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-04-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/rising-italy-to-spain-yields-keep-banks-on-life-support.html
European lenders, more reliant than
ever on emergency aid after borrowing $1.3 trillion from their
central bank, may need additional cash infusions until policy
makers stem the crisis engulfing Spain and Italy.  After more than 30 bond sales in the first quarter, no bank
has sold unsecured debt this month, and the cost of insuring
against default has soared to levels last seen in January.
 Financial stocks , which rallied 20 percent following the
 European Central Bank ’s December decision to provide unlimited
three-year loans, are now 2 percent lower since then.  Investors are balking after some lenders used the ECB cash
to boost holdings of sovereign debt and governments struggled to
rein in deficits. Because banks post collateral in exchange for
the ECB loans, the amount unsecured bondholders would get back
in a default has shrunk. That has raised funding costs for what
Morgan Stanley estimates is about 700 billion euros ($924
billion) of debt lenders must refinance by the end of 2013.  “There is a very compelling case for further intervention
from the ECB,” said Barbara Ridpath, chief executive officer of
the International Centre for Financial Regulation, a London-
based research group funded by banks and the U.K. government.
“Many of these banks simply cannot refinance their maturing
debt in the  bond market .”  BBVA, Intesa  The requirement that banks post collateral in return for
ECB loans already is making it costlier to raise money from
bondholders. That, combined with a rise in the sale of asset-
backed covered bonds and proposed rules forcing debt investors
to share any losses, will make senior unsecured debt less
attractive, said Andrew Stimpson, a KBW Inc. analyst in  London .  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  offered investors 1.93
percentage points more than the benchmark swap rate when it
issued an 18-month senior note in February. That compares with
0.45 percentage point above the benchmark rate when the Bilbao,
Spain-based lender sold a 10-year bond in May 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  paid investors 3.55 percentage points
more than the benchmark on a five-year bond it sold in February.
The Milan-based bank sold a 10-year security for 0.18 percentage
point more than the mid-swap rate in 2008, the data show.  The jump in borrowing costs comes as banks face declining
profits and shrinking revenues. The yield paid by Italian
lenders on secured debt would be unsustainable in the long term,
Stimpson said.  ‘Ever-Worsening Pool’  “Holders of unsecured bonds are being left with access to
an ever-worsening pool of collateral in the event of default,”
said  James Ferguson , chief strategist at London-based
stockbroker Westhouse Securities Ltd. “As acceptable collateral
is siphoned out of the system by the ECB, high-quality
collateral shortages in the private sector will therefore push
up banks’ funding costs.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB began its emergency longer-term
refinancing operation, or LTRO, after bank funding markets froze
and yields on southern European government debt hit euro-era
records last year. Lenders in the region borrowed 489 billion
euros in December and 530 billion euros in February, according
to the central bank.  The move initially helped boost bank stocks and ease
concern that lenders weren’t creditworthy. The 43-member
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index  rose 20
percent from before the Dec. 8 announcement to March 19. The
Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps, which
measures the likelihood of default of 25 European banks, dropped
from a peak of 354 on Nov. 24 to a low of 180 on March 20.  ‘Markets Lose Faith’  Since then, bank stocks have fallen 16 percent, while the
iTraxx financial index has climbed to 256 as investors question
whether  Europe  can escape a prolonged recession.  “The first LTRO was powerful, the second was less powerful
and a third one could be even less so as markets lose faith the
measures will bring lasting change,” said Philippe Bodereau,
London-based head of European credit research at Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s largest bond investor.
“The main benefit was to avoid a refinancing crisis in European
banking, but the issue is the systemic nature of Spain and  Italy 
and their government bond markets and how you stabilize that.”  The Spanish government said March 2 it would miss its 2012
budget deficit target, and Italy said last week it would fail to
reach its goal after lowering growth forecasts.  Spanish Yields  Yields on two-year Spanish government debt have climbed
1.26 percentage points to 3.4 percent since March 1. Two-year
Italian yields have climbed 1.22 percentage points over the same
period to 3.39 percent. Ten-year Spanish yields broke through 6
percent on April 11 for the first time since December.  In  France , socialist candidate  Francois Hollande , who has
proposed increasing state spending by 20 billion euros over five
years, is the front-runner in the presidential elections after
beating incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the first round on April
22. In the Netherlands, Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  tendered his
cabinet’s resignation this week after failing to garner support
for proposed spending cuts.  Under pressure from their governments, lenders in  Spain  and
Italy used ECB loans to buy sovereign debt. Spanish bank
holdings of  government bonds  jumped 26 percent to 220 billion
euros in the two months through the end of January, data from
Spain’s treasury show. Italian banks increased ownership of
their nation’s bonds by 31 percent to 267 billion euros in the
three months ended in February, according to  Bank of Italy  data.  ‘Aggravating Europe’s Problems’  “The LTRO may be aggravating Europe’s problems by
encouraging peripheral European banks to buy more sovereign debt
and postpone the necessary deleveraging of their balance
sheets,” Thomas Higgins, a strategist at investment-management
firm Standish, a subsidiary of Bank of New York Mellon Corp.,
wrote in an April note to investors. “It is easy to imagine a
scenario in which sovereign spreads in Spain and Italy continue
to widen, placing bank balance sheets in a precarious position”
as the value of their sovereign bonds shrinks.  With European banks holding a combined $807 billion of
Spanish and Italian government bonds at the end of September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the ECB may be forced
to continue propping up lenders until investors are convinced
that the risk of a sovereign default has dissipated.  “The outcome for Spain and Italy is binary,”  Mike Harrison , an analyst at Barclays Plc in London, said in an
interview. “Either they are absolutely fine or there’s a really
big problem. In that environment, it’s difficult for banks to
attract investors and stand on their own two feet.”  European banks including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  could be forced to sell as much as $3.8 trillion in assets
through the end of next year and curb lending if governments
fall short of their pledges to stem the sovereign-debt crisis,
the  International Monetary Fund  said in a report last week.  Bundesbank Opposition  Any repeat of the LTRO could encounter opposition from
central bank council members. Jens Weidmann, president of
 Germany ’s Bundesbank, wrote to ECB President  Mario Draghi  in
February questioning the decision to loosen collateral
requirements, which has left the central bank holding more
assets of lower quality.  “With these measures, we’re only buying time,” Weidmann
said at a March 13 press conference. “This time has to be used
to get to the roots of the sovereign-debt crisis. It’s important
to reduce the dependency of banks on central-bank funding.”  Rather than inject more cash into the region’s banks, the
ECB could restart its Securities Markets Program, through which
the central bank buys sovereign debt in the secondary market to
bring down yields. Of 22 economists polled this month by
Bloomberg News, 17 predicted the ECB would resume the program.  These bond purchases, mothballed a month ago after the
introduction of the LTRO, have split the ECB Governing Council,
with German policy makers arguing they fall outside the remit of
monetary policy and aren’t effective. Weidmann said in December
that he’s “not a fan.”  Temporary Measures  The ECB still describes its funding measures as temporary,
limited and non-standard almost five years after it first
injected 95 billion euros into the financial system, when Paris-
based BNP Paribas halted withdrawals from three funds. There’s
little sign the central bank’s measures will end anytime soon.  “We are already approaching the half-decade anniversary of
so-called ‘emergency’ liquidity support,” Barclays’s Harrison
and colleague Simon Samuels wrote in a March 19 report. “Given
the intractable nature of some of the issues, it seems entirely
plausible that this could carry on for many, many more years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  