-- Romney to Kick Off Election In New Hampshire Speech
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-04-25T00:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/romney-to-kick-off-election-in-new-hampshire-speech.html
Mitt Romney  is using a speech in
New Hampshire tonight to declare the Republican primary over and
himself the victor, as he formally kicks off his campaign
against President  Barack Obama .  “After 43 primaries and caucuses, many long days and not a
few long nights, I can say with confidence -- and gratitude --
that you have given me a great honor and solemn
responsibility,” Romney will tell voters at a hotel in downtown
Manchester, according to excerpts released by his campaign.
“Together, we will win on Nov. 6.”  He and his campaign anticipate victories in today’s
primaries in Connecticut, Delaware, Pennsylvania and Rhode
Island, where the polls closed at 8 p.m. local time, and in New
York, where voting ends at 9 p.m.  Romney was leading as the first votes were tallied in
 Connecticut  and Rhode Island, according to the  Associated Press .
No votes were yet reported in Delaware or Pennsylvania.  The former Massachusetts governor and private-equity
executive will use the speech to reintroduce himself to voters
as his party’s presumptive nominee, according to a campaign
adviser who spoke on condition of anonymity. He’ll contrast his
economic plans with what he will call Obama’s record of failure.  New Hampshire is the state where Romney announced his
presidential bid last June and scored his first primary victory
on Jan. 10. His speech is entitled “A Better America Begins
Tonight.”  Delegates  Romney’s anticipated wins tonight will move him closer to
the 1,144 delegates he needs to clinch the nomination, pushing
his remaining adversaries, former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , further toward
the sidelines.  Gingrich has said he’ll reassess his campaign after
tonight’s results.  Before today’s primaries Romney had 698 delegates,
according to an Associated Press tally. Former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania had 260; Gingrich 137; Paul 75.  Santorum, who had emerged as Romney’s main challenger in
the Republican race, ended his candidacy on April 10.  Romney, 65, also is reaching out to independent and swing
voters, including groups such as women, Hispanics and young
people who polls have shown hold a dim view of him following a
Republican primary season that has spotlighted policy positions
many of them oppose.  Romney’s campaign is already raising money in concert with
the Republican National Committee and hiring staff to work at
its Boston headquarters and in battleground states around the
country, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Manchester,  New Hampshire  at  
  or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 