-- Russia to Decide on Pension Overhaul This Year, Medvedev Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-04-24T10:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/russia-to-decide-on-pension-overhaul-this-year-medvedev-says.html
Russia’s government will this year
decide on how to overhaul pensions and stem the swelling deficit
of retirement benefits, said  Dmitry Medvedev , the outgoing
president and future prime minister.  “In the coming months, we need to decide on some very
important issues, including how to develop the pension system
and what role will be played by state pensions,” Medvedev, who
is set to swap jobs with Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  next
month, told senior government officials in Moscow today.  Putin, who won a third six-year term as president in March,
promised in his election campaign to refrain from raising the
retirement age and to increase pension benefits. The  World Bank 
and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have
recommended that Russia raise the retirement age to stem a
widening deficit on pensions.  The shortfall will rise to 1.75 trillion rubles ($59
billion) this year from 875 billion rubles in 2011, Deputy
Health and Social Development Minister Yury Voronin said in
October. That’s 3 percent of the  Finance Ministry ’s 2012 gross
domestic product forecast.  The Finance Ministry is proposing to gradually raise the
 retirement age  to 63 years from 2015 to eliminate the deficit by
2029, Kommersant reported on April 20, citing a letter from
Deputy Finance Minister Alexander Novak to Health Minister
Tatyana Golikova. That clashes with a plan to raise the pension
age for men and women to 65 years between 2030 and 2047 made by
the Health Ministry and the Pension Fund, Kommersant said.  The Health Ministry’s proposal includes increasing the
pension age for women to 60 years between 2015 and 2029 from 55
currently, the Moscow-based newspaper said. The retirement age
for men is currently 60 years. The plan, which also foresees
raising pension contributions, will be completed by October and
should be approved by the government by the end of the year,
Kommersant said April 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  