-- South Korea Halts Customs Clearance of U.S. Beef
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-04-25T03:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/s-korea-to-halt-customs-clearance-of-u-s-beef-imports.html
South Korea  will halt  customs
clearance  of U.S. beef imports after the first U.S. case of mad
cow disease in six years was found in a dairy cow in central
 California , an agriculture ministry official said.  The government will release details of inspections
“soon,” Park Sang Ho, an official at South Korea’s
agricultural ministry, said by phone. The agriculture office
shortly after issued a statement saying it will take the
“necessary measures.”  South Korea, once the third-largest buyer of U.S. beef,
began restricting shipments in 2003, following the discovery of
bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow, in the U.S. herd.
The Asian country resumed imports of the meat from cattle
younger than 30 months of age in June 2008. This is the fourth
BSE case found in the U.S. herd , and the first since March
2006.  “It’s a pressing matter because we are concerned consumers
will shy away from U.S. beef,” Choi Jong Sun, chairman of the
Korea Meat Importers’ Association, said today by phone from
 Seoul . “The concern about mad cow has faded over the past few
years. We are closely watching the impact on demand and what the
government will do.”  The cow was identified as part of routine testing for the
brain-wasting disease, John Clifford, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s chief veterinarian, said yesterday. It was
discovered before it entered the human food chain and posed any
threat to consumers, Clifford said.  Futures Rebound  Cattle futures rebounded after tumbling by the exchange
limit yesterday. Futures for June delivery climbed 0.3 percent
to $1.11925 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange at 12:13
p.m. Tokyo time. Futures fell 2.6 percent to settle at $1.11575
a pound yesterday to the lowest level since July 1 and the
biggest percentage drop on a most-active contract since May 23.  Harim Co. (136480) , a maker of canned chicken breasts and nuggets,
rose 4.8 percent and Dong Won Fisheries Co., a deep-sea fishing
company, gained 9 percent in Seoul trading on speculation demand
for poultry and seafood will increase after the new U.S. mad cow
case.  “The agricultural ministry is studying the case and
considering what actions will be taken for the U.S. beef
imports,” South Korea’s Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan told
reporters in Seoul today. “Possible steps may include halting
the customs clearance.”  Japan, Taiwan  South Korea’s move comes even as Japan said it won’t
suspend imports, according to Minoru Yamamoto, director at the
ministry’s international animal health affairs office. Taiwan
will maintain its curbs on beef from countries that have
reported mad-cow disease, Council of Agriculture Chief Secretary
Tai Yu-yen said today.  Baker Commodities Inc. said the case was at its Hanford
deadstock plant, where dead livestock are held before going to a
rendering plant. The animal arrived at the plant April 18 and
all test samples are sent to the  University of California  at
Davis, Dennis Luckey, executive vice president of operations at
Los Angeles-based Baker, said in a phone interview. The animal
was at least 30 months old and the disease was discovered as
part of random testing conducted to meet USDA quotas, he said.  ‘System Working’  The discovery of mad cow disease in California shows that
the government’s surveillance system is working, and the U.S.
beef and milk supply is safe, Guy Loneragan, an epidemiologist
and professor of  food safety  and public health at Texas Tech
University, said on a conference call with reporters organized
by the  National Cattlemen’s Beef Association .  In 2003, after the first case of the disease, dozens of
countries shuttered their doors to U.S. shipments. Losses to
livestock producers and meatpackers ranged from $2.5 billion to
$3.1 billion annually from 2004 through 2007, according to the
International Trade Commission. Nations including  Japan  and
 China  have maintained some restrictions ever since.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  