-- Sales of New U.S. Homes Probably Climbed in March
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-24T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/sales-of-new-u-s-homes-probably-climbed-in-march.html
Sales of  new homes  probably
increased in March for the first time in three months,
indicating the market is struggling to stabilize, economists
said before a report today.  Purchases rose to a 318,000 annual rate, up 1.6 percent
from 313,000 in February, according to the  median estimate  in a
Bloomberg News survey of 77 economists. Other reports may show
consumer confidence dropped for a second month and  home prices 
decreased at a slower pace.  Residential real estate remains a soft spot in the economy,
challenged by stricter lending standards and more  foreclosures ,
which depress property values. At the same time, an improved
labor market and  mortgage rates  near historic lows may help
prevent the market from slipping further.  “The long-term trend is generally improvement but it’s not
going anywhere fast,” said  David Blitzer , managing director and
chairman of the index committee at  Standard & Poor’s , which
produces the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price gauge. “We’ve some
slightly better numbers in the last few months on starts and
sales, but definitely not on prices.”  Economist estimates for March sales in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 300,000 to 337,000. The report from the Commerce
Department is due at 10 a.m. New York time.  At 9 a.m., the latest calculations from S&P/Case-Shiller
may show property values in 20 U.S. cities fell 3.4 percent in
the year ended February, the smallest 12-month drop since
January 2011, the Bloomberg  survey showed .  Less Confident  The Conference Board’s measure of  consumer confidence 
decreased to 69.7 in April from 70.2 the prior month, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed. The measure
reached a one-year  high  of 71.6 in February. The report from the
New York-based research group is due at 10 a.m.  New-home purchases, which are counted when contracts are
signed, accounted for 6.7 percent of the residential real-estate
market last year. The February pace was the lowest since
October.  Builder confidence fell in April for the first time in
seven months, a report showed last week. The National
Association of Homebuilders/Well Fargo  sentiment gauge  dropped
to 25 from 28 in March. Readings less than 50 mean there were
more negative than positive responses. The measure had been as
low as 14 in September.  Indications that demand may be stabilizing has boosted
builder shares. The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has
climbed 20 percent so far this year, compared with an 8.7
percent gain for the broader 500 Index.  Recent Decrease  Existing home sales, which are counted when a transaction
is closed, lost ground in March for a second month, dropping 2.6
percent to a 4.48 million annual rate, the National Association
of Realtors reported last week.  In 2011, 4.26 million existing homes changed hands, up from
4.19 million in 2010. Demand  peaked  at 7.1 million in 2005
during the housing boom. In 2008, sales totaled 4.1 million, the
least since 1995.  Interest rates  remain low. The average rate on a 30-year
fixed mortgage, which rose to 3.90 percent last week, remains
close to the record-low of 3.87 percent reached in February,
according to  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  data.  To help hold down borrowing costs like mortgage rates,
Federal Reserve policy makers last month said they will continue
to swap $400 billion in short-term securities with long-term
debt to lengthen the average maturity of the central bank’s
holdings, a move dubbed Operation Twist. The program is
scheduled to come to a close by the end of June. Central bankers
meet today and tomorrow to determine the course of policy.  Supplies in Demand  Construction suppliers are among the companies that stand
to benefit from strength in housing.  At paint manufacturer Sherwin-Williams Co., strong demand
led to the company’s highest volume of first-quarter sales since
2004, Chief Executive Officer Christopher Connor said on an
April 19 earnings call.  “We do take great comfort in all the anecdotal
conversations that we have with thousands and thousands of
painting contractors in our stores every day,” Connor said.
They are hiring crews and purchasing the kinds of equipment and
supplies that points to a pickup in demand, he said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 