-- San Francisco Gasoline Rises to Six-Week High on Refinery Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-04-24T22:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/san-francisco-gasoline-rises-to-six-week-high-on-refinery-work.html
California-blend gasoline in  San
Francisco  advanced to a six-week high against futures after
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  said the Rodeo refinery in Northern California is
conducting planned maintenance.  The 128,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo refinery, north of San
Francisco, was scheduled to shut the hydrocracker for six to
eight weeks of work, two people with direct knowledge of the
schedule said March 15.  California-blend, or Carbob, gasoline in San Francisco rose
5 cents to a premium of 16 cents a gallon versus gasoline
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest level for the
fuel in the Bay since March 7.  “Planned maintenance work is currently under way” at
Conoco’s San Francisco complex, consisting of the Rodeo refinery
and a plant in Arroyo Grande,  California , that upgrades
feedstock for Rodeo,  Rich Johnson , a Conoco spokesman at the
company’s headquarters in Houston, said in an e-mail late
yesterday. He declined to say what units are involved.  Los Angeles Carbob rose 3.5 cents to 13 cents a gallon
above gasoline futures, the highest since March 12.  Conoco’s 139,000-barrel-a-day Los Angeles refinery is
conducting a maintenance turnaround on the cogeneration plant
and performing a catalyst regeneration on a unifier and
hydrotreater unit, a person with direct knowledge of the work
said yesterday. The work is expected to last about two weeks,
the person said.  Johnson said the plant is performing planned maintenance.
He declined to say which units are involved or the duration of
the work.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in  Los Angeles  rose 2
cents to a premium of 8.5 cents a gallon versus Nymex heating
oil futures. The same fuel in San Francisco jumped 3 cents to a
12-cent premium.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , a
benchmark for the U.S. Northwest, rose 1.5 cents to 6.75 cents a
gallon above gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there  advanced
1.75 cents to a 19.25-cent premium to heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  