-- Sanofi Is Looking at New Compounds to Expand MS Business
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-04-24T21:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/sanofi-is-looking-at-new-compounds-to-expand-its-ms-business.html
Sanofi (SAN) , which  bought  Genzyme Corp.
last year, is seeking new treatments to expand its multiple
sclerosis business, said Michael Panzara, Genzyme’s therapeutic
area head for multiple sclerosis, immune diseases and neurology.  The drugmaker said today its experimental medicine
Lemtrada, which it gained through Genzyme, led to an improvement
in disability scores in patients suffering from multiple
sclerosis compared with an older treatment in a late-stage
trial. The company has another experimental MS therapy, Aubagio,
which was under development before the Genzyme purchase.  Beyond Lemtrada and Aubagio, Paris-based Sanofi has other
experimental MS compounds in its pipeline “that we are actively
starting to look at, and we’re always looking externally for
good opportunities,” Panzara said in a phone interview today.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  spent $20.1
billion last year to acquire Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Genzyme, the largest maker of medicines for rare genetic
diseases. After the purchase, he folded Aubagio, Sanofi’s own MS
therapy, into Genzyme to build up a multiple sclerosis business.  Aubagio, whose chemical name is teriflunomide, is an oral
therapy. Lemtrada, also known as alemtuzumab, is a so-called
monoclonal antibody administered to patients through infusions
for five consecutive days when they begin the treatment and for
another three days 12 months later.  “Alemtuzumab and teriflunomide we view as a beginning,”
Panzara said. “You can’t have a world-class MS organization if
you don’t fill up the pipeline at all stages of development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  