-- Sanofi’s Lemtrada Improves Disability Scores in MS Patients
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-04-24T18:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/sanofi-s-lemtrada-improves-disability-scores-in-ms-patients.html
Sanofi (SAN) ,  France ’s largest drugmaker,
said its experimental medicine Lemtrada led to an improvement in
disability scores in patients with multiple sclerosis compared
to an older treatment.  Lemtrada, also known as alemtuzumab, slowed the progression
of disability versus  Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s Rebif in a late-stage trial,
and scores improved in some patients who were given Lemtrada in
the two-year study, suggesting a reversal of disability, Paris-
based Sanofi said today in an e-mailed statement.  At two years, 29 percent of patients treated with Lemtrada
had experienced a six-month reduction in disability, compared
with 13 percent of those treated with Rebif, said Sanofi, which
presents full data from the trial at the 2012  American Academy
of Neurology  meeting in  New Orleans  today.  The disability data “is big news,” Michael Panzara,
Genzyme’s therapeutic area head for multiple sclerosis, immune
diseases and neurology, said in a telephone interview today.
“Alemtuzumab versus Rebif improves function; that’s unique.”  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has been building
up Sanofi’s multiple sclerosis business since last year’s $20.1
billion purchase of U.S. biotechnology company Genzyme Corp.,
from which it gained Lemtrada. Sanofi needs new drugs such as
Lemtrada to help offset revenue losses deriving from generic
competition to best-sellers such as the Lovenox blood-thinner.  Among patients treated with Lemtrada, 65 percent didn’t
experience relapses at two years, compared with 47 percent for
those who were given Rebif in the 840-patient study, dubbed
CARE-MS II, Sanofi said today.  Genzyme Purchase  The medicine’s prospects were at the heart of the Genzyme
takeover talks last year. As part of the deal, Sanofi set up a
so-called contingent value right tied to Lemtrada’s future
sales. The CVR, which is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
was designed to protect the French drugmaker against the
potential failure of the treatment and reward Genzyme investors
if it succeeds.  Stockholders got one CVR for each Genzyme share they owned.
Investors stood to receive payments of as much as $14 per CVR if
Lemtrada wins U.S. approval and reaches sales goals, and if the
company met production goals for existing Genzyme drugs. Sanofi
said on July 28 that it missed the first production goal.  Today’s data shows Lemtrada “becomes a very real treatment
option at all stages of the disease,” Panzara said. “It sets
it apart in terms of efficacy from anything else out there.”  In spite of its effectiveness, analysts such as Vincent Meunier of Exane BNP Paribas have said Lemtrada may be too toxic
to become a blockbuster.  Safety First  “The drug’s sales potential will depend on its safety
profile,” Pierre Corby, an analyst at Aurel BGC in Paris, said
in a telephone interview today, before the data was published.
Corby, who has a buy recommendation on Sanofi shares, is
forecasting peak annual sales of 667 million euros for Lemtrada
by 2016.  Sanofi didn’t provide additional information on Lemtrada’s
safety risks today. It reiterated that 16 percent of patients
developed an autoimmune thyroid-related side effect during the
trial. That compares with 5 percent for Rebif, Sanofi said. It
also said 0.9 percent of patients suffered from immune
thrombocytopenia, a reduction of platelets in blood cells. These
cases were detected early and treated with conventional
therapies, Sanofi said.  Lemtrada’s safety profile “is well-characterized,”
Panzara said. “Because it’s known, it can be managed and we
anticipate it will be managed in the marketplace based on what
we’ve learned.”  Side Effects  The most common adverse events associated with alemtuzumab,
the chemical name for Lemtrada, were reactions linked to
infusion of the drug, such as headaches, rashes, fever, nausea,
itching and fatigue, Sanofi said on Nov. 14.  Full data from the CARE-MS II trial is likely to
“reinforce the high efficacy/high adverse event profile of
Lemtrada,” Ravi Mehrotra and other analysts at Credit Suisse
Group AG wrote in an April 12 note to clients.  Sanofi is seeking ways to determine which patients are more
susceptible to suffering from thyroid side effects, Panzara
said.  “It’s a very active area of research right now,” he said.
“We’re looking for various predictors for thyroid, for any of
the other adverse events also. We will not have any of that
sorted out in time for our planned submission” but “the more
we can characterize that predictive risk, the greater
potential” for Lemtrada, Panzara said.  Sanofi is “on track” to file for U.S. and European
approval of Lemtrada in relapsing multiple sclerosis this
quarter, Panzara said, declining to give more details. Genzyme
is developing Lemtrada together with  Bayer AG. (BAYN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  