-- Sants Urges Top Bankers to Pick Ethics Over Gain in Final Speech
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-04-24T11:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/sants-urges-top-bankers-to-pick-ethics-over-gain-in-final-speech.html
Hector Sants, the chief executive
officer of the U.K.  Financial Services Authority , urged senior
bankers to make restrained decisions on pay and be “ethical”
in his final speech as the U.K.’s top regulator.  The FSA will “encourage firms to do more to give weight to
non-financial metrics,” rather than focusing on returns on
investments, when setting senior banker pay, Sants told
financial executives in London today.  “It shouldn’t be about how much we earn, but how much we
care about the well-being” of all those affected by financial
markets, Sants said in his last public appearance.  Sants, 56, will step down from his post at the end of June
after leading the regulator through much of the global financial
crisis. During his five years as FSA CEO, Sants led a crackdown
on banks’ misselling of payment protection insurance to
consumers and led an overhaul of the financial regulator
following the near collapse of Northern Rock Plc and  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   He urged bankers to make decisions based on principles,
“rather than short-term commercial considerations,” and said
“ultimately firms fail because of decisions taken by firms and
their management” rather because of weak financial rules.  Looking relaxed, leaning on the lectern with a hand on hip,
Sants answered questions from delegates on attempts by the
European Union to have harmonized rules that may curb national
regulators’ power to set their own capital levels for banks.  “If you have a situation where everything is ‘maximum
harmonized’ then you have a risk that a supervisor just won’t be
able to do its job,” Sants said. “The government needs to be
very focused on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  