-- Schumer Drafts Bill to Block Arizona Immigration Crackdown
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-04-24T19:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/schumer-drafts-bill-to-block-arizona-immigration-crackdown-1-.html
The U.S. Senate’s third-ranking
Democrat said he will push legislation to block  Arizona ’s
illegal-immigration crackdown if the Supreme Court upholds the
state law.  Proponents and opponents of the Arizona law, which is being
challenged by the Obama administration, sparred over its
legality at a Senate hearing today, one day before the court
hears the case.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  said his measure will
make clear that Congress doesn’t intend for states to enact
their own immigration enforcement strategies. He said it will
allow states to apprehend suspected illegal immigrants only as
part of an agreement overseen by the federal government.  “States like Arizona and  Alabama  will no longer be able to
get away with saying they are simply helping the federal
government to enforce the law,” he said during a Senate
Judiciary subcommittee hearing on state and local enforcement of
immigration laws. Those states are “writing their own laws and
knowingly deploying untrained officers with a mission of
arresting anyone and everyone who might fit the preconceived
profile of an illegal immigrant,” he said.  The  Supreme Court  will hear arguments tomorrow on whether
Arizona’s law, known as Senate bill 1070, goes too far by
requiring police to check the status of people they suspect are
in the U.S. illegally, and to arrest those they consider
eligible to be deported.  Implementing Own Policy  The Obama administration contends that Arizona has gone
beyond cooperation with the federal immigration law and is
trying to implement its own policy.  With Republicans holding the House majority, Schumer’s
proposal would have little chance of becoming law. Democrats who
control the Senate could hold a vote to get senators on record
on the issue during this election year.  At today’s hearing, the former Arizona state senator who
sponsored Senate bill 1070 said states have the right to enforce
such measures to control the costs and crime related to illegal
immigration.  “The invasion of illegal aliens we face today -- convicted
felons, drug cartels, gang members, human traffickers and even
terrorists -- pose one of the greatest threats to our nation in
terms of political, economic and national security,” said
former Arizona Senate President Russell Pearce, a Republican. He
was recalled from office in a November 2011 election, losing to
a fellow Republican who opposed his immigration policy.  Sept. 11 Attacks  Pearce said the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks might have been
prevented if immigration laws had been adequately enforced.  Former U.S. Senator Dennis DeConcini, a Democrat who
represented Arizona from 1977 to 1995, said the state law has
been a failure, resulting in harassment of Hispanics. He said
the state has overstepped its constitutional boundaries.  “I believe it is ill-founded, mean-spirited and
divisive,” DeConcini said. “In addition, it requires state and
local law enforcement to carry out immigration responsibilities
that lie with the federal government.”  A study released today by the Pew Hispanic Center, a
nonpartisan research organization in  Washington , said the
migration of undocumented immigrants from  Mexico  is abating.
During the past four decades, 12 million immigrants came to the
U.S. from Mexico, most illegally, the report said.  Net Migration  Net Mexican migration to the U.S. has stopped and may have
reversed, according to the report, which cited such factors as
the weak U.S. job and housing construction markets, a decline in
Mexico’s birth rate and escalating risks associated with illegal
entry to the U.S.  The immigration issue is taking on additional importance in
an election year, as Republicans risk losing the support of
Hispanic voters in such states as Florida and  New Mexico  after
promoting a get-tough approach.  In a decision that underscored the heightened tensions
between the parties over immigration policy, Republicans
boycotted today’s Judiciary panel hearing. The only two
lawmakers present were Schumer and Senator  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois , the second-ranking Democratic leader.  Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, who serves on the panel and is
the No. 2 Republican Senate leader, said afterward Republicans
skipped it because Democrats didn’t seek any input on witnesses.
He dismissed the hearing as a “political sideshow.”  Dream Act  Congress hasn’t overhauled immigration policy since the
mid-1980s. The Senate last voted on a major immigration measure
in December 2010, when some Democrats joined Republicans to
block a Democratic bill, known as the Dream Act, that would have
enabled people who were brought to the U.S. illegally before age
16 and stayed for at least five years to obtain legal residency
after going to college or serving in the military.  Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida  has offered a
compromise version of the Dream Act. It would give such
immigrants a non-immigration visa if they complete high school
and don’t have a criminal record. Rubio is seen as a possible
vice presidential choice for his party’s presumptive
presidential candidate,  Mitt Romney .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  