-- Seacrest Said to Sign 2-Year ‘Idol’ Deal for $30 Million
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/seacrest-said-to-sign-2-year-idol-deal-for-30-million.html
“American Idol” producers signed
 Ryan Seacrest  to a two-year, $30 million contract to continue
hosting television’s most-watched show, said a person with
knowledge of the terms who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  CKX Inc.’s 19 Entertainment and FremantleMedia North
America Inc., the show’s producers, announced the contract
extension with Seacrest, 35, yesterday in an e-mailed statement,
without providing details.  The contract ensures “Idol,” which airs on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox broadcast network, will continue being hosted by Seacrest,
who has emceed the series since the singing competition began in
June 2002. Seacrest also hosts a national radio program, appears
on celebrity news programs on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s E! cable channel
and produces reality series including “Keeping Up with the
Kardashians.”  “For the last 11 seasons, I’ve had the privilege to be a
part of one of television’s most iconic shows,” Seacrest said
in the statement. “It’s been a wild ride, and I’m excited for
my journey with ‘American Idol’ to continue.”  Through April 22, “Idol’s” two weekly shows combined
averaged a 6.1 rating among viewers ages 18-to-49, the group
targeted by advertisers, and a total audience of 19.5 million,
according to Fox. The show has declined 30 percent in the
demographic compared with a year earlier and slid 23 percent in
total viewers, the network said, citing Nielsen data.  News Corp., based in  New York , fell less than 1 percent to
$18.98 yesterday in New York  trading . The stock has gained 6.4
percent this year. New York-based CKX was acquired by  Apollo
Global Management Inc. (APO)  in June 2011. Closely held Fremantle Ltd.
is based in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  