-- Sealy Directors Under Hedge-Fund Criticism Lose Votes
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-04-24T21:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/sealy-directors-under-hedge-fund-criticism-lose-votes.html
Sealy Corp. (ZZ) , the mattress maker
that is 45 percent owned by private-equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR) , said
more than 30 percent of its shareholders withheld support for
three directors after the company faced governance criticism.  Gary Morin won 70 percent of votes, and Deborah Ellinger
and James Johnston got 69 percent of votes at Sealy’s annual
stockholders meeting on April 18, the company said in a
regulatory  filing  today. ISS and Glass Lewis & Co., two
shareholder advisory services, had recommended “no” votes for
the three directors last month.  “Ellinger, Johnston and Morin served as members of the
compensation committee during the past fiscal year, during which
time the company failed to adequately link pay with
performance,”  Glass Lewis  said in a March 19 report. “We are
concerned that the compensation committee has not provided
adequate rationale.”  Sealy came under criticism in a March 11 letter from H
Partners Management LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that owns
15 percent of the company. H Partners accused KKR of overloading
the Trinity, North Carolina-based bedding maker with debt and
making strategic errors that reduced its earnings by half.  Sealy called the claims “combative” and unconstructive.
In a March 23 letter, the company said KKR “has been a
responsible partner” and said the board’s composition meets New
York Stock Exchange guidelines for independence.  Gemma Hart, a spokeswoman for Sealy at Brunswick Group,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  ‘Disappointed and Perplexed’  FPR Partners, the San Francisco-based firm that owns about
8 percent of Sealy, said in a letter that it was “disappointed
and perplexed” by the board’s response to H Partners.  The votes were enough for the three directors as well as
the remainder of the nominees to be elected in the April 18
vote.  “These voting results represent a decisive vote of ‘no
confidence’ for the incumbent Sealy directors,” H Partners said
in a statement today. “H Partners will not cease in its efforts
to reform the governance and oversight of Sealy, and will
continue to pursue all avenues to protect its investment.”  KKR, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , acquired Sealy
in 2004 for $1.5 billion from an investment group that included
Bain Capital LLC. The buyout firm paid $5.78 a share for the
mattress maker and took it public two years later for $16 a
share.  The shares have since lost 87 percent of their value,
falling 3.3 percent to $2.04 at the close of New York trading
today. The company gained 19 percent this year after reporting
that net income from continuing operations in the first quarter
ended Feb. 26 rose to $1.6 million from $130,000 a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  