-- SEC Says Egan-Jones Made False Claims in Regulatory Filings
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-04-24T21:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/sec-says-egan-jones-made-false-claims-in-regulatory-application.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission accused Egan-Jones Ratings Co. and founder  Sean Egan 
of making misrepresentations about the firm’s experience rating
asset-backed and  government securities  in a 2008 application to
become a nationally recognized statistical ratings organization.  Egan-Jones falsely claimed in the application that it had
about 150 outstanding ABS issuer ratings and 50 government
ratings, the SEC said today in an administrative proceeding
authorized by commissioners last week. At the time of the July
2008 application, the Haverford, Pennsylvania-based firm hadn’t
issued any such ratings and therefore didn’t meet requirements
for registration as a NRSRO, the  SEC  said.  Egan-Jones, which is paid by investors, is one of about 10
firms registered with the SEC as an NRSRO, meaning companies can
use their credit ratings to meet regulatory requirements.  The
biggest NRSROs,  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and McGraw-Hill Cos.’  Standard &
Poor’s  unit, are paid by debt issuers.  Jacob Frenkel , an attorney for the firm and Egan, said they
will fight the claims.  “There is no allegation that any ratings were corrupted or
unduly influenced, and not one word in the administrative
proceeding questions the quality, integrity and timeliness of
the Egan-Jones ratings,” Frenkel said in an e-mail.  Conflicts of Interest  The SEC also accused Egan-Jones of failing to enforce its
own policies to address conflicts of interest. Two analysts were
allowed to participate in determining credit ratings for issuers
whose securities they owned, according to the SEC.  Egan-Jones falsely stated that it was unaware of whether
its subscribers held certain positions in particular securities,
the SEC said. In fact, the firm’s salespeople were aware of
certain clients’ holdings, and in some instances knew whether
clients had long or short positions, according to the
administrative proceeding.  In at least three instances, information about whether a
client had a long or short position was communicated to Egan,
the firm’s primary analyst, the SEC said.  “At no time did nominal holdings by two analysts influence
in the slightest the firm’s independent ratings actions,”
Frenkel said. “When the SEC raised a concern during its annual
examination of the firm, Egan-Jones implemented a conflicts of
interest policy that went well beyond what the rules require.”  Converted House  Egan joined Bruce Jones, a former credit analyst at
Moody’s, to form Egan-Jones in 1995. The firm, which operates
out of a converted house in  Pennsylvania  and has two full-time
senior analysts, submitted its first application to become an
NRSRO in 2000 and was first granted that status for three
classes of securities in 2007. The 2008 application sought
approval to grade ABS and government securities.  While Egan-Jones says it has 1,136 outstanding credit
grades, the firm employs a total of five analysts, including
Egan and Bill Hassiepen, according to a March regulatory filing.
Jones and senior analyst Art Burke both work part time. The
filing lists a fifth analyst, NG Subramanian, in  India .  “We are well-staffed to not only service our existing
clients, but to grow and to continue issuing timely, accurate
ratings,” Egan wrote April 23 in an e-mailed statement. “Our
ratings have been reviewed by independent academics and compared
to the other firms and have consistently been found to be the
most accurate, predictive ratings in the industry.”  Egan-Jones became an NRSRO in December 2007 after seven
years of being denied the status, following passage of the
Credit Agency Reform Act of 2006.  The legislation, which sought to increase competition among
credit-rating firms, pushed the SEC to authorize companies to
assign debt grades that banks use for determining capital
withholding requirements.  Adequate Resources  Under the law, an SEC committee has 90 days to grant a
company NRSRO status after receiving its application. It must
give approval unless the document is incomplete or out of
compliance, or the company lacks “adequate financial and
managerial resources to consistently produce credit ratings with
integrity and to materially comply” with requirements.  When the SEC’s internal watchdog raised concerns in 2009
about a certain credit-rating company’s application, the panel
that approved it said it “only had suspicions and concerns but
lacked evidence,” according to a  report  issued that year.  “Instead of resolving the issues they just simply approved
the companies to be credit agencies,” said H. David Kotz, the
former SEC inspector general who identified several unnamed
companies with problematic applications and declined to
comment specifically about Egan-Jones.  “The process was not worthwhile in that respect because
they weren’t doing a thorough review,” Kotz, now a managing
director at investigation firm Gryphon Strategies, said in a
telephone interview.  Jefferies Group        Egan-Jones downgraded New York-based  Jefferies Group (JEF)  Inc.’s
debt in November and said it should raise $1 billion in equity
and reduce leverage. Without “major de-leveraging,” Egan-Jones
said it might cut Jefferies’s credit grade.  Jefferies’s $800 million of 5.125 percent notes due in
April 2018 dropped to as low as 76.1 cents on the dollar on Nov.
18 from 90 cents at the end of October, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  On Nov. 28, Oppenheimer & Co. analyst Chris Kotowski said
the rating company’s analysis of Jefferies contained “epic
errors of fact.” The debt traded at 98 cents on at 2:14 p.m. in
New York today, Trace data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  