-- Senate Panel Advances Bill for Temporary Nuclear Storage Sites
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-24T16:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/senate-panel-advances-bill-for-temporary-nuclear-storage-sites.html
A Senate committee proposed letting
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu begin the process to build
temporary storage sites for nuclear waste in communities that
seek such a facility.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat, said the
provision in the legislation adopted the “consent-based”
recommendation of a presidential commission that studied the
disposal of used fuel rods now stored at 104 U.S. nuclear
plants. The measure is “one small step forward,” she said.  “It’s imperative to begin to address the issue of spent
nuclear fuel,” Feinstein said today at a hearing on energy and
water development spending starting Oct. 1.  The measure approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee
panel on energy creates a program to license, build and operate
one or more “consolidated storage facilities,” Feinstein said.  Obama set up the nuclear-waste commission in January 2010,
after eliminating funding for the Yucca Mountain site in  Nevada ,
to weigh options for waste from nuclear facilities. The
administration abandoned the repository, about 100 miles (161
kilometers) northwest of  Las Vegas , after opposition in the
state led by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat.  Senator  Lamar Alexander , a Tennessee Republican, said
Congress would have to approve plans for any interim storage
site.  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee is
writing legislation to implement additional recommendations from
the commission, Rosemarie Calabro, a Democratic spokeswoman for
the panel, said in an e-mail. The commission issued its report
and recommendations on Jan. 26  The spending bill approved April 18 by a House
Appropriations energy panel would give $25 million to continue
development of Yucca Mountain. The Senate bills would provide
more money for clean-energy projects, while the House measure
increases fossil-fuel programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  