-- Serbian Top Opposition Party Backs Renewal of IMF Loan Deal
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-04-24T15:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/serbian-top-opposition-party-backs-renewal-of-imf-loan-deal.html
Serbia ’s biggest opposition group,
the  Progressive Party , supports the renewal of the loan program
with the  International Monetary Fund  and will back the existing
monetary policy framework if they win May 6 elections.  “We absolutely support the renewal of the arrangement with
the International Monetary Fund,” said Jorgovanka Tabakovic,
who polls predict will be Serbia’s next prime minister, the
first-ever woman to take that post in Serbia.  Her party was set up in 2008 after a group of more moderate
nationalists left the Serbian Radical Party of Vojislav Seselj,
who is standing trial before the war crimes tribunal in  The
Hague . The Progressives turned into the most popular party in
Serbia, banking on widespread discontent amid global recession
and  Europe ’s debt crisis that has left 400,000 people without
work, weakened the dinar 30 percent against the euro and forced
the government to borrow heavily to avoid economic slump.  Any new program with the Washington-based lender will be
“precautionary” so Serbia will draw no cash, she said. “We
need the IMF for their advisory and control role,” she told
members of the  American Chamber of Commerce  in Belgrade today.  Job Creation  The Progressives would back the existing monetary policy
framework, which relies on inflation targeting, supporting the
central bank efforts to further expand the use of the dinar in
financial transactions, Tabakovic said, adding that the monetary
policy will ultimately have to aim to help create jobs.  Serbia and the IMF agreed to freeze a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan program in February until a new Cabinet
emerges after May 6 elections for president, parliament and
local governments.  The Progressive Party and its president  Tomislav Nikolic 
lead in opinion polls both for parliament and president over the
ruling  Democratic Party  of incumbent President  Boris Tadic .  Tadic’s Democrats, who last month managed to win Serbia the
candidacy for the European Union membership, would try to rely
more on the EU, former Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic
said. He is personally leading a Western Balkan campaign with
the bloc, offering the region’s key financier powers to monitor
regional budget performance on semi-annual basis and releasing
aid to those who stick with agreed fiscal targets.  Serbia’s new Cabinet, emerging after the May 6 ballot, will
need to quickly adopt measures to bring the  budget deficit  below
4.5 percent of economic output and the public debt to 45 percent
of GDP, the levels imposed by fiscal rules.  Tabakovic said her party would introduce a tax on banks’
“balance sheet items and on their services” as “Serbia must
relax tax pressure on the manufacturing sector and shift it to
the financial sector, not because we want to force banks to
leave Serbia, but because we want the real sector to attract
even more investment,” she said. Any taxation would be
introduced following a “frank” debate with banks, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  