-- Shell Agrees to Buy Cove After Raising Bid to $1.8 Billion
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-04-24T16:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/shell-agrees-to-buy-cove-after-raising-bid-to-1-8-billion-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, agreed to buy  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  after raising
its bid to 1.12 billion pounds ($1.8 billion), securing a stake
in gas fields discovered off Mozambique.  Shell increased its offer for Cove to 220 pence a share
from 195 pence, matching a rival proposal from Thailand’s  PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) , the Hague-based company said in a
statement today. The board of London-based Cove has agreed to
the Shell bid.  The African explorer put itself up for sale in January
after reporting one of the world’s largest natural gas
discoveries in a decade off the coast of Mozambique. It controls
an 8.5 percent interest the Rovuma Area 1 natural-gas block that
may hold 30 trillion cubic feet of the fuel. The gas will supply
a liquefied natural gas plant that can ship fuel across the
 Indian Ocean  to Asian markets.  “Shell represents an excellent partner for all the
stakeholders,” Cove Executive Chairman Michael Blaha said in
the statement. The oil company has “extensive project
development, operating and marketing experience in the entire
liquefied natural gas value chain.”  Cove climbed 4.6 percent, or 10 pence, to 227 pence in
London. The stock has almost doubled this year.  Competing Offers  “Competing offers can still be made and the shares will
now likely trade to a slight premium on the hope that PTTEP will
trump Shell,” Investec analyst Stuart Joyner said in a note to
investors.  Today’s bid represents a 42 percent premium to Cove’s share
price before Shell made its first offer. The seller is being
advised by  Standard Chartered. (STAN)   “PTTEP is currently considering its options and will make
a further announcement as and when appropriate,” the company
said separately, adding that there is no certainty it will make
another offer.  Thailand’s biggest publicly traded explorer was keen to buy
Cove as part of its plan to triple the company’s output to
900,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2020. Beyond
Mozambique, PTTEP is seeking larger reserves in Tanzania and
Kenya.  Mozambique is reviewing petroleum and mining laws as it
looks to benefit from higher commodity prices. The country
announced plans to set up a team from its finance and mineral
resources ministries on April 3 to propose how to calculate
taxes on gains on the sales of shares or companies. Cove said a
week later that it will face a 12.8 percent tax on capital gains
from a potential sale.  Fresh Source  East Africa ’s fields offer a fresh source of gas supply for
Asia, where China and India are the world’s fastest-growing
major economies.  Eni SpA (ENI)  of Italy,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  of the U.K. and
 Statoil ASA (STL)  of Norway also discovered gas off Mozambique and
Tanzania.  Shell, which joined forces with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  of
Brazil last year to search for oil and gas off Tanzania, has
been unsuccessful so far in East Africa. It plans to increase
spending on exploration 35 percent to about $5 billion this
year. The company is the world’s largest manager of LNG ships
and its joint ventures supplied 30 percent of global LNG volumes
last year.  Before taking up his position at Cove in 2009, Blaha worked
for Shell for 29 years, finishing up as the country chairman for
Algeria. He also held positions in Russia, Iran and Shell’s head
office in The Hague.  Cove has also been working with  Total SA (FP)  and BG to explore
off the coast of Kenya. Last year, it joined  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  to
bid for exploration licenses off Lebanon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  