-- SMRT to Spend $722 Million to Upgrade Singapore Subway
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-25T11:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/smrt-to-spend-s-900-million-upgrading-singapore-subway-network.html
SMRT Corp. (MRT)  fell the most in 21
months on plans to spend S$900 million ($722 million) upgrading
Singapore’s subway network after the rail system’s worst
breakdown in December.  The city’s biggest subway operator will replace the
“aging” signaling system and parts of the track for two rail
lines, it said in a statement to the Singapore stock exchange.
It will also replace the so-called claws securing the power rail
following the December breakdown, as well as continuing its
nightly checks of the tracks, it said.  “Although we anticipated SMRT’s higher capex and
maintenance burden, the quantum is much larger than expected,”
Cheryl Lee, an analyst at UBS AG who rates the stock a sell,
said in a report today. “Given these pressures amid intense
public scrutiny on service reliability, we believe SMRT can
justify a rethink in its dividend policy, which was implemented
under its previous CEO.”  SMRT is boosting spending on the 25-year-old rail system
amid a government inquiry into the December glitches and as
further breakdowns undermined its network’s reliability. Tan Ek Kia, interim chief executive officer and  executive director ,
also apologized in the statement yesterday for recent
disruptions, including the ones in the past week.  The  stock  declined 4.1 percent to S$1.735 at the close in
Singapore, the biggest drop since Aug. 2, 2010.  Aging Rail System  “As the system ages, our maintenance regime needs to adapt
from one that focuses on repair and overhaul, to one which also
includes replacement and renewal,” Tan said in the statement,
adding he’s in talks with the government’s Land Transport
Authority on sharing the costs of the upgrades.  The December breakdowns, which affected about 200,000
passengers, led the government to review its regulatory and
penalty framework. Former Chief Executive Officer Saw Phaik Hwa
stepped down on Jan. 6 after the disruptions on Dec. 15 and 17
affected shoppers in the Orchard Road shopping belt in the last
weekend before the Christmas holiday.  The maximum fine per breakdown is S$1 million, the
government said in January, without saying what SMRT would be
required to pay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  