-- Solar Silicon Falling 9% Widens Slump That Hit Solyndra
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-04-25T09:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/solar-silicon-falling-9-widens-slump-that-hit-solyndra.html
Polysilicon, the raw material used
to make most solar panels, is forecast to fall another 9 percent
from its lowest in a decade as a supply glut narrows margins
throughout the industry.  The average  spot price  of the material will finish this
year at about $22.10 a kilogram, according to the median of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The price, which four
years ago topped $475, tumbled about 70 percent in the 12 months
to $24.27 on April 16, the lowest since at least 2002.  The drop hurts most for poly manufacturers led by Hemlock
Semiconductor Corp. and  Wacker Chemie AG. (WCH)  It may ease pressure
on margins at panel makers such as  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) 
and  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , which were unprofitable last year. The result
is expanding a shakeout that bankrupted at least eight companies
including Solyndra LLC last year.  “We see massive oversupply in polysilicon,”  Jesse Pichel ,
an analyst for  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , said by e-mail. “Poly
prices will continue to fall,” he said, estimating that the
spot price may drop into “the teens.”  Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, a Norwegian maker of
polysilicon, wafers, cells and modules, today reported a wider-
than-estimated first-quarter loss due to declining prices.  The company said industry-wide overcapacity keeps putting
pressure on prices and “severe” margin pressure on most market
participants. REC will close down all wafer production in  Norway 
and has no plans to expand polysilicon output. Wafers, or thin
slices of polysilicon, are used to make photovoltaic cells, the
basic component in most solar panels.  Wacker, GCL-Poly  The findings underscore the difficulty of increasing the
scale of the renewable  energy industry  as officials from more
than 20 industrial nations gather in  London  this week for a
Clean Energy Ministerial meeting seeking to map out measures
that would help wean the world off fossil fuels.  Wacker shares lost two-thirds of their value in the past
year, and GCL-Poly fell 55 percent. Renewable Energy Corp. of
Norway last night said it would shut one of its factories and
cut 460 jobs as a result. Hemlock is jointly owned by Dow
Corning, Shin-Etsu Handotai Co. and  Mitsubishi Materials Corp. (5711) 
The Bloomberg Large Solar index tracking 17 companies in the
industry fell 75 percent in the past year as polysilicon prices
led the cost of solar cells lower.  Industry ’Softening’  “While we’re currently feeling the impact of the softening
in the industry, we believe the industry will continue to grow
at tremendous rates in the near and long-term,” Jarrod
Erpelding, a spokesman for Hemlock, said by e-mail. “The
silicon market will continue to grow with the demand of the
solar industry.”  Polysilicon makers including  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) 
and OCI Company Ltd. almost doubled capacity in the past two
years to feed a surge in solar installations, creating a glut
after output exceeded demand for the first time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Global demand for panels is forecast to fall this year,
according to a Bloomberg survey published in March. It would be
the first time since the modern solar industry began in 2004
with a program of incentives from  Germany  and a setback for an
industry that’s grown 61 percent a year on average since 1999.  Germany and  Italy , the top two markets for solar power, are
trimming subsidies after above-market rates for renewable energy
sparked a boom in installations.  Selling at Cash Cost  The poly price decline has now taken spot prices near
production costs for even large manufacturers, according to
Jenny Chase, who leads a team of solar analysts at London-based
New Energy Finance. The top five manufacturers are Hemlock,
which is based in a Michigan town by the same name, Wacker from
Munich,  Renewable Energy Corp ASA (REC)  of Norway, GCL-Poly of  China 
and OCI of  South Korea .  “The latest price drops will be the trend over the rest of
the year as companies sell at cash cost just to stay in the
market,” Chase said. “A few Chinese manufacturers are refusing
to drop out and their output puts downward pressure on prices.”  A drop to about $22 puts stress on even the biggest
companies, which have production costs from $15 to $25 a
kilogram, Chase said.  “The marginal cost to manufacture polysilicon will remain
pretty much the same,” Jerry Stokes, president of the European
unit for Suntech, which buys the material to make into solar
cells, said in an interview. “Unless there’s a significant
breakthrough, we’re already near the bottom on poly prices.”  Small Chinese Producers  Dozens of smaller producers entered the market in the last
three years, mainly in China, seeking to benefit from a boom.
These are particularly vulnerable to lower spot prices because
they rely on the market to sell the material. Most of the larger
companies have lower costs and long-term contracts.  Most manufacturers have reduced output, and some smaller
ones such as  PV Crystalox Solar Plc (PVCS)  suspended production
entirely. About two-thirds of all producers may go bankrupt in
the shakeout, according to a research note from Macquarie Bank
Ltd. on Nov. 8.  The spot price of polysilicon will fall to as low as $18
per kilogram as inventories pile up and distressed companies
sell their stocks, according to the Bloomberg survey, which
projects a recovery at the end of the year. The cost hasn’t been
below $30 since 2002, according to New Energy Finance data.  Spot Prices  “A lot of distressed material seems to be influencing the
spot price now,” Sean McLoughlin, analyst for  HSBC Holdings plc 
said by phone. Many more bankruptcies are needed for prices to
stabilize, he said.  Lower prices are less harmful to large producers such as
OCI Co. and GCL-Poly, which will expand to take market share,
according to Jefferies.  Renesola Ltd. (SOL) , one of the few listed
makers in China, reported a minus 28.1 percent operating margin.  Fewer than 10 Chinese makers are still producing, and only
the two biggest would be close to covering cash costs at such a
level, Chase said without naming the smaller companies that are
most vulnerable.  Polysilicon accounts for a quarter of the cost of solar
panels. Suntech and LDK have warned their margins will be lower
this year than last, when they were both unprofitable. Each $3
per kilo drop in polysilicon prices cuts solar prices about 2
percent, according to New Energy Finance.  Prices for polysilicon sold under long-term contracts
averaged $51 a kilogram last year, New Energy Finance data
shows. Instead of renewing multiyear contracts, buyers now want
to keep their commitments to no more than three months,
according to Katharina Cholewa, analyst for WestLB AG.  Breaking Contracts  “All long-term contracts have now been broken or
renegotiated to reflect the new spot prices,” said McLoughlin,
the HSBC analyst. “Contracts are still at about $30, depending
on quality.”  Production capacity for the material will rise about 3
percent this year to almost 386,000 tons, New Energy Finance
estimates. Supply will exceed demand by 67 percent in 2012, up
from 39 percent in 2011,  IHS Inc. (IHS)  said in a research note.  The survey included analysts from  Bank of America  Corp,
HSBC, Jefferies, WestLB, IHS Inc., TrendForce Corp and New
Energy Finance.  GCL-Poly, China’s largest producer of the material, expects
a supply glut to last at least two more years. Competition on
quality and production costs will intensify and drive smaller
producers out of the industry, Wang Gaoxiang, a GCL vice
president, said on March 22.  Wacker declined to comment, noting it’s in a quiet period
before earnings due May 4. Hemlock wasn’t immediately available
for comment.  “We have seen industries in which players make losses for
quite a long period of time,” said Cholewa of WestLB AG. “The
pain will continue for a long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  