-- Solvay Sees 45% Jump in Earnings by 2016 on Polymers, Silica
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-04-24T06:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/solvay-sees-45-jump-in-earnings-by-2016-on-polymers-silica-1-.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the chemicals and
plastics maker that bought Rhodia SA, forecast earnings will
rise 45 percent in five years, led by growing demand for
specialty polymers, surfactants, rare earths and silica.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will increase to 3 billion euros ($4 billion) in
2016 from 2.07 billion euros last year, the Brussels-based
company said today in a statement. The forecast, which includes
400 million euros of planned cost cuts by 2014, excludes
potential acquisitions or divestments. Last year’s Ebitda figure
is adjusted to assume a full year of ownership of Rhodia, a
purchase completed for 4.5 billion euros in September.  Solvay plans to expand its  most profitable  businesses by
adding capacity and with acquisitions, forecasting annual growth
of at least 10 percent for specialty polymers, consumer
chemicals and advanced materials. The priority for the remaining
divisions, which include soda ash, hydrogen peroxide, vinyls and
cellulose acetate fiber, is  cash generation  and an improvement
in strategic position, it said.  “The execution of our strategy will be mainly driven by
operational excellence and growth based on innovation, capacity
expansion in fast-growing regions and value adding bolt-on
acquisitions,” Jean-Pierre Clamadieu, who becomes Solvay chief
executive officer on May 11, said in the statement. “Our
ambition is to build a strong leader participating in the
reshaping of the global  chemical industry .”  Solvay also said first-quarter trading conditions were
“significantly” better than in the prior three-month period,
adding more strength to comments it first made on Feb. 16 after
reporting fourth-quarter Ebitda fell 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  