-- Solvay Chief to Extend Refocus, Highlighting Potential Disposals
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-04-24T10:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/solvay-chief-to-extend-refocus-highlighting-potential-disposals.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , which began making soda
ash 150 years ago, may consider divesting commodity chemical
businesses as incoming Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Clamadieu refocuses the company on specialty plastics for smart
phones and ingredients used in shampoos.  The Belgian company, which purchased Rhodia for $6 billion
last year, forecasts earnings will rise 45 percent in five years
with its new strategy, Clamadieu said today. Soda ash, vinyls
and other cyclical businesses will be improved and run for  cash ,
before any strategic decision is made, he said.  “There could be opportunities to grow more quickly in some
areas which could lead to the opportunities or the necessity to
divest other pieces of the portfolio,” said Clamadieu, who
becomes CEO on May 11. “I don’t see today conditions where
divesting PVC would create value.”  Clamadieu said the Solvay family, which owns about 30
percent, brought him on board to help refocus the company on
 more profitable  consumer orientated products. The former Rhodia
CEO also plans 400 million euros in savings by 2014 to lift
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to 3 billion euros ($4 billion) in 2016 from 2.07 billion euros.  Solvay rose as much as 6.7 percent, the most since Feb. 16,
and was up 5.3 percent at 90.41 euros at 12:07 p.m., extending
the stock’s gain to 42 percent this year  No Arkema-Style Deal  Solvay is targeting annual growth of at least 10 percent
for specialty polymers, consumer chemicals and advanced
materials. It’s prepared to make smaller acquisitions in
 emerging markets  like  China ,  Brazil  and  India  to accelerate
growth, according to the CEO.  “As soon as possible, we will be open to other ideas which
might be a bit more transformational,” Clamadieu said on a
call. “Cash flow generation will allow the company to be very
flexible.”  For PVC and other cyclical areas like polyamides, the
priority is to make further improvements to put Solvay in a
position to make strategic decisions at the “right time,”
Clamadieu said.  “Clearly today we are not in such a position,” he said,
adding he doesn’t want to replicate a deal that would mirror
Arkema SA’s sale of its vinyls unit. There’s “no pressure to
make any streamlining short term.”  Arkema unloaded its vinyls business to investment company
Klesch & Co. in November, mirroring Solvay’s move toward higher
margin specialty chemicals.  Solvay’s origins date back to 1860s, when philanthropist
Ernest Solvay discovered an industrial method to produce soda
ash from sea salt, ammoniac and carbonic acids. Soda ash is used
in glass manufacturing and water softeners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  