-- South Africa’s IDC to Retain Sasol, Kumba as Sells Stakes
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-04-24T14:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/south-africa-s-idc-to-retain-sasol-kumba-as-sells-stakes.html
South Africa’s  Industrial
Development Corp.  plans to retain its stakes in  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  and
 Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , while divesting from a number of other
companies over the next five years.  The IDC, a state-owned lender, has about 50 billion-rand
($6.4 billion) worth of publically traded shares and more than
30 billion rand invested in unlisted stocks in about 250
companies, Gert Gouws, the chief financial officer, told
reporters in  Cape Town  late yesterday. It owns about 13 percent
of iron-ore producer Kumba and almost 8 percent of Sasol, the
world’s largest producer of motor fuel from coal.  “The divestments from mature investments is very much part
of the IDC’s business model,” Gouws said. “Some of our
investments would be classified as strategic. We are certainly
not considering divestment from Kumba and Sasol.”  South Africa ’s government wants to create 5 million jobs by
2020 and has directed the IDC to invest more in projects with
potential to cut an  unemployment  rate of 23.9 percent. Economic
Development Minister  Ebrahim Patel  said last year the
Johannesburg-based IDC will invest 102 billion rand in projects
over a five-year period.  The IDC plans to raise about 30 billion rand through bond
sales and loans from banks and other development finance
institutions to bolster its lending capacity, Gouws said.  ‘Under-Geared’  “The IDC’s balance sheet is significantly under-geared,”
he said. “Currently our debt-to-equity ratio is approximately
12 percent. We expect over the next five years to increase our
borrowings very significantly to manage that debt-to-equity
ratio to close to 30 percent, or possibly even a bit more.”  Funding approvals rose to 13.5 billion rand over the past
12 months, up from 8.7 billion rand the year before, with the
IDC on track to meet its lending target, Patel told lawmakers in
Cape Town today. The IDC’s loans enabled  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to
invest 3.4 billion rand in its South African plant and supported
 Bell Equipment Ltd. (BEL)  through a downturn, he said.  The IDC will sell a 14-year, 5-billion-rand “green bond”
to the Public Investment Corp., the state pension fund manager,
with the proceeds used to fund alternative energy projects. The
lender will also issue a 2 billion rand bond to the Unemployment
Insurance Fund this year to raise financing for job-creation
projects, he said. The UIF previously bought a 2 billion rand
“jobs bond” from the IDC in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 