-- South Africa's Ruling ANC Ends Political Career of Malema
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-04-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-ends-political-career-of-malema.html
South Africa ’s  African National
Congress  ended the political career of youth leader  Julius Malema  within the ruling party, expelling him for sowing
divisions and damaging its reputation.  Malema, 31, failed in his bid to have his March 1 expulsion
from the party overturned, the ANC’s disciplinary appeals
committee said in an e-mailed statement from Johannesburg
yesterday.  The ANC ousted Malema, who has led a campaign to
nationalize South Africa’s mines, for undermining party unity
and calling for the overthrow of the government in neighboring
 Botswana . He sealed his fate when he described President  Jacob Zuma , who is also ANC leader, as a dictator in a speech on March
30.  “The national disciplinary appeals committee is not
persuaded by the sincerity of the appellant’s plea,” the ANC
said in the statement, referring to Malema. The ANC Youth League
leader didn’t accept an earlier finding of guilt and is “not
capable of rehabilitation.”  Johannesburg-based eNews Channel cited Malema as saying
yesterday he won’t challenge the ANC’s decision in court. Malema
didn’t answer a call to his mobile phone.  “We call on all the members of the ANC, including the
affected comrades, ANC leagues, the alliance structures and the
public at large to accept and respect the disciplinary
outcome,” the ANC said in a separate e-mailed statement
yesterday.  ANC Election  As head of the ANC Youth League, Malema played a key role
in helping Zuma win control of the ANC from  Thabo Mbeki  in 2007.
The Youth League has since switched its support to Zuma’s
deputy,  Kgalema Motlanthe , whom it backs for the party’s
leadership at the ANC’s December elective conference.  The ANC’s National Executive Committee has the power to
review Malema’s expulsion. If that fails, Malema can seek
reinstatement from ANC members at the December meeting or
challenge his expulsion in court.  “The NEC’s power does not encompass a further appeal,”
the ANC said in its statement yesterday.  Malema is already banned from addressing ANC rallies and
was stripped of his duties as head of the ANC Youth League after
his comments on Zuma in March. He may struggle to find a
political home outside of the ANC, which has dominated at the
polls in every election since the end of apartheid in 1994.  The ANC Youth League’s push for more of the country’s
wealth to be spread among the black majority has found resonance
in a nation with a 24 percent  unemployment  rate. In October,
Malema led thousands of supporters in a march from Johannesburg
to Zuma’s offices in  Pretoria  to demand “economic freedom in
our lifetime.”  Malema, who grew up in a township outside the northern town
of Polokwane, is facing investigations by the police anti-
corruption unit and the tax agency in connection to his business
dealings, according to an Oct. 30 report in the Johannesburg-
based Sunday Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  