-- Montoro Says Spain Missing Budget Goals Would Hurt Europe
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-04-25T11:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/spain-lowers-central-budget-deficit-as-montoro-threatens-regions.html
Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
said  Spain  would damage European and global growth if it misses
budget-deficit targets and threatened to take over the accounts
of regions that don’t reorder their finances.  “Spain’s future and Europe’s future are at stake because
we are big enough to hurt the whole of Europe and to threaten
the global economic recovery,” Montoro told lawmakers in Madrid
today during a debate on the 2012 budget. The government will
take all measures needed because “for all parts of the
administration the deficit target is unconditional,” he said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s four-month-old government is
battling to convince investors it can meet its fiscal goals for
this year amid a  recession  and an unemployment rate of more than
23 percent. Data yesterday showed the central-government  budget
deficit  narrowed to 0.83 percent of gross domestic product from
0.93 percent a year earlier.  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond fell 4 basis
points today to 5.82 percent as of 1:31 p.m. in Madrid, after
starting the week above 6 percent.  Spain’s borrowing costs have surged by about 1 percentage
point since the start of March, approaching the 7 percent level
that helped force Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  into bailouts.  The People’s Party government is implementing the deepest
budget cuts in over three decades after the nation’s deficit
came in at 8.5 percent of GDP last year, 2.5 percentage points
more than the target set by the European Union. Rajoy aims to
narrow the gap to 5.3 percent this year.  ’Inflexible’  Montoro said he will be “inflexible in asking each region,
each townhall to correct its public finances and meet its
deficit target,” He said the government’s efforts to reduce the
budget gap are aimed at improving citizens’ well-being and that
there is no European law being imposed by the bloc’s strongest
members on the weakest.  “There are no strong and weak members in  Europe ,” Montoro
said. “There are only the competitive ones and those that
aren’t capable of adapting to modern times and to the economic
relations Europe needs.”  Deputy Budget Minister Marta Fernandez Curras said
yesterday that the central-government budget is “reasonably”
on track to meet its full-year target of a deficit of 3.5
percent of GDP.  Tax Increases  The central government budget gap was 1.85 percent in the
first quarter including the impact of transfers to regions that
were paid early this year. That compares with 1.06 percent a
year earlier.  New tax increases aren’t yet reflected in the data while
the government returned funds to taxpayers earlier this year,
skewing the comparison, Curras said. First-quarter data for the
region’s isn’t available yet. They had a combined  shortfall  last
year of more than twice their target.  “We have no reason to doubt the absolute commitment of the
Spanish government to undertake the necessary reforms,”
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  told a European
Parliament committee in Brussels today. “Remarkable progress
has been achieved and is being achieved.”  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, a
Spaniard, said yesterday the tools to rein in regions in the
government’s budget-stability law will ease investors’ concerns.  “Among the measures adopted, some involve an issue that
worries analysts, and that is regional finances, which are a
black box that always yields bad surprises when you open it,”
he said at a conference in  Madrid .  Gonzalez-Paramo said he is “absolutely convinced” Spain
will meet its deficit targets. Economists forecast the gap at
5.7 percent of GDP this year, according to the median of nine
predictions compiled by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  