-- Symantec Falls After Cutting Sales, Earnings Forecast
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-04-24T20:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/symantec-falls-after-cutting-sales-earnings-forecast.html
Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , a maker of computer
security software, dropped the most in more than two years after
saying fiscal fourth-quarter sales and profit were less than
forecast, citing a drop in data-storage software contracts.  The  shares  of  Mountain View , California-based Symantec fell
11 percent to $16.01 at the close in  New York , the biggest
decline since July 2009. Before today’s slide, the stock had
climbed 15 percent this year.  Symantec said revenue from data storage and server
management -- its biggest unit, generating about a third of
sales -- fell 5 percent in the quarter that ended March 30,
citing fewer large contracts than expected and more deferred
revenue. The results show Symantec is struggling to expand in
the storage market, which is led by larger rivals such as
International Business Machines Corp. and EMC Corp.  “The license revenue shortfall in the storage and server-
management business is likely to rekindle the debate about
whether Symantec needs to restructure,” Steven Ashley, an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., wrote in a research report
today.  Symantec said fiscal fourth-quarter revenue was about $1.68
billion, compared with a prior  projection  of $1.72 billion to
$1.73 billion, the company said in a statement today. Analysts
on average estimated sales of $1.73 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fourth-Quarter Profit  Profit excluding some items was about 38 cents, down from a
previous forecast of 41 cents to 42 cents, the company said.
That compares with an average analyst estimate of 42 cents.  For the first quarter, which ends in June, Symantec said
revenue will rise or fall about 0.5 percent from $1.65 billion a
year earlier, compared with the $1.7 billion average analyst
estimate. The company said profit excluding some items will
decline 5 percent to 7.5 percent from the 40 cents a share
reported a year earlier, while analysts had predicted 43 cents.  “Our fourth-quarter bookings exceeded our internal plans
and the underlying billings activity came in line with our
previous expectations,”  Enrique Salem , Symantec’s chief
executive officer, said on a conference call today. “However,
we generated fewer license-rich deals compared to the March 2011
quarter, when we closed several particularly large contracts.”  Symantec made a big push to expand in data storage with its
$10.2 billion purchase of Veritas Software Corp. in 2005. The
company said it will report complete results for the fourth
quarter on May 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  