-- Syrian Army Presses Attack Amid UN Cease-Fire Monitoring
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-04-25T11:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/syrian-army-presses-attack-amid-un-cease-fire-monitoring.html
Syrian security forces attacked
urban areas with sniper fire and heavy machine guns yesterday,
as United Nations special envoy  Kofi Annan  said the government
has “severely” tested the organization’s patience.  At least 800 people have been killed since the cease-fire
started on April 12, Mahmoud Merei, head of the Damascus-based
Arab Organization for Human Rights, said today in a telephone
interview. It was impossible to get updates today because phone
lines in the capital’s suburbs are down, he said. Al Jazeera
television reported 10 deaths today.  Annan called for more unarmed UN observers to act as “the
eyes and ears on the ground,” monitoring the crumbling cease-
fire between Syrian government forces and the opposition. In
 Washington , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. has
little confidence in Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
commitment to end more than a year of violence.  Assad’s continued crackdown threatens to thwart efforts to
stop the yearlong violence that the UN estimates has claimed
more than 9,000 lives. The U.S. and other nations backing the
opposition movement have found they have few options to compel
the Assad government to back down.  “The Assad regime has broken its commitments time and
again, so even as we work to help deploy the monitors, we are
preparing additional steps in case the violence continues or the
monitors are prevented from doing their work,” Clinton said
yesterday at the State Department. She didn’t specify what
actions are being considered.  Advance Contingent  There is an advance contingent of 12 UN monitors in  Syria ,
and the plan is to increase their number to 100 by the end of
next month. The council has authorized a total of 300 observers.  Russian Ambassador to UN Vitaly Churkin said yesterday that
the deployment was happening too slowly and that the Security
Council should “look for some unorthodox ways to maybe expedite
the process.”  Annan, special envoy for both the UN and the  Arab League ,
said more monitors would address the fact that “we continue to
be hampered by the lack of verified information in assessing the
situation.” More monitors would “provide the incontrovertible
basis the international community needs to act,” Annan said.
“Our patience has been tested severely -- close to its
limits.”  No Withdrawal  Ahmad Fawzi , a spokesman for Annan, told UN TV yesterday
that satellite imagery and credible reports indicate the Syrians
have not withdrawn heavy weapons from population centers,
despite their claims to have done so. That was one condition in
Annan’s six-point plan, which Syria has agreed to. Fawzi also
cited reports of intimidation and possible killings after
monitors left conflict zones.  Speaking to the UN Security Council by video-link from
Lund,  Sweden , Annan said that he was “particularly alarmed by
reports that government troops entered Hama yesterday after
observers departed, firing automatic weapons and killing a
significant number of people.”  “If confirmed, this is totally unacceptable and
reprehensible,” Annan said, adding that the situation is
“bleak.”  Syria’s Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem told Annan on
April 21 that the dispersal of troop concentrations and heavy
weapons both in and around population centers was complete and
military operations had ceased, the special envoy told the
 Security Council . April 21 was also the day the UN unanimously
backed sending observers to monitor the cease-fire.  Unanimous Vote  “This hasn’t been a cease-fire from the beginning,”
 Andrew Tabler , a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near
East Studies and author of a report on U.S.-Syrian relations,
said in response to e-mailed questions. “At first it helped
lessen conflict, but given the regime’s use of live fire and
shelling, violence has flared again. Perhaps the monitors, when
they are fully in place, can help peaceful protesters return to
the streets.”  The 15-member council voted unanimously to allow 300
unarmed monitors for an initial period of 90 days in a
resolution sponsored by Russia and  China , two nations that
oppose tougher measures against Syria, such as sanctions. Russia
has argued against military intervention in Syria, saying the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization misused a UN mandate,
intended to protect civilians, to bring about regime change in
 Libya  last year.  The U.S. and European Union governments stiffened sanctions
against Syria on April 23. The EU sought to crimp the lifestyle
of Assad and his family by banning the export of  luxury goods  to
Syria. EU foreign ministers also put more products on a list of
banned technologies that could be used by the government to
suppress dissent. In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  announced
new sanctions on companies that sell surveillance technology to
Syria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  