-- U.K. May Have Escaped a Recession Amid Struggling Recovery
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-25T07:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/u-k-may-have-escaped-recession-amid-recovery-lacking-momentum.html
The U.K. economy may have narrowly
avoided returning to recession in the first three months,
defying the warnings of some  Bank of England  policy makers.  Gross domestic product probably expanded 0.1 percent from
the fourth quarter of 2011, when it shrank 0.3 percent,
according to the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. A recession is defined as two straight quarters of
contraction. The  Office for National Statistics  will publish the
data at 9:30 a.m. in London today.  A recovery struggling to gain momentum may heap further
pressure on Prime Minister  David Cameron , who has faced mounting
criticism of his leadership since the March 21 budget. With the
government vowing to stick to its plan to erase the deficit and
prospects in the euro region deteriorating, forecasters see the
U.K. economy barely growing this year. Central bank policy maker
 David Miles  said yesterday a first-quarter contraction would not
be a “great surprise.”  “They’ll have to suck up the first six months of the year
looking pretty bad from a headline point of view,” said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas in London and a former
central bank official. “They’ve put all their chips on one
outcome, which is that the austerity program will work and
they’ll see some decent growth in later years.”  The economy probably expanded 0.3 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of
31 economists.  The pound was trading at $1.6164 as of 8:41 a.m. in London,
up 0.1 percent from yesterday. It was little changed at 81.77
pence per euro.  Government bonds  declined, with the 10-year gilt
yield rising to 2.123 percent from 2.097 percent.  Onus on Services  Rising energy prices, government spending cuts and anemic
wage growth are squeezing consumers, creating a drag on the
recovery. Pay growth slowed to 1.1 percent in the three months
through February, less than a third of the inflation rate.  Cheshunt, England-based  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the largest U.K.
retailer, said April 18 it will invest 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) to revive its domestic business after sales at stores
open at least a year fell 1.6 percent in the final quarter.  Construction output returned to growth in February, though
it failed to offset a 12.9 percent decline in January, leaving
the onus on services, the largest part of the economy, to keep
Britain out of recession. An extra public holiday in June to
mark Queen Elizabeth II’s 60 years on the throne may depress
economic output in the second quarter.  G-7 Economies  Britain was hit hard by the financial crisis and GDP is
still well below its pre-recession peak in early 2008, with only
Japan and  Italy  further behind among Group of Seven countries.
Britain is the first G-7 country to report output for the first
quarter.  The 17-nation euro region, the biggest market for British
exports, may already be back in recession,  surveys suggest .
Treasury forecasters and the  International Monetary Fund  expect
the U.K. economy to grow 0.8 percent this year.  “The debate around a technical recession deflects
attention from the real issues facing the economy, which relate
to a prolonged period of unduly low growth,” the British
Chambers of Commerce said in a statement yesterday.  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have
rebuffed opposition calls to pull back from a budget-cutting
program aimed at eliminating most of the deficit by 2017.  Their Conservative Party has lost public support over the
budget, which voters say helped the rich at the expense of
pensioners and charities, and the handling of a threatened
strike by tanker-truck drivers. Labour led the Tories by 41
percent to 33 percent in an ICM Ltd. poll published yesterday.  Bank of England  The economy may get little further help from the Bank of
 England , whose officials have suggested inflation may retreat
less quickly than they forecast two months ago even though the
economy could contract in the first half. Only David Miles on
the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee sought an expansion in
emergency stimulus this month after  Adam Posen  switched sides.  Miles said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg News
voting for more bond purchases was “still the right strategy.”
Following a stronger near-term price outlook, “inflation will
go back to the target level and quite likely sit beneath it if
you look beyond the next six to nine months.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve will release its policy statement
at around 12:30 p.m. today in  Washington , and its forecasts for
 interest rates , growth, inflation and unemployment at 2 p.m.
Policy makers will probably repeat their plan to keep the
benchmark interest rate low at least through late 2014,
economists say.  A separate report today by Halifax showed Britons became
more optimistic about the housing market last month. The
mortgage-lender’s gauge on the outlook for  house prices  rose to
19 from 7 in January, the unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said
in an e-mailed statement in  London . The index is based on a
survey of 2,029 adults from March 23 to March 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  