-- U.K. Stocks Climb After U.S. Data; Man Group, IAG Rally
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-24T16:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/u-k-stocks-rebound-from-selloff-banks-man-group-gain.html
U.K. stocks  rallied, rebounding
from yesterday’s biggest selloff in two weeks, as a U.S. report
showed home sales in the world’s largest economy were stronger
than forecast in March.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  jumped as UBS AG said the hedge-fund manager
could be a takeover target. International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA gained as analysts upgraded the British Airways owner.
 Aviva Plc (AV/)  led insurers higher, rallying 4.2 percent.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 0.8 percent to 5,709.49
at the close in  London  as banks and mining companies recovered
some of yesterday’s losses. The FTSE All-Share Index gained 0.8
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 0.4 percent.  “Better U.S. data has helped markets to regain their
composure,” said London-based Ben Critchley, a sales trader at
IG Index. “Despite the subdued nature of today’s trading, and a
prevailing atmosphere of caution, markets have managed to post
modest gains.”  U.S. sales of new homes ran at a 328,000 annual rate in
March, down 7.1 percent from a revised 353,000 pace in February
that was stronger than initially projected, a Commerce
Department report showed. The median economist forecast was for
a rate of 319,000 last month, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks sank yesterday as manufacturing contracted in the
euro area and  China  and as Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte 
offered to resign after struggling to clinch an austerity deal.  The FTSE 100 has lost 4.3 percent since its 2012 high on
March 16 amid renewed concern the euro-area, the U.K.’s largest
export partner, is yet to contain its debt crisis. The volume of
shares changing hands on the gauge today was 13 percent lower
than the average of the last 30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows.  Man Group  Man Group climbed 4.8 percent to 97 pence, paring
yesterday’s 3.3 percent retreat as UBS recommended investors buy
shares of the world’s largest publicly traded hedge fund
manager, saying it is a “likely” takeover target.  “With Man Group shares having traded below 150 pence for a
six-month period, we believe that a 50 percent-plus premium bid
offer to the current share price would be sufficient to obtain
shareholder approval,” analyst Arnaud Giblat wrote in a report
to clients.  The stock has lost 23 percent so far this year as assets at
its flagship AHL diversified fund declined.  IAG (IAG)  climbed 3.6 percent to 168.5 pence as Credit Suisse
Group AG upgraded the airline company to overweight, the
equivalent of a buy rating, citing an “encouraging outlook for
summer pricing” on the transatlantic market.  Aviva jumped 4.2 percent to 311.6 pence, rebounding from
yesterday’s 2.1 percent selloff. Sanford C. Bernstein initiated
coverage of the insurer with an outperform rating citing pockets
of “substantial operating earnings growth” for the U.K. life
insurance sector.  Legal and General Group Plc,  Prudential Plc (PRU)  were also rated
outperform in new coverage at Sanford C. Bernstein. The shares
rose 1.1 percent to 117.6 pence and 1.7 percent to 737.5 pence
respectively.  Reed Elsevier Plc rallied 2 percent to 526 pence after the
publishing company forecast revenue and profit growth for the
year as demand increases for subscriptions to its science,
technology and health journals.  Reed’s exhibitions business will also expand this year
after acquisitions of shows in  Brazil  and China and an increase
in biennial conferences, the company said.  Associated British Foods  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  gained 2 percent to 1,239
pence after the world’s second-biggest sugar producer reported
first-half adjusted pretax profit of 363 million pounds ($586
million), beating analysts’ estimates. The company said it
expects “substantial” growth in full-year earnings boosted by
gains at its sugar unit and the Primark clothing chain.  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  climbed 4.6 percent to 227 pence after
Royal Dutch Shell Plc agreed to buy the company and raised its
bid to 1.12 billion pounds, securing a stake in gas fields
discovered off  Mozambique .  Shell increased its offer for Cove to 220 pence a share
from 195 pence, matching a rival offer from  Thailand ’s PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl. Cove’s board agreed to the offer.  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, gained 1 percent to
2,130 pence today as crude oil advanced.  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC)  increased 1.9 percent to 252.2 pence
as UBS upgraded the operator of Britain’s busiest commuter-train
service to “buy” from “neutral.”  ARM Slides  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  slid 6.2 percent to 531.5 pence after the
chip designer forecast “broadly flat” second-quarter sales
from royalties as semiconductor clients rebuild inventories.  The first quarter was “probably the low point of the
cycle,” AMR Chief Financial Officer Tim Score said today on a
conference call. The company also maintained its full-year
forecast.  Capita Plc (CPI)  dropped 6.4 percent, the most since October
2008, to 682.5 pence as Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG sold
about 40 million shares on behalf of the company, raising 274
million pounds. The shares were sold at 685 pence apiece.  Carpetright Plc (CPR)  fell 1.5 percent to 598 pence after the
retailer said deteriorating sales in Europe and disappointing
demand for beds in the U.K. will cause annual earnings to
plummet.  Underlying pretax profit for the year ending April 28 will
be 3 million pounds to 4 million pounds, the company said today
in a statement. Carpetright had profit by that measure of 16.9
million pounds a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  