-- Senate Democrats Seek to Boost Obama on Student Loan Rate
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-04-25T16:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/u-s-senate-democrats-to-vote-on-obama-student-loan-plan.html
U.S.  Senate Democrats ’ plan to vote
on a proposed freeze in student-loan interest rates is their
latest effort to boost one of President Barack Obama’s re-
election campaign issues.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters yesterday that he will introduce a bill “in the next
24 hours” modeled on Obama’s rate-freeze plan. The president
yesterday pledged to keep student-loan interest rates steady as
he campaigned at the University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel
Hill , one of three campuses in battleground states he is
visiting this week.  “They’re obviously coordinating,” Senator  John McCain , an
Arizona Republican who ran against Obama for president in 2008,
said yesterday in an interview. “It’s pretty expected in an
election year that they force votes on issues that they think
play to their advantage.”  A Senate Democratic leadership aide said the student loan
legislation will come up for a vote in May after the Senate
returns from next week’s recess.  Senate Republicans on April 17 blocked a proposal to set a
minimum 30 percent federal tax rate for the highest earners. In
the days before the vote, Obama campaigned for the legislation,
maintaining that it’s unfair to let some high-income taxpayers
use deductions and preferential tax treatment of investment
income to pay lower rates than many middle-income wage earners.  Clear Message  Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat, said
Democrats want to make sure the public understands what’s at
stake in the November election.  “We need a clear message, we need an echo chamber and
really a way of communicating to both the young students and
their families this jump in  interest rates ,” she said in an
interview. She said Democrats will continue to press for votes
on elements of Obama’s campaign platform.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said today that Democrats were “using the floor as
an extension of the Obama campaign.”  “So no one should be surprised that they opted for a
political show vote over a solution,” McConnell said.  In his fiscal 2013 budget plan, the president proposed
holding student-loan rates steady. The rate on federally
subsidized Stafford loans is scheduled to increase on July 1,
from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent, unless Congress acts.  Signed By Bush  Congressional Democrats in 2007 passed legislation cutting
the rate in half, and President  George W. Bush  signed the
measure into law.  “We need to go back to what President Bush signed,” Reid
said today on the Senate floor. “We cannot have these rates go
up.”  Senate Democrats and the White House are seeking a one-year
freeze in the interest rate. The $6 billion cost would be offset
by limiting a tax provision that allows some owners of so-called
S-corporations to avoid paying Medicare payroll taxes on their
earnings, Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, told reporters
yesterday.  Harkin said the legislation would require the Medicare
payroll tax on income of more than $250,000 a year earned at S-
corporations with fewer than three shareholders.  Closing a ‘Loophole’  “This is a loophole that needs to be closed anyway,” he
said. “So this is the right time to do it and for the right
cause.”  Obama and Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  are
trying to appeal to younger voters. At the University of North
Carolina yesterday, Obama said higher education “is the
clearest path to the middle class.”  “We can’t make higher education a luxury; it’s an economic
imperative,” he said.  Romney, who polls indicate is trailing Obama among younger
voters, said in a campaign appearance in Pennsylvania April 23
that he also supports freezing student-loan interest rates.  “I don’t think anybody believes this interest rate should
be allowed to rise,” McConnell told reporters yesterday. “The
question is: How do you pay for it?”  McConnell said Senate Republicans were discussing what type
of rate freeze they could support. He said today that Democrats
wanted to pay for their proposal “by raiding Social Security
and Medicare.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, today
raised the possibility that the House also would act. He told
reporters that Republicans who control the House are “trying to
find a responsible way to fix” the “student-loan problem which
was created by Democrats.”  A higher student-loan interest rate would affect about 7.4
million students, according to the White House, adding an
average of $1,000 in payments. The  Congressional Budget Office 
estimates a one-year freeze would cost the federal government $6
billion in forgone revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  