-- U.S. Steel Earnings Top Estimates After Gas Prices Drop
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-04-24T21:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/u-s-steel-earnings-top-estimates-after-gas-prices-drop.html
U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , the country’s
largest producer of the metal by volume, reported first-quarter
earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates after falling
natural- gas prices  lowered costs at blast furnaces.  Excluding a loss on the sale of a Serbian plant and other
items, profit was 67 cents a share, the Pittsburgh-based company
said today in a statement. That beat the 49-cent average of 15
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The net loss widened to $219
million, or $1.52 a share, compared with $86 million, or 60
cents, a year earlier.  Net sales gained 6.3 percent to $5.17 billion from $4.86
billion, beating the $4.96 billion average of 12 estimates.  Gas prices in the U.S. have tumbled in the past year as
improved drilling technology helped increase output from shale
formations and the fourth-warmest U.S. winter reduced demand.
The average price of gas on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell 40 percent in the quarter to $2.50 per million British
thermal units.  “We’re using as much as we can within the limits we think
are safe,” Chief Executive Officer John Surma said on a
conference call with analysts.  U.S. Steel’s increased gas consumption is “a double-edged
positive,”  Mark Parr , an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets in
 Cleveland , who has a hold rating on the company and estimated
per-share earnings of 48 cents, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Flat-Rolled Business  U.S. Steel fell 2 percent to close at $27.65 in New York.
The shares have dropped 47 percent in the past year, the  worst
performer  on the Standard and Poor’s 500 Materials Index.  Second-quarter results for U.S. Steel’s flat-rolled unit,
its largest by revenue, will decline because of higher
maintenance costs, Surma said in the statement. Shipments of
tubular goods used by oil and gas drillers will be “slightly”
below the record 529,000 tons recorded in the first quarter, the
company said.  “The second quarter should be the best quarter, volume-
wise,” Aldo Mazzaferro, an analyst with Macquarie Capital USA
Inc. in  New York  who recommends selling the shares, said today
in a telephone interview. “Why is steel demand suddenly kind of
sluggish in what should be a seasonally better quarter? It’s a
little concerning.”  Production Capacity  The company said it used 83 percent of its capacity to make
flat-rolled steel in the first quarter, up from 77 percent a
year earlier. U.S. steelmakers used 78 percent of their  capacity 
on average in January through March, up from 74 percent a year
earlier and the highest level since the third quarter of 2008,
according to American Iron and Steel Institute data.  U.S. Steel may use 125 million British thermal units of gas
this year, Surma said Jan. 31. The company injects the fuel into
its blast furnaces, replacing some of the coke it uses. U.S.
Steel may replace as much as 100 pounds of coke with gas for
each ton of steel it makes compared with its 2010 coke use,
Surma said in January.  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS) , a  West Chester , Ohio-based
steelmaker, reported today a first-quarter net loss of 11 cents
a share compared with net income of 8 cents a year earlier. That
beat the average of 16 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
for a loss of 12 cents. The company said it expects to be
profitable in the current quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  