-- U.S. Lost AAA on Danger of Liquidity Crisis, S&P’s Kraemer Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-24T17:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/u-s-lost-aaa-on-danger-of-liquidity-crisis-s-p-s-kraemer-says.html
The U.S. lost its top credit grade
in August because of the imminent danger of a “real liquidity
crisis,” and  Standard & Poor’s  made no errors in its analysis,
said  Moritz Kraemer , managing director of sovereign ratings.  “Last summer, the U.S. government got extremely close to a
real liquidity crisis because the Washington establishment could
not agree on the way forward that would have been required to
raise the debt ceiling,” Kraemer told lawmakers on the U.K.
Parliament’s Treasury Committee today in  London .  S&P cut the rating by one level to AA+ on Aug. 5,
criticizing the nation’s political process and saying that
spending cuts agreed on by lawmakers wouldn’t be enough to
reduce record deficits. Treasuries surged after the move, and
while Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have kept
their top grades on the U.S., both have a negative outlook. The
 U.S. Treasury  criticized S&P for flawed analysis.  “There was no mistake,” Kraemer said today. “There were
different scenarios. These are measures about the future which
you have to have an analytical debate on what is the likely
strategy of fiscal consolidation the government might take.”  S&P made a $2 trillion error and then changed the rationale
for its decision, raising “fundamental questions about the
credibility and integrity” of its ratings action, John Bellows,
acting assistant secretary for economic policy, wrote in a
Treasury blog post on Aug. 6.  Kraemer dismissed that analysis, echoing comments at the
time by  David Beers , S&P’s former head of sovereign ratings, who
said it was a “complete misrepresentation” of what happened.
Kraemer’s testimony today was part of an inquiry by lawmakers
into credit rating companies.  CBO Scenarios  The discussion with the Treasury before the downgrade was
announced “was about which of the scenarios which were
published by the  Congressional Budget Office , which is a
nonpartisan institution, should be underlying the analysis,”
Kraemer said. “Originally the S&P team was following the
alternative scenario of the CBO, the alternative fiscal
scenario, which in terms of expenditure trajectory did foresee a
growth in spending in line broadly with nominal GDP.”  S&P agreed to use a different scenario after a “normal
process of interaction” with Treasury officials, Kraemer said.  “The 2 trillion is the difference in the net debt ratio in
2021 depending on which scenario you use,” he said. “Under the
alternative scenario, which we had initially pursued, the debt
ratio in 2021 would have come up at $22 trillion -- I’m using
round numbers -- 22.1, which is 2 trillion higher than under the
baseline scenario, which is 20 trillion.”  $2 Trillion  In August S&P said it went ahead with a downgrade because
the Treasury’s $2 trillion figure was derived by calculating
government debt over a 10-year period while S&P’s ratings are
determined using a three- to five-year time horizon.  Questioned today on why  Finland  is graded AAA while the
U.S. has lost its top rating, Kraemer highlighted the
differences in both nations’ political environment.  “The debt ratio in the U.S. is much higher, the debt
trajectory is more adverse, but most importantly, it has been
our finding at least, people may come to different conclusions
on that, but we felt the governance challenges that the U.S.
political system is facing in generating a coherent strategy of
getting the public finance challenge under control are more
pronounced than they are in Finland,” Kraemer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  