-- Huabao Suspends Trading After Short-Seller Report
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-26T11:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/huabao-shares-plunge-after-short-seller-report-hong-kong-mover.html
(Corrects to say Huabao’s rating is under review in fourth
paragraph. The story was originally run on April 25.)  Huabao International Holdings Ltd. (336) ,
a maker of flavors and fragrances used in cigarettes, suspended
trading in  Hong Kong  after the stock plunged on a short-seller
report that questioned its finances.  Huabao fell 8.1 percent to HK$3.98 at the close in Hong
Kong yesterday after short seller Anonymous Analytics said the
company “reports absurdly high margins, which industry sources
say should not be possible.”  The company didn’t give a reason for the suspension. In a
Hong Kong stock exchange filing late on April 24, Huabao said it
wasn’t aware of any reasons for the changes in its share price
and trading volume.  “Most of the main points in the report aren’t new and
investors have raised suspicion before because it’s obvious the
chairwoman has been reducing her holdings,” said Christina Lie,
analyst at First Shanghai Securities. Lie, who currently has a
“hold” rating, said she will review her rating pending
the company’s explanation.  Chinese companies are under increased scrutiny globally by
regulators and investors amid allegations against firms
including  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and  Chaoda Modern Agriculture
Holdings Ltd. (682)  Anonymous Analytics on its website said Huabao
consistently reports profit margins exceeding 70 percent, higher
than its peers with a 40 percent to 50 percent range.  Detailed Response  Jason Wong, Huabao’s Hong Kong-based head of  investor
relations , said the company will release a detailed response to
the report and it should be released before the deadline for
reporting its full-year results at the end of June, he said.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is listed as Huabao’s auditor in
its interim report for the six months ended September. The
company’s previous accountant  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  resigned
in 2006 because the parties “could not reach a consensus on the
audit fees,” Huabao said in a statement then. There was no
disagreement, according to the statement.  The company’s American depositary receipts fell 6.2 percent
to $25.32 in over-the-counter trading in  New York  yesterday.
Each depositary receipt represents 50 underlying common shares.  Huabao is preparing for its results ended March 31, the
company said in its statement yesterday. Production and
operations are proceeding normally, it said.  Chinese vegetable supplier Chaoda lost 82 percent of its
market value in 2011 and delayed an annual earnings release on
Sept. 30 after Anonymous Analytics questioned its finances in a
report. Chaoda’s shares have been suspended since Sept. 26, when
it was reported that executives are subjects in a market-
misconduct case.  ‘Queen of Cash Out’  Huabao’s Hong Kong-based chairman Chu Lam Yiu, whose name
is also written as Zhu Linyao, was nicknamed “queen of cash-
out” by Hurun after it placed her in  second place  on a list of
Chinese entrepreneurs who became rich by cashing out of their
companies. Chu has sold 8.5 billion yuan in Huabao shares since
2006, reducing her stake from 70 percent in 2006 to less than 40
percent, Hurun said in a report.  Chu is listed at number 48 on  Hurun’s  2011  China ’s  Rich
List  with a wealth of $2.7 billion, while Forbes Magazine  ranked 
her at number 601 on its global list of billionaires and at
number 18 among billionaires in Hong Kong, with a net worth of
$2.1 billion as of March 2012.  Short investors bet against a stock by selling borrowed
shares with the expectation of repurchasing them at a lower
price. Long investors buy shares betting the price will rise.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  