-- UBS, Barclays Set To Price CMBS at Widest Spread Since January
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-24T19:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ubs-barclays-set-to-price-cmbs-at-widest-spread-since-january.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are set to
sell about $1.3 billion of commercial-mortgage bonds with
relative yields at the widest since January as investors push
back against risky assets.  The top-ranked securities maturing in 9.69 years will
probably price to yield 120 basis points more than the benchmark
swap rate, according to people familiar with the offering who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t public. The banks
had marketed the debt to pay a spread of 115 basis points, in
line with similar debt sold by JPMorgan Chase & Co. earlier this
month, the people said. Today’s sale marks the widest spread
since Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. sold similar
securities in January.  Landlords are borrowing more against their properties in
commercial-mortgage bond deals planned through June, according
to Moody’s Investors Service. Transactions slated to be marketed
during the second quarter include pools with average loan sizes
approaching or exceeding the value of the buildings as
calculated by Moody’s, the New York-based ratings company said
in an April 16 report. Banks may have to boost investor
protections if underwriting standards slide, Moody’s said.  About $5 billion of the debt has been sold this year,
compared with a record $232.5 billion in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Banks arranged about $28 billion of
commercial-mortgage securities last year, up from $11.5 billion
in 2010, Bloomberg data show. Sales are picking up after slowing
in the fourth quarter as market volatility crimped new lending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  