-- Ukraine, Kazakhstan Wheat Crops Seen Falling, FAO Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-24T16:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ukraine-kazakhstan-wheat-crops-seen-falling-fao-says.html
Ukraine’s wheat harvest may slide
37 percent and Kazakhstan’s production could fall 36 percent
this year after the crops were harmed by frost and drought, the
 United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization  forecast.  Farmers in Ukraine may reap 14 million metric tons of wheat
in 2012 down from 22.3 million tons last year, while Kazakh
output may fall to 14.5 million tons from 22.7 million tons, the
FAO wrote in an April 17  report  published online today.  Bigger wheat crops in Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan last
year boosted global supplies and weighed on wheat prices.
Chicago-traded wheat futures have fallen 25 percent in the past
12 months, while milling wheat in Paris has declined 20 percent.  “In the Russian Federation and in Ukraine, export prices
of milling wheat rose by 13 percent in the past four months,
mainly due to concerns about the impact of dry weather on the
2012 wheat crop in Ukraine,” the Rome-based FAO wrote.  Russia  is forecast to produce 56.8 million tons of wheat
this year, increasing from 56.2 million tons in 2011.  Winter kill in Ukraine has been higher than normal because
of severe cold in combination with limited snow cover, while
some major production areas have been affected by drought since
planting in the autumn of last year, according to the FAO. Wheat
area and yields are expected to drop, it said.  “The most affected areas are expected to be replanted with
other crops this spring,” the UN agency wrote.  Russian Crops  Winter-crop planting in Russia increased in response to
high prices, and most crops in the country were protected by
“ample covering” of snow, according to the FAO.  In  Kazakhstan , wheat planting suffered from inadequate soil
moisture, the FAO said. The country has an exportable wheat
surplus of about 8.5 million tons after a record harvest last
year, according to the report.  “However, due to its landlocked status and infrastructure
constraints, the country continues to experience logistical
difficulties in supplying wheat to the international markets,”
the agency said.  Production of coarse grains, which includes barley, corn
and sorghum, is forecast to slip to 32.9 million tons in Ukraine
from 33.5 million tons last year, while Russia’s coarse-grain
harvest may be little changed at 34.3 million tons from 34.2
million tons, the FAO predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  