-- Ukrainian Opposition Leader Tymoshenko Starts Jail Hunger Strike
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-04-24T14:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/ukrainian-opposition-leader-tymoshenko-starts-jail-hunger-strike.html
Yulia Tymoshenko, the jailed
Ukrainian opposition leader, started a hunger strike, claiming
mistreatment and abuse during her incarceration and accusing
President  Viktor Yanukovych  of political persecution.  Tymoshenko began the strike on April 20 after she was
attacked by three men, who pulled her out of bed, hit her in the
stomach and forced her to be hospitalized near the eastern city
of Kharkiv without her consent, she said today in a  statement  on
her website.  Tymoshenko, who has back problems, said she refused to be
transferred to a hospital before talking to her lawyer, Serhiy
Vlasenko, on April 23. She was returned to her jail cell the
next day. Kharkiv prosecutor Hennadiy Turin denied Tymoshenko
was beaten while being transported to the hospital, according to
a statement on the  website  of the Prosecutor General’s Office.  Tymoshenko, a 51-year-old former prime minister, was
sentenced in October to seven years for abuse of office when she
signed a 10-year natural-gas supply and transit pact with  Russia 
in 2009. She said Yanukovych engineered the case to keep her
from taking part in parliamentary elections scheduled for
October. The European Union has sought her release.  Yanukovych defeated her in the last presidential election.
Tymoshenko, who said her political adversary is “building a
concentration camp,” urged the international community to put
pressure on the president “otherwise you will have a  Libya  or a
 Syria  in the center of  Europe .”  She also called on Ukrainians to use the elections to
“remove Yanukovych’s regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  