-- Human Genome Most Lucrative on Record Biotech Premiums
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-04-24T20:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/human-genome-most-lucrative-on-record-biotech-premiums-real-m-a.html
Drug companies are in such need of
the latest experimental therapies to replace medicines losing
patent protection that even a 68 percent takeover premium for
 Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  isn’t enough.  Acquirers have been willing to pay 71 percent more than a
biotechnology company’s average 20-day stock price in deals
greater than $500 million this year, the highest average premium
since at least 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
After rejecting  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s $13-a-share bid and
starting a sale process last week,  Human Genome  closed 12
percent above the offer yesterday as traders wager it will
secure the steepest price increase of any pending U.S. deal.  Takeover prices are on the rise as the world’s 10 largest
drugmakers race to replace medicines facing generic competition
in the U.S. this year and next. The 126 percent premium in
January for Inhibitex Inc., the maker of a hepatitis C therapy,
set a record among biotechnology deals of at least $500 million,
and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  agreed yesterday to pay a 51 percent premium
for Ardea Biosciences Inc. With the bid for Human Genome at less
than half of the  stock price  a year ago,  Robert W. Baird  & Co.
says Glaxo needs to pay more to win over the largest investors.  “It’s a good time to be a seller if you’re a biotech
company,”  Walter Todd , who oversees about $950 million as chief
investment officer at  Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood,  South
Carolina , said in a telephone interview. “These bigger pharma
companies are trying to fill in the gaps in their portfolios.
Human Genome has come out and said it undervalues the company,
so the assumption is that Glaxo is going to have to raise the
offer or somebody else could step in.”  Drug Patent Expirations  Jerry Parrott, a spokesman for Rockville, Maryland-based
Human Genome, declined to comment on what would be an acceptable
takeover price and whether it has received other interest.  A spokesman for London-based Glaxo declined to comment on
whether the drugmaker will raise its bid. In a statement last
week, Glaxo said the offer was “full and fair.”  Shares of Human Genome  rose  for a fourth straight day,
adding 5 cents to $14.64.  Of 104 drugs with U.S. patent protection expiring between
2012 and 2016, 44 percent will lose exclusivity this year and
next, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The world’s 10
largest drugmakers by sales have U.S. patents expiring this year
or next, the data show.  Pipeline ‘Dearth’  Drugs with more than $170 billion in revenue are
confronting potential generic competition from 2010 to 2016,
with the greatest impact this year at almost $50 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Patents are expected to expire in one or more developed
countries for six of the top 10 medicines on the market between
2011 and 2015, including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor last year, Plavix
from  Sanofi (SAN)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  this year and
AstraZeneca’s Nexium in 2014, according to data from the IMS
Institute for Healthcare Informatics.  The upcoming patent expirations are driving the need for
acquisitions and the resulting premiums,  Todd Lowenstein , a Los
Angeles-based fund manager for Highmark Capital Management Inc.,
which oversees $17 billion, said in a telephone interview.  “Big pharma are finding they have holes in their
portfolios they need to fill,” Lowenstein said. “There’s a
dearth of internal pipeline drugs to meet some of the gaping
holes. That’s why I think you’re seeing a ramp up in the
interest level and activity and they’re paying steep premiums,
reflecting the short-term desperation that they feel.”  Record Biotech Premiums  Targets valued at more than $500 million in the
biotechnology industry have fetched an average premium of 71
percent this year, topping the previous annual high of 66
percent in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg that
excludes terminated deals. The 68 percent premium for Human
Genome would rank sixth highest, the data show.  Through yesterday,  shares  of Human Genome had more than
doubled since April 19 when it rejected Glaxo’s $2.6 billion
unsolicited offer and said it will explore alternatives,
including a potential sale. Glaxo was invited to participate in
the process.  The bid was refused partly out of concern for Human Genome
investors, two people with knowledge of the matter said last
week. Of the 25 largest  shareholders , about 22 acquired stakes
at a higher average price than Glaxo’s offer, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the discussions were private.  Lupus Treatment  The stock closed yesterday at $14.59, 12 percent higher
than the $13-a-share offer price, a bigger gap than any other
pending deal in the U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
trading signals investors are anticipating a higher offer, said
Christopher Raymond, an analyst for Robert W. Baird in Chicago.  “There’s a great case to be made that they’ll increase the
bid,” he said. “I do think the bid is going higher.”  Glaxo should pay at least $15 a share if it wants to own
the drugs for which it already partners with Human Genome and no
longer split the sales, Raymond said in a phone interview. The
companies  collaborate  on three drugs: the lupus treatment
Benlysta that was approved for sale last year and experimental
medicines for diabetes and hardening of the arteries that are in
late-stage testing.  Glaxo’s top-selling asthma drug Advair will lose patent
protection in  Europe  next year after it already lapsed in the
U.S. in 2010, though a generic rival has yet to enter the
market.  Abbott Laboratories  At $15 a share, Glaxo would be paying a 94 percent premium
to the stock’s 20-day average before the proposal was made
public. It’s also the same level that  analysts  project the stock
will reach in the next 12 months if Human Genome remains a
standalone company, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rajesh Varma, who helps manage 5 billion euros ($6.6
billion) for Human Genome shareholder DNCA Finance SA in Paris,
says Glaxo should raise its bid to at least $16 a share. Human
Genome closed as high as $29.70 last year.  “Glaxo is offering a price that seems high, except it’s
significantly below where it was this time last year,” Varma
said in a phone interview.  While Echo He, a New York-based analyst for Maxim Group
LLC, said Glaxo is the most logical buyer because the two
already partner on certain drugs, Robert W. Baird’s Raymond said
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  would also make sense as a suitor.  The $95 billion company’s top seller is Humira, which is
used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn’s disease and
brought in $7.9 billion in  sales  last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Looked Huge’  “Glaxo’s always been the most likely buyer, but I think
anybody with a sizeable rheumatology franchise like Abbott could
be interested,” Raymond said in a phone interview. “Abbott’s
got Humira and so that’s definitely a possibility.”  The heart disease treatment that Human Genome and Glaxo
partner on, which is undergoing clinical trials, would also fit
with Abbott’s cardiovascular unit, Raymond said.  Adelle Infante, a spokeswoman for  Abbott Park , Illinois-
based Abbott, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation,
when asked whether it was considering a bid for Human Genome.  While Glaxo’s offer at a 68 percent premium “looked
huge,” the proposal actually undervalues the company after the
shares  fell 75 percent  in the year before the bid was disclosed,
said Maxim Group’s He. Human Genome’s Benlysta may reach peak
U.S. sales of $1.4 billion, making the drug alone worth $20 to
$25 a share to Glaxo if operating costs can be reduced by 50
percent, she said.  AstraZeneca’s Upcoming Deals  Human Genome isn’t the only biotechnology firm fetching
higher premiums. Bristol-Myers’ agreement to acquire Inhibitex
at a 126 percent premium to its prior 20-day average set a
record for deals in the industry valued at a minimum of $500
million, the data show. Bristol-Myers, which will lose patent
protection for three of its top four drugs within three years,
closed the $2.1 billion deal in February, beating out at least
five other suitors for Alpharetta, Georgia-based Inhibitex and
its experimental hepatitis C drugs, regulatory  filings  show.  Yesterday,  Ardea (RDEA) , the maker of experimental gout and cancer
treatments, announced that it will be bought by AstraZeneca for
$32 a share, a premium of about 51 percent, for an equity value
of about $1.2 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, which has two of its best-
selling drugs facing generic competition by 2014, said the Ardea
purchase may be the first in a series of deals.  Some bids for biotechnology companies weren’t successful
this year even after exceeding the historic average premium of
38 percent. Last week  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  abandoned a $6.7 billion
bid for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , the maker of gene-mapping tools. The
final offer of $51 a share was 53 percent higher than the
stock’s 20-day average before Roche’s first bid in January.  ‘Paying Steep Premiums’  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , the maker of diabetes drugs,
rejected a $3.5 billion unsolicited takeover bid from Bristol-
Myers in February, people with knowledge of the matter said last
month. The bid was about 43 percent higher than Amylin’s share
price before Bloomberg reported the news. Amylin is now seeking
a buyer, two people with knowledge of the matter said this week.
Amylin declined to comment on the speculation.  It’s still worth it for large drugmakers to offer higher
takeover premiums for companies with treatments on the market or
in late-stage testing, rather than developing their own new
products, said Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion
as chief investment officer at Fiduciary Trust in Boston.  “The biotech companies have become the research arms of a
lot of these large pharmaceutical companies,” he said in a
phone interview. “While they’re paying steep premiums, it’s
probably cheaper for them to do this. They’re willing to let the
biotech companies do the leg work to start out and then they’re
swooping in with large premiums.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 