-- Human Genome’s ‘Blockbuster’ Potential Undervalued in Bid
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-04-25T20:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/human-genome-s-blockbuster-potential-undervalued-in-bid.html
Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI) , the
biotechnology company that spurned a $2.59 billion acquisition
offer from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , said it undervalues the sales
potential of leading treatment Benlysta. Glaxo said it doesn’t
see the need to raise the bid.  Human Genome  rejected the London-based company’s $13-a-
share cash offer in part because sales of the lupus drug
Benlysta haven’t hit their peak, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Watkins said on a conference call with analysts, adding that the
medicine has “blockbuster potential.” Human Genome developed
Benlysta with Glaxo and is a partner on two drugs in final-stage
testing.  “The market has been overly focused on the short-term
sales results of our company,” Watkins said yesterday. “This
unsolicited offer does not reflect the value inherent in HGS.”  Human Genome, based in Rockville,  Maryland , reported first-
quarter sales of Benlysta of $31.2 million yesterday. That
matched the $31 million estimate of Chris Raymond, an analyst
with Robert W. Baird & Co. The drug, approved in March 2011 by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, was the first new therapy
for the auto-immune disease in more than 50 years.  Fully Values  Glaxo Chief Executive Officer Andrew Witty today said the
offer “fully values what we believe to be all the different
drivers of value of the transaction.”  “I don’t subscribe to the view that deals are always going
to get done at higher prices,” Witty said on a conference call
with reporters. “Let’s see what happens.”  Benlysta will  generate  $219.3 million in 2012, according to
the average estimate of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Human Genome may report its first annual profit in 2015.  “We continue to think the bid -- whether from GSK or some
other party -- is going higher,” Raymond wrote in a research
note today, adding there are signs that make “the drug’s $1
billion-plus potential much more believable.”  Benlysta is the main driver of Glaxo’s push to buy Human
Genome, Witty said.  “The reason why we’re interested in the deal with Human
Genome is to simplify our relationship on Benlysta, to drive the
performance of Benlysta for the benefit of our shareholders and
to take efficiency opportunities that we believe exist,” Witty
said.  Human Genome fell 1.1 percent to $14.48 at the close of
trading in  New York . The shares have  declined  50 percent in the
last 12 months.  Glaxo declined 3 percent to 1,414 pence. Witty said the
company may return cash to shareholders or pursue another deal
if the bid for Human Genome fails.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  