-- Mumbai Home Sales Recover From 3-Year Low on New Projects
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-04-24T05:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/mumbai-home-sales-recover-from-3-year-low-on-new-projects.html
Mumbai’s residential home sales
recovered from a three-year low in the quarter ended March as
new projects boosted demand, according to Liases Foras Real
Estate Rating & Research Pvt.  Sales in Mumbai,  India ’s most expensive  property market ,
rose 20 percent from the previous quarter to 9.13 million square
feet, said  Pankaj Kapoor , founder of  Liases Foras , a Mumbai-
based real estate research company.  “Sales in new projects has resulted in this spike in the
Mumbai market,” Kapoor said in a phone interview from Mumbai
today. “Still, the Mumbai market has moved into hibernation as
record unsold units and prices are resulting in dismal sales.”  Kapoor estimates there were more than 150 new projects
started last quarter.  India’s central bank cut  interest rates  for the first time
in three years after raising borrowing costs by a record 375
basis points in 13 moves from mid-March 2010. The  Reserve Bank 
of India lowered the repurchase rate to 8 percent from 8.5
percent on April 17. The outcome was predicted by three of 25
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The city’s unsold inventory, or the number of months needed
to clear stock at the existing absorption rate, was at 40 months,
Kapoor said. A “healthy market” normally maintains about eight
months of inventory, he said.  ‘Sizeable Inventories’  Unsold units in Mumbai climbed to a record 129.55 million
square feet, according to Liases Foras, whose clients include
 Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s largest mortgage
lender. The weighted average selling price rose to a record
10,833 rupees ($205) a square foot, the data showed.  Apartment registrations in Mumbai fell 19 percent in the
year ended March 31, IIFL Ltd. said in a report on April 18.
Despite weakness in sales volumes, residential prices have risen
as high as to 25 percent reaching a record high, said Bhaskar Chakraborty, an analyst at Mumbai-based brokerage IIFL.  Sales in the National Capital Region, which includes  New
Delhi  and its surrounding areas, gained 36 percent to 30.99
million square feet in the quarter, Liases Foras’s data showed.
The weighted average selling price rose to 3,570 rupees a square
foot, 5 percent higher than the previous quarter.  Bangalore and Chennai, which posted the  largest  sales
increases in the December quarter, had declines of 25 percent
and 13 percent respectively in the March quarter, Kapoor said.
Prices climbed 3 percent in Bangalore while Chennai recorded a 5
percent increase. Hyderabad posted a record decline in sales,
dropping 57 percent to 2.64 million square feet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  