-- Umicore Shares Drop as Investments, Metal Prices Will Cut Profit
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-04-24T11:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/umicore-shares-drop-as-investments-metal-prices-will-cut-profit.html
Umicore SA (UMI) , the world’s largest
precious-metals recycler, fell the most in six months in
Brussels trading after forecasting a surprise decline in
operating profit as capacity expansions drive depreciation
charges and lower metal prices affect recycling margins.  Umicore dropped as much as 8.3 percent on Euronext
Brussels, the most since Oct. 4, and traded 2.16 euros lower at
39.65 euros by 1 p.m. local time. The shares have gained 24
percent this year,  outpacing  the 13 percent advance for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Chemicals Index in the same period.  Earnings before interest, tax and special items will
decrease this year to 390 million euros ($514 million), plus or
minus 20 million euros, from 416.1 million euros in 2011, the
Brussels-based company said today in a statement. Before today,
analysts projected an increase to 422 million euros, according
to the average of 10  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Guidance is below our and consensus expectations,”
Wouter Vanderhaeghen, an analyst at KBC Securities NV in
Brussels, wrote today in a note to clients, as he cut his
recommendation for the shares to “hold.” “The short-term
margin challenges make it hard to find a short-term trigger and
valuation is not particularly cheap.”  Umicore faces a contraction in recycling margins as prices
for metals including cobalt, nickel, selenium and tellurium
declined and supplies of spent catalysts and residues containing
zinc and germanium dwindled. Depreciation charges are rising
after Umicore increased  capital spending  by 24 percent last year
to accommodate capacity expansions for automotive catalysts and
rechargeable-battery materials.  Premiums Decline  The Belgian maker of a third of all auto-catalysts also
said the premiums at which it can sell products including nickel
salts, germanium substrates and lithium-ion cathodes fell as
competition increased amid an economic slowdown.  First-quarter sales increased 11 percent, a  slowdown  from a
16 percent advance in the second half of last year. Revenue
growth in the recycling business, which accounted for  58 percent 
of operating profit excluding corporate costs last year, slowed
to 8 percent from 26 percent and was affected by an earlier-
than-usual maintenance shutdown of the smelting facility in
Hoboken,  Belgium .  Sales in the catalysis division jumped 18 percent and were
driven mainly by passing on higher raw-material prices to
clients, while revenue from energy materials climbed 12 percent
as sales of lithium-ion cathodes for rechargeable batteries
almost doubled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  