-- Unplug Companies That Help Iran and Syria Spy on Citizens
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-24T23:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/unplug-companies-that-help-iran-and-syria-spy-on-citizens.html
The evidence forms a high stack.
U.S., European and other companies are selling technologies that
enable the repressive Iranian and Syrian regimes to disrupt and
monitor the Internet and track down government critics, as
documented in media reports,  notably by Bloomberg News.   On Monday, President  Barack Obama   acted . He issued an
 executive order  giving the  Treasury secretary  the power to
sanction individuals and companies that provide goods or
services that can be used for such purposes. Those with assets
in the U.S. risk having them blocked; individuals without such
assets can be barred from entering the country. Perhaps the
greatest penalty is the reputational cost of being placed on a
U.S. sanctions list.  The order is a powerful new tool. By covering direct and
indirect sales, it addresses the excuses some companies have
given when confronted with evidence of their wares in Iran and
Syria. They can no longer hide behind claims that goods sold to
a legitimate middleman were then resold without a company’s
knowledge, as the U.S.-based Blue Coat Systems Inc.  did  after
its technology was found filtering websites in  Syria .  Moreover, the order encompasses technology that is even
“likely” to be used to monitor and track citizens through their
online activities. In other words, companies should err on the
side of caution when selling the Iranians or Syrians anything
dubious.  Of course, it’s good for citizens of these countries to
have access to online communications. Western providers have
been and should be helping to create those infrastructures, even
though the regimes can add tapping capabilities to them.  When it comes to add-ons, however, Iran and Syria are not
like other places. A system that can track down lost mobile
phones is nice for consumers. But brutish security forces can
also use it to hunt for pro-democracy activists. Spam-filtering
technology can help keep mobile networks running faster, but  in
Syria it has also allowed  government officials to block all
messages including words such as “revolution,” “demonstration”
and “strike,” thus interfering with freedom of expression and
assembly. In these countries, the risks of such systems outweigh
the benefits. Decent companies  have no business selling ,
installing or maintaining them.  Issuance of the president’s order alone is unlikely to make
them desist. Company executives may doubt the government’s
seriousness about enforcement. After all, the U.S. already had a
rule barring federal agencies from doing business with companies
that export to  Iran  any technology used to disrupt, monitor or
restrict the speech of Iranians. When the Government
Accountability Office produced  its report  on such companies last
June, it came up with none, though soon after journalists
detailed several.  The glare of news media exposure has been enough for a
couple of companies to pull out of their contracts in Iran and
Syria. If the Treasury Department were to pursue one or two
remaining cases, it would pressure those companies that still
provide questionable technologies.  Because the executive order puts the onus on companies to
know where their goods end up, many will need to introduce  new
diligence  to  their systems . For instance, companies can scan the
Internet addresses of prospective buyers and their existing
customers to check for Iranian or Syrian locales. And, any
Internet-connected product can be set up to periodically ping
its manufacturer -- that’s how software updates work -- and
provide location information.  Voluntary groups such as the  Global Network Initiative  are
exploring new ways for companies, investors, human-rights groups
and academic experts to minimize the potential for human-rights
abuses while maximizing the spread of communications
technologies. Their success will shape future U.S.  legislation ,
some of which contemplates the imposition of a potentially
onerous export control regime. For a medium that thrives on
freedom, it would be unfortunate if the heavy hand of some
states could only be redressed by that of another.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Arizona ’s  immigration
law ;  Margaret Carlson  on the start of the John Edwards  trial ;
Clive Crook on  conservative economics  in the age of inequality;
William Pesek on the  Reserve Bank of Australia ;  Peter Orszag  on
a post-election  budget compromise ; and Jack Hedin on U.S.  crop
insurance  subsidies.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 