-- Murdoch Shadowed by Nemesis Lewis as Testimony Resumes
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-04-25T14:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/murdoch-shadowed-by-nemesis-lewis-as-hacking-testimony-resumes.html
As  Rupert Murdoch  testifies this
week before a judge-led inquiry into media ethics, strict
security is in place to protect him from agitators like the man
who shoved a foam pie in his face when he made a similar
appearance before Parliament.  The measures at the Royal Courts of Justice won’t protect
the 81-year-old News Corp. chief executive officer from a more
dangerous adversary, a Manchester lawyer who was instrumental in
putting the company’s hacking scandal in the public eye.  The lawyer,  Mark Lewis , took his usual perch in the gallery
at the so-called Leveson inquiry into media ethics when Murdoch
testified in  London  today, just as he shadowed James Murdoch
when he appeared yesterday. Lewis is observing the Murdochs’
comments as he prepares to file phone-hacking lawsuits against
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s London papers in U.S. courts, expanding the
measures he has taken so far in the U.K.  Rupert Murdoch told the Leveson inquiry under oath today
that U.K. media abuses went beyond voice-mail interceptions by
journalists at the U.K. unit of News Corp. In a witness
statement, he said News Corp. has turned over evidence of
“suspected illegality” to the U.S. Justice Department and
London police.  Though just one observer of the tribunal led by Judge Brian Leveson, Lewis has been transformed by events of the past three
years from a lawyer acting on behalf of phone-hacking victims
into a key player in the drama. Likely victims number 1,174,
another lawyer suing News Corp. told a judge April 20.  ‘A Bit Surreal’  “It’s been a strange experience, a bit surreal,” Lewis
said in one of a series of interviews in  New York  last week as
he laid the groundwork for U.S. lawsuits. “I was a face in the
crowd, and now I’ve become a lead character.”  While Lewis is largely unknown in the U.S., his successful
battles against News Corp.’s London tabloids have won him fame
in Britain, where he appears frequently on television, opining
on the latest twists and turns in the phone-hacking scandal that
has particularly damaged the career of James Murdoch, his
father’s one-time heir apparent.  Lewis’s success has also landed him on “hot” lists
compiled by various British publications, from The Lawyer’s
“Top 100” to the London Evening Standard’s “1,000 most
interesting people.”  Jude Law Comparison  The Guardian compared him favorably to movie star and
phone-hacking victim Jude Law, a juxtaposition that Lewis, 47,
said he had trouble explaining to the oldest of his four
daughters.  Being compared to any movie star is unusual for Lewis, who
stands 6 feet 3 inches and shuffles with a pronounced limp and a
dangling right hand, a consequence of a 20-year battle with
multiple sclerosis.  The London lawyer was in New York last week to meet with
civil rights lawyers  Norman Siegel  and Steven Hyman to discuss
strategy for filing phone-hacking cases in the U.S.  At an April 19 press conference in  Manhattan , he and his
partners declined to say when they would file against News Corp.
Lewis did say two Europeans and one American had claimed their
voice-mail had been hacked on U.S. soil between 2001 and 2006.
Lewis said a fourth alleged victim had come forward.  With no litigation news announced, the visit was still a
public relations success, generating articles in the New York
Times and several London papers. The BBC and Sky News sent
correspondents to the press conference, as did  National Public
Radio , the Australian Financial Review and Bloomberg News, among
other media outlets.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  “I wouldn’t have expected my going to New York to be big
news on either side of the Atlantic,” Lewis said.  New Clients  As for prospective clients, the media coverage helped.  “People have been contacting me who have been aware of
things,” he said.  It wasn’t long ago that the media attention Lewis received
was scornful dismissal by the head of the U.K.’s Press
Complaints Commission in response to his claims of widespread
phone hacking at Murdoch’s papers.  In June 2008, as a partner at the George Davies firm in
Manchester, Lewis negotiated a $1 million settlement on behalf
of  Gordon Taylor , head of the U.K.’s professional soccer players
union. He discovered evidence that Taylor’s voice mail had been
hacked by representatives of News of the World, a Murdoch
tabloid closed in response to the scandal.  Confidential Terms  James Murdoch , then CEO of News Corp.’s U.K. unit, signed
off on the settlement. Both sides had agreed to keep terms of
the accord confidential. One year later, details of the
settlement leaked out in a story published in the Guardian. The
U.K. newspaper also revealed the existence of an internal e-mail
indicating that a number of News of the World reporters had been
engaged in phone hacking. Until that point, the tabloid had
maintained that the illegal practice was confined to one rogue
reporter who’d been fired. The U.K. body that regulates
solicitors is investigating a complaint by Taylor that Lewis was
the source of the leak, which Lewis denies.  Instead of enhancing Lewis’s position at George Davies, the
Guardian story undermined his career. By his own admission,
Lewis didn’t fit in well with the collegial atmosphere at the
firm. When he started doing media interviews about the Gordon
Taylor settlement and generating inquiries from other alleged
phone-hacking victims, his partners urged him not to take on
those clients.  Second Blow  Lewis refused and was voted out, losing a partnership that
had earned him an estimated 300,000 pounds ($484,000) a year
before taxes. It was the second major blow Lewis suffered that
year. The previous January, his 18-year marriage had come apart,
forcing him to vacate the six-bedroom home he had shared with
his wife and daughters.  In September 2009, he accepted a position at another
Manchester law firm. His earnings dwindled. He told the Leveson
Inquiry last year that his decision to keep handling phone-
hacking cases resulted in a 97 percent pay cut.  Lewis descended into a midlife crisis. His hairdresser did
him over with a punk cut and dyed his hair peroxide blonde.
Newly single, he took to wearing skinny jeans, sporting an
earring, donning punk-style T-shirts and Dr. Martens shoes, and
tooling around town in a convertible.  Classic Cars  To keep ahead of his bills, he began selling some of the
expensive toys -- classic cars -- he’d collected during his
career at George Davies. One buyer,  Michael Taylor , bought
Lewis’s 1929 Austin 7 and a 1919 Model T. Upon learning that
Lewis was a lawyer, Taylor referred him to his brother Daniel
Taylor, who ran a London law firm, Taylor Hampton Solicitors.  By the time he joined Taylor Hampton in May 2010, Lewis had
reverted to business suits and his natural hair color.  He also had drawn the ire of the legal team representing
News of the World, who had dispatched a private investigator to
pry into his personal life, as well as that of Charlotte Harris,
another George Davies solicitor who’d left the firm to take on
more phone-hacking cases.  In January 2011, the London Metropolitan Police, also known
as Scotland Yard, opened an investigation into phone-hacking at
News of the World. The investigation, as well as an increasing
number of lawsuits against the paper by celebrities including
actress  Sienna Miller , led to TV news appearances by Lewis as a
phone-hacking expert.  Dowler Family  In April 2011, the police informed Bob and Sally Dowler,
whose daughter had been abducted and murdered almost a decade
earlier, that representatives of News of the World had hacked
into their daughter’s voice-mail account after her 2002
disappearance, listening to messages that had been left for her.  The Dowlers, who’d seen Lewis on TV, retained him as their
solicitor. Weeks after the Dowlers hired Lewis, the Guardian
broke the news that Milly Dowler’s phone had been hacked on
behalf of Murdoch’s tabloid.  The revelation shocked a public that had grown accustomed
to reading savory bits of gossip involving movie stars and other
celebrities.  For Murdoch, the Dowler revelations were damaging. News
Corp. was within days of winning regulatory approval to acquire
the 61 percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  that it
didn’t own. Facing mounting opposition in Parliament after the
Dowler news, News Corp. withdrew its bid for BSkyB.  Hotel Meeting  Murdoch himself flew to London to take control of the
matter. A private meeting was arranged between Murdoch and the
Dowler family, at the One Aldwych hotel. With Lewis looking on,
Murdoch apologized to the Dowler family.  When Murdoch emerged from the meeting, he was besieged by a
scrum of reporters hollering questions at him and protesters
yelping condemnations. Momentarily stunned by the crush, Murdoch
retreated into the hotel, emerging moments later to read a brief
statement. He then darted back into the hotel and left through a
different exit.  With the stage to himself, Lewis read his own statement to
the media in front of the hotel.  Two months later, News Corp. agreed to pay 3 million pounds
to settle the matter, with two-thirds of the sum going to the
Dowler family and one-third to a charity of their choosing. The
settlement and attendant publicity established Lewis as the pre-
eminent solicitor for phone-hacking victims.  “He’s gone from being someone who wasn’t on the radar
screen to being the go-to person for phone-hacking cases,” said
Niri Shan, the head of media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in
London.  ‘Real Risk’  “When he first took these cases on, he was taking a real
risk, investing his time and money, and taking on a powerful
company,” Shan said. He praised Lewis’s work on behalf of the
Dowlers, describing the settlement as “excellent” for the
bereaved family.  Lewis is basking in his new-found fame as the lawyer at the
center of the phone-hacking saga. His earnings, he said, still
have a ways to go to make up for the income he lost from mid-
2009 through mid-2011. Lewis said he’s on his way back.  Last fall, News Corp.’s U.K. unit admitted it had put Lewis
under surveillance. In November, police met with Lewis and
showed him evidence of the monitoring, including video footage
of Lewis’s ex-wife and his then-14-year-old daughter.  Lewis was outraged by the intrusion and demanded an apology
from Derek Webb, the investigator who followed his family. Lewis
said his firm is preparing to sue News International for
invasion of his privacy.  Media Appearances  Lewis’s return to London from New York this month concluded
a month-long, around-the-world trip that featured speaking
engagements and media appearances in  Australia , the birthplace
of Murdoch’s media empire.  As part of his non-stop assault on News Corp., Lewis
peppers such appearances with one-liners and put-downs aimed at
the company in general and James Murdoch in particular.  One quip involved a 2008 e-mail sent to James Murdoch just
before the Gordon Taylor settlement was struck by Lewis. In it,
a subordinate passed along a warning that the hacking problems
at News of the World were extensive. The e-mail contradicted
testimony by Murdoch, who said his subordinates never informed
him of the depth of the problems at the paper.  Faced with the message, Murdoch wrote Parliament in
December, insisting he’d never read the entire e-mail. He said
he’d received it on his BlackBerry on a Saturday afternoon.  At the time, Lewis quipped, “I believe in Father
Christmas, I believe in the tooth-fairy, and I believe James
Murdoch.” His newest zinger on the matter is: “You can say
what you like about James Murdoch, as long as you send it to his
BlackBerry on a Saturday afternoon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 