-- Murdoch to Testify on Politics as Hunt Faces Pressure to Resign
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-24T23:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/murdoch-to-testify-on-politics-as-hunt-faces-pressure-to-resign.html
Rupert Murdoch will give evidence
on his relationship with U.K. politicians a day after an
inquiry’s probing of his son James ended with calls for Culture
Secretary Jeremy Hunt to quit over his dealings with  News Corp. (NWSA)   The Leveson Inquiry into media ethics released e-mails
yesterday showing either Hunt or his officials were leaking
information to News Corp. as they decided whether to allow its
takeover bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  last year.
Hunt’s own career hangs on a News Corp. lobbyist’s statement
that he misled his bosses when he sent messages suggesting he
was having regular evening chats with the culture secretary.  Murdoch, 81, will take the stand at the inquiry in London
today for the first of two days of evidence, under oath, on his
five decades of involvement with British politicians. Those
looking for evidence of closeness found it in e-mails that
showed on at least two occasions, News Corp. was given details
of Hunt’s decisions the day before he announced them.  “There is just overwhelming evidence that while he was
telling Parliament and while he was saying his duty was to be
transparent, to be impartial, he was providing all kinds of
information, both through himself and his advisers, to the
Murdochs and News Corp.,”  Ed Miliband , leader of the opposition
 Labour Party , said late yesterday. “He singularly failed to
exercise his duties -- he was a secretary of state who was far
too close to the big media interests.”  Murdoch’s son James, deputy chief operating officer of New-
York-based News Corp., went through five hours of testimony
yesterday, questioned first on the phone-hacking scandal and
then on the bid for BSkyB. On the first, he stuck to his defense
that he had been misled about the extent of wrongdoing at the
News of the World tabloid by the paper’s editor and lawyer.  James Defense  Murdoch argued there was nothing more he could have done to
establish the truth, repeating that he hadn’t read in full an e-
mail setting out the situation in more detail because he’d
received it on a Saturday.  The morning session closed with the inquiry’s lawyer,
Robert Jay, putting it to  James Murdoch  that he’d either
authorized a cover-up or been responsible for a failure of
governance, a charge Murdoch denied.  It was the afternoon session that offered fresh
revelations, with Jay taking Murdoch through his dealings with
Hunt over the BSkyB bid. When this was announced in 2010,
Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable was given the
job of deciding whether it should be allowed, sitting in a
“quasi-judicial” role that gave him specific legal duties.  Lobbying Attempts  The e-mails from News Corp. lobbyist Frederic Michel to
Murdoch show him spending the second half of 2010 trying to find
out Cable’s thinking. An attempt to meet Cable’s adviser Giles
Wilkes was rebuffed, with the aide insisting he wanted to stay
“within the bounds of proper conduct.”  Michel was having more luck with the Conservative side of
Britain’s coalition government. Hunt was in regular contact,
even calling Murdoch to apologize for being unable to meet him
after he was given “strong legal advice” by one of his
officials that he shouldn’t be discussing the bid with the
company while another minister was considering it.  On Dec. 21, 2010, Prime Minister  David Cameron  removed
responsibility for examining the deal from Cable after
undercover journalists recorded the business secretary saying he
had “declared war” on  Rupert Murdoch . The job was passed to
Hunt.  The culture secretary and Michel had got to know each other
in May of that year when their wives gave birth in the same west
London hospital on the same night. “We bumped into each other
in the very same ward and shared a night of anxiety,” Michel
said in written evidence to the inquiry.  Text Messages  In early 2011, Michel sent James Murdoch a series of e-
mails detailing Hunt’s thinking, and explaining the stage the
process had got to. Often sent in the evenings, they typically
began: “Just spoke to JH.”  In his sworn statement to the Leveson Inquiry, Michel said
these had in fact been the result of conversations with or text
messages from  Adam Smith , Hunt’s adviser, whom he believed to be
speaking on Hunt’s behalf.  “At no point between Dec. 24, 2010 and the end of July
2011 did I have any direct conversation with  Jeremy Hunt 
relating to the BSkyB proposal beyond the two formal meetings I
attended,” Michel said. “It was never my intention to imply to
readers of my e-mails that I had had direct access to the
minister.”  ‘Kneejerk Reactions’  Michel provided detailed records of text messages from
Smith that he had relayed to Murdoch as conversations with Hunt.
The culture secretary pointed to this in a statement last night.
“Now is not a time for kneejerk reactions,” Hunt said. “We’ve
heard one side of the story today but some of the evidence
reported meetings and conversations that simply didn’t happen.”  Hunt has asked to give evidence to Leveson to put his
defense and is likely to be called to Parliament today to
explain his actions. He’ll be asked how Michel came to be e-
mailing details of Hunt’s decisions to his superiors the day
before they were announced.  “How can it be that Sky knew before Parliament exactly
what Jeremy Hunt was going to say?” Labour lawmaker  Chris Bryant  told the BBC yesterday. “How can that be?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 