-- Murdoch Says He Discussed BSkyB Bid With Cameron in 2010
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-24T12:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/murdoch-says-he-discussed-bskyb-bid-with-cameron-in-2010-1-.html
James Murdoch told an inquiry into
U.K. media ethics that he discussed News Corp.’s proposed
takeover of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  with Prime
Minister  David Cameron  at a private Christmas dinner in 2010.  The “tiny side conversation” took place two days after
Cameron had removed responsibility for deciding whether to allow
the takeover from Business Secretary  Vince Cable , Murdoch said
in  London  today. Cable had been recorded by undercover
journalists saying he had “declared war” with the Murdoch
family.  “There was no discussion with Mr. Cameron other than to
reiterate what we’d said publicly,” Murdoch said of the Dec. 23
dinner, hosted by former News Corp. executive Rebekah Brooks.
“I imagine I expressed a hope that things would be dealt with
in a way that was appropriate and judicial. He reiterated what
he’d said publicly. It was a tiny side conversation at a dinner
where other people where there. It wasn’t really a discussion.”  Murdoch, deputy chief operating officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) , and
his father, Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , are
testifying over three days this week at the Leveson Inquiry. The
panel was set up by Cameron to help quell public outrage over
the phone-hacking scandal, which has led to 45 arrests and the
closing of the best-selling News of the World tabloid.  Not ‘Inappropriate’  During an emergency debate in Parliament on the media on
July 20, Cameron repeatedly refused to say whether he had
discussed the BSkyB bid with News Corp. executives, insisting he
“never had one inappropriate conversation.”  Murdoch said the company had decided not to announce the
bid until after the May 2010 general election, so that “the
transaction didn’t become a political football.”  He denied the support of News Corp.’s Sun tabloid had
been given to the Conservatives in that election in return for
the party’s support for the takeover. “I would never make such
a crass calculation,” he said.  Murdoch said he’d discussed the takeover with Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , who was given responsibility for deciding
on it after it was taken from Cable. He said he might have
discussed it with Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ,
with whom he is “friendly.”  The bid was dropped in July after the phone-hacking
scandal broke.  Cameron’s spokesman declined to comment on  James Murdoch ’s
testimony. The premier’s position on the BSkyB takeover bid
“was covered by previous statements by the PM,” Steve Field
told reporters in London today. “He did not involve himself in
that issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  