-- US Airways Accords Aid Labor in AMR Talks, Union Banker Says
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-04-24T15:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/us-airways-accords-aid-labor-in-amr-talks-union-banker-says-1-.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ’s tentative
contract agreements with the  Transport Workers Union  at American
Airlines boosted the labor group’s leverage in talks with the
bankrupt carrier, a TWU banker said.  The TWU, representing 24,000 workers at  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
American, last week joined unions for the airline’s pilots and
flight attendants in reaching contract terms with Tempe,
Arizona-based  US Airways . The accords are contingent upon a
merger of the two airlines.  The US Airways agreement is part of TWU’s strategy to keep
all options open as it battles to protect jobs for its members,
said Peter Kaufman, president of Gordian Group LLC. The union
remains in talks with American, even as it argues in court today
against the airline’s attempt to reject existing contracts and
replace them with terms cutting $1.25 billion in annual labor
spending, he said.  “The fact that we’re having those discussions with US
Airways is certainly helping our negotiating leverage with
 American Airlines  on the stand-alone-plan labor deal,” Kaufman
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. He
declined to comment on specifics about the agreement with US
Airways.  American, based in Fort Worth,  Texas , has said it will
stick with a plan to emerge from bankruptcy restructuring as an
independent carrier, and US Airways hasn’t yet made a merger
offer to its rival.  World’s Largest  The union “is supportive of that dialogue moving along,”
Kaufman said of the US Airways’ overtures. A combination of the
two carriers would pass United Continental Holdings Inc. as the
world’s largest airline, ranked by passenger traffic.  TWU is working with American to complete language on the
airline’s “last and final” concessionary contract offers to
seven work groups represented by the union, the airline and
union said. Those agreements are expected to be sent out next
week for a vote by members, with results expected around May 14,
Jamie Horwitz, a TWU spokesman, said today.  American’s original proposal, given to TWU on Feb. 1,
called for cutting 13,000 jobs, including 4,300 mechanics and
maintenance workers and 4,200 baggage handlers and other airport
ramp employees represented by TWU. The carrier also said it
would close a major maintenance base in  Fort Worth , and
outsource some jobs at a second base in Tulsa,  Oklahoma .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
{ bliu17@bloomberg.net }  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  