-- US Airways Said to Approach AMR Bondholders on Merger
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-25T16:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/us-airways-said-to-approach-amr-bondholders-on-merger.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  is reaching
out to  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s unsecured bondholders to widen support for a
possible takeover bid for bankrupt  American Airlines , two people
familiar with the matter said.  While formal meetings haven’t been held, US Airways has
begun talks with the bondholders to convince them that their
financial recovery would be greater under a merged company than
if AMR exits bankruptcy independently, said the people, who
declined to be identified because details aren’t public.  US Airways won backing for a merger last week from
American’s three major unions, which serve on AMR’s unsecured
creditors committee. Support from two more members would give US
Airways a majority of the nine-seat panel. Tempe, Arizona-based
US Airways hasn’t made a bid for AMR.  “If they can line up support from unions, bondholders and
unsecured creditors, I think they can get themselves awfully
close to what would amount to a hostile takeover,” Max Newman,
a bankruptcy attorney at Butzel Long in  Bloomfield Hills ,
 Michigan , said today in an interview. “They’re certainly being
very strategic and creative about how they’re going about it.”  Conversations between US Airways and bondholders began as
early as April 19, a day before the Tempe, Arizona-based airline
announced accords with American’s unions, one of the people
said. The bondholders are represented on the creditor group by
Wilmington Trust, Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co. and  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp.  AMR filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 29.  Bigger Recovery Promised  US Airways told the bondholders they would recoup more
under its merger plan for Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR through
cost savings and increased revenue, one of the people said. The
investors’ holdings include corporate and municipal bonds, the
person said.  A merger would blend American, the third-largest U.S.
airline, with No. 5 US Airways. The combined carrier would
retain the American name and the bigger airline’s headquarters,
some unions told members last week, citing terms from US
Airways.  US Airways fell 0.8 percent to $9.24 at 12:30 p.m. in  New
York  as most U.S. airline stocks declined. The shares gained 84
percent this year through yesterday, the biggest advance among
11 carriers in the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index. (BUSAIRL)   Creditors Committee  Jack Butler , a lawyer for AMR’s creditors committee, said
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  that the group
backs the company’s bid to cancel union contracts. He also said
the panel supports AMR’s goal of crafting a stand-alone business
plan, against which “strategic alternatives” can be vetted.  A spokesman for US Airways, Todd Lehmacher, said the
company had no comment about any contacts with bondholders.  Kent Wissinger, a Manufacturers & Traders Trust spokesman,
said he couldn’t comment because of “the nature of our
representation” as trustee. Spokesmen for Bank of New York
Mellon and  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) ’s Wilmington Trust didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  Andy Backover , an American spokesman, declined to comment
beyond referring to remarks by Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  in an April 23 letter to employees in which he said the
pursuit of any future combination would involve AMR’s board and
executives in collaboration with the creditors committee.  AMR’s Request  AMR is asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane this week for
permission to void union contracts and impose new terms to cut
labor costs by $1.25 billion a year. The company has said it
needs the concessions as part of steps to pare $2 billion in
annual spending and reorganize successfully.  AMR holds the sole right to file a reorganization plan
through Sept. 28, although the creditors committee can ask the
court to end that privilege if the panel concludes there is a
viable alternative.  US Airways ’ offers to American’s unions were based on the
need to make labor costs competitive with others in the
industry, one person familiar with the matter said. That would
be an $800 million reduction from current spending, based on
American’s initial estimates of its labor costs versus rivals’.  The proposed labor terms, conditioned on a merger
occurring, provided no-furlough guarantees to pilots and flight
attendants, wage increases and 6,200 fewer job cuts than the
13,000 in American’s plan, according to documents the unions
provided their members.  Most pensions would be frozen and replaced with 401(k)
 retirement plans , and some work rules would change.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  