-- Usiminas Drops After Quarterly Loss More Than Doubles
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-04-24T23:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/usiminas-quarterly-loss-more-than-doubles-on-weaker-real-sales.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA , the second-largest Brazilian steelmaker by output, fell to
the lowest in almost two weeks after posting a bigger-than-
expected quarterly loss.  Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based company is
known, fell 1 percent to 11.25 reais at the close in  Sao Paulo ,
the lowest level since April 13. The benchmark Bovespa index
rose 0.7 percent.  The first-quarter loss more than doubled to 70.8 million
reais ($37.6 million) from 26.1 million in the year-earlier
period, based on international accounting standards, the
steelmaker said yesterday after markets closed. Usiminas was
expected to post a loss excluding some items of 150,000 reais,
the average of four analyst estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.  “Once again, Usiminas delivered poor results and failed to
meet market expectations of a modest quarter-over-quarter
recovery,” Banco Santander SA’s Sao Paulo-based analysts Felipe
Reis and Alex Sciacio said in a note to customers today. “We
continue to see a challenging scenario for the company going
forward.”  Net sales fell 5.8 percent to 2.89 billion reais in the
period, while financial expenses grew 22 percent as the real
weakened 2 percent against the dollar in the first three months
of the year, the company said. Quarterly crude steel output
declined 6.2 percent to 1.67 million metric tons from last year.  Usiminas is facing “a difficult and complex situation”
Chief Executive Officer Julian Eguren said today in a conference
call with analysts, citing a strong Brazilian currency and
competition from imported steel.  The company expects to invest about 2.5 billion reais this
year, reducing its spending in the steel business and boosting
investments in its mining unit, Eguren said.  Fighting a Glut  Brazilian steelmakers are fighting a global supply glut at
a time when growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy slows
down. Sales of cars in  Brazil  fell 1.8 percent in March after a
9 percent drop in February. Usiminas is the biggest supplier of
steel to Brazilian carmakers.  Eguren, who took over from Wilson Brumer on Jan. 17 after
the Techint Group joined the company’s controlling shareholders,
is seeking to improve operations as steel profit margins slumped
to 4 percent last year from 16 percent in 2010. Techint, through
its Ternium SA and Tenaris SA units, on Nov. 27 agreed to pay
5.03 billion reais for a 27.7 percent voting stake in Usiminas,
teaming up with Nippon Steel Corp. to control Usiminas. Eguren
was Ternium’s executive president in  Mexico  before the
appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  