-- Vets’ Car-Crash Risk Rises After Deployment, USAA Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-04-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/vets-car-crash-risk-rises-after-deployment-usaa-says.html
Joe Torres, who returned to the
U.S. in January after serving 13 months in Afghanistan, was
driving with his wife on Interstate 8 to  San Diego  when he heard
a rat-a-tat-tat that sounded like machine-gun fire.  The Army reservist ducked under the dash, peeking to see if
there was any threat. His wife, who was driving, laughed. The
tires had rolled over a rumble strip.  “Is that something on the road, or is that gunfire?”
Torres, 36, said he asked his wife. “It wasn’t until I was
realizing what I was doing, and I realized the situation that I
was in, that I chuckled at myself.”  Torres, who works as an underwriter for insurer USAA in
Phoenix, is among members of the armed services readjusting to
road conditions in the U.S. after learning battlefield driving
tactics. A study to be released today by his employer shows
troops are 13 percent more likely to get in accidents where
they’re at fault after serving overseas than before starting
their tours of duty.  The insurer, which caters to military families, looked at
data for 158,000 of its policyholders who shipped out between
January 2007 and February 2010, and compared accident records
for six months before they left and after they returned,
according to a  summary of the study . Troops often notify San
Antonio-based USAA when they deploy, because the insurer allows
members to reduce premiums or coverage if their vehicle is
stored.  Army Vets  Army veterans saw the largest increase among branches of
the military, with a 23 percent greater incidence of at-fault
accidents. Marines were second with a 13 percent higher
likelihood, followed by Navy personnel at 3 percent and members
of the  Air Force  at 2 percent. Troops who served more than one
tour of duty or had longer deployments also had an increased
risk of accidents, the study found. The insurer didn’t account
for whether the vets were deployed to a combat zone.  “Until the USAA report, most of the published research was
limited to studies of  motor fatalities ,” said Erica Stern, an
associate professor in the  occupational therapy program  at the
 University of Minnesota , who has studied the driving experiences
of returning soldiers. “We really didn’t have any evidence that
there was any sort of a rise” in at-fault accident rates.  Her own research found links between troops’ driving
behavior and techniques that the military teaches to save lives
in combat, such as changing lanes abruptly at tunnels and
underpasses where insurgents might be waiting and speeding up to
keep pace with the lead vehicle in a convoy.  Wary of Potholes  Veterans may even approach potholes differently, she said
in a phone interview. It’s usually safest to stay in one’s lane.
Someone who’s had experience avoiding roadside bombs in Iraq or
Afghanistan may swerve around the obstruction, potentially
causing a collision with another car, she said.  Of the 12 causes of accidents tracked by the insurer,
“objects in the road” showed the greatest increase among
policyholders returning from deployment, according to the study.
Troops reverted to their pre-deployment rate of accidents after
about six months, according to George Drew, an assistant vice
president of underwriting at USAA.  When he returned to the U.S. in January, Torres said cars
with tinted windows that rode low made him anxious, because they
resembled vehicles that might have carried bombs in  Afghanistan .
Right after coming home, he asked his wife to do most of the
driving.  Getting ‘Acclimated’  “I wanted her to drive a little bit more, just so I could
get acclimated,” he said in a phone interview. When he did get
behind the wheel, he started by doing short errands, and then
worked his way up to driving on the highway, he said.  USAA plans to use the study results to educate returning
troops and their families about readjusting to U.S. roads after
deployment, especially in the case of reservists and members of
the National Guard who may not come back to a base where they
have the structure of active-duty troops, Drew said in a phone
interview. The company shared its findings with the military.  The decision to conduct the study was “absolutely not
about raising prices,” he said. “It’s about safety.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  