-- Wal-Mart Bribery Probe Seen as Examining Coverup Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-25T22:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/wal-mart-bribery-probe-in-u-s-seen-as-examining-coverup-claims.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  may spend
hundreds of millions of dollars investigating $24 million in
alleged Mexican bribes as the U.S. government weighs whether the
company or executives also broke the law by covering up an
internal probe, former federal prosecutors said.  The company said it’s aiding U.S. probes of payments
detailed April 21 in the New York Times. The newspaper said  Wal-
Mart de Mexico  failed to fully investigate the bribe claims as
well as $16 million in “donations” to Mexican local
governments as late as 2005 to speed store expansions.  Wal-Mart disclosed the payments to the Justice Department
and Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a December
2011 regulatory filing, and said its outside advisers are
briefing the agencies on its own probe. Prosecutors will want to
know why Wal-Mart didn’t fully examine claims by a company
lawyer in 2005 that he funneled bribes to Mexican officials,
said  Paul Pelletier , a former federal prosecutor.  “If somebody put the kibosh on the investigation, a good
prosecutor would ask a lot of questions to figure out why,”
said Pelletier of  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo
PC , who supervised foreign bribery cases. “It may not be just
about the bribery scheme anymore. The questions about why it was
or wasn’t investigated fully are going to have potential legal
ramifications for the company and individuals, which is why the
company would want to dig in there.”  Criminal Probe  The Justice Department is investigating potential criminal
charges under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, according
to a person familiar with the probe who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly. The FCPA bans payments by companies or their
agents to foreign governments to obtain or retain business.  The probe will probably expand beyond  Mexico  if the company
or government unearths red flags elsewhere or if the government
questions both management’s response to reports of misconduct
and its current compliance program, said Amy Conway-Hatcher, a
former federal prosecutor at Kaye Scholer LLP in  Washington .  “The investigation alone could cost Wal-Mart in the tens
of millions of dollars or more, and that’s if it’s limited to
Mexico,” Conway-Hatcher said. “The cost of a global
investigation under these circumstances could rise into the
hundreds of millions. This would not include penalties and fines
if charges are brought.”  Government investigators, she said, “will look at the acts
of individuals to see if they can prove violations of law, how
high up it went, who knew about it, who authorized it, and the
extent to which there was any cover up.”  Statute of Limitations  Prosecutors could charge Wal-Mart with either a violation
of the FCPA or a conspiracy to violate the law, each of which
carries a five-year statute of limitations, Pelletier said.  Because the bribes and cover up are alleged to have
occurred in 2005 and 2006, prosecutors would need to show that
at least one act in furtherance of the crimes occurred within
the past five years, he said.  In an FCPA crackdown, the government settled 57 cases
against companies from 2005 through 2011, reaping $4.1 billion
for the U.S. treasury. In 2008,  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, agreed to pay $800 million to the U.S. and
$814 million to German authorities. Siemens also spent
$1 billion on lawyers, accountants and its internal controls.  Wal-Mart has hired the Jones Day law firm to investigate
its Mexican operations, as well as auditing firm KPMG and law
firm Greenberg Traurig LLP for a compliance review of its global
operations, said a person familiar with the matter.  Compliance Monitor  The company also said it created a new position to monitor
global compliance with the FCPA. The officer will be based in
the retailer’s headquarters in Bentonville,  Arkansas , the
company said yesterday in a statement.  The Times reported that a former executive in Wal-Mart de
Mexico’s real estate department, Sergio Cicero Zapata, e-mailed
a former senior lawyer in September 2005 to describe how he had
funneled cash bribes to government officials through fixers
known as “gestores.” Top executives, the paper reported,
focused more on damage control than on uncovering misconduct.  Pelletier, who supervised more than 50 FCPA corporate
probes at the  Justice Department  from 2005 to 2011, said
government investigations typically proceed with one or two DOJ
attorneys, one or two SEC attorneys, and a couple of agents from
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation. Outside law firms could use
as many as 100 people for intensive document searches, he said.  ‘False Representations’  “Prosecutors would want to know if false representations
were made by an executive of the company to anybody, to whom
they were made, how and when,” he said. “Those would be viewed
in the context of whether they tried to prevent any government
or regulatory body from learning of those cases.”  In a statement on April 21, Wal-Mart said, “We are
committed to getting to the bottom of this matter. The  audit
committee  and the outside advisers have at their disposal all
the resources they may need to pursue a comprehensive and
thorough investigation.”  It said allegations in the Times story, if true, “are not
a reflection of who we are or what we stand for.”  Wal-Mart, which had sales of $444 billion in fiscal 2012
and operates in 27 countries, said it is taking a “deep look”
at its FCPA training and internal controls in every country.  Corporate investigations, which can take years in FCPA
cases, are nearly always resolved through negotiation. The DOJ
may agree to so-called deferred prosecution agreements, where
prosecutors file criminal charges that they agree to withdraw
after a period if the company meets required improvements in
governance and compliance.  Non-Prosecution Agreements  Prosecutors may also reach so-called non-prosecution
agreements that require payment of penalties and improvements to
compliance programs. Many more investigations result in no
prosecution at all.  The Justice Department follows a nine-step guide on
business prosecutions in examining cases. The criteria include
the seriousness of the crimes, a company’s history of
wrongdoing, the extent of its compliance program, and its
willingness to cooperate. Companies often get credit if they
voluntarily disclose their internal investigations and hand over
company e-mails, memos, employee interviews and other evidence.  “The government relies on voluntary disclosure because
they’re not going to get the evidence overseas and they’re not
even sure where to look,” said  Peter Henning , a law professor
at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit . “They won’t have access
to the employees, who will talk to in-house counsel because
they’re compelled to or they feel a measure of loyalty.”  ‘Fear of Publicity’  Wal-Mart disclosed the case to the government in December
“out of the fear of publicity and not so much out of a desire
to make sure a wrong was righted,” Henning said.  While the conduct may not be obstruction of justice, “it’s
also not an example of good corporate citizenship of identifying
a problem and dealing with it,” he said.  “Instead, they saw a problem and swept it under the rug,”
he said. “It’s not going to sit well with the  Department of
Justice  or the SEC. They’re going to want an assurance that this
will be a thorough investigation, and not just in Mexico.”  A key strategic question for Wal-Mart will be whether it
can convince government investigators that its new internal
probe will be “sufficiently thorough” to let it progress, said
Kevin Abikoff, an FCPA attorney at Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP.  ‘Well Served’  “Wal-Mart is well served to try to get out ahead of the
investigation and let the government rely on what it has done,”
he said. “That tends to be a lot less disruptive to the
company.”  Attorney Robert Tarun of Baker & McKenzie LLP said that
government investigators will talk to Wal-Mart’s outside law
attorneys regularly.  “The DOJ and SEC are not going to just assume that the
company will conduct an investigation and get back to them in
six months,” he said. “They’re going to stay on top of it.”  The advisers must conduct extensive forensic work before
deciding whether to charge executives, he said.  “It’s way too early to tell whether the government will
charge individuals criminally or civilly,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 