-- Wal-Mart Probe Follows Decade of Sex Bias, Overtime Suits
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/wal-mart-bribe-probe-follows-decade-of-sex-bias-overtime-suits.html
A U.S. probe of possible bribery in
Mexico by a  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  unit to boost store growth
follows more than a decade of allegations that the company
violated laws on illegal immigrant workers, overtime, gender
bias and preservation of evidence in pursuit of larger profits.  The world’s  largest retailer  has been frequently sued by
the government, its own employees and its customers in cases
that have also included accusations of corruption, as well as
discrimination and destruction of evidence.  “Wal-Mart’s had a long history of legal conflict because
they have a way of doing business that pushes the edges of what
the law allows,” said  James Post , a professor at Boston
University School of Management. “Sometimes it goes over the
line.”  The  Justice Department  is investigating potential criminal
charges under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, according
to a person familiar with the probe who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly about the matter. Alisa Finelli, a Justice
Department spokeswoman, declined to comment yesterday on the
probe.  Wal-Mart said it was conducting an internal investigation
after an April 21 New York Times story detailed alleged bribes
of more $24 million paid by officials of its Mexican subsidiary,
 Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB . The Times story also reported that top
Wal-Mart executives blocked an earlier investigation into the
bribery allegations, first raised within the company in 2005.  “This is a huge governance failure,” Post said yesterday
in a phone interview. “I think there will be a lot of
casualties at the senior management and board levels.”  Anti-Corruption Program  The U.S. anti-corruption law makes it illegal for companies
to bribe foreign officials outside the country as part of their
business.  “We take compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act very seriously and are committed to having a
strong and effective global anti-corruption program in every
country in which we operate,”  David Tovar , a Wal-Mart
spokesman, said in an April 21 statement. “We will not tolerate
noncompliance with FCPA anywhere or at any level of the
company.”  Wal-Mart has hired auditing firm KPMG and law firm
Greenberg Traurig LLP for a compliance review of its global
operations and law firm Jones Day to investigate its Mexican
operations, said a person familiar with the matter who didn’t
want to be identified because it wasn’t public.  Greg Rossiter, a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart, declined to comment yesterday on the company’s
previous legal disputes.  ‘More Trouble’  Brian Sawers, who teaches corporate law at the University
of  Maryland  law school, said that Wal-Mart’s response to
internal reports of bribery, as described by the New York Times,
set it apart from most big international companies.  “You hire an outside firm and forensic accountants and
give them a blank check and they turn over every rock in
 Mexico ,” he said. “They would have gotten a black eye, but it
would have been small. And now they’re looking at just a whole
lot more trouble.”  Wal-Mart has been sued hundreds of times by workers
claiming racial, sexual, religious or other bias in pay,
promotions and other treatment. According to data compiled by
Bloomberg, 358 of 3,044 federal court lawsuits in which Wal-Mart
was a plaintiff or defendant since 2009 involved employment
issues.  April Lawsuits  The cases filed against Wal-Mart in federal court this
month include lawsuits by a maintenance employee in  Utah 
alleging violations of the Americans with Disabilities Act, a
fitting room worker in  South Carolina  claiming gender and race
discrimination, and a pharmacist in  Louisiana  contending
religious bias.  A lawsuit brought in  California  by six women contending
gender discrimination was granted class-action status in 2004,
allowing them to sue as a group on behalf of more than 1 million
female workers nationwide. The U.S. Supreme Court in June barred
the suit as a national class action because the plaintiffs
failed to prove the retailer had a nationwide policy that led to
gender discrimination. The case was sent back to the district
court in  San Francisco .  Women in this case amended their complaint in October to
limit bias claims to female workers in California. The new
complaint alleges Wal-Mart blocked women in the state from
promotions and paid them less than men for comparable work. A
hearing on Wal-Mart’s motion to dismiss the complaint is
scheduled for June 8.  Texas Case  A separate lawsuit on behalf of women in  Texas  filed in
October also claimed bias in pay and promotions. The plaintiff
is seeking to represent more than 45,000 women who worked in
Texas Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club stores from Dec. 26, 1998, until
at least June 2004. Wal-Mart’s motion to dismiss the case is
pending.  Lawyers suing Wal-Mart over gender bias claims “are
pursuing a series of narrower class cases,” Joe Sellers, a
lawyer for the women, said in an interview. He said he expects
15 or more such cases seeking class-action status to be on file
by the end of the year.  “We’re still interviewing women to assess whether their
claims fit the new standards for class actions,” Sellers said.  Wal-Mart earlier settled multiple class-action lawsuits
brought in state and federal courts in which the company was
accused of failing to pay for all hours worked or not properly
compensating employees for overtime. The company announced in
December 2008 that it would pay as much as $640 million to
settle 63 federal and state class-action lawsuits involving
those pay claims.  Forced Overtime  The claims included allegations that Wal-Mart managers
denied or cut short rest breaks, forced overtime or manipulated
time cards to reduce pay.  “Resolving this litigation is in the best interest of our
company, our shareholders and our associates,” Thomas Mars,
then Wal-Mart’s general counsel, said at the time in a joint
statement by the company and the plaintiffs. “Many of these
lawsuits were filed years ago and the allegations are not
representative of the company we are today.”  Wal-Mart lost a $78 million jury verdict in  Pennsylvania  in
2006 over rest breaks and unpaid work and a $172 million verdict
in California in 2005 over meal breaks. The company announced in
a regulatory filing in 2009 that it settled the California
lawsuit, agreeing to pay at least $77 million and as much as
$152 million, depending on the number and amount of claims.  Minnesota Settlement  A Minnesota judge in 2008 found the company required hourly
employees to work off-the-clock during training and denied full
rest or meal breaks in violation of state wage and hour laws.
The decision left the company vulnerable to a possible
$2 billion judgment. Wal-Mart settled the case for $54 million.  In 2005, the company’s No. 2 executive, Thomas Coughlin,
retired after an internal investigation found he had embezzled
from the company. In January 2006, Coughlin pleaded guilty to
five counts of  wire fraud  and a tax charge, admitting he
falsified expense reports and stole Wal-Mart gift cards to pay
for items including hunting gear, alcohol, underwear and a
stuffed wild boar.  In 2003, U.S. officials arrested more than 250 suspected
illegal immigrants at 61 Wal-Mart stores in 21 states as part of
an investigation into cleaning crews and other outside
contractors used by the company. Wal-Mart agreed to pay
$11 million and to improve its oversight of contractors to
resolve the investigation. At the time, the settlement was the
biggest payment to the government in a case involving
allegations of employing illegal immigrants, according to the
government.  General Counsel  In 2002, Wal-Mart replaced its general counsel, Robert Rhoads, with Mars, a former director of the Arkansas State
Police. Mars, according to the  New York  Times, was one of the
Wal-Mart executives who received memoranda reporting the bribery
allegations in Mexico in 2005, while he was still general
counsel. He is now executive vice president and chief
administrative officer for Wal-Mart.  In the six years before 2002, Wal-Mart was sanctioned 60
times by judges for concealing and destroying evidence, and for
delaying customer lawsuits.  In one case, a Texas judge in a sexual harassment case
against Wal-Mart said of the company in 1996: “Rarely has this
court seen such a pattern of deliberate obfuscation, delay,
misrepresentation, and downright lying to another party and to a
court. The court is shocked at this behavior.”  Study Concealed  In several of the cases, filed by customers who were
attacked outside  Wal-Mart stores , the company was found to have
concealed a study it had made of parking lot security. In a case
filed by a Beaumont, Texas, woman who claimed she was abducted
from a Wal-Mart parking lot and raped, a state judge threatened
to fine Wal-Mart $18 million for failing to turn over the study.  The judge withdrew the fine after Wal-Mart’s litigation
chief apologized in court for the company’s “misguided
conduct.” Later, after Wal-Mart had settled the case on
confidential terms, a memorandum by the lawyer became public in
which he had specifically warned the company about crime in Wal-
Mart’s Beaumont parking lots before the incident. Wal-Mart
hadn’t turned the memo over to the woman’s lawyers, despite an
order requiring it to do so.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net :
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  