-- Wall Street Promotes Junk Bonds as Europe Erupts
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-04-24T16:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/wall-street-promotes-junk-bonds-as-europe-erupts.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are recommending junk bonds as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis flares and concern mounts over
the strength of the U.S. recovery.  Morgan Stanley said last week that U.S. high-yield
obligations were in a “sweet spot” as borrowers cut their debt
loads. JPMorgan said junk yields will fall more than half a
percentage point by year-end. Bank of America favors debentures
rated in the middle tier of speculative grade.  Gains on U.S. high-yield, high-risk bonds, which are little
changed since the end of February, are set to accelerate as
central banks respond more aggressively to contain Europe’s
fiscal imbalances, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan said. While
forecasting the default rate will rise this year, Moody’s
Investors Service says the figure will stay below historic
averages.  “High yield is still providing attractive spread
compensation, even adjusting for defaults relative to higher-
quality credit,” Adam Richmond, a high-yield credit strategist
at New York-based Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview.
“Certainly there are growing concerns surrounding  Europe . We
believe it’s a somewhat different situation this year in part
given more responsive central banks globally.”  While the extra yield investors demand to hold U.S. junk
bonds rather than government debt has declined 103 basis points
this year to 620 basis points, spreads are still up from last
year’s low of 452 on Feb. 21, 2011, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. Spreads soared to 910 basis points on
Oct. 4, a two-year high, on concern the European crisis would
drag the global economy into recession.  ‘Still Looks Attactive’  “Relative to other areas to invest in, high yield still
looks attractive,”  Peter Acciavatti , head of U.S. high yield at
JPMorgan, said in a telephone interview.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect against a
default by  Ford Motor Co. (F)  dropped the most since October after
 Fitch Ratings  raised the automaker’s credit ratings to
investment grade.  Credit-default swaps on Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford fell
40 basis points to a mid-price of 265 basis points as of 11 a.m.
in New York, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. That’s
the biggest decline since Oct. 6 and the lowest level since
March 19, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Fitch raised the issuer default rating of Ford and its Ford
Motor Credit unit to BBB-, the lowest investment grade, from
BB+, the ratings firm said in a statement today, citing the
automaker’s improved liquidity, lower debt and reduced pension
obligations.  GE Most Active  “The upgrade of Ford’s ratings reflects the automaker’s
significantly improved financial performance, balance sheet
repair and product portfolio improvement that have taken place
over the past several years,” analysts led by  Stephen Brown 
wrote in the the report.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 123 trades of $1 million or
more as of 12:19 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. GE Capital Corp. is planning to sell $3 billion of
bonds in a two-part offering as soon as today, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction.  Returns Slowing  U.S. high-yield bonds have returned 0.05 percent since Feb.
29 after gaining 5.25 percent in the first two months of the
year, more than the 4.38 percent in all of 2011, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II Index.
 Junk bonds , which are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than
BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , lost 7.46 percent in August and
September of last year.  Returns are slowing as a backlash in Europe against budget
cuts gains momentum and economists forecast growth is slowing in
America.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his cabinet’s
resignation amid a revolt against spending cuts. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of his re-
election bid as the anti-euro National Front won a record share
of the vote.  In the U.S., while gross domestic product grew at a 3
percent pace in the last three months of 2011, it will slow to
2.3 percent this year, according to the median estimate of 74
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Projections for GDP growth
this year are slower than the 3.1 percent posted in 2005 and 2.7
percent in 2006 before the recession and financial crisis.  ‘Shock Absorber’  While headwinds that will hinder near-term gains for high-
yield bonds are growing, the  U.S. economy  can still act “as a
shock absorber, helping to offset the potential impact caused by
changing European sovereign conditions,” the JPMorgan analysts
led by Acciavatti wrote in an April 20 note to clients.  The JPMorgan analysts forecasted junk yields will decline
56 basis points to 7 percent by the end of 2012.  Returns on junk bonds may reach 6.3 percent for the rest of
the year, Morgan Stanley’s Richmond wrote in an April 20 note to
clients, as “modest economic growth” pushes borrowers to trim
debt levels, default rates remain below 3 percent and investor
appetite for higher-yielding assets increases amid a “mild
recession” in Europe.  Debt in the B tier of the ratings scale that’s less exposed
to the risk of rising  interest rates  compared with BB debentures
and less vulnerable to default than CCC is attractive, Bank of
America analysts led by Oleg Melentyev wrote in an April 20 note
to investors.  ‘Best Asset’  “There are very few places in the fixed-income universe
where investors could expect a similar degree of protection,”
the Bank of America analysts said of high yield.  While Moody’s raised its year-end global speculative-grade
default forecast this month to 3 percent from 2.6 percent after
11 companies defaulted in March, the figures compare with the
ratings firm’s long-term average 4.8 percent. The default rate
was at 2.3 percent as of the end of the first quarter, up from
1.8 percent at year-end.  “It’s the best asset to hold right now” unless Europe’s
crisis creates a “systemic risk,”  Kingman Penniman , chief
executive officer of KDP Investment Advisors Inc. in Montpelier,
 Vermont , said of high-yield bonds in a telephone interview.
“High-yield is a class that can absorb concerns in interest
rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  