-- Warnaco Looking for Deals to Broaden Beyond Calvin Klein
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/warnaco-looking-for-deals-to-broaden-beyond-calvin-klein.html
  Warnaco Group Inc. (WRC)  wants something
to come between it and its Calvin Klein brand.  With Calvin Klein representing more than three-quarters of
Warnaco’s revenue, the New York-based company says it is on the
hunt to acquire a major brand to help it diversify.  Warnaco may have little choice but to aggressively target
fresh brands, not just to lessen its dependence on its 44-year
old underwear and jeans label, but also to fend off possible
threats of itself being acquired by the company from which it
licenses the Calvin Klein name.  PVH Corp. (PVH) , which controls the
Calvin Klein brand, has made attempts over the years to acquire
Warnaco, and some investors worry it will try again, said Eric Beder, an analyst with Brean Murray Carret & Co.  “If Warnaco wants to be a truly global company with a
domestic store base, they need to acquire a new brand that has
U.S. stores,” Beder said.  “An acquisition also would bring to
an end investor speculation that Warnaco will be swallowed up by
PVH.”  Among the companies which may be under consideration is  Liz
Claiborne Inc. (LIZ) , which owns the  Juicy Couture ,  Lucky Brand  and
Kate Spade labels, said Jeffry Aronsson, chairman of Aronsson
Group LLC in  New York , which helps develop fashion brands.  These labels appeal to younger, contemporary consumers, and
can both fetch high prices while sustaining their own stores,
said Casey Flavin, an analyst at Hedgeye Risk Management LLC, an
independent equities research firm in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .
The labels are worth $2 billion, $350 million and $250 million,
respectively, Flavin said.  Ann Stores  Warnaco may also be looking at larger deals, such as going
after the nearly 1,000-store specialty retail network  Ann Inc. (ANN) ,
which operates some 280 Ann Taylor stores and 500 LOFT stores,
Aronsson said.  Warnaco executives declined to elaborate on public comments
for this article, said Wendi Kopsick, an outside spokeswoman for
the company. Daniel Gagnier, an outside spokesman for PVH,
declined to comment.  Liz Claiborne is “not currently contemplating” a sale of
the company, said Jane Randel, a spokeswoman, in an e-mailed
statement. ANN spokeswoman Catherine Fisher said “we do not
comment on market rumor or speculation.”  Warnaco has the cash for such a deal, Beder said. The
company had $232.5 million in cash and near-cash items at the
end of its fourth quarter, 22 percent more than a year earlier.  Flexible Corsets  Warnaco, which started out as a maker of flexible corsets
developed by Dr. Lucien Warner in the 1870s, obtained rights to
the  Calvin Klein  brand in the 1990s. By that time, the company
was being led by Linda Wachner, one of America’s most high-
profile and highest-paid female executives. During her 14 year
run, Wachner achieved impressive growth but eventually presided
over the company entering bankruptcy in 2001, the same year she
was fired.  Still, the legacy of the Wachner years is that the Calvin
Klein rights have allowed Warnaco to make jeans, underwear and
swimwear under that label and sell those in the more than 1,700
Calvin Klein stores it operates mostly internationally as well
as through department stores. PVH bought Calvin Klein’s company
from the founding designer in 2003, and remains the main owner
of the brand, producing its women’s runway collection, men’s
shirts and ties, and other goods.  Bronx Native  Bronx-native Calvin Klein, 69, who founded his company as a
Manhattan hotel coat shop in 1968, built the brand into one of
the world’s best-known labels. He is credited with creating the
designer jean craze, helped by a young Brooke Shields, who
declared in an ad campaign that nothing would come between her
and her Calvins. Also memorable was the marketing campaign for
his underwear, which featured scantily clad  Mark Wahlberg  on
huge billboards. The brand generates $7.6 billion in total
revenue, according to PVH.  Warnaco’s Calvin Klein jeans licenses expire in 2044 and
2046. It owns the Calvin Klein underwear and sleepwear
trademarks as well as the Warner’s and Olga intimate-apparel
brands and licenses the Speedo and Chaps brands.  Chief Executive Officer Helen McCluskey, who started in
February, recognized the dependence on Calvin Klein and is
focused on diversifying to increase returns to shareholders,
Aronsson said.  “We’re frankly quite concentrated in Calvin Klein from a
brand perspective,” Stanley Silverstein, executive vice
president for New York-based Warnaco’s international strategy,
told an investor gathering last month. “And as much as we love
Calvin -- which we certainly do -- we would like to diversify
that portfolio.”  Share Performance w  The company’s shares gained 6.2 percent this year before
today, while PVH’s jumped 24 percent. The four-member Standard &
Poor’s 500 Apparel & Accessories Index climbed 20 percent.  Without an acquisition, Warnaco may add $1.5 billion in
revenue from its current portfolio by 2016, bringing total
revenue to $4 billion, Silverstein projected.  As the company looks for an acquisition, it will have to
compete with other large suitors that are on the prowl, Aronsson
said. Warnaco also would be buying in a market where valuations
have soared after  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS) ’s initial public
offering sparked interest in luxury brands, Silverstein said.
Kors shares have more than doubled since the sale in December.  “It would excite people of they did an acquisition now, if
it is considered a good fit,” said Diana Katz, an analyst at
Lazard Capital in New York, who rates the shares neutral. “The
markets have rallied with rumors of any acquisition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  