-- Weidmann Says Bundesbank Is Preserving Euro Stability
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-04-24T11:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/weidmann-says-bundesbank-is-preserving-euro-stability.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
rejected as absurd a claim by billionaire  George Soros  that the
German central bank is preparing for the euro’s demise.  “That’s ridiculous,” Weidmann said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu to be broadcast on “In the
Loop” today. “What we are doing is we are preserving the
stability foundation of the monetary union. I am deeply
convinced that the monetary union can only survive if the euro
remains a stable currency.”  Soros said in a speech in Berlin on April 12 that the
Bundesbank is taking steps to limit the losses it would face if
the euro fails. That’s “creating a self-fulfilling prophecy,”
Soros said. “Once the Bundesbank starts guarding against a
breakup, everybody will have to do the same. Markets are
beginning to reflect this.”  Weidmann wrote to European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  in February warning of the risks the ECB is taking in
lending more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) to euro-area
financial institutions as it battles the region’s debt crisis.
The Bundesbank has also set aside an extra 4.1 billion euros to
cover itself in the event of losses arising from ECB policies.  Soros, best known for making $1 billion in 1992 betting the
U.K. would be forced to devalue the pound, said if  Europe ’s
monetary union collapsed, it would “leave the central banks of
the creditor countries with large claims against the central
banks of the debtor countries which would be difficult to
collect.”  Bundesbank Claims  Such claims, which show up in the so-called Target-2
payments system, have mounted up at the Bundesbank during the
debt crisis and totaled 547 billion euros at the end of
February, Weidmann said March 13.  According to  Germany ’s Spiegel magazine, the ECB was
alarmed that Weidmann raised concerns about the imbalances in
his letter to Draghi, as it amounted to an admission that the
monetary union could splinter. The letter hasn’t been published.  Weidmann refused to speculate in the interview about member
states leaving the euro. He said rising bond yields in countries
such as  Spain  are not necessarily bad as they provide an
incentive for governments to carry out reforms.  Asked why he opposes further monetary stimulus, Weidmann,
who sits on the ECB’s Governing Council, said the central bank’s
job “is to ensure  price stability .”  “If our actions lead to the sense of urgency disappearing,
or political actions necessary to tackle the root causes of the
crisis being delayed or postponed, then these are side effects
that are detrimental,” he said.  The euro has been beneficial for Germany and “we fight for
the common currency to be a stable one,” Weidmann said.  The interview is scheduled to be broadcast at 2:35 p.m.
Frankfurt time today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in New York at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in New York at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  