-- Wells Fargo Protesters Disrupt Stumpf Speech at Meeting
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-04-25T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/wells-fargo-protesters-impede-shareholders-at-annual-meeting.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  shareholders
needed police help to enter the bank’s annual meeting yesterday
in San Francisco as at least 500 people gathered to protest the
company’s lending and foreclosures.  Sounds from the street wafted up to the 15th floor of the
Merchants Exchange Building across from Wells Fargo’s
headquarters in the city’s financial district, where Chief
Executive Officer  John Stumpf  was interrupted at least four
times by shouting. About two dozen were arrested as protesters
chained themselves together to block an entrance and others made
it inside, chanting as police cleared paths for attendees.  Members of Occupy Wall Street are among groups seeking to
revive last year’s protests against the nation’s biggest banks
for their role in causing the financial crisis and gaps between
the incomes of the nation’s richest and poorest citizens. Wells
Fargo is the largest provider of U.S. home loans and runs the
biggest servicing operation, which handles billings, collections
and foreclosures for banks and investors who own mortgages.  “We are here to put stories to the numbers and faces to
the bottom line,” said Sarah Lombardo, 29, of Oakland, who
joined a human chain with five others to block shareholders from
entering the building. Her parents’ house in  Southern California 
was  foreclosed  two years ago, wrecking her family’s credit,
preventing her from getting a college loan and forcing her to
work two jobs to help pay tuition, she said in an interview.  Lombardo said she didn’t know the names of the four banks
that held the mortgage. The lenders foreclosed after her father
was disabled in an accident and her mother got cancer, making it
tough for them to make payments, she said.  Stumpf Interrupted  Inside the hall, Stumpf was interrupted less than a minute
into his presentation by a person shouting that the bank should
pay its fair share of taxes, followed by at least two more such
protests and a disruption by several people at once. Stumpf, 58,
told the people they were out of order, and security personnel
and  San Francisco  police escorted them out.  “There has to be a desire on both sides to have a true
dialogue,” Oscar Suris, a Wells Fargo spokesman, said in an
interview. “We respect the protesters’ right to protest, but
well before their voices were heard today we already had a deep
appreciation for the many challenges our customers are facing in
today’s economy.”  No one queried Stumpf during a question-and-answer period,
and he ended the meeting after shareholders voted to approve the
management-compensation plan and the slate of directors.  Worldwide Movement  Organizers of Occupy Wall Street are planning protests in
more than 115 cities on May 1. The worldwide movement was born
Sept. 17 as about 1,000 people marched in  New York City  and
eventually set up camp in  Lower Manhattan ’s Zuccotti Park.  Demonstrators who descended on Wells Fargo’s annual meeting
yesterday set up a makeshift stage on the back of a truck,
chanting “Let us in” as the start of the meeting approached.
Others marching in a circle near a side entrance performed a
call-and-response chant: “Banks got bailed out, we got sold
out.” Some held signs reading, “Occupy Wells Fargo, stop
predatory loans,” and others brought a posterized mockup of the
company’s  stagecoach logo  festooned with protest slogans.  Dozens of people holding what appeared to be stock
certificates pressed against a police barricade at the front of
the building said they were being denied access to the meeting.  Maria Guillen, a protester who declined to give her age,
said she wanted to attend the meeting to tell executives that
the bank should pay its fair share of taxes.  ‘People Are Struggling’  Wells Fargo paid almost $4 billion in federal, state and
corporate income taxes last year as profit climbed 29 percent to
$15.9 billion, according to the company’s 2011  annual report .  “We know our customers and with what’s going on in the
economy, people are struggling,” said Suris, the Wells Fargo
spokesman.  Minutes after the meeting started, protesters outside
announced they had taken over the meeting, drawing cheers. Those
who had chained themselves to block one entrance departed,
declaring that they had accomplished their mission. The
demonstrations took on a carnival atmosphere, with people
dancing to a Brazilian drum circle and donning costumes,
including one woman dressed as an anti-Wells Fargo cheerleader.  Sgt. Daryl Fong, a San Francisco police spokesman, said
city police arrested 20 protesters and that the San Francisco
Sheriff’s Department arrested four others. Of those arrested by
city police, 14 were taken into custody during the meeting and
six others were charged with trespassing, Fong said.  Other Occupy protesters, taking aim at what they called
 Wall Street  West, were arrested Jan. 20 as they sought to shut
the company’s headquarters. Wells Fargo was one of the few banks
to acknowledge the movement in its annual report and list the
protests as a risk factor that could harm the business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  