-- WestLB Loses Appeal in $22.3 Million Case Over Worthless Bonds
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-04-24T09:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/westlb-loses-appeal-in-22-3-million-case-over-worthless-bonds.html
WestLB AG lost an appeal over
whether it is owed $22.3 million by  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  after
the Japanese bank decided debt securities it had created became
worthless at the height of the financial crisis.  The lender appealed an earlier decision in favor of Nomura
by a U.K. judge, who said Dusseldorf, Germany-based WestLB
failed to prove the valuation resulted in losses that wouldn’t
have occurred anyway, according to court papers. Judge Bernard Rix turned away the government-owned bank’s appeal in a ruling
handed down today in London.  The securities, linked to an Asian investment fund, were to
mature in November 2008. As a result of the banking crisis
caused by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Tokyo-
based Nomura couldn’t find bidders to establish the value of the
notes and concluded they were worthless, court documents said.  “This was a bad time to have to value the portfolio of
assets within the fund, but the issue in this litigation is
nevertheless as to its proper valuation,” Judge Rix said in the
judgment. “If everything had worked as it was supposed to have
worked, the parties to this litigation ought to have had no
exposure to the risk.”  Judge Rix in  London  ordered WestLB to pay 75,000 pounds
($121,000) in costs to Nomura.  Nomura in 2003 sold WestLB structured notes linked to the
Global Opportunities Fund, which was managed by First Capital
Management Ltd. of Mauritius, and arranged by the firm’s
managing director, Rafat Rizvi.  Nomura later determined there was no public information
about many of the entities in which the fund invested, and that
one of the entities was fake, according to court filings in the
lawsuit.  Indonesia  issued an arrest warrant for Rizvi, Nomura
said in the filings.  The trial court case was WestLB v Nomura Bank International
Plc & Anr, 09-497, On Appeal From the  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s  Bench Division , Case No. 09-497.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  