-- What Was the Very First Hedge Fund? Ask Warren Buffett
-- B y   K r i s t i n   A g u i l e r a
-- 2012-04-24T16:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/what-was-the-very-first-hedge-fund-ask-warren-buffett.html
The legendary economist and
investor  Benjamin Graham  is widely known as the father of  value
investing . He may also be the father of the hedge-fund industry.  While most historians and industry professionals credit
 Alfred Winslow Jones  with launching the first hedge fund in
1949, some people, including Graham’s protege,  Warren Buffett ,
disagree.  “Ben Graham managed a hedge fund in the mid-1920s,” Buffett
wrote in a letter to the Museum of American Finance. “It
involved a partnership structure, a percentage-of-profits
compensation arrangement for Ben as a general partner, a number
of limited partners and a variety of long and short positions.”  Jones’s company, A.W. Jones & Co., is probably credited as
being the first hedge fund because it was the first to be
labeled a “hedge fund,” a term that appeared in an April 1966
article by Carol Loomis in Fortune magazine titled “ The Jones
Nobody Keeps Up With .”  It was an in-depth profile of Jones, a sociologist and
former Fortune writer whose research for a story on technical
approaches to investing in the stock market prompted him to
leave journalism for finance.  A New Strategy  Jones’s “hedge” concept put him in a position to profit on
both rising and falling stocks. He used strategic short
positions to protect himself and his investors in case he
misjudged the general market trend. This was different from most
investment strategies at the time, which tended to protect a
portion of capital by maintaining cash reserves or bonds.  Loomis’s article noted that Jones’s funds had outperformed
the top mutual fund over the previous five years by 44 percent,
and had made a 670 percent return over 10 years. The story
catapulted Jones to legendary status in the investing world.  Although Jones’s approach was undeniably effective,
particularly during that period, his hedge method may not have
been unique.  Buffett asserts that, decades before Jones, Graham and his
business partner, Jerry Newman, were operating two companies
with standard hedge-fund characteristics. And Buffett should
know, as he worked for both.  “When I formed my own partnership in 1956, I was probably
influenced in the structure I established by my knowledge of the
Newman and Graham partnership,” Buffett wrote.  The details of that partnership are enumerated in the
Graham-Newman Collection, which Jerry Newman’s family donated to
the  Museum of American Finance  in 2007. Among the numerous
corporate documents, letters, photographs, books and press
clippings are the details of a partnership that was
groundbreaking and continually evolving, with revisions and
amendments to their partnership agreement appearing every few
years.  The collection also hints at the interpersonal relationship
between Graham and Newman, with dozens of letters on topics
ranging from investment ideas to philanthropic activities to
family updates. It includes personal mementos such as a sterling
silver medal Graham presented to Newman on the anniversary of
their partnership. It was inscribed, “To Jerry, a medal for
tolerating me for the past 25 years. Ben 1927-1952.”  Although analysis of the Graham-Newman partnership would
lead most to agree it displayed hedge-fund characteristics --
from its strategic long and short investment positions to its
compensation structure -- even those who don’t credit Jones with
running the first hedge fund debate whether that distinction
should go to Graham.  Aristotle, Investment Guru  In a 2007 article on CFO.com, Alan Rappeport  traces the
industry’s roots  as far back as Ancient  Greece .  “Many think of  hedge funds  as the current flavor of the
month in investing and  capital markets ,” Rappeport wrote. “But
scholars trace the funds’ roots back to a tale told by Aristotle
in which the philosopher Thales bet on a bumper olive crop.
Thales cannily wrangled with the owners of olive presses until
he gained the exclusive rights to use the equipment in the
upcoming harvest. Like today’s hedge-fund advisers, he used a
contrarian trade to profit mightily.”  Buffett might even agree with this assessment.  “I make no claim that Ben’s mid-1920s partnership was the
first” hedge fund, he wrote. “It’s just the first that I know
of.”  (Kristin Aguilera is the deputy director of the Museum of
American Finance and the editor of Financial History magazine.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Kristin Aguilera at
 kaguilera@moaf.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 