-- Wimbledon Says More Cash for Early Loss Not ‘Reward for Failure’
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-04-24T23:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/wimbledon-says-more-cash-for-early-loss-not-reward-for-failure-.html
Losing in the early stages of the
 Wimbledon  tennis championships has never been more lucrative.  The All England Club yesterday announced a 10 percent
increase in total prize money for the tournament to 16.1 million
pounds ($26 million). It’s the biggest jump since 1993 and most
of it will be directed toward the early rounds. First-round
losers will receive 14,500 pounds, or 26 percent more than last
year.  “It is a lot of money, but I certainly wouldn’t regard it
as being a reward for failure,” Wimbledon Chairman Philip Brook
said in an interview on Centre Court in southwest London. “Half
the people in our first round lose. That’s the nature of a
knock-out tournament, and what we’re doing is recognizing their
achievement for the rest of the year in terms of their world
ranking and therefore their ability to compete at Wimbledon.”  Players on the men’s ATP World Tour have been fighting for
a greater share of the revenue generated at the four Grand Slam
tournaments. There was talk of a possible strike by players
including Britain’s  Andy Murray  during last year’s  U.S. Open .
American  John Isner , ranked 11th on the ATP, said at January’s
Australian Open that players had a “legitimate beef” about the
amount of prize money offered at the majors.  The players’ total prize money accounts for between 12 to
16 percent of revenue at the Australian, French and U.S. opens.
Wimbledon doesn’t disclose its revenue.  ‘Loud and Clear’  “We’ve heard pretty loud and clear from top players and
tour management that there is a need for us to recognize the
growing cost associated with being a professional tennis
player,” Brook said. “It is an expensive business. There is a
lot of travelling and there is a lot of support team that need
to be taken care of. Those players were saying to us that
something needed to be done. So for this year, we have directed
most of our 1.5 million pound increase in prize money to what is
at the end of the day quite a large group of players.”  This year’s men’s and women’s singles winners will receive
1.15 million pounds, a 4.5 percent increase over the prizes
given to 2011 champions Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  and Czech Petra Kvitova.  Prize money for all three rounds of the Wimbledon
qualifying event was also boosted by 21 percent. A defeat in the
third round of qualifying is rewarded with 2,125 pounds,
compared to 1,750 pounds last year.  Wimbledon, which will be held June 25 through July 8,
followed the  French Open  in directing more prize money towards
early-round losers.  The clay-court Grand Slam event, which starts May 27 at
 Roland Garros  in Paris, two weeks ago announced losers from the
second qualifying round through the third round of the main draw
would be getting a pay increase of between 10 and 20 percent.
The French Open singles champions will receive 1.25 million
euros ($1.7 million), or an increase of 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the All England Club through the
 London  sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 