-- Working-Class Concerns Don’t Cause Romney or Obama Pain
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-24T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/working-class-concerns-don-t-cause-romney-or-obama-pain.html
Amanda Thomas wanted to share with
 Mitt Romney  her long list of worries: a health-care law that
will hurt her husband’s business, the debt that will burden her
2-year-old daughter’s generation, and the financial anxieties of
her parents in their golden years.  “I’m worried about my baby and I’m worried about my
parents,” she told the Republican presidential candidate,
sitting at a picnic table in the Pittsburgh suburb of Bethel
Park,  Pennsylvania .  Romney’s response was brief. “I share the concern,” he
said quickly before pivoting to a detailed explanation of the
potential insolvency of Social Security and Medicare.  A day later, President  Barack Obama  was talking with four
unemployed workers at a job-training program in the Cleveland
suburb of Elyria. Seated on a stool, sleeves rolled up and
wearing a tie, he asked them about the difficulties they faced
in training for a new career.  Bronson Harwood, who’s been  unemployed  for two years, said
he has grappled with his homework and had even less time to do
it in recent days because of the phone calls leading up to the
president’s visit.  Instead of offering sympathy, Obama cracked a joke, saying:
“I’m not going to give you an excuse for not doing your
homework.”  Financial Stresses  As they compete for the office that is the most personal to
American voters, Romney and Obama are striving to show they can
relate to the financial pressures facing working-class voters
brought on by the worst recession since the 1930s.  Their discomfort is on display when they speak with white
working-class Americans, a group defined as those without
college degrees that polls and primary results show both men
have struggled to win over.  Their personas strike a contrast with other presidential
candidates who campaigned successfully during economic hard
times in part due to an ability to empathize. In past
recessions,  Ronald Reagan  projected warmth,  Bill Clinton  a
consoling manner, and Franklin Roosevelt a sense of bonding with
people’s suffering.  “We have two candidates who don’t project that image of
feeling the pain,” said  H.W. Brands , a presidential historian
at the  University of Texas  at Austin. “In 2008, being able to
feel the pain of ordinary Americans wasn’t a critical thing.
It’s going to be much more important this year.”  Earning Less  Almost  15 percent  of the country is either unemployed or
working part-time because of an inability to find full-time
work. Though the economy is improving, Americans are earning
less than they did before the recession. In February, median
 household income  was 5.7 percent below its June 2009 level, when
the recession officially ended, according to a  study  of Census
Bureau data by Sentier Research, an economic-consulting firm
based in Annapolis,  Maryland .  “Romney oozes wealth and privilege and upscale suburbs,”
said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg
Political Report. Obama, he said, has a style that “is cool and
kind of elitist.”  Obama has focused on Romney rather than the voters as way
of saying that his circumstances more closely mirror theirs.  “I wasn’t born with a silver spoon in my mouth, Michelle
wasn’t, but somebody gave us a chance,” Obama said last week.  The remark was interpreted as an attack on Romney, the son
of  George Romney , a former governor of  Michigan  and chief
executive officer of American Motors Co., who grew up in a
wealthy Detroit suburb.  Labeled as Elitist  Still, Obama himself has consistently had a difficult time
winning over white, working-class, non-college graduates.  In both the 2008 primary against  Hillary Clinton  and the
general election against Republican Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , Obama underperformed among whites and voters without
college educations.  Clinton and McCain both labeled Obama an elitist for
telling a private group of donors at a San Francisco fundraiser
that economically struggling working-class voters were
“bitter” and “cling to guns or religion.”  It’s a label that continues to hurt Obama with these
voters. Recent polls show Romney outperforming Obama with white
voters who have attended some or no college, leading by 23
points, as compared to Obama losing that group by 18 points to
McCain in 2008, according to the latest  Pew Research Center
survey .  Romney’s Edge  White men in general have moved away from Obama -- while
they gave McCain a 16-point advantage in 2008, they’re giving
Romney a 26-point lead today.  Yet Obama’s ability to be re-elected doesn’t depend on
winning a majority of these voters; in 2008, he became the first
candidate to lose white voters by double digits and still win
the presidency. He just needs to hold down the margins,
according to Andrew Baumann, a vice president of the Democratic
polling firm  Greenberg Quinlan Rosner .  “It’s never going to be a group that Obama connects with
on a personal level, but Romney really helps him drive a
contrast with these voters,” said Baumann.  Obama’s campaign is trying to make that contrast by holding
events with workers who have been helped by his policies,
visiting factory floors and pushing policy initiatives that
center on the theme of economic fairness.  Both men are trying to appeal to NASCAR fans, and the
approach of each underlines the challenge in making a
connection.  NASCAR Owners  During a February trip to Daytona International Speedway,
Romney said he has some “great friends” who are NASCAR team
owners. Obama, at an April 17 Rose Garden event honoring NASCAR
Sprint Cup champion Tony Stewart, didn’t include himself when he
referred to the fans in attendance and joked that he was
thankful to the drivers “for not tearing up my grass” when
they arrived.  The burden is higher on Romney than on Obama. Voters may
have grown used to the president’s way of interacting with them
after almost four years in the White House. Romney, who just
this month effectively clinched his party’s nomination, is still
being introduced to a wider audience of independents and swing
voters.  During a recent event at a guardrail factory in Canton,
Ohio, hard-hat-wearing workers stared blank-faced when Romney
explained to them how to galvanize steel.  “This is an interesting place,” he said. “You see a lot
of steel around you.”  ‘Couple of Cadillacs’  Remarks about his wife, Ann, driving “a couple of
Cadillacs,” while extolling the virtues of American cars, and
saying he likes “being able to fire people” before the New
Hampshire primary only added to the sense that the wealthy
former founding partner of Bain Capital LLC, a Boston-based
private-equity company, doesn’t understand the concerns of
average Americans.  It’s not for a lack of effort by Romney. He switched suits
for skinny jeans, touted trips on Southwest Airlines and visits
to the Subway sandwich restaurant chain, and frequently deploys
his wife and sons to share family stories.  The former Bain executive also asks a lot of questions. The
interactions can come across more like business consulting than
compassion.  In Bethel Park, Romney quizzed Amanda Thomas, her husband,
Jason, and six other local residents about their careers,
children and concerns. The event, held around a picnic table
covered in plates of cookies, pretzels and chips, was intended
to capture the candidate engaged in casual conversation with
ordinary Americans.  Economic Anxiety  Todd and Kelly Wassel responded with an outpouring of
economic anxiety. With a daughter in college and a younger son
two years from high school graduation, Kelly said she’s worried
about how to pay for both of their educations. Although her
teaching job was safe, she watched cuts being made at nearby
public schools.  “They’re going to have to cut here, cut there, cut that,”
she said. “It looks good, but you never know when you’re on the
chopping block.”  Todd Wassel, who said he has some  job security  as an
aircraft mechanic, voiced concerns about the decline of good
manufacturing jobs and what that meant for his children.  “It seems like the things that we build in the  United
States  are just dwindling,” he said. “I like to see things
built. I’d like to see my son grow up as an engineer building
something here, not overseas.”  Romney responded with statistics rather than empathy.  2 Million Jobs  “In the last three years we’ve seen a reduction from just
over 600,000 new businesses being started a year to just over
500,000 started a year. So, a reduction of 100,000 new
businesses a year,” he said. “Now, had we not seen that drop-
off, we would have had 2 million more jobs approximately.”  Jason Thomas  asked how Romney would appeal to “Blue Dog
Democrats” like his parents, working-class voters frustrated
with the tax breaks they see given to wealthy taxpayers and
corporations.  Romney couldn’t speak about a shared, hard-scrabble
background. Instead, he warned voters not to be swayed by
political attacks.  Then, he turned to the familiar: an impassioned appeal to
patriotism that’s a mainstay of his stump speech.  “I love this country. I love the American people,” he
said. “It’s everyday Americans that will make the decisions we
have to make.”  ‘Tough Times’  Obama has shown a capacity to connect spontaneously. Last
week during the Ohio meeting, he talked for less than a minute
with Andrea Ashley, who told the president her home had been
devastated by a flood. Ashley, 42, stood so close to Obama
during his speech that she was able to read along on the
teleprompter and was surprised and touched to see him mention
her story.  “These folks inspire me, because a lot of them have gone
through tough times,” he said. “Andrea is still dealing with
the aftermath of the flood that damaged her home.”  “It was not in the teleprompter, but he added it,” Ashley
said in an interview. “He really did take away things that we
felt, and that meant everything.”  The economic conditions may trump any difficulties the two
candidates have connecting with the electorate on a personal
level. Still, in difficult times voters may look for a president
who moves behind-the-scenes empathy to the forefront, as
 Franklin Roosevelt  was able to do.  When Roosevelt’s funeral train passed by a weeping man in
1945, a journalist asked if he knew the late president.  “I didn’t know the president,” he said, “But he knew
me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  