-- Yandex Sinks on Profit Concern as Google Grows: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-25T03:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/yandex-sinks-on-profit-concern-as-google-grows-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX)  tumbled the most this
year on speculation the owner of Russia’s most popular Internet
search engine will report net income faltered last quarter as
competitors such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  encroached on its market share.  Yandex, which reports first-quarter earnings tomorrow,
slumped the most since Dec. 12 in New York, pushing its
valuation to 26.1 times estimated earnings, the cheapest level
since March 12. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the
most-traded Russian companies in the U.S. was little changed
yesterday at 101.75, the lowest since Jan. 24, while  futures 
expiring in June on Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index were
steady at 152,840 in U.S. trading.  Nasdaq-listed Yandex’s share of Russian online searches
averaged 59.4 percent in the first quarter, down from 60.8
percent in the last three months of 2011, while the share of
Google, owner of the world’s largest search engine, rose to an
average 25.7 percent from 25.5 percent, data compiled by
Liveinternet.ru show. Yandex will report a 35 percent drop in
first-quarter net income from the fourth, according to analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “Competition is increasing and Yandex has to figure out
how to maintain its market share so that it doesn’t cost it a
significant decline in profits,” Iouli Matevossov, a senior
analyst in Moscow at  Alfa Bank , which has rated Yandex equal-
weight since August, said by phone yesterday. “Their first
quarter results will clearly be worse than the fourth, which is
the strongest quarter in a year traditionally, and the market is
already reacting to that.”  One-Month Low  Yandex sank 5 percent to $24.54 in  New York  yesterday, the
lowest level in a month. Trading volumes rose to 1.73 million,
7.4 percent higher than the three-month average, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The Hague, Netherlands-based company will say that net
income in the three months to March 31 was 1.4 billion rubles
($49 million), down from 2.2 billion rubles in the fourth
quarter of 2011, according to the average of four analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of  China ’s dominant Internet search
engine, accounted for 78.5 percent of China’s search market by
revenue last quarter, compared with 16.6 percent for Google,
according to research company  Analysys International .  “The main risk for Yandex is competition,”  Anna Lepetukhina , an analyst at Troika Dialog who cut Yandex shares
to hold from buy on April 20, said by phone from Moscow
yesterday. “They may increase spending, may face a need for
more investments, particularly in labor costs, as they need more
and better services.”  Mail.ru Share  Yandex’s competition with Google is limiting the company’s
ability to boost profits, Lepetukhina wrote in last week’s
report.  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , the largest Russian-language  Internet
company , also reports its first quarter financial results
tomorrow.  Global depositary receipts of Mail.ru -- which holds stakes
in Internet companies  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Groupon Inc. and Zynga Inc.
-- fell 1.1 percent to $40.54 in  London , the lowest level since
April 12. The GDRs are up 56 percent in 2012, the best start to
a year since the stock debuted in November 2010.  Moscow-based Mail.ru -- which sells games and online
advertising, runs an e-mail platform in Russia and owns a stake
in a social network website -- has also been expanding its
search market share. Mail.ru’s share rose to an average of 9.1
percent in the first quarter from 7.3 percent in the previous
quarter, according to Internet data researcher Liveinternet.ru.  Facebook Profit Drop  Yandex also fell as Alexey Mazurov, head of the company’s
development department, filed to sell 280,000 common shares for
an estimated $7.2 million, according to an April 17 filing
released by Yandex on April 23. Mazurov has raised more than $3
million from selling 120,000 Yandex shares since March 20, the
filing shows.  Facebook, the world’s biggest social network which is
planning an initial public offering, said yesterday that first-
quarter profit fell 12 percent as sales growth slowed and
marketing costs more than doubled. The company said in a
statement that growing costs “could harm” business and
profitability.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, declined 0.2 percent to $29.56 yesterday,
the lowest level since April 10. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the index futures, rose 0.2 percent
to 32.45 points in U.S. trading.  Micex-RTS Halt  Russia’s  Federal Financial Markets Service  recommended that
the country’s Micex-RTS Exchange make staffing changes after a
technical failure on April 23 caused trading to be halted for
more than four hours.  The watchdog will have the legal authority to fire or
impose penalties on the managers of the exchange from Jan. 1,
2013, according to a statement e-mailed yesterday. It was the
third trading halt in the past 12 months and the second since
the Micex and RTS indexes merged into one exchange in December,
Nikita Bekasov, spokesman for the Micex-RTS, said on April 23.  American depositary receipts of  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s
largest maker of steelmaking coal, climbed in U.S. trading,
widening their premium over the company’s shares listed in
Moscow to 2.2 percent, the most in more than three weeks.  Mechel (MTLR)  added 2.5 percent to $8.66 in New York yesterday,
after dropping 0.2 percent to 248.70 rubles, or $8.47, the
lowest closing price since July 15, 2009. One ADR is equal to
one ordinary Mechel share. The coalmaker advanced as data
showing sales of new U.S. homes rose more than economists
expected in March, bolstering the outlook for global
commodities.  Crude oil for June delivery gained 0.4 percent to $103.55 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, while
Brent oil declined 0.5 percent to $118.16 on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude ,  Russia ’s chief export
blend, dropped 0.4 percent to $115.28 a barrel.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
gained 0.6 percent to HK$5.46 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:42
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  