-- ZTE Sees Opportunity as U.S. Carriers Cut IPhone Subsidy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-25T09:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-24/zte-sees-opportunity-as-u-s-carriers-cut-iphone-subsidy.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  China ’s second-largest
maker of phone equipment, said it has a chance to undercut
competitors including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone on handset prices as
carriers may seek to reduce spending on subsidies.  “Right now is a good opportunity,” George Sun, ZTE vice
president of corporate strategy, said in an interview April 23.
“We can do a balance between price, and the features and
functions we provide” on handsets.  The opening for ZTE comes as carriers that have absorbed
part of handset costs on expectations of making the money back
on usage fees look to trim those costs, boosting demand for
lower-priced phones.  Verizon Wireless (VZ) , a U.S. partner of Apple,
said this month it will begin charging customers $30 to upgrade
to a new phone.  Verizon’s addition of the upgrade fee suggests mobile-phone
service providers may take steps including trimming subsidies to
keep sales of the iPhone from reducing margins,  Walter Piecyk ,
an analyst at BTIG LLC in  New York , said in an interview on
Bloomberg TV.  “We encounter concern from carriers, and everyone is
showing their intention to cut” subsidies, Sun, 43, said in
Shenzhen, where ZTE is based. “There is a trend to try to be
more rational and cut those kind of subsidies to a more
reasonable level. That gives ZTE more opportunity.”  Sun said he had no specific information on which carriers
will cut subsidies, or by how much.  Smartphone Surge  ZTE became the world’s fourth-largest mobile-handset seller
in the fourth quarter, behind  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Samsung Electronics Co.
and Apple.  ZTE’s smartphone  sales  will more than double this year as
it gains market share in Europe,  North America , Brazil and
Japan, Executive Director He Shiyou said at the company’s annual
analyst day on April 23. The company plans to sell between 40
million and 50 million units, from 15 million in 2011, He said.  Huawei Technologies Co., ZTE’s larger domestic rival, has
been asked by carriers to make more high-end devices that could
compete with the iPhone, Shao Yang, chief marketing officer of
the company’s mobile device business, said today.  Sun, formerly chief executive officer for U.S. operations,
became ZTE’s head of corporate strategy last month.  ZTE expects smartphones and mobile devices including tablet
computers to contribute more of the company’s profit, Sun said.
By 2015, mobile devices will account for 50 percent of ZTE’s
sales, up from 40 percent this year, He said April 23.  Shares of ZTE rose 2 percent to HK$19.60 at the close in
Hong Kong trading, while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined
0.2 percent.  Revenue jumped 24 percent to 18.6 billion yuan ($3 billion)
in the first quarter, boosting profit by 19 percent to 151
million yuan as handsets sales increased, ZTE said today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  