-- 
‘Soft Rhetoric’ on Polish Rate Moves May Weaken Zloty, BNP Says

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-03-02T10:55:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/-soft-rhetoric-on-polish-rate-moves-may-weaken-zloty-bnp-says.html
The zloty may weaken if  Poland ’s
central bank decides today to leave borrowing costs unchanged
and follows with “soft rhetoric” about future interest-rate
moves, BNP Paribas SA said today.  Policy makers will probably keep the main seven-day rate
unchanged at 3.75 percent, according to 19 of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, as rising unemployment and slowing retail
sales eased concerns that consumer demand will stoke inflation.
Eleven expect an increase to 4 percent. The central bank will
comment on the decision at 4 p.m. press conference in Warsaw.  “Post-meeting comments will be important to digest,”
Michal Dybula, economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw wrote in a
note to customers. “A soft statement would increase downside
risks for the zloty.”  The zloty has retreated 1.5 percent against the euro after
Governor  Marek Belka  said on Feb. 21 that the 10-member rate
panel’s response to inflation will be “moderate” as long as
wage pressure remains mild.  Adam Glapinski , a member of the
panel who voted for half a percentage-point increase in August,
told the PAP newswire the next day that he saw no basis for  interest rates  to rise at the moment.  Polish inflation exceeded the upper end of the central
bank’s targeted range in January, rising to a 3.8 percent.
Policy makers in January lifted the main rate for the first time
since June 2008 to battle accelerating consumer-price growth.  “If the statement turns out to be reasonably hawkish, in
line with a rate hike at the next meeting on April 4-5th,
eventual weakening pressure on the zloty should be moderate, if
at all,” Dybula wrote.  Investors in Poland’s interest-rate derivatives market
pared their bets on the scale of monetary tightening through the
end of this year, forward contracts show.  Nine-month forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest
costs are trading 1 percentage point above the three-month
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate to which they settle. The spread
has narrowed from 1.09 percentage points on Feb. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  