-- 
Labor Laws in States Cost More Than 700,000 Jobs, U.S. Chamber Study Finds

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-03-02T17:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/labor-laws-in-states-cost-700-000-jobs-u-s-chamber-study-finds.html
State labor and employment laws are
costing the U.S. more than 700,000 jobs, thwarting development
of new businesses and undercutting the economic recovery, the
 U.S. Chamber of Commerce  said.  Paring back regulations that exceed federal standards would
help spur 50,000 new businesses each year, according to a report
released today by the Chamber, the nation’s biggest business
group.  The Washington-based Chamber has protested an “explosion”
of federal rules in the past few years that the group said cost
the economy $1.7 trillion a year. Chamber President Thomas
Donohue urged officials on Jan. 11 to “rein in excessive
regulation,” and a week later President  Barack Obama  ordered
elimination of rules that hamper economic growth.  “The purpose of the study we put out is to show the great
variation that exists among the states and to demonstrate the
job growth and business development that would result from
reforms,” said Glenn Spencer, executive director of the
Workforce Freedom Initiative at the Chamber, said today at a
news conference in  Washington .  The study commissioned by the Chamber reviewed state laws
including minimum wages that exceed federal requirements, as
well as rules on hours and working conditions, discrimination,
family and medical leave and collective bargaining.  Union Response  The study is part of an attack by the Chamber on
regulations that help workers and protect jobs, a union
spokeswoman said.  “In general, this is another typical play by the chamber
to say laws hinder business growth,” said Jill Cashen, a
spokeswoman for the United Food and Commercial Workers, which
has about 1.3 million members in industries such as retail food
and manufacturing. “That’s certainly not the case.”  States should revamp employment laws to promote jobs,
according to the report by Seyfarth Shaw LLP, a law firm with 10
offices in the U.S., and  Navigant Consulting Inc ., which offers
management services and helps resolve commercial disputes.
Changes may lead to seven months of  job creation , based on the
current pace, according to the report.  Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  said his state sought
tort reform and invested in job training rather than passing new
regulations exceeding federal requirements.  ‘Smaller Economy’  “We as a country have got to return to where our national
policies’ first priority is economic growth and job creation,”
Barbour, a Republican, said at the news conference. “Bigger
government means a smaller economy.”  The study focused on labor and employment practices in
states in 2009, assessing the effect on unemployment rates and
the creation of new businesses based on 34 characteristics.  U.S. unemployment fell to 9 percent in January, from 9.4
percent in December, and has exceeded 9 percent since May 2009,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.    Nevada  has the highest rate, at 14.5 percent in December,
followed by California at 12.5 percent. The U.S. West had the
highest rate in December at 10.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 