-- 
Madagascar Opposition Groups of Former Presidents Say to Form Government

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-03-02T13:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/madagascar-opposition-groups-of-former-presidents-say-to-form-government.html
Madagascar’s three main opposition
groups called for protests and said they will set up a rival
government until elections are held in the country.  There is no longer a legal framework for  Andry Rajoelina ’s
administration or parliament, Albert Zafy, former president and
an opposition leader, said in a speech today in Antananarivo,
the capital. Supporters should protest in the streets of the
city and the army should close parliament, he said.  “We will no longer accept the tyranny of those who claim
to govern us,” he said. “From tomorrow we will start to set up
our own transition which will stay in place until there is a
real negotiation to set up a real transition.”  The three groups, led by former president Zafy,  Marc Ravalomanana , and Didier Ratsiraka, rejected a proposal from the  Southern African Development Community  that Rajoelina stay as
president of a transitional government until elections to be
held before November. Rajoelina, then mayor of the capital,
ousted Ravalomanana with the help of the military in 2009,
leading to the Indian Ocean island nation’s suspension from SADC
and the  African Union  and foreign donors stopping aid.  Madagascar, with a $9 billion economy, is the world’s
largest vanilla grower, while oil, nickel and titanium products
have also attracted investor interest.  Ravalomanana, speaking to a crowd of supporters by phone
from  South Africa  where he has been in exile for two years, said
the three groups should work together to “bring a return to law
and order” in Madagascar.  Rajoelina is holding talks today with parties that have
accepted the proposal made by SADC, a grouping of 15 African
state that includes South Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Johannesburg at 
 hmcneish@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  