-- 
Adidas Rises After Forecasting Higher Profit, Revenue for Year

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-03-02T11:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/adidas-quarterly-net-drops-as-sales-gain-company-proposes-higher-dividend.html
  Adidas AG , the world’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker, rose the most in the benchmark DAX
index after forecasting increased sales and profit in 2011 on
higher revenue in China and other emerging markets.  Earnings per share will increase 10 percent to 15 percent
this year after more than doubling in 2010, Herzogenaurach,
Germany-based Adidas said in a statement today. Revenue will
increase at a “mid to high single-digit” percentage pace from
last year’s record 12 billion euros ($16.5 billion). The company
raised its 2010 dividend more than analysts expected.  Adidas has identified China along with  Russia  and  North
America  as “growth markets,” where it plans to generate about
half of its forecast 50 percent sales increase by 2015. Fourth-
quarter revenue gained 19 percent as sales climbed 25 percent in  China  and 34 percent in European emerging markets.  “Usually Adidas’s guidance is rather cautious at the
beginning of the year,” Christoph Schlienkamp, an analyst at
Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf, said by phone. “We may see an
increased forecast later in 2011.” Schlienkamp has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock.  The shares rose as much as 2.6 percent, and traded at 47.55
euros, up 2.2 percent, as of 11:56 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Adidas proposed a dividend of 80 cents a share for the
year, up from the prior year’s 35 cents. That beat the 66-cent
average estimate of 23 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Marketing Expenses       Net income for the fourth quarter declined to 7 million
euros, or 3 cents a share, from 19 million euros, or 9 cents, a
year earlier because of increased marketing expenses.  Adidas didn’t quantify the rise in marketing costs, which
included an advertising campaign at the start of the  NBA 
basketball season in the U.S.  The Adidas brand will start its biggest global advertising
campaign this month, Chief Executive Officer Herbert Hainer said
at a press conference in Herzogenaurach today. Adidas also plans
to add 100 stores this year, most of them in emerging countries.  “High consumer demand in  Asia  is helping Adidas to boost
sales and the company is also benefitting from the extension of
its own retail network which has higher margins than the
wholesale business,” said  Klaus Kraenzle , a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf,  Germany , at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 