-- 
UBS Says Madoff Trustee Might Make Privacy ‘Illusory’

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-02T22:54:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/madoff-investor-sues-u-s-over-sec-s-negligence-demands-about-270-000.html
  UBS AG (UBSN) , sued for $2 billion by the
trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s defunct firm, said the
trustee would have “carte blanche” to disclose confidential
material to 4,000 parties including rival banks under proposed
changes to his current rules of privacy.  Trustee Irving H. Picard, who is fighting hundreds of
lawsuits seeking $100 billion for investors in the  Ponzi scheme ,
has asked a judge to give him more freedom to use information
supplied for his investigations. Names and account numbers of
Madoff customers, amounts of withdrawals, redemptions, transfers
and transferees would lose their protection, UBS said in a
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  Picard’s proposal would “permit the trustee the unfettered
right to disclose UBS’s confidential information to over 4,000
parties, including some of UBS’s direct competitors,” the Swiss
wealth-management bank said in a court filing. It “threatens to
render any protections of the litigation protective order
entirely illusory.”  In addition, “Under certain foreign laws, bankers and
other professionals may be precluded from disclosing the
identity of their customers and the nature of transactions
undertaken on their behalf,” UBS said.  Kevin McCue, a Picard spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Picard sued UBS in November, alleging it aided the Madoff
scam by agreeing “to look the other way” and pretend it was
guarding real assets. The sealed complaint was followed by a
partially blanked out version protecting information deemed
confidential by  Switzerland ’s largest bank.  UBS said the allegations were “unfounded and without
merit.”  A hearing on Picard’s proposal is set for March 16.  The case is Picard v. UBS AG, 10-ap-4285,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 