-- 
Madoff Trustee Files Unsealed Suit Against Tremont Group

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-02T00:21:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/madoff-trustee-files-unsealed-suit-against-tremont-group-2-.html
The trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s former investment firm filed an unsealed complaint
seeking at least $2.1 billion from Tremont Group Holdings Inc.,
the hedge-fund firm owned by Oppenheimer Acquisition Corp.  The complaint filed yesterday was an public version of what
trustee  Irving Picard  submitted under seal on Dec. 7 against
Tremont, Oppenheimer, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.
and a group of related funds and companies. The complaint claims
Tremont, the second-biggest feeder into Madoff’s multibillion-
dollar fraud, profited from it.  “Tremont earned more than $180 million in fees in the six
years preceding the collapse of the scheme -- and as much as
$240 million over the life of the Madoff relationship,” Picard
wrote. “Yet every cent of the billions they accepted in
withdrawals and fees over the course of their relationship with
Madoff was money stolen from other BLMIS customers.”  Picard claims Tremont ignored clear signs that Madoff was
committing fraud. The unsealing of the complaint follows a
$100 million settlement in litigation on Feb. 25 of a lawsuit
brought by investors who claimed Tremont failed to take proper
steps to safeguard the money they lost in Madoff’s fraud.  Tremont Response  “Our position is unchanged, which is that we acted capably
and appropriately,” Montieth Illingworth, a spokesman for
Tremont, said in a telephone interview.  Mark Cybulski, a spokesman for Massachusetts Mutual, had no
immediate comment.  Picard claims Rye, New York-based Tremont ignored repeated
“red flags” that should have tipped it off to the fraud,
including impossibly consistent returns, unlikely trading
volumes, Madoff’s lack of transparency and his use of a three-
person accounting firm located in a strip mall as the firm’s
auditors.  Picard claims Tremont made false claims to investors about
due diligence investigations it made regarding investments,
including with Madoff.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina  after pleading guilty to running the
biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history.  Under an agreement between Picard and Tremont, the names of
Tremont employees not identified as defendants in the suit
remain redacted in the unsealed complaint.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The case is Picard v. Tremont Group Holdings Inc.,
10-5310,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
  Manhattan .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at +1-
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 