-- 
Airlines Can Stop ’Intrusive’ Check on Rolls’s Trent 900 Engine

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-03-02T18:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/airlines-can-stop-intrusive-check-on-rolls-s-trent-900-engine.html
Airlines that use  Rolls-Royce Group
Plc  Trent 900 engines, the type that exploded Nov. 4 on an
Airbus A380, no longer need to perform “intrusive” inspections
on their engines, the European Aviation Safety Agency said.  EASA had asked airlines to inspect the engines for
“abnormal oil leaks” after the engine failure on a flight
operated by  Qantas Airways Ltd . The explosion was probably
caused by an oil fire that may have led to the disintegration of
the engine’s intermediate pressure turbine disc. An oil feed
tube fracture, caused by a thin wall section, probably led to
the oil leak and fire, EASA said.  “The latest progress of the on-going investigation,
further assessment of manufacturing data and additional stress
analysis continue to support the above failure scenario,” the
regulator said today in an  airworthiness directive  on its
website. All parts containing the oil tube with a thin wall
prone to failure have been removed from service, the agency
said.  Rolls-Royce, based on  London , developed software to detect
conditions that may lead to the engine exceeding a safe speed,
and that shuts it down before it reaches a speed at which the
disc would burst, the regulator said on Dec. 13. The software
and the understanding of the event mean inspections for abnormal
oil leakage are “not necessary anymore,” are “intrusive” and
could “introduce some risk from possible maintenance errors,”
the statement said.  Qantas also reported oil leaks from Trent 900 turbines on
Feb. 15 and again on Feb. 24. In the latter incident, pilots
idled a Rolls-Royce engine on an A380 flying from Singapore to
London, according to a notice posted today on the website of the
Australian Transport Safety Bureau.  Qantas said both leaks last month affected different parts
of the engine than those involved in the November explosion that
forced an emergency landing in  Singapore . There were no injuries
or damage to the aircraft in either case.  Rolls-Royce fell 16 pence, or 2.6 percent, to 597 pence in
London trading, valuing the company at 11.2 billion pounds
($18.3 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  