-- 
Far Eastern Group to Buy Cement Suppliers in China Expansion

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-03-03T07:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/taiwan-s-far-eastern-group-set-to-buy-cement-suppliers-in-china-expansion.html
  Taiwan ’s  Far Eastern Group  may buy
as many as three cement companies in China as it expands into
the retailing, materials and chemicals industries in the world’s
second-largest economy, Chairman Douglas Hsu said.  Far Eastern Department Stores Co., the group’s retail unit,
plans to add two to three stores per year in China, and textiles
arm  Far Eastern New Century Corp. (1402)  will double capacity to make
materials used in plastic bottles and fabrics, said Hsu, 68, who
is chairman of both companies.  Far Eastern, which says it’s Taiwan’s third-largest
industrial group, has $500 million of investments planned for
China as it seeks to tap the mainland’s growing domestic demand.
Cooperation with  China Mobile Ltd. (CHL)  and an economic accord
between Taiwan and China will help the company gain access to
consumers in the world’s most populous country, he said.  “The Chinese government right now is pushing for internal
consumption, so exports may be playing second,” Hsu said in an
interview yesterday. “In retailing, if you take China today at
$5,000 to $10,000 per capita, they have a long way to go.”  The addition of one department store this year will take
Far Eastern’s China retail presence to 14 outlets, Hsu said. Its
floor space in China will expand 40 percent this year, he said.  Acquisitions in China’s cement industry, where the company
is ranked 13th, will help Far Eastern achieve its goal of being
among the top 10 suppliers within five years, Hsu said without
identifying the targets.  Acquisition Targets  Taipei-based unit  Asia Cement Corp. (1102)  and Hong Kong-listed
affiliate Asia Cement China Holdings Corp. have identified
“quite a few” possible targets, with as many as three being
likely acquisitions,  he said.  Asia Cement climbed 3.3 percent to NT$31 at the 1:30 p.m.
close of trade in Taipei, the biggest jump in more than a year.
Taiwan’s seven-member Taiex Cement Index gained 3.6 percent,
while the broader benchmark Taiex rose 1.4 percent.  “It’s very important for them to buy cement makers in
order to grab the growth opportunity,” said Kevin Lin, who
rates Asia Cement “neutral” at Fubon Financial Holding Co. in
Taipei. “In the next three to five years, retail and banking
will provide Far Eastern Group larger growth opportunities.”  Far Eastern Department Stores will also increase its Taiwan
floor space 84 percent, Hsu said. New locations will include
entertainment and lifestyle outlets besides retail stores.  Pure Big Stores  “We are evolving. Pure big stores are now being revised to
include larger areas, for the simple reason that I think the
single pure-store type of thing needs to be reconsidered,” Hsu
said. “Because people, with their wealth, want entertainment
and more besides just a store.”  The group, which operates Pacific SOGO and Far Eastern-
branded department stores as well as Geant hypermarkets, plans
to become Taiwan’s largest department-store operator by turnover
in 2012, overtaking privately held Shin Kong Mitsukoshi, Hsu
said.  Separately,  Far Eastern International Bank (2845)  has held talks
with Japanese, South Korean and North American investors seeking
to buy a stake in the Taipei-based bank as a stepping stone into
China, President Eli Hong said in a separate interview
yesterday, without identifying the companies.  Far Eastern, which is not willing to sell the whole bank,
may allow an acquirer to take as much as a 15 percent stake,
which would include a board seat, Hong said.  China Mobile  “We do not need to go in for a nationwide arrangement, all
we need is probably to hit one of the so-called big cities and
be able to operate in a 10 or 20 million sector,” Hsu said of
its  China  plans. Hsu is vice chairman of the bank.  Far EasTone Telecommunications Co., Taiwan’s third-largest
phone operator, of which Hsu is chairman, hopes to proceed with
a NT$17.8 billion ($600 million) investment by China Mobile, the
world’s biggest phone carrier by market value.  The deal will give the Chinese operator a 12 percent stake,
Hsu said. Taiwan regulations currently prohibit investment in
local phone operators by mainland Chinese investors.  The two companies have already agreed to cooperate on
mobile content, including games and Chinese-language music, Hsu
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 