-- 
Alam, Malaysia Airports, Bina, RHB: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-03-02T00:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/alam-malaysia-airports-bina-rhb-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI  Index rose 0.7 percent to
1,502.24.        Alam Maritim Resources Bhd . (AMRB MK): The oil and gas
services provider won an extension of a work barge supply
contract valued at 70.5 million ringgit ($23 million), according
to a company statement. Alam dropped 9.6 percent to 90 sen.    Euro Holdings Bhd . (EUHO MK): The furniture maker said it
signed an agreement to supply TDM Italia SRL with a range of
steel furniture including cupboards, lockers and pedestals. The
contract is valued at an estimated 5 million euros within the
first five years of the agreement, Euro said in a statement. The
shares fell 5 percent to 48 sen.        Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd . (MAHB MK): The airport
operator said it has proposed a final dividend of 11.75 sen a
share for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, according to a company
statement. The stock added 0.5 percent to 6.09 ringgit.       Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH MK): Malaysia’s state-controlled
carmaker said it signed a preliminary agreement with Nissan
Motor Co. that will pave the way for feasibility studies on
potential areas of cooperation, including the possible use of
Nissan’s platform and powertrain, it said in a statement. Proton
dropped 7.3 percent to 3.58 ringgit.        RHB Capital Bhd . (RHBC MK): The banking group said it
proposed a dividend reinvestment plan that will provide
shareholders the option to reinvest their dividends in new
shares. Shareholders can opt for new RHB shares at a discount of
not more than 10 percent to the five-day volume weighted average
market price, it said in a statement. RHB added 1.8 percent to 8
ringgit.        Swee Joo Bhd . (SJOO MK): The cargo shipping group aims to
complete a restructuring agreement to restore its finances by
the end of March, it said in a statement. The company is in
“active” discussions with its lenders, it said. The stock fell
7 percent to 20 sen.    Bina Puri Holdings Bhd . (BIN MK): The construction company
said its joint venture with Tim Sekata Sdn. has secured two
building contracts valued at 47.2 million ringgit ($16 million).
Bina Puri fell 2.3 percent to 1.28 ringgit.        Telekom Malaysia Bhd . (T MK): The state-controlled phone
and Internet company said an independent internal investigation
into alleged improper payments to its employees has been
completed and submitted to the country’s anti-corruption body.
Telekom added 0.8 percent to 3.97 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  