-- 
All NCAA Basketball Tournament Games Will Be Offered Free on IPhone, IPad

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-02T22:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/all-ncaa-basketball-tournament-games-will-be-offered-free-on-iphone-ipad.html
Every men’s college basketball
national championship tournament game will be available as a
free live stream for the first time on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, iPad
and iPod touch devices, Turner Sports and  CBS Sports  announced.  The games, which were available as a $9.99 application on
the iPhone and iPod touch last year, also will be available
internationally as free live streams for the first time, Michael
Adamson, a vice president at  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner
Broadcasting, said in an interview.  The free stream offer is a result of the networks’ attempts
to capitalize on younger viewers, who now routinely use hand-
held devices or tablets while watching television, Adamson said
in  New York  at an event to unveil the “2011 March Madness on
Demand” products.  “We want people using the product with these companion
views while they’re watching it on TV,” Adamson said. “If
that’s the case, that’s a success in our minds, because that’s a
good consumer experience and a larger aggregate audience as a
result.”  A specialized application will be offered for the iPad
configuration. The iPad debuted on April 3 last year, the same
day as the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament
semifinals.    CBS Corp. (CBS)  and Turner agreed in April on a $10.8 billion,
14-year contract for broadcast, Internet and wireless rights to
the tournament, which this year has been expanded to 68 teams.  All Live  For the first time, every game will be shown nationally and
in its entirety on CBS, TBS, TNT or truTV.  CBS last year offered a free mobile application for the
tournament that showed scores, statistics and schedules, while
the paid application allowed games to be streamed.  This year, the applications will be sponsored by  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Buick brand, as well as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   “It’s a math equation,” Walker Jacobs, an executive vice
president at Turner, said in an interview. “How much money did
we do last year? How much money are they bringing in? Can we
afford to bring it to consumers for free, and the answer is
yes.”  The CBS-Turner partnership has brought in more than 50
advertisers for the digital platform and revenue is up
“significantly” over a year ago, Jacobs said, declining to
reveal specifics.  Other new elements of the product include improved quality
and larger-format streams, and a digital viewing guide that
allows users to input local service providers, helping them to
locate televised games more easily.  The tournament begins March 15 in Dayton,  Ohio , and
concludes April 4 in Houston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 