-- 
R. Allen Stanford's Fourth Bail Request to Be Considered by Appeals Court

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-03-02T17:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/allen-stanford-bail-to-be-considered-by-appeals-court.html
An appeals court panel said it will
consider R. Allen Stanford’s fourth bid to be released on bail
while he awaits trial on charges he led a $7 billion investment
fraud.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New Orleans has rejected three
other Stanford bond requests, which he based on what he claimed
were violations of his constitutional rights. The former
billionaire’s latest bid cites alleged violations of his right
to a speedy trial under a federal statute that bars unreasonable
prosecution delays.  Stanford was deemed a flight risk by U.S. District Judge
David Hittner in Houston, who ordered him held without bond
after the Stanford Group Co. founder was indicted on 21 criminal
charges in June 2009.  “If we were to grant the appeal, what is the likelihood he
would be released?’’ Chief Judge Edith Jones asked Stanford’s
lawyer at a hearing today before a three-judge panel in  New
Orleans .  “Real quick,’’ replied Ali Fazel, one of the financier’s
attorneys.  Stanford denies he swindled investors of more than $7
billion through a scheme prosecutors say was built on fake
certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank. Stanford also denies parallel civil fraud
allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Drug Dependence  The former financier was transferred last month from a
Houston lockup to a North Carolina prison hospital, where he is
being treated for a jail-acquired dependence on anxiety drugs
and lingering injuries from a jailhouse beating. Once prison
doctors determine Stanford is mentally fit to assist in his
defense, he will be returned to Houston and scheduled for trial,
according to Hittner’s order.  At a January hearing in Houston, Stanford’s lawyers said
they needed two more years to adequately process millions of
documents and interview scattered witnesses. The financier had
been scheduled for trial in January of this year until Hittner,
on the advice of three psychologists, declared Stanford mentally
unfit to assist in his defense until he has been weaned from
drugs prescribed to him in prison.  Hittner asked Stanford at the time if he understood and
agreed with the lengthy delay requested by his attorneys.
Stanford said he did.  Speedy Trial  Stanford can’t now claim his right to a speedy trial has
been violated “when he requested the very continuance he now
complains’’ about, Jose Angel Moreno, the U.S. Attorney in
Houston, said in an appellate brief filed last month.  “The Speedy Trial Act doesn’t allow for him to benefit
from delays he caused,’’ Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa
told the judicial panel today. “What the defendant is doing is
playing a very cute semantic game.’’  Stanford’s lawyers claim his trial preparation has been
hampered by multiple changes in his criminal defense team and by
litigation over his companies’ liability-insurance policies. In
September, Stanford lost access to insurance proceeds he hoped
would fund his defense after Lloyd’s of  London  underwriters
successfully sued to deny him directors’ and officers’ coverage.  Hittner declared Stanford indigent because all of his
corporate and personal assets were seized by the SEC and placed
in receivership when the agency sued him for fraud two years
ago. Stanford is now represented by court-appointed Houston
defense attorneys Fazel and Robert Scardino.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Texas    Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  