-- 
Ally Heads for Bailout Exit With Sale of Treasury’s TruPS Stake

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-02T23:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ally-financial-begins-payback-of-bailout-as-treasury-prices-trups-holding.html
Ally Financial Inc., the auto and
home lender majority-owned by the U.S., took a step toward
regaining its independence after helping to arrange the sale of
$2.67 billion in trust-preferred securities held by taxpayers.  The offering included the Treasury Department’s entire
stake in the securities, known as TruPS, and was priced at par
to yield 8.125 percent, according to a company statement today.
Ally gets none of the proceeds, which will be used to defray
costs of the $17.2 billion U.S. bailout that saved the auto
lender from collapse during the financial crisis.  Taxpayers still hold 74 percent of Ally’s common stock,
which the Detroit-based lender plans to sell in an initial
public offering, and $5.9 billion of convertible preferred
stock. The stakes were given to the U.S. in return for propping
up Ally, which regulators deemed crucial to the survival of the
auto industry and Ally’s former parent,  General Motors Co. (GM)   “Today’s transaction represents an important step toward
exiting our investment in Ally,” said Tim Massad, acting
assistant secretary for financial stability, in a separate
statement. The sale is expected to close on March 7, the
statement said.  The proceeds will bring the Treasury’s return on its Ally
investment to about $4.9 billion, including $2.2 billion in
dividends and interest, according to the statement.  “We are grateful for the taxpayer’s investment in the
company during the financial crisis,” said Ally Chief Executive
Officer Michael Carpenter in the company’s statement. “We are
committed to repaying the remaining investment to the U.S.
taxpayer over time.”  Ally, formerly known as GMAC Inc., ranks among the biggest
new-car lenders in the U.S., and the firm’s fortunes have
recovered along with sales by the  auto industry . GM, Toyota
Motor Corp. and Ford Motor Co. said yesterday that sales in
February exceeded analysts’ estimates as rising consumer
confidence boosted industrywide deliveries to the fastest pace
in 18 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  