-- 
Amazon.com Threatens to Cut Ties With California Affiliates Over Tax Issue

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-03-02T14:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/amazon-com-threatens-to-sever-ties-with-california-affiliates.html
  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, has threatened to sever ties with more than
10,000 affiliates in  California  amid a dispute with the state
over proposed taxation of Internet purchases.  Four state proposals aimed at forcing Seattle-based Amazon
to collect taxes from residents may be unconstitutional and lead
to job losses, Paul Misener, Amazon’s vice president for global
public policy, wrote in a  letter  to the California Board of
Equalization.  The letter is the latest salvo in Amazon’s fight with state
governments over sales taxes. In February, the company said it
would close a  Texas  distribution site over a similar issue.
Amazon received a request from Texas last year for $269 million
in uncollected  sales tax , with the state contending that since
Amazon has a facility in Texas, it should be collecting such
taxes for online purchases.  “This is an imminent threat to California jobs,” Board of
Equalization Member Senator George Runner, who received the
letter, said this week in a  statement .  Amazon’s affiliates put ads for the retailer on their
websites and then get compensation when shoppers click through
and buy items. Californians could still shop at Amazon.com,
though state businesses would miss out on the ad sales,
potentially hurting  tax revenue , the company said in the letter.
When other legislatures passed similar provisions, Amazon
terminated its affiliate relationships and then collected no
sales tax for those states, according to the letter.  Earlier Fight  Amazon and California tussled over the tax issue in 2009,
when the state considered a similar measure. Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed the bill after Amazon said it would
terminate the affiliate relationships, according to the letter.
That same year, Amazon cut ties with affiliates in Rhode Island,  North Carolina  and Hawaii over tax disputes.  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Amazon, declined to comment
beyond the letter.  Amazon declined 92 cents to $168.52 at 9:46 a.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares had dropped 5.9
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  