-- 
Announced U.S. Job Cuts Rose 20% From Year Ago, Challenger Says

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-02T12:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/announced-u-s-job-cuts-rose-20-from-year-ago-challenger-says.html
Employers in the U.S. announced more
job cuts in February than in the same month last year, led by a
surge at government agencies.  Planned firings increased 20 percent to 50,702 last month
from February 2010, the first year-over-year gain since May
2009, according to a report today from Chicago-based Challenger,
Gray & Christmas Inc. Announcements at federal, state and local
government offices almost tripled from last year.  “More job cuts at the federal level are expected in the
months ahead as pressure mounts to cut costs and rein in the
soaring national debt,” John A. Challenger, the outplacement
company’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Dismissals of government workers may contribute to a
slowdown in  consumer spending , which accounts for 70 percent of
the economy. Combined with the highest gasoline prices in two
years, the threat of a pause in purchases may already be causing
retailers, which had the second-biggest number of announcements
last month, to pare payrolls, said Challenger.  “If gasoline tops $4 per gallon in the coming weeks,
consumers may be forced to make significant changes to their
spending habits,” said Challenger. “At this stage of the
recovery, that could be an extremely damaging setback.”  Compared with last month, which saw the fewest firings for
any January since record-keeping began in 1993, job-cut
announcements climbed 32 percent. Because the figures aren’t
adjusted for seasonal effects, economists prefer to focus on
year-over-year changes rather than monthly numbers.  Government Firings  Government and non-profit agencies led the February job
cuts with 16,380 announced reductions, according to Challenger.
Retail firms had 8,360.  Michigan led all states with 6,381 announced job cuts,
followed by the  District of Columbia , with 5,946.  Today’s report also showed that employers announced plans
in February to hire 72,581 workers, up from 29,492 the prior
month. The surge reflects Home Depot Inc.’s announcement that it
planned to add 60,000 temporary workers, Challenger said.  While touring an  Intel Corp . semiconductor manufacturing
facility in Hillsboro,  Oregon , last month, President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. must foster a business climate that
encourages  job creation  and assures companies can draw on an
educated workforce.  “In a world that is more competitive than ever before,
it’s our job to make sure that America is the best place on
earth to do business,” Obama said Feb. 18 at the factory.  Hiring Plans  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, announced plans
during Obama’s visit to build a $5 billion microprocessor plant
in  Arizona  and hire 4,000 employees in the U.S. this year.  Employers hired 193,000 workers in February, and the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a
March 4 employment report from the Labor Department.  Challenger’s data do not always correlate with figures on
payrolls or first-time jobless claims as reported by the
government. Many job cuts are carried out through attrition or
early retirement. Some employees whose jobs are eliminated find
work elsewhere in their companies and many announced staff
reductions never take place because business improves. The
totals also include foreign affiliates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 Akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  