-- 
Anti-Gay Funeral Protesters Win Freedom of Speech Case at U.S. High Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-02T23:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/anti-gay-funeral-protesters-win-freedom-of-speech-case-at-u-s-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court, saying even
hurtful speech is protected by the Constitution, ruled that
members of a Kansas church can’t be punished for staging an
anti-homosexual demonstration at a military funeral.  The justices, voting 8-1, said a lower court was right to
throw out a $5 million award to a man who said the demonstration
marred his son’s funeral. The protesters, from the Westboro
Baptist Church in Topeka, bore signs that said God was killing
U.S. soldiers to punish the country for accepting homosexuality.  The case tested the limits of the First Amendment, forcing
the justices to choose between endorsing broad speech rights and
protecting private citizens from being targeted by offensive
protests. Writing for the court, Chief Justice  John Roberts  said
the latter option would mean “punishing the speaker.”  “As a nation we have chosen a different course -- to
protect even hurtful speech on public issues to ensure that we
do not stifle public debate,” Roberts wrote. “That choice
requires that we shield Westboro from tort liability for its
picketing in this case.”  Westboro members have demonstrated at hundreds of military
funerals, typically bearing signs that say, “Thank God for Dead
Soldiers,” “Pope in hell,” “God Hates the USA” and “Fag
troops.”  The leader of the church, Fred Phelps, was one of seven
protesters at the 2006 funeral of Matthew Snyder, a Marine lance
corporal who died in  Iraq ’s Anbar Province.  Thousand Feet Away  The demonstration was held 1,000 feet away from the
Westminster,  Maryland ,  Catholic church  where the funeral was
held. The Westboro website later featured an “epic” that said
Snyder and his ex-wife “taught Matthew to defy his creator”
and “raised him for the devil.”  Albert Snyder sued Fred Phelps and two of his daughters for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. A jury awarded
Snyder $10.9 million, an amount later reduced by a trial judge.
A federal appeals court then threw out the entire award, and
Snyder appealed to the nation’s highest court.  Roberts characterized the ruling as a narrow one that
rested in part on Westboro’s compliance with police instructions
about where the protest could be held.  “Simply put, the church members had the right to be where
they were,” the chief justice wrote. He added, “The protest
was not unruly; there was no shouting, profanity or violence.”  Alito Dissent  Justice  Samuel Alito  was the lone dissenter, saying Albert
Snyder had a right to bury his son in peace.  “Our profound national commitment to free and open debate
is not a license for the vicious verbal assault that occurred in
this case,” Alito wrote.  Maryland has since passed a law that imposes restrictions
on funeral picketing, and Roberts said 43 other states and the
federal government have similar measures. He said those laws
weren’t necessarily called into question by today’s ruling.  “To the extent these laws are content neutral, they raise
very different questions from the tort verdict at issue in this
case,” Roberts wrote.  Albert Snyder told reporters his first reaction to the
ruling was that “eight justices don’t have the common sense God
gave a goat.” He said he expects to have to pay the Phelps
family $100,000 in court costs, money that he said will help pay
for more protests.  Margie Phelps, daughter of Fred Phelps and his lead
attorney in the case, called the ruling a “proper application
of the law” and said it was “about 10 times better than I ever
dreamed.”  ACLU and Palin  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, was among 21
news organizations that urged the high court to reject the $5
million award. They argued that a decision allowing the award to
stand would undermine free-speech rights.  The American Civil Liberties also urged rejection of the
award, and today an official praised the ruling.  “The court’s decision properly and respectfully
acknowledges the Snyder family’s grief,” said Stephen R. Shapiro, the group’s legal director. “But it correctly holds
that the response to that grief cannot include the abandonment
of core First Amendment principles designed to protect even the
most unpopular speech on matters of public concern.”  Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin was among the critics.
“Common sense & decency absent as wacko ‘church’ allowed hate
msgs spewed@ soldiers’ funerals but we can’t invoke God’s name
in public square,” the Republican said on her Twitter account.  The case is Snyder v. Phelps, 09-751.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 