-- 
Apple’s Jobs Reappears to Unveil IPad 2 as Rivals Circle

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-03-03T00:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/apple-s-steve-jobs-appears-at-company-event-in-san-francisco.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  emerged from medical leave to introduce a new version
of the iPad, aiming to stay ahead of a stampede of tablet-
computer rivals.  The iPad 2 features a faster chip and front and rear
cameras, which allow for videoconferencing. It’s also 33 percent
thinner than its predecessor, released in April. The product
will ship in the U.S. on March 11 and internationally on March
25, at the same $499 starting price as the previous model.  While the iPad 2 has few features that analysts hadn’t
predicted, it puts Apple one generation ahead of competitors. As
the company squares off against products running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software and tablets from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , it’s also counting on lower prices, a
chain of more than 300 stores and a broad array of applications.  “Rivals should be scared,” said Apple investor Michael Binger, a  fund manager  at Thrivent Asset Management in Appleton,
Wisconsin. “Steve Jobs has come up with an iPad that’s the same
price, it’s faster, it’s lighter, it has all the apps and
ecosystem that go around it.”  Jobs’s reappearance, his first public event since taking
his leave on Jan. 17, also helped assure investors that he still
participates in decision-making. The 56-year-old CEO, who has
battled a rare form of cancer, has taken time off for medical
reasons three times in the past seven years.  Stock Bounce  Apple shares advanced after Jobs appeared on stage. The
stock, up 9.2 percent this year, rose $2.81 to $352.12 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  “He was here to make a statement that he’s still very much
involved,” said  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.
in Minneapolis. “That’s just as big as the iPad announcement.
There are still going to be questions about his health, but he
certainly answered a lot of those today.”  In the past year, the iPad has become one of Apple’s top
sellers, surpassing the almost decade-old iPod media player.
It’s also inspired competition from Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. and Research In Motion. There are
currently 102 tablets from 64 makers either on sale or in
development, according to consulting firm PRTM.  “Everybody else is coming up with release one and they are
coming out with release two,” said Carl Howe, a director at  Yankee Group , a research and consulting firm.  Apple had little competition when it entered the market,
said Howe, noting that the iPad was one of the fastest
businesses to ever reach $1 billion in revenue. “The challenge
is how you follow that up.”  Android Tablets  The iPad  ranges  from $499 for a base model with 16
gigabytes of memory to $829 for a 64-gigabyte model with 3G
Internet access. Motorola’s Xoom tablet computer starts at $599
with a two-year wireless contract, and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab
starts at $249.99 with a two-year contract. Those models rely on
Google’s Android, an operating system that also runs
smartphones.  Jobs touted Apple’s range of applications as an edge over
competitors. The company said its App Store has more than
350,000 programs, with at least 65,000 of them taking full
advantage of the iPad’s capabilities.  “Our competitors were just flummoxed,” Jobs said.  The iPad 2 also is as much as 15 percent lighter than its
predecessor, and it features a gyroscope that can be used in
gaming and other apps. The device comes in black or white.  Next Generation  “They add enough features to make it attractive,” said
Apple investor  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment officer at
First Empire Asset Management in Hauppauge,  New York . “The
first-generation Google Android tablets now are probably better
than the first generation of iPad, so there was a need for a
response from Apple.”  Motorola said this week that sales of the Xoom, available
through  Verizon Wireless , started “relatively well,” and it
plans to introduce tablets with other carriers this year. The
Xoom drew accolades from reviewers -- including Bloomberg’s  Rich Jaroslovsky , who called it a “worthwhile competitor.”  Samsung said on Jan. 27 that it had shipped 2 million
Galaxy Tab devices. RIM, meanwhile, plans to introduce its
PlayBook tablet this year, and HP is readying a device that uses
software from its acquisition of Palm Inc.  The iPad 2 will account for at least 20 million tablet
computer sales in the U.S. this year, or 83 percent of the
market, said Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester Research
Inc. in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  ‘Fatally Flawed’  “The competing products we’ve seen announced so far from
Motorola, RIM, HP and others, while impressive, have fatally
flawed price and distribution strategies,” Rotman Epps said
today in a  blog post .  Today’s iPad announcement also affected the stock of
suppliers.  Silicon Image Inc. (SIMG) , a maker of chips that transmit
high-definition television content between devices, rose 22
percent after Apple introduced an adapter to output video from
an iPad to a TV.  Zagg Inc. (ZAGG) , which sells accessories such as iPad
cases, plunged 24 percent after Apple introduced its own magnet
case for the tablet.  The first version of the iPad sold 14.8 million units
through December, generating $9.6 billion in sales. This fiscal
year, the iPad may bring in as much as $16.3 billion in revenue
for Apple, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.
The iPhone, now Apple’s top-selling product, didn’t cross that
threshold until last year, more than three years after its
introduction.  Cook’s Prediction  The global tablet market is projected to surpass 200
million units in 2014, up from 17 million in 2010, according to
PRTM. Apple Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook , who has taken over
day-to-day operations while Jobs is on medical leave, told
Bernstein analysts that the tablet market will eventually
surpass the worldwide market for personal computers, which
totaled 350 million sold last year.  If Cook’s forecast proves correct, the iPad may eventually
generate $60 billion to $100 billion in sales for Apple,
according to Bernstein’s  Toni Sacconaghi , who published a report
after meeting with Apple executives last week. That compares
with Apple’s total revenue of $65.2 billion in fiscal 2010. The
report didn’t say when iPad sales might reach that level.  Today’s event is Apple’s second major product announcement
since Jobs went on leave. Cook, who didn’t speak at today’s
event, represented the company when it announced the iPhone
would be available through Verizon Wireless, ending AT&T Inc.’s
exclusive hold in the U.S.  Sales Debut  The iPad 2 may top the debut of the first generation, which
sold more than 300,000 in its first day and  1 million  in its
first 28 days,  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co.,
said in an interview yesterday on  Bloomberg West .  The device has been adopted by companies such as JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co. and Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. At
Apple’s annual shareholder meeting last week, Cook said the
company is adding to its sales force to sell more iPhones and
iPads to businesses.  The idea is to go beyond what PCs can do, rather than just
trying to create a tablet version of traditional computers, Jobs
said today.  “Our competitors are looking at this like it’s the next PC
market,” he said. “That is not the right approach.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 