-- 
Apple to Show Next-Generation IPad as Motorola, Samsung Step Up Challenge

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-03-02T16:09:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/apple-to-unveil-new-ipad-as-motorola-samsung-step-up-challenge-in-tablets.html
  Apple Inc . is set to refresh the
iPad computer line to stave off challenges from rivals that are
rushing into the fray with tablet-style devices of their own.  The new iPad, expected to be introduced today at an event
in San Francisco, is likely to have a more powerful processor, a
thinner body and front- and rear-facing cameras, said Carl Howe,
a director at  Yankee Group , a research and consulting firm.  Apple had little competition when it entered the market,
and it has built demand for devices that blend the features of a
smartphone and laptop computer. In less than a year, the iPad
has become one of Apple’s top sellers, surpassing the almost
decade-old iPod media player. The new model will face upstart
tablets from Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Research In Motion Ltd .  “Everybody else is coming up with release one and they are
coming out with release two,” said Howe, noting that the iPad
was one of the fastest businesses to ever reach $1 billion in
revenue. “The challenge is how you follow that up.”  Howe, formerly an analyst at Forrester Research, performs
market research on the technology industry. He said Apple could
aim to foil its competitors by cutting the price of the iPad,
though he called that move unlikely.  The iPad now ranges in  cost  from $499 for a base model with
16 gigabytes of memory, to $829 for a 64-gigabyte model with 3G
Internet access. Motorola’s Xoom tablet computer starts at $599
with a two-year wireless contract, and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab
starts at $249.99 with a two-year contract.  Customers weren’t able to access Apple’s online store early
today because the company was updating the website. A message on
the site said, “We’ll be back soon.”  Rival Devices  Motorola said on Monday that sales of the Xoom, available
through Verizon Wireless, had started “relatively well” and it
plans to introduce tablets with other carriers this year.  The
Xoom has drawn accolades from reviewers including Bloomberg’s  Rich Jaroslovsky , who said it’s a “worthwhile competitor” to the
iPad.  Samsung said on Jan. 27 that it had shipped 2 million
Galaxy Tab devices. Both are based on  Google Inc .’s Android
operating system. Research In Motion plans to introduce its
PlayBook tablet this year.  The first version of the iPad sold 14.8 million units
through December, generating $9.6 billion in sales. This fiscal
year, the iPad may bring in as much as $16.3 billion in revenue
for Cupertino, California-based Apple, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  New York . The iPhone, now Apple’s top-selling
product, didn’t cross that threshold until last year, more than
three years after its introduction.  Global Market  The global tablet market is projected to surpass 200
million units in 2014, up from 17 million in 2010, according to
consulting firm PRTM. Apple Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook ,
who has taken over day-to-day operations of Apple while Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  is on medical leave, told Sanford
C. Bernstein analysts that the tablet market will eventually
surpass the global market for personal computers, which totaled
350 million sold last year.  If Cook’s forecast proves correct, the iPad may eventually
generate $60 billion to $100 billion in sales for Apple,
according to Bernstein’s  Toni Sacconaghi , who published a report
on Monday after meeting with Apple executives last week. That
compares with Apple’s total revenue of $65.2 billion in fiscal
2010. The report didn’t say when iPad sales might reach that
level.  Holding the Market  Apple controls about 90 percent of the tablet market,
according to  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw Inc.
Even with the new entrants, he expects Apple to hold at least
two-thirds of the market.  “The iPad is the tablet market and the tablet market is the
iPad,” Kumar said.  Today’s event is Apple’s second major product announcement
since Jobs went on leave Jan. 17. Cook represented the company
shortly thereafter when it announced the iPhone would be
available through  Verizon Wireless , ending AT&T Inc.’s exclusive
hold in the U.S.  It wasn’t clear whether Jobs, who first introduced the iPad
in San Francisco last January, will attend today’s event. Steve Dowling, a spokesman, declined to comment.  Apple rose $2.69 to $352 at 11:08 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had gained 8.3 percent
this year before today.  Sales of Apple’s new iPad may exceed those of the first
generation, which sold more than 300,000 in its first day and  1
million  in its first 28 days,  Brian Marshall , an analyst at
Gleacher & Co., said in an interview yesterday on  Bloomberg
West .  The device has been adopted by companies including JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co. and Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. At
Apple’s annual shareholder meeting last week, Cook said the
company is adding to its sales force to sell more iPhones and
iPads to businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 