-- 
Apple Has Edge on Tablet Competitors Because of IPad Costs, Bernstein Says

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-03-02T21:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/apple-has-edge-on-tablet-rivals-because-of-ipad-costs-bernstein-says.html
  Apple Inc .’s iPad, which commands
about three-quarters of the market for tablet computers, has an
edge over rivals because of the way the company sources
components and sells the device, a report says.  Several factors give Apple an iPad cost advantage of as
much as 9.75 percentage points over competitors, Sanford C.
Bernstein analyst  Toni Sacconaghi  wrote today in a research
note. The company is also pricing iPad more aggressively than
its other products, making it difficult for rivals to undercut
the tablet, he said.  “Apple’s products have traditionally commanded a
significant price premium in the marketplace,” wrote
Sacconaghi, who has an “outperform” rating on the stock.
“Surprisingly then, no competitor has yet matched Apple on
tablet pricing, which begs the question of why.”  Today, the Cupertino, California-based company introduced
the iPad 2, refreshing the product line with a second edition of
the device that sparked a rush of competitors. The iPad, which
in under a year eclipsed Apple’s iPod as a top seller, had a 75
percent share of global tablet shipments last quarter, according
to Boston-based  Strategy Analytics .  Apple pays less in commission to retailers because a third
of iPads are sold through its own stores or online, said
Sacconaghi. At the same time, Apple has used its reserves of
cash to buy up a larger number of components and secure
manufacturing capacity in advance more cheaply than its
competitors, he said.  “Aspiring tablet competitors are further thwarted
currently by reported shortages in key components including
touch panels, which makes it harder to bring a product to
market, let alone at competitive prices,” Sacconaghi said.  Processor Design  By designing its own processor, Apple generates additional
margin savings of about 200 basis points, or 2 percentage
points, he estimated. Combined, this gives the iPad an advantage
of 750 basis points to 975 basis points in gross margin, or the
percentage of sales left after subtracting production costs,
Sacconaghi said.  The lowest-price iPad 2 with 16 gigabytes of memory and Wi-
Fi connectivity will sell for $499. The $729 model comes with
double the memory and a third-generation wireless-technology
connection. The second generation of the device will be thinner
and lighter than its predecessor, with front and rear cameras
and a more powerful processor, Apple said today.  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.’s Xoom tablet with similar
specifications to the $729 iPad, costs $799.  Research In Motion
Ltd . has said its BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, expected out this
month or in April, will cost under $500 for the basic version.  Apple rose $2.81 to $352.12 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 9.2 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  