-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise on Job-Market Strength; Oil Jumps, Dollar Falls

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-02T20:13:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/asian-stocks-fall-as-oil-surges-on-mideast-silver-rises-to-30-year-high.html
U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from
yesterday’s slump, as chipmakers rallied and signs of a
strengthening job market bolstered optimism the economy can
withstand a surge in energy costs. Treasuries and the dollar
fell. Persian Gulf shares slid to the lowest level since July.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,312.35 at 3:11 p.m. in  New York  after sinking 1.6 percent
yesterday. Chipmakers led gains as JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised
its recommendation on the industry. Oil climbed to a 29-month
high above $102 a barrel amid concern unrest in the Middle East
will disrupt supplies. Ten-year Treasury yields rose seven basis
points to 3.47 percent and the Dollar Index lost 0.5 percent.  The  S&P 500  tumbled 2.7 percent from its 32-month high on
Feb. 18 through yesterday amid concern surging energy prices
will hurt  consumer spending  and corporate profits. Today’s
advance came after ADP Employer Services said companies in the
U.S. added 217,000 jobs last month, topping economists’
estimates, and the  Federal Reserve  said the labor market
improved throughout the country early this year.  “This is a fairly resilient market,” said Jeffrey Davis,
who oversees $5 billion as chief investment officer at Lee
Munder Capital Group in  Boston . “We’re in a sustainable
economic recovery. Without any serious move in  oil prices ,
you’ll probably get a market that has a firm foundation to it.
In such a case, any pullback will be minor.”  Chipmakers Rally  Xilinx Inc., Altera Corp. and Texas Instruments Inc. rose
at least 3.1 percent and semiconductor companies climbed the
most among 24 groups. Christopher Danely, an analyst at
JPMorgan, raised the industry to “constructive” from
“cautious” on improving economic and inventory trends.  Improvements in the labor market were driven by increasing
retail sales and “solid growth” in manufacturing, the Fed said
in its Beige Book report, an anecdotal account of the economy.
The Labor Department will release its February jobs report in
two days, with the median economist forecast in a Bloomberg
survey calling for an increase of 195,000 jobs.  Equities retreated from Tokyo to London earlier as crude
surged. Oil futures advanced as much as 2.8 percent as Libyan
forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  attacked rebels on the east
coast where much of the country’s oil is refined and shipped
abroad.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.7 percent as about three
shares fell for every one that advanced. Daimler AG, the world’s
second-largest maker of luxury cars, lost 2.8 percent, leading
automakers lower. Swiss Reinsurance Co. slipped 1.9 percent
after estimating $800 million of costs from the  New Zealand 
earthquake. Celesio AG tumbled 6.2 percent after DZ Bank AG
recommended selling shares of the German drug wholesaler.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of protecting
against a decline in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, climbed 3.3
percent to 24.60, the highest level in almost a week.  The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index, a gauge of Persian Gulf
shares, slid 3.3 percent and has tumbled 9.8 percent in four
days.  Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index slumped 3.9
percent, down 15 percent in four days. The Dubai Financial
Market General Index sank 3.5 percent to the lowest since June
2004 today, while benchmark equity measures in Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait  and Qatar lost more than 2 percent. Credit-default swaps
on Bahrain rose 16 basis points to 315 at 3 p.m. in  London ,
according to CMA.  New Zealand’s dollar slumped against all 16 of its most-
traded peers, sliding as much as 1.2 percent versus the U.S.
currency to a 2011 low, after Prime Minister John Key said he
expects the central bank to cut  interest rates  as the nation
grapples with the aftermath of the deadliest earthquake in 80
years.  Greek Bonds  The extra yield investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds rose to 888 basis
points, the highest level in almost two months. S&P said the
debt ratings of Greece and  Portugal  remain at risk of being cut
on concern about how a European Union rescue fund may affect
holders of the two nations’ sovereign bonds.  The ratings company kept  Greece ’s BB+ long-term ratings and
Portugal’s A- long-term and A2 short-term classifications on
creditwatch negative, according to a statement yesterday. The
yield on the 10-year Portuguese security rose two basis points
to 7.48 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 Mregan12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  