-- 
Australian Economy Expanded 0.7% Before Floods Ravaged Nation's Northeast

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-02T02:58:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/australian-gdp-grew-0-7-last-quarter-matching-forecasts-currency-drops.html
  Australia ’s economic growth
accelerated in the final three months of last year, the eighth
straight quarterly expansion, before floods and cyclones this
year ravaged the nation’s northeast.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent from the third
quarter, when it rose a revised 0.1 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. That matched the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists.  The report validates  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens’s view that natural disasters in the state of
Queensland this quarter will be only a temporary drag on growth.
The nation is undergoing a boom in resource investment as mining
and energy firms boost output to meet demand from  China  and  India .  “Today’s result is unlikely to alter policy makers’ broad
view of the world,” Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
economists Riki Polygenis and Julie Toth wrote in a research
report after the data. “The overall outcome was in line with
the RBA’s latest forecast.”  Australia’s dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency,
touched a record $1.0256 on Dec. 31. After today’s GDP report
was released, the currency fell to $1.0100 as of 1:54 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0145 before the report.  Torrential rains in Queensland in December and January
affected about 30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail
lines and damaged crops. Victoria state was also hit by floods.  Flood Effects  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said today he estimates the deluge cut
0.4 percentage point from growth last quarter. He said the first
three months of this year “will be a very difficult quarter and
reflect the impact of floods and cyclones.”  The economy grew 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, the same pace as the third quarter, the report
showed. Economists forecast a 2.8 percent year-over-year
expansion.  The RBA last month raised its forecast for 2011 growth to
4.25 percent, from a November prediction of 3.75 percent, saying
flood rebuilding will accelerate in the second half. Consumer
prices will rise 3 percent, from a previous estimate of 2.75
percent, it said.  Commodity exports from Australia, the largest shipper of
coal,  iron ore  and wool, may gain 14 percent to a record next
financial year, driven by rising prices, the federal
government’s forecaster said this week.  Sales Abroad  Sales may expand to A$251.3 billion ($255 billion) in the
12 months to June 30, 2012, the Canberra-based Australian Bureau
of Agricultural & Resource Economics & Sciences said March 1 in
a report. The agency revised its forecast for the current year
to A$220.6 billion, from A$211.1 billion in December.  Australia’s terms of trade advanced for a fifth straight
quarter, gaining 1.1 percent, today’s report showed.  The RBA has a “sanguine” attitude about the outlook for
consumer prices, economists at Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings
Plc said this week.  Stevens left the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent
for a third straight meeting yesterday and said inflation “over
the year ahead will continue to be consistent with” a target of
2 percent to 3 percent.  A risk in Stevens’s focus on growth over inflation is that
the local currency’s rise may abate and wages could surge in an
economy with 5 percent unemployment. Bond investors have raised
bets on higher inflation as the labor market approaches full
employment and companies increase investment to meet demand from
India and China for iron ore and energy resources.  5% Unemployment  Chinese purchases of iron ore and coal are prompting
companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd . to expand production. The
RBA raised its benchmark interest rate seven times from October
2009 to November last year, reining in household spending and
spurring higher savings that allowed the central bank to extend
its pause yesterday.  “Australia’s terms of trade are at their highest level
since the early 1950s and national income is growing strongly,”
Stevens said yesterday. “Private investment is picking up,
mainly in the resources sector, in response to high levels of
commodity prices.”  Australian business investment climbed to a record in the
fourth quarter and a government report last month showed
employment climbed by 24,000 in January, surpassing the median
forecast for a 17,500 gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20
economists. The jobless rate of 5 percent matched the lowest
level in two years.  Mining Investment  Policy makers expect annual growth will be boosted by
projects such as BG Group Plc’s $15 billion liquefied natural
gas venture in Queensland, generating 5,000 construction jobs.  BG,  Chevron Corp ., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips
are among energy companies investing about A$200 billion in
proposed LNG projects in Australia.  Stevens last month signaled little urgency about raising
rates.  “We’re ahead of the game, which is where you want to be,
and that’s the thing that affords you periods of sitting,
waiting and watching,” he told lawmakers in Canberra on Feb. 11.
“Sometimes, they can be reasonably lengthy periods.”  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  