-- 
Australian Service Industry Contracted on Higher Borrowing Costs

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-02T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/australian-service-industry-contracted-on-higher-borrowing-costs.html
  Australia ’s services industry
contracted in February for a fourth straight month as higher
borrowing costs, a stronger dollar and natural disasters in the
nation’s northeast curbed spending, a survey showed.  The performance of services index was 48.7 from 45.5 in
January,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and the Australian
Industry Group said in Sydney today. A figure below 50 indicates
contraction.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which has increased its
overnight cash rate target seven times since October 2009, held
the benchmark at 4.75 percent this week after a quarter-
percentage-point increase in November. Higher borrowing costs
contributed to a 12.5 percent gain in the local dollar in the
past year, the third-best performance among the 16 major
currencies.  “Ongoing sluggish services sector activity in February is
reflective of a slew of negative factors,” Commonwealth Bank
Senior Economist John Peters said in a statement. “Rising
interest rates, the tearaway Australian dollar, which has been
trading at post-float highs above $1, and the natural calamities
afflicting the nation in early 2011” have hurt fragile consumer
and business confidence, he said.  The index’s gauge for sales increased to 53.9 from 45.4,
and the reading for new orders advanced to 47.4 from 39.7. The
wages indicator rose to 57.1 from 56.3, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  