-- 
Australian Farms `Vulnerable' to Climate Change, Adviser Garnaut Says

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-03-02T07:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/australian-farms-vulnerable-to-climate-change-garnaut-says.html
Australia, the fourth-largest wheat
exporter, risked more  climate-change  damage than other developed
countries partly because of the threat to its agriculture, said  Ross Garnaut , the federal government’s adviser on the topic.  “Our agriculture is particularly vulnerable,” Garnaut
told reporters in Canberra. “Australia is already a country of
climate extremes where in many places in some parts of the year,
temperatures are already near the upper limits of agriculture.”  Australia, also the fourth-largest cotton shipper and
biggest coal exporter, will impose a price on carbon in July
next year before the start of a trading system as early as 2015,
according to plans set out by the ruling  Labor Party . Record
rain, flooding and a cyclone in the nation’s east damaged crops
this season, while drought cut output in the west, increasing
concerns that climate volatility and warming will curb output.  “In southern Australia, and most clearly and strongly in
southwest Australia, the warming will be accompanied by a drying,
on average, that will create a special challenge and that is
already being felt in the Western Australian wheat belt, leading
to some major changes in farming patterns,” Garnaut said today,
based on the climate outlook provided by models.  Wheat futures on the Chicago Board of Trade gained 60
percent in the past year after  Russia  halted exports because of
drought and rain threatened milling-quality supplies in
Australia and parts of  Europe . The May-delivery contract fell
0.3 percent to $8.0825 a bushel at 4:27 p.m. Melbourne time.  Food Prices  World food prices are expected to gain in the first half of
the twenty-first century after declining in the second half of
the previous century, reflecting a rising population and higher
incomes, slower agricultural yield growth and the effect of
climate change, Garnaut earlier told the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural & Resource Economics & Sciences outlook conference.  “The big effects on rural production of climate change are
in the future, but there have already been some effects and the
intensification of extreme weather events is one of the things
the science tells us to expect,” he said.    Australia  has been hit in the past three months by floods,
bushfires and Tropical Cyclone Yasi, which killed at least 36
people, destroyed homes and wiped out crops. The Greens party,
whose support Gillard needs to pass climate legislation in the
upper house Senate, has blamed climate change for the increased
intensity and frequency of extreme weather events.  Warming would also have the effect of reducing runoff into
Australian irrigation dams and drying out soils more quickly,
Garnaut said.  Drought, Frost  Susan Findlay Tickner, who farms wheat, barley, lentils and
chickpeas in Victoria state, said in the past 13 years the
property had endured drought, extreme frost, heat and rain
events during critical production times and she was looking at
ways to manage the risk.  “Climate variability in the form of extreme weather events
has impacted on our business,” she told the Outlook conference.  The federal government intends to exclude agriculture from
the price set for carbon. The government is also planning to
allow farmers to earn credits for measures that reduce emissions,
which could provide a financial benefit to farmers through
trading opportunities, Garnaut said.  The opposition Liberal-National coalition has vowed to
repeal Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s carbon-price proposal if
it wins the next election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Canberra at  wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  