-- 
Austar Surges After Foxtel Holds Talks to Buy Pay-TV Operator from Liberty

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-03-02T07:14:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/austar-says-malone-s-liberty-foxtel-held-talks-on-takeover-shares-surge.html
  Austar United Communications Ltd .
surged the most in more than two years in Sydney trading after
it said rival pay-television operator Foxtel is in talks to buy
the company from billionaire John Malone’s  Liberty Global Inc .  Austar rose 11 percent, the most since November 2008, after
saying Foxtel and Liberty have held talks on a “possible
acquisition,” without elaborating on financial terms. The
Australian Financial Review reported Foxtel,  Australia ’s biggest
pay-TV network, may offer A$2 billion ($2 billion) for Austar.  A purchase would help Foxtel, which focuses on metropolitan
areas, expand in rural areas where Austar dominates. The move
comes after Australian billionaires Kerry Stokes,  James Packer ,  Lachlan Murdoch  and Gina Rinehart announced media deals to
capitalize on a recovery in advertising spending.  “A merger between these two makes a lot of sense, and it’s
really a matter of getting the price right to take  John Malone 
out,” said Greg Fraser, an analyst at Fat Prophets Funds
Management in Sydney. “There’s overlap between the two, and
there would be synergies from corporate overheads and program
acquisition costs.”  No formal proposal has been received, Sydney-based Austar
said in a statement today. Hanne Wolf, a spokeswoman at Liberty,
which owns more than 54 percent of Austar, declined to comment.  ‘Verbal Discussions’  “Our practice has always been not to comment on such
matters,” Adam Suckling, a spokesman for Foxtel, said in e-
mailed comments. “We will not be changing this standard
approach.”  Austar rose 12 Australian cents to A$1.25 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading after earlier gaining as much as 29
percent. Telstra Corp. owns 50 percent of Foxtel, with the
remaining stake split between Packer’s  Consolidated Media
Holdings Ltd . and  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp .  “Austar understands that verbal discussions have taken
place between Foxtel and Liberty in relation to a possible
acquisition of Austar,” according to the statement. “No
assurance can be given that those discussions will lead to a
proposal being put to Austar or its shareholders.”  The nation’s advertising market will probably expand 6.5
percent this year, led by 17 percent growth in Internet spending
and a 7 percent increase in TV expenditures, according to
estimates in January from Morgan Stanley. Overall spending rose
10 percent in 2010 after shrinking the previous year, according
to the company.  Antitrust Regulator  Any possible deal between Foxtel and Austar may be reviewed
by the antitrust regulator, the  Australian Competition &
Consumer Commission  said on its website today.  Australian media companies are undergoing the biggest round
of corporate action since ownership laws were changed in 2007.
On Feb. 21, billionaire Stokes announced plans to combine  West
Australian Newspapers Holdings Ltd ., publisher of Perth’s sole
daily newspaper, with Seven Media Group in a A$2 billion
takeover to create the nation’s biggest media company.  Since October, there have been more than A$400 million of
investments announced by rival tycoons Packer, Lachlan Murdoch
and Rinehart in  Ten Network Holdings Ltd ., Australia’s third-
ranked broadcaster.  Packer, who owns almost 9 percent of Ten, quit the
company’s board today as the Sydney-based broadcaster named
James Warburton as its new chief executive officer.  Warburton replaces Lachlan Murdoch, who has been interim
CEO since Ten’s board sacked Grant Blackley on Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  