-- 
Australia Said to Let Foreign Stock Exchanges Enter Market After 150 Years

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-02T05:19:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/australia-prepares-to-end-150-years-of-equity-market-isolation.html
  Australia ’s securities market
regulator will tomorrow outline steps to open the country’s
equity market to foreign competitors for the first time in its
150-year history, say two people familiar with the matter.  A timetable for licensing new competitors such as Chi-X
Global Inc. to challenge Australia’s dominant stock-exchange
operator  ASX Ltd . will be published as early as tomorrow morning,
the people said.  The timetable will be released by the nation’s markets
regulator along with planned new “market integrity” rules and
a summary of industry feedback on changes to the regulatory
framework. Financial Services Minister  Bill Shorten  will sign
off on the  Australian Securities & Investments Commission ’s
licensing plans later today, the people said.  Introducing competition in Australia’s exchange market is a
key pillar of plans by the Labor Government led by Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  to help turn the country into a global
financial hub. The licensing of foreign competitors may help pave 
the way for approval of a A$7.6 billion ($7.67 billion) merger 
between ASX and  Singapore Exchange Ltd ., which is facing opposition 
from some lawmakers in Canberra.  “The faster and more certain the introduction of
competitor exchanges in Australia, the more rationale there is
to allow ASX to merge with Singapore Exchange and the fewer
reasons there are to prevent such a merger,” said Sydney-based
Angus Gluskie, who manages about $350 million at White Funds
Management Pty.  “Competitor exchanges erode the argument that an ASX-SGX
merger would further entrench the ASX’s dominant position.”  New Powers  A start date for competing exchanges was delayed last year
by the transfer of new powers to ASIC and a general election
that returned Labor as a minority government.  Chi-X Australia Pty, a unit of Chi-X Global, sought to
begin operating as early last October before rescheduling the
launch to the first quarter of this year. The operator, which
applied for a license in 2008 and won “in principle”
government approval last March to start a rival service, has
said it can’t give a start date until ASIC’s licensing timeframe
is published.  A consortium led by  New Zealand ’s bourse operator withdrew
its Australian license application in January after it was “sat
on” for three years,  NZX Ltd .’s Chief Executive Officer Mark Weldon told Bloomberg News last month.  Foreign Investment  ASIC took charge of the oversight of real-time trading on
domestic licensed markets from ASX on Aug. 1 as part of
government attempts to pave the way for competitors that might
help Australia attract more foreign investment. That process,
and the general election in August, delayed the publication of
ASIC’s licensing timetable, the regulator has said.  The election saw Gillard’s  Labor Party  lose its majority,
forcing it into a power-sharing agreement with the Greens Party
and three independents.    Singapore Exchange , which runs the city’s securities and
derivatives market, offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash and
share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion, a 42 percent premium to
ASX’s share price at the time. ASX shares this week fell to
their lowest level since before the bid was announced as a
computer glitch halted trading and cut turnover by more than A$2
billion from the daily average.  Merger Opposition  The merger with Singapore Exchange still requires the
support of Swan, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, ASIC and
parliamentarians, several of whom have opposed the sale.  Singapore Exchange offered on Feb. 15 to give more board
seats to Australians in a concession aimed at overcoming
opposition from lawmakers in Canberra to the deal, which won
approval from Australia’s competition regulator on Dec. 15.  The bid also received a boost last month when  Europe ’s
Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext  agreed to merge, and after
London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it would buy Canada’s TMX
Group Inc., increasing pressure on rival exchanges to expand.  These foreign merger announcements “underscore the dynamic
forces driving developments in global exchanges,” ASX’s Chief
Executive Officer Robert Elstone said in a Feb. 17 statement
accompanying the company’s first-half earnings result, which met
analyst estimates. He has also said global exchange mergers are
an “inevitable” feature of globalization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 