-- 
Axel Springer Falls After Record Operating Profit Fails to Meet Estimates

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-03-02T17:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/axel-springer-plans-record-dividend-stock-split-as-profit-soars.html
  Axel Springer AG  tumbled the most in
about 10 months after the outlook for 2011 at the publisher of
Bild, Germany’s most popular newspaper, fell short of analysts’
estimates.  The shares slid 5.4 percent after the Berlin-based company,
which today reported a record annual operating profit, said it
expects a “slight” increase in earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization this year.  “The outlook seems too cautious,” Jochen Reichert an
analyst at Warburg Research, wrote in a note. “The sharp
decline in the share price seems to be the result of the gap
between analyst expectations for 2011 and the company’s
outlook.” He rates the stock “buy” and predicts the stock
will rise to 144 euros in 12 months.  Ebitda last year rose 53 percent to 510.6 million euros
($702.5 million) on fees for website content and more
advertising. That was less than the average estimate of 519
million from 10 analysts polled by Bloomberg. The average Ebitda
estimate for 2011 from analysts polled by Bloomberg was 564.5
million euros.  It is difficult to provide a more precise outlook for the
current year Chief Financial Officer Lothar Lanz said at a press
conference in Berlin today.  “If you look at the various institutes that give guidance
for the advertising market, you see that some expect a slight
increase, some a slight decrease, and so it is too early for us
to give a concrete outlook,” he said.  Dividend, Stock Split  The decline in shares came even after Axel Springer
proposed a record dividend of 4.80 euros a share for 2010 and a
three-for-one split in its stock to draw more investors. Shares
in the company are 52 percent owned by the  Axel Springer 
Gesellschaft fuer Publizistik and 7 percent by Friede Springer,
according to Bloomberg data.  Axel Springer had its biggest one-day drop since May 7 to
113.55 euros in Frankfurt. The shares have fallen about 7
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 3.74
billion euros. About 40.8 percent of the stock floats, with an
average daily trading volume of 38,079 shares a day.  Newspapers and magazines owned by Axel Springer and
competitors such as  News Corp . and Time Warner Inc. are
scrambling to follow their readers online to capture Web
advertising revenue. The company gained advertising customers
last year as the global economy recovered from the 2009
recession. Consumers have also become more willing to pay for
entertainment and news online and on mobile devices.  Digitization  The company’s  sales  last year increased 11 percent to 2.9
billion euros, propelled by a 51 percent jump in digital-media
revenue as customers used the company’s applications on Apple
Inc.’s iPad tablet. Revenue from outside  Germany  increased 29
percent, helped by acquisitions.  “The unabated continuation of our digitization and
internationalization strategy during the crisis year of 2009 and
anti-cyclical investments have paid off,” said Chief Executive
Officer Mathias Doepfner in the statement.  Doepfner said digital and international activities will
continue to drive growth in 2011, leading to an overall increase
in sales, while German print brands will see a “slight
decline” because of higher paper prices.  In the final quarter of last year, French regulators
approved Axel Springer’s  tender offer  for property-classifieds
portal SeLoger.com. Axel Springer said yesterday it holds 74.2
percent of SeLoger.com.  The company also bought stakes in automotive classified-
advertising and lifestyle-marketplace portals in  India  and
acquired a Hamburg-based  portal  operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  