-- 
Axelrod Calls Freshmen Republicans Obstacle to Fiscal Solutions

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-03-02T21:21:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/axelrod-calls-freshmen-republicans-obstacle-to-fiscal-solutions.html
First-term Republicans in Congress
who believe compromise is a “dirty word” are the chief
obstacle to tackling fiscal challenges facing the U.S., said  David Axelrod , the former senior adviser to President  Barack Obama .  The U.S. can’t continue to bow to Republicans who are
threatening to shut down the government unless tax and spending
cuts they endorse are made law, Axelrod told an audience of
stock traders at an industry conference in New York today.  “There’s a view particularly among some new people elected
to Congress that ‘we want 100 percent of our position or we shut
the government down,’” Axelrod said. “We can’t let principled
compromise become a dirty word.”  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives 
yesterday approved a bill to keep the government operating for
two weeks while budget talks continue, and the Senate approved
the measure today.  Obama’s view is “if you can get 80 percent of what you
want, you ought to be able to yield on 20 percent; you might
even go to 75,” Axelrod said.  He also criticized lawmakers for failing to agree on a
measure to fund the government through the rest of the fiscal
year, which ends Sept. 30.  “We can’t operate two weeks at a time,” Axelrod said.
“No business can operate that way, the country can’t operate
that way,” he added.  Longtime Adviser  Axelrod, 55, a longtime adviser to Obama, returned to  Chicago  early this year to prepare for the 2012 re-election
campaign as the president’s approval ratings hovered between 45
percent and 50 percent in major polls over the past month.  “People have mandated we have a Republican House, a
Democratic Senate and a Democratic president,” Axelrod added.
“Now we have to act on it.”  Axelrod said some Democrats advised Obama to hold firm to
his position against extending Bush-era tax cuts on personal
income above $250,000 per couple. Instead, Obama forged a
bipartisan consensus that Axelrod said made the 2010 lame-duck
session one of the most productive in memory.  More bipartisan cooperation is needed to contain the
country’s three greatest fiscal challenges: an explosion in the
growth of entitlement programs, a “bloated” military budget
and “tax cuts we can’t afford,” Axelrod said.  “We have to avoid absolutism, we have to avoid unyielding
dogmatism,” Axelrod said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  