-- 
Barclays Said to Weigh $816 Million Sale of Stakes in Private-Equity Funds

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-03-02T18:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/barclays-said-to-weigh-816-million-sale-of-stakes-in-private-equity-funds.html
  Barclays Plc , the British bank run
by Robert Diamond, plans to sell more than 500 million pounds
($816 million) of stakes in private equity funds, five people
with knowledge of the talks said.  The holdings were amassed by the bank’s investment-banking
unit,  Barclays Capital , as part of a drive to help its business
that finances leveraged buyouts, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the sale isn’t public. Barclays is
selling the stakes to free up capital, they said.  Barclays follows  Citigroup Inc .,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and Credit Agricole SA in trying to sell holdings in
private equity funds as lenders face tighter regulation and are
forced to hold more capital in reserve against their riskiest
assets. Diamond, who succeeded  John Varley  as chief executive
officer in January, is reviewing Barclays’s operations and may
close or sell units that aren’t generating returns that meet the
bank’s 13 percent target for return on equity.  Barclays agreed to sell Barclays Private Equity, its
private equity unit, to its managers last year. A spokesman for
Barclays declined to comment.  The lender is selling as buyout firms including KKR & Co.
and Permira Advisers LLP recover losses from the financial
crisis and are marking up the value of their investments. The
portfolio includes stakes in leveraged buyout funds in  Europe 
and the U.S., and may be sold in an auction, the people said.  Secondary Transactions  A record $22.7 billion was raised from investors in 2009 to
buy stakes in private equity funds from other investors such as
banks in so-called secondary transactions, according to London-
based research firm Preqin Ltd. Lexington Partners Inc., Coller
Capital Ltd. and Axa SA’s private equity division are among
firms raising secondary funds.  Citigroup is selling more than $500 million of investments
in funds managed by buyout firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd. to
Harbourvest Partners LLC, based in  Boston , and Pantheon, a
London-based fund manager, people with knowledge of the matter
said in January. Credit Agricole, France’s third-largest bank by
market value, is in talks to sell stakes in funds valued at more
than 500 million euros ($693 million), three people with
knowledge of the matter said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  