-- 
Beke Invites Nine Parties to Revive Belgian Coalition Talks

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-03-02T16:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/beke-invites-nine-parties-to-revive-belgian-coalition-talks-1-.html
Belgium’s  King Albert II  named
Wouter Beke, leader of the Flemish Christian-Democratic party,
to start brokering an agreement about institutional arrangements
in the ninth attempt to salvage government-formation talks.  Beke, 36, plans to continue his “negotiation mission,” a
term coined by the royal palace, until formal coalition talks
can start, he told reporters in the senate in Brussels today. He
invited as many as nine parties to explore an agreement about
topics including the transfer of more powers to the regions, the
redistricting of a voting precinct encompassing Brussels and the
rules governing the distribution of  tax revenue .  Beke assumed full-time leadership of the CD&V party in
December and is the first Christian-Democrat to take the
initiative since his party was eclipsed by Bart De Wever’s
Flemish nationalists in the June 13 national election. He faces
the challenge of finding a coalition formula that has a two-
thirds majority needed for a constitutional overhaul and gets
backing from both  De Wever ’s N-VA and Elio Di Rupo’s French-
speaking Socialists, the top vote-getters in June.  “It’s crucial to gear up now and get clarity fast about
both the substance and the coalition formula,” De Wever said in
an e-mailed statement. “The N-VA was prepared to take the
initiative, but only an initiative by Wouter Beke could gain
consensus.”  Belgian Bonds  Belgian bonds pared declines after the monarch appointed
Beke. The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Belgian  government securities  instead of German equivalents narrowed 1
basis point to 106 basis points at 5:20 p.m. in Brussels.  Finance Minister  Didier Reynders , who completed his final
report for the king yesterday, put the Liberals on both sides of
the linguistic divide back into contention following an election
defeat in June. Reynders was given an “information mission” on
Feb. 2 after the failure of the latest attempt to jump-start
seven-party talks that broke down six months ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  