-- 
Bernanke Doesn’t Rule Out More Bond Buying to Aid Economy

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-02T17:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/bernanke-doesn-t-rule-out-more-bond-buying-by-fed-to-aid-economic-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  didn’t rule out expanding the central bank’s asset
purchases aimed at stimulating the economy, saying he doesn’t
want to see the nation relapse into a recession.  Asked at a House Financial Services Committee hearing today
what conditions would warrant a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, Bernanke said that “what we’d like to see
is a sustainable recovery. We don’t want to see the economy
falling back into a double dip or to a stall-out.”  Bernanke’s testimony today and yesterday signaled that he
will keep the Fed on course to complete $600 billion of Treasury
purchases through June under the second round of quantitative
easing, a policy criticized by Republican lawmakers as risking
an inflation surge. He’s avoided saying what the central bank
may do after that.  A third round of purchases “has to be a decision” of the  Federal Open Market Committee , and “it depends again on our
mandate” for stable prices and maximum employment, Bernanke
said in response to Texas Representative Jeb Hensarling, the
House panel’s vice chairman and a critic of QE2.  “We’re looking very closely at inflation both in terms of
too low and too high,” Bernanke said during the second day of
semiannual testimony on monetary policy. “I want to be sure
that you understand that I am very attentive to inflation and
potential risks for inflation. That will certainly be a major
consideration as we look to determine how to manage this
policy.”  Stocks Erase Gains  Stocks erased gains as oil resumed its advance, rallying
above $102 a barrel. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2
percent to 1,303.67 at 12:04 p.m. in  New York  after climbing 0.6
percent earlier.  Treasuries declined after a report showed the pace of
employment growth is picking up before the Labor Department
issues February jobs data March 4. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose to 3.41 percent from 3.39 percent yesterday.  Responding to a question from Representative Nydia Velazquez, a New York Democrat, Bernanke said the Fed’s policy
of keeping its benchmark rate near zero for an “extended period”
helps provide support to the economy, “which in our judgment, it
still needs.”  “The economy’s recovery is not firmly established, and we
think monetary policy needs to be supportive,” he said.  Second Round  The second round of bond buying follows a $1.7 trillion
first round of purchases of mortgage-backed debt and Treasuries.  Since August, when Bernanke signaled the Fed might buy
securities to stimulate the economy, “downside risks to the
recovery have receded, and the risk of deflation has become
negligible,” he said in testimony this week.  Last week, the Commerce Department reduced its estimate of
fourth-quarter growth to a 2.8 percent annual pace. Consumer
purchases rose at a 4.1 percent pace, the most since the same
three months in 2006, compared with a 4.4 percent rate
originally estimated.  Inflation is likely to remain low through 2013, Bernanke,
57, a former Princeton University economist, said in Senate
testimony yesterday.  “We will continue to monitor these developments closely
and are prepared to respond as necessary to best support the
ongoing recovery in a context of  price stability ,” he said.  Labor Market  At the same time, the labor market “has improved only
slowly,” and it may take “several years” for the  unemployment
rate  to reach a “more normal level,” he said. “The housing
sector remains exceptionally weak,” and “slow wage growth” is
keeping labor costs in check, he said.  A report yesterday showed U.S. manufacturing accelerated in
February to the fastest pace since May 2004. The Tempe, Arizona-
based  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index increased
to 61.4 from 60.8 a month earlier. Readings greater than 50
signal growth.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  