-- 
Bernanke Signals No Rush to Tighten When Asset-Buying Ends

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-03-02T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/bernanke-signals-no-rush-to-tighten-when-asset-buying-ends.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he’s in no rush to tighten credit after the
Fed finishes an expansion of record monetary stimulus, seeing
little inflation risk and still-slow job growth.  A surge in the prices of oil and other commodities probably
won’t generate a lasting rise in inflation, Bernanke told
lawmakers yesterday in semiannual testimony on monetary policy.
A “sustained period of stronger  job creation ” is needed to
ensure a solid recovery, and the Fed’s benchmark rate will stay
low for an “extended period,” he said.  The comments suggest Bernanke will keep the Fed on course
to complete $600 billion of Treasury purchases through June
under the second round of so-called quantitative easing. He
pledged to act if higher commodity prices persist, spurring
inflation and increasing inflation expectations.  “Things will not change materially with regards to
monetary policy in 2011 and perhaps heading out into 2012,”
said Brian Levitt, New York-based economist at OppenheimerFunds
Inc., which manages $182 billion. “They will complete
Quantitative Easing 2, and the fed funds rate will remain
effectively at zero for the rest of the year.”  Bernanke said yesterday that stable labor costs and the
impact of commodity-price gains in recent decades indicate that
the U.S. should expect a “temporary and relatively modest
increase” in consumer prices.  “If you look at the history of commodity prices, they tend
to be significantly more volatile than other prices,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in New
York, in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart.” Bernanke will probably “sit back for a while and make
sure that it doesn’t spread to the general price level.”  Middle East Turmoil  Crude oil rose 2.7 percent yesterday in New York to the
highest level since September 2008 as Middle East turmoil
threatened to spread from  Libya  to top OPEC producers  Saudi
Arabia  and  Iran .  Hours after Bernanke testified, the San Francisco Fed
yesterday named John C. Williams, research director for the
regional bank, as its new president to succeed  Janet Yellen , who
became the Fed board’s vice chairman in October.  Williams, 48, has worked in the Fed system since 1994 and
served as executive vice president and research director since
2009. He will vote in policy making decisions every three years,
starting next year.  ‘Big Impact’  Bernanke said under questioning from senators yesterday
that he doesn’t believe the end of asset purchases will have a
“big impact” on market interest rates. Borrowing costs are
affected more by the stock of central bank holdings rather than
the flow of purchases, he said.  Bernanke didn’t indicate what actions the Fed will likely
take after completing the bond buying, which followed a $1.7
trillion first round of purchases of mortgage-backed debt and
Treasuries. He is scheduled for a second day of monetary policy
testimony beginning at 10 a.m. today before the House Financial
Services Committee in Washington.  Treasuries rose yesterday, pushing the yield on the 10-year
note down to 3.39 percent in  New York  from 3.43 percent on Feb.
28. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.6 percent to
1,306.33.  Since August, when Bernanke signaled the Fed might buy
securities to stimulate the economy, “downside risks to the
recovery have receded, and the risk of deflation has become
negligible,” he said yesterday.  Fourth-Quarter Growth  Last week, the Commerce Department reduced its estimate of
fourth-quarter growth to a 2.8 percent annual pace. Consumer
purchases rose at a 4.1 percent pace, the most since the same
three months in 2006, compared with a 4.4 percent rate
originally estimated.  Inflation is likely to remain low through 2013, Bernanke
said.  “Sustained oil price increases will pass through to  core
inflation ,” said Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN
Financial, New York. “You don’t take a revolution that is in
half a dozen countries and is now spreading and tamp it down in
three days.”  Bernanke, 57, a former Princeton University economist, said
that “we will continue to monitor these developments closely
and are prepared to respond as necessary to best support the
ongoing recovery in a context of  price stability .”  At the same time, the labor market “has improved only
slowly,” and it may take “several years” for the  unemployment
rate  to reach a “more normal level,” he said. “The housing
sector remains exceptionally weak,” and “slow wage growth” is
keeping labor costs in check, he said.  Manufacturing Accelerates  A separate report yesterday showed U.S. manufacturing
accelerated in February to the fastest pace since May 2004. The
Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management’s factory
index increased to 61.4 from 60.8 a month earlier. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  Increases in commodity prices in recent months mainly
reflect “rising global demand for raw materials, particularly
in some fast-growing emerging market economies, coupled with
constraints on global supply in some cases,” Bernanke said. He
also said that commodity prices “have risen significantly in
terms of all major currencies,” rejecting the idea that the
Fed’s easy monetary policy is responsible.  Higher gasoline prices, “while obviously a problem for a
lot of people,” don’t pose a major risk yet to the recovery or
inflation, Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  