-- 
Best Emerging Market Debt Lifted by Oil as Correa Tightens Grip on Ecuador

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-03-02T15:02:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/best-emerging-market-debt-lifted-by-oil-as-correa-tightens-grip-on-ecuador.html
Ecuador is benefiting from the
highest oil prices in two years as the surge in export revenue
helps fund President  Rafael Correa ’s $4.69 billion
infrastructure program and rewards bondholders with the highest
returns in emerging markets.  Yields on Ecuador’s only international bond have declined
to the lowest level since Correa’s $3.2 billion debt default two
years ago as the rally in crude, the nation’s biggest export,
eases concern that a doubling in public outlays in the past four
years is unsustainable. Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds due in
2015 gained 7.1 percent this year to 98.5 cents on the dollar,
reducing the yield by 1.77 percentage point to 9.77 percent.  Correa is forecasting growth of as much as 5.1 percent this
year after the South American economy expanded 4.3 percent in
the third quarter, the fastest pace since 2008. While demand for
the country’s debt is growing, the rally is dependent on oil
holding near $100 a barrel, said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps
manage about $14 billion at Landesbank Berlin Investments.  “Ecuador’s a troubled country, but with oil above $100 a
barrel it’s worth the risk,” said Roehmeyer, who also holds
half a million dollars of Ecuador’s 2015 bonds. “We are still
very hesitant to invest more in the country though given
Correa’s turbulent political ways.”  Ecuador’s dollar debt returned 8.7 percent this year
through March 1, the best performer among developing nations
tracked in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI - Global Diversified
index. Emerging-market bonds on average slumped 0.3 percent.  Riskiest Credit  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has fallen 152 basis points
this year to 761, according to JPMorgan. The government’s credit
rating was raised one level to Caa2 on Feb. 1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited prospects that the government
will close its  budget deficit  and increase output of crude oil.
The rating, which is eight steps above default, is the lowest
among all country rankings tracked by Moody’s.  Ecuadorean oil, which usually trades at a discount to
benchmark West Texas Crude, provides the government with 24
percent of its revenue. WTI is forecast to reach $95.40 in the
fourth quarter of 2011, according to the weighted average of 28
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Correa, a 47-year-old former economics professor and ally
of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , took office in 2007
promising to reduce poverty in a nation where the  United Nations 
estimates about 40 percent of people can’t meet basic needs. As
part of that effort, he halted payments on bonds that he called
“illegitimate,” renegotiated oil contracts with oil companies,
including  Spain ’s Respol YPF SA and Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI) , to give the
government better terms and halted mining exploration for almost
two years.  Debt Burden  The default reduced Ecuador’s debt burden to 20 percent of
gross domestic product in 2009 from 26 percent a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt-to-GDP ratio
will reach 28 percent this year, according to a December report
by the Quito-based Fiscal Policy Observatory. That compares with  Brazil ’s net debt of 40 percent.  Ecuador’s 2011 budget deficit, estimated at $3.7 billion in
this year’s budget, will narrow to $1.2 billion by the end of
the year, Alejandro Arreaza, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  New York , said in a phone interview.  Ecuador ’s 2010 deficit was
probably $1.5 billion, he said.  Spending Surge  A 121 percent rise in  government spending  to 39 percent of
GDP since 2006, or about double that of neighboring Peru, is
also tempering investments in Ecuador, said John Ditieri, who
helps manage emerging-market equities at Arlington, Virginia-
based Emerging Markets Management.  “I’m not convinced the spending is good. What happens if
peace settles in the Middle East and oil goes back down to $70 a
barrel,” Ditieri said.  Correa’s push for control of the economy since taking
office is hurting business confidence and hindering investment
that could help boost economic growth, said Mauricio Yepez, a
former economy minister who’s now the regional vice president
for the northern region at Banco de Guayaquil SA.  “There have been too many changes in the regulatory
framework, and that has hurt confidence,” Yepez said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a lack of private investment.”  In a constitutional referendum scheduled for May 7,
Correa’s third, he proposes stripping the judiciary of its
independence for 18 months to improve crime fighting while
banning financial and media companies from owning companies
outside their industry to limit potential conflicts of interest.  Oil Story  The gains in oil, brought on by unrest in the Middle East,
position Ecuador, OPEC’s smallest member, to shore up finances
and provide funds to invest in the nation’s infrastructure,
Barclay’s Arreaza said. Ecuador pumps about 486,000 barrels a
day, about 60 percent of neighboring  Colombia ’s output.  “It’s an oil price story,” Arreaza said. “We’re seeing  oil prices  above $100 a barrel, and that’s basically what’s
going to change the country.”  Correa said in an Oct. 21 interview with Bloomberg
Television he’s considering a debt sale in international
markets, in what would be its first since 2005, to finance
infrastructure projects. Those statements signaled to investors
that the government is unlikely to default again, helping spark
gains in the bonds due in 2015, said Diego Lavalle, chief
executive officer of brokerage Mercapital Casa de Valores SA.  “The government will honor its debts internally and
externally because they have now learned how painful it can be
to be out of international markets,” Lavalle said in an
interview from his offices  Quito .    China   Investors would demand yields of as high as 15 percent
interest, said Roehmeyer. There may be demand for a five-year
bond backed by an asset such as oil revenue, he said.  Ecuador, which has received $3 billion in loans from China
since 2009, is also relying on regional multilateral lenders
Corp. Andina de Fomento, known as CAF, and the Inter-American
Development Bank to help cover the budget deficit, Barclay’s
Arreaza said.  PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil producer, renewed a
contract to provide Ecuador with a $1 billion, 7.1 percent loan
in exchange for future crude sales, Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  said Feb. 22 in a statement. Caracas-based CAF will lend
the nation $2.2 billion over the next three years, bank
President Enrique Garcia said Feb. 23.  ‘Winds of Change’  Correa has boosted infrastructure spending on highways,
airports, and the nation’s energy grids to 8.7 percent of GDP
from 3.2 percent in 2006 in an attempt to spur productivity,
according to a government statement. Ecuador will invest $4.7
billion in public works this year on items including the
construction of a $1.68 billion, 1,500-megawatt dam in the
country’s Amazon region, according to the  Finance Ministry .  “There have been winds of change and that always brings
fear at the beginning," Santiago Peralta, founder of Pacari
Chocolates, said today when asked about the changes brought by
Correa. "Socialism was the bogeyman and now he’s gone. But
there’s still a lot to be done.”  A reduction in corporate tax rates and the passage of new
mining regulations may also boost investment in the Andean
country and diversify revenue, Thierry Benoit, a managing
partner at Humboldt Management, said in a Feb. 24 interview in
his offices in Quito. After a crackdown on tax evasion, Correa
raised  tax revenue  72 percent since 2006, easing pressure on
state finances and allowing the government to boost salaries for
public workers and increasing assistance to the poor, he said.  Investors are waiting on signs from the government before
deciding to increase their risk, Ditieri said.  “It’s an interesting story and has potential if things are
managed right,” said Ditieri. “It could go one way, like
Colombia, or another, like  Venezuela . Who knows, the jury is
still out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito News at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Quito News at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  