-- 
BlackRock, Santander Said to Pursue Citigroup Consumer Lender

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/blackrock-santander-said-to-pursue-citigroup-s-u-s-consumer-lending-unit.html
  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
and more than 10 private-equity firms are forming groups to bid
for  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s U.S. consumer-lending unit, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, and private-
equity firms KKR & Co. and Warburg Pincus LLC are considering a
joint bid for the unit and are in talks to include Santander,  Spain ’s biggest bank, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions are private. Their team is one
of at least four competing for the business, which has about $13
billion of assets, the people said.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, put
the Baltimore-based lender on the auction block this year, part
of a program to shed more than two dozen units and simplify the
organization after the bank’s $45 billion U.S. bailout. In
December, New York-based Citigroup announced plans to change the
unit’s name to OneMain Financial from CitiFinancial.  Robert Willumstad, 65, Citigroup’s former president, is
leading another bidding team through his Brysam Global Partners,
the people said. That group includes  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group , Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and WL Ross & Co.  Private-equity firms Apollo Management LP and J.C. Flowers
& Co. also are working on a joint bid, the people said. Apollo
is already in the mortgage business -- a key part of the OneMain
portfolio -- through its 2008 investment in Vantium Capital,
which buys residential mortgage assets.  Book Value  Another bidding group includes Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC
and Toronto-based  Onex Corp. (OCX) , the people said. The membership of
each group may change as the bidding proceeds, the people said.  Spokesmen for Citigroup, BlackRock and Santander declined
to comment. Spokesmen for the private-equity firms either
declined to comment or didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment.  Citigroup is trying to get bids for at least book value of
about $13 billion, with a deadline set for next week, the people
said.  The unit, which traces its roots to the founding in 1912 of
Commercial Credit, lends “money for life’s emergencies,”
including car repairs, medical bills and debt-consolidation,
according to its  website . Customers have difficulty getting
credit elsewhere, Pandit said during a July conference call.  “It’s a business that we continue to like,” he said at
the time. “It may not fit in our ongoing strategy but it’s
certainly extremely valuable to somebody.”  Last year, bailed-out insurer  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  sold a similar consumer-lending business with $19.6 billion
of assets, American General Finance Inc., to Fortress Investment
Group LLC. Also in 2010,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  closed its consumer-
lending operation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  