-- 
Blackstone Deal Cuts Swaps to 10-Month Low: Australia Credit

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-03-03T05:49:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/blackstone-deal-cuts-swaps-to-10-month-low-australia-credit.html
  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s $9.4 billion
purchase of  Centro Properties Group (CNP) ’s U.S. malls is the latest
sign that Australian real-estate investment trusts are
eliminating debt from the takeover boom that started in 2005,
cutting the cost of insuring against defaults to a 10-month low.  Credit-default swaps on  Australia ’s five biggest property
companies fell to an average of 129.8 basis points after
Melbourne-based Centro announced the sale on March 1, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield offered by nine
Australian-dollar REIT bonds issued before 2010 to interbank
borrowing costs dropped 47 basis points, or 0.47 percentage
point, over the past six months.  Companies in the S&P/ASX 200 A-REIT Index cut debt by 56
percent over the past two years after $74 billion of purchases
between 2005 and 2008 drove the average default swaps cost to as
high as 763 basis points in April 2009. Real-estate bonds
returned 9.2 percent over the past year, the sixth-best among 32
industry groups in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s index of
Australian corporate debt.  “Centro was being rolled out as an example of the problems
that still exist in the property sector,” said Scott Courtney,
head of REIT research at Morningstar Australasia Pty in Sydney.
“This resolution will result in increased willingness by banks
to provide facilities to refinance debt, and the margins they’re
charging will continue to improve.”  Bond Buyback    Commonwealth Property Office Fund (CPA)  is seeking to buy back
A$200 million of bonds maturing in June 2011 and sell the same
amount of new five-year notes, according to an e-mailed
statement today from Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
which is managing the sale with  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  Commonwealth Property, rated A- by  Standard & Poor’s , is
marketing the five-year securities at 165 basis points more than
the swap rate, according to the statement.  Centro Properties Group said Blackstone’s purchase of the
588 U.S. malls allowed the company to agree with a majority of
creditors to swap debt for its 108 Australian shopping centers,
aiming to resolve a two-year restructuring effort. Centro, which
had a stock market value of about A$8.5 billion in May 2007,
said it will have $100 million to distribute to shareholders and
other minority interests if the asset swap goes ahead.  For Blackstone, the purchase signals the world’s largest
private-equity firm is betting on a recovery in U.S. commercial
real estate after the subprime crisis.  Bond Reaction  The deal is another “sign the sector is slowly repairing
itself,” said George Boubouras, head of investment strategy at
UBS AG’s Australian wealth-management unit. “Private equity has
moved into the sector in a sizeable transaction, which shows
that people are buying into the sector and taking risk, and are
finding value.”  Relative yields for the debt of Australian REITs declined
as the Centro deal was completed.  The extra yield offered by CFS Retail Property Trust’s
A$440 million of 2016 notes, the largest Australian-dollar bond
outstanding among REITs, over similar-maturity government notes
fell to 186 basis points on March 1, down 35 this year and the
smallest gap since the debt was sold in October, according to
Bloomberg data. The spread for  Stockland (SGP)  Group’s six-year notes
due in 2015 shrank 96 basis points over the past year to 185.  “Centro being able to reduce gearing levels will be
positive for the whole sector,” said Bob Sahota, head of fixed
interest at Challenger Financial Services Group Ltd. in Sydney.
“Banks have been taking a more aggressive view of providing
financing to REITs.”  Buying Spree  The Markit iTraxx Australia index, which tracks costs to
insure 25 Australian corporate bonds from non-payment, rose five
basis points to 108 this year.  Australian property companies snapped up real estate assets
equal to about 10 percent of the nation’s 2005 gross domestic
product in the three years to Dec. 31, 2008, led by $26 billion
of U.S. purchases, according to Bloomberg data. The buying spree
backfired when the financial crisis froze credit markets after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008.  The nation’s biggest property firms including shopping mall
owners Westfield Group, Stockland and  GPT Group (GPT)  have paid off
borrowings, sold assets and raised about A$18 billion in
capital. Australian REITs lowered their net debt to A$401.29 a
share as of Dec. 31, from A$917.38 two years earlier, according
to Bloomberg data.  “In the new, post-global financial crisis market, the
level of leverage we’ve seen is considerably lower for REITs,”
Challenger’s Sahota said. “The bigger REITs are now in a pretty
good position.”  Mining Boom  Property companies are also recovering after Australia’s
biggest mining boom in a century helped it skirt the global
recession.  Australian five-year government bond yields climbed 82
basis points to 5.34 percent over the past six months as the  Reserve Bank  of Australia carried out seven interest-rate
increases between October 2009 and November 2010 to curb
inflation. Yields exceed those on similar-dated Treasuries by
315 basis points, down from last year’s peak of 406 in November.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes show investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.92 percent for the next five years, the
fastest among eight developed nations tracked by Bloomberg.  The Australian dollar climbed 11 percent in the past six
months to $1.0164, touching a record $1.0256 on Dec. 31. The
economy expanded for an eighth-straight quarter in the final
three months of last year, accelerating to 0.7 percent growth
from 0.1 percent in the third quarter, the government reported
yesterday.  Reducing Debt    Westfield Group (WDC) , the world’s largest shopping mall owner by
assets, spun off  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  in December to increase
its earnings potential and cut the parent company’s liabilities
by A$4.4 billion, partly by using the proceeds from a A$2
billion capital raising to pay back money borrowed to buy stakes
in malls.  Stockland, Australia’s biggest diversified property trust,
is selling off its offices and industrial assets to focus on
retail, residential and retirement businesses. Stockland reduced
its debt to 20 percent of total assets as of Dec. 31, from 31
percent two years ago.  GPT offloaded overseas assets over the past two years as
Chief Executive Officer Michael Cameron sought to turn around a
company that posted a full-year loss of A$3.25 billion in 2008.
Its latest sale, of U.S. senior housing assets to  Health Care
REIT Inc. (HCN)  last month, trimmed debt to 22.5 percent of total
assets, from 25 percent, a regulatory filing shows.  Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s upgraded
GPT’s ratings one notch to A3 and A- respectively in 2010.  Recovery Mode  “The fact that Centro was out there was adding to the
margins that banks were finding it necessary to charge,”
Morningstar’s Courtney said. “The fact that Blackstone was
confident in the U.S. property market shows the market is in
recovery and provides a view for those REITs that still retain
assets outside Australia.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Australian
corporate bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt fell
30 basis points this year to 167 basis points on March 1, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The spread on U.S.
company bonds declined 14 basis points to 152.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 