-- 
Blockbuster Creditors Agree to Standstill on Opposition to Sale Proposal

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-02T20:29:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/blockbuster-judge-calls-sale-proposal-aggressive-1-.html
  Blockbuster Inc .’s creditors agreed
to a standstill on their opposition to a sale process for the
bankrupt movie renter that a judge called “aggressive.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in  Manhattan  court
today adjourned a hearing on Blockbuster’s proposal to hold an
auction with a leading bid of $290 million from Cobalt Video,
made up of a group of lenders including  Monarch Alternative
Capital LP . Forty-five creditors had objected to the deal,
including  Walt Disney Co ., Universal Studios, Yahoo! Inc., the
U.S. Trustee’s office, landlords and a committee of unsecured
creditors.  The stalking-horse bid is “the most aggressive document I
have seen in 35 years on the bench,” Lifland said. “If
anything is going to fly, this garbage truck better sprout
wings.”  Lifland didn’t elaborate on his remarks and Stephen Karotkin, a lawyer for Blockbuster, declined to comment.  Objecting creditors have said the sale proposal is
aggressive because it lets senior lenders have sole right to
convert the case to a Chapter 7 liquidation, repays their debt
without requiring them to repay similar priority creditors, and
gives them rights to lawsuit proceeds.  Lifland said all creditors with the exception of Summit
Distribution LLC agreed to a defer their motions to reclaim
assets or liquidate the company until next week. A hearing on
their oppositions to the sale will be held March 10, and Summit
should get an accounting of how much money Blockbuster makes
from its product until then, Lifland said.  New Committee  Separately, movie studios formed an ad hoc committee to
represent their interests. Robert J. Feinstein is a lawyer for
the committee, which includes Paramount Home Entertainment Inc.,
Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment,  Universal Studios  Home
Entertainment and Warner Bros. Home Entertainment Inc.,
according to court papers filed today. Members of the committee
have undetermined claims for business done with Blockbuster
before and after its filing, according to the document.  Blockbuster’s proposal to use the $290 million stalking-
horse bid from Monarch,  Owl Creek Asset Management LP , Stonehill
Capital Management LLC and  Varde Partners Inc.  was unfair
because of those lenders’ other involvement with the company,
creditors said in court papers. They also financed Blockbuster’s
operations after it filed for bankruptcy, under a $125 million
debtor-in-possession loan.  ‘Administratively Insolvent’  Summit, an independent movie producer and distributor, was
the first studio to file papers seeking to reclaim products
after it wasn’t paid for shipments made following Blockbuster’s
Chapter 11 filing in September. The world’s largest movie-rental
company is “administratively insolvent,” or unable to pay the
costs of its bankruptcy, Summit said.  The Cobalt Video group holds more than half of Dallas-
based Blockbuster’s $630 million debt in 11.75 percent senior
secured notes. It made no commitment to continue the business.  The lenders’ “illusory” $125 million loan after
Blockbuster filed for bankruptcy induced landlords, studios and
other creditors to keep supplying Blockbuster, unsecured
creditors said in court papers. The sale process will let the
lenders walk away unscathed while leaving “restructuring
carnage” behind, the unsecured creditors said.  Lyme Regis Partners LLC, an investor in Blockbuster notes,
asked in its objection to the sale that  Carl Icahn  and
affiliates be excluded from the auction. Icahn is an insider
because of his position on the board when the company issued
notes, Lyme Regis said.  Blockbuster began reorganizing in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S. Of the U.S. stores, 3,000
were owned and the rest were franchised. About 200 stores closed
before the bankruptcy.  The petition listed assets of $1.02 billion against debt of
$1.47 billion. Blockbuster estimated it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 