-- 
Boeing Shifts Focus to 737 Successor Rather Than New 777 Model

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-03-02T21:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/boeing-shifts-focus-to-737-successor-rather-than-new-777-model.html
  Boeing Co ., shifting focus on its
next new aircraft, is now leaning toward developing a successor
to its best-selling 737 single-aisle jet before making
improvements to the wide-body 777.  A new plane probably would be wider than the 737 and seat
about 150 to 220 people, said Mike Bair, who leads the team
formed last year to study the concept. Once that jet enters
service, as soon as 2019, Boeing could put new engines and wings
on the 777, he said.  “Six or nine months ago, we were leaning toward a bigger
airplane sooner,” Bair said in an interview yesterday in his
office near Boeing’s Everett, Washington, wide-body jet factory.
Now, “most of the emphasis is on a new, small airplane.”  A decision to build a new narrow-body jet, which Bair said
will come by June, is pivotal as Boeing jockeys for sales with
Airbus SAS. With the 787 Dreamliner and new 747-8 jumbo-jet
variant running years late and costing billions of dollars in
charges, Boeing has vowed to stagger future aircraft programs.
That means picking the market segment that will get priority.  Airbus took an intermediate step with its single-aisle A320
on Dec. 1, offering upgraded engines on the so-called A320neo as
of 2016. Chief Operating Officer John Leahy has said Airbus may
not have a new narrow-body before 2027 because it doesn’t expect
enough advances in engine technology before then to warrant a
$10 billion development program.  ‘Significant Change’  “This is a significant change in thinking by the Boeing
Company,” said Doug Runte, a managing director at Piper Jaffray
& Co. in  New York . “An all-new 737 replacement would be an
aggressive move to challenge the A320neo and limit its potential
market penetration and lifespan that could create real
difficulties for Airbus.”  Boeing fell 55 cents to $69.57 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange trading as rising oil prices dragged down airline
shares and some suppliers. Runte doesn’t rate Boeing, which has
gained 8 percent in the past year.  The company’s shift follows a pickup in demand for the 777
that has prompted Chicago-based Boeing to plan a 66 percent
boost in production through 2013, as Airbus has indicated that
its planned competitor, the A350, may be delayed.  Bair said the new plane may arrive sooner than expected
because of a “better understanding” of new technology on the
787 and its possible benefits on a single-aisle jet, the plane
type that produces the bulk of earnings for Boeing and Airbus.  Dreamliner’s Gains  The potential gains should be similar to those achieved
with the composite-plastic Dreamliner in the twin-aisle market,
Bair said. That would mean a boost of about 20 percent in
operating efficiency through lighter materials, as well as the
use of more electricity to power the jet’s systems.  Engineers have learned from the 787’s production that its
composite-plastic construction can be scaled to a small jet more
easily than they thought, Bair said. Should Boeing decide to
offer a plane starting in the 130-seat range, it could use new
aluminum-lithium materials that are lighter, stronger and less
prone to corrosion than traditional alloys, he said.  The size of the new model is the most challenging decision
left, Bair said, because Boeing will have to make assumptions
about  air travel  in 2030, when the jet would be in its prime.
Engineers are studying how to speed loading and unloading, with
either a wider aisle or possibly two aisles, he said.  A new plane by the start of the next decade would far
outstrip competitors, said Bair, 54, who was named to the 737
project in January 2010 after serving as vice president of
business strategy and marketing for Boeing’s commercial
airplanes business and previously as chief of the 787 program.  ‘Really Good Run’  “We don’t see anything that says, ‘If we were to do this,
then five years later we’d get leapfrogged,’” Bair said. “We
don’t see anything on the horizon that could deliver that. We
think we’ve got another really good run.”  Narrow-body jets are the workhorses of airline fleets
worldwide, flown mostly on domestic and short-haul routes. The
737, the world’s most widely flown jetliner, was developed in
the 1960s and redesigned in the 1990s.  With 2,164 unfilled  orders , the $78 million plane makes up
63 percent of Boeing’s backlog. That’s prompted the company to
raise production to a record 31.5 a month, and it’s planning an
increase of another 21 percent beyond that over the next two
years.  New-Engine Savings  Boeing still could follow Airbus’s lead and offer new
engines on its 737, Bair said. An updated 737 could achieve
savings of as much as 11 percent in fuel burn, he said. The
trade-off would be a heavier plane subject to increased strains
on landings and requiring more maintenance, Bair said.  That along with other expenses would yield a reduction in
costs of just 2 percent at most, and most airlines have told
Boeing that the company should focus resources on a more
attractive option, he said.  “We’ve taken all the work we’ve done on re-engining and
put it in a box on the shelf,” Bair said. “If something
changes over the next six months or so and we come to a
different conclusion, we can always pull it out and go do it.”  Boeing would only decide on a new 737 engine if engineers
determine there’s not “enough in the toolbox” by midyear to
proceed with a new jet, Bair said.  “I don’t think that’s going to happen,” Bair said.
“We’ve got a lot of work left to do, but the technologies we
can bundle up for the back end of this decade look pretty
attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  