-- 
BofA, Citigroup Say Mortgage Database Draws Scrutiny in Foreclosure Probe

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-03-02T17:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/bofa-citigroup-say-mortgage-database-draws-scrutiny-in-foreclosure-probe.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  may face added costs
or fines after investigators questioned the use of a mortgage
database instead of original documents to justify foreclosures.  Earnings at Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender, may
suffer materially if using Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems or MERS is found to be invalid, according to a
regulatory filing last week. Citigroup and PNC said fines or
other penalties may result from investigations into MERS and
allegations of faulty foreclosure practices.  “They’re recognizing the writing on the wall, that there
are serious problems associated with the basic business model
and legal theories of the MERS system,” Christopher L. Peterson, a law professor at the University of Utah in  Salt Lake
City  who has written articles on Reston, Virginia-based MERS,
said yesterday.  MERS is a private database run by closely held Merscorp
Inc. that tracks ownership in about half of all U.S. home
mortgages. It allows banks to buy and sell loans without having
to record transfers with the county, and some lenders named MERS
as their agent to bring foreclosures. Consumer advocates argue
that MERS records aren’t a legal substitute for traditional
documents, prompting some courts to throw out foreclosures.  Merscorp said on Feb. 16 it will propose a rule change to
stop members from foreclosing in its name. It’s owned by  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the government-owned mortgage companies
that have received $151 billion in government aid since 2008,
and financial firms including Bank of America, Citigroup and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to the MERS  website .  Relying on MERS  Bank of America said legal challenges against MERS have
asserted that use of the system can “cloud ownership” of a
loan, according to its filing. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based lender, which ranks second in U.S. home lending and first
among mortgage servicers, said it uses MERS for “a substantial
portion” of new home loans, including those sold to investors
or transferred into securitized trusts.  The process “is based on a well-established body of law
that establishes ownership of  mortgage loans  by the
securitization trusts, and we believe that we have substantially
executed this process,” Bank of America said in its filing.  The question of MERS’s “legitimacy” drew scrutiny from
the U.S. Justice Department and Congress as well as regulators
and state attorneys general, Citigroup said in its filing. The
bank “has determined that the integrity of its current
foreclosure process is sound,” the New York-based firm said.  Consent Orders  PNC, the sixth-largest  U.S. bank  by deposits, expects to
sign consent orders with U.S. regulators for remedial actions
tied to mortgage servicing and foreclosures, according to
yesterday’s filing with securities regulators. The Pittsburgh-
based lender cited its use of MERS among the matters covered by
the orders, which it said are likely to come from the  Federal
Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  “We believe that PNC has systems designed to ensure that
no foreclosure proceeds unless the loan is genuinely in
default,” the bank’s filing said.  Fred Solomon, a spokesman for PNC, declined to comment on
MERS. Regarding the consent orders, “we take this very
seriously, and PNC is committed to doing the right thing for its
customers.”  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for Citigroup, and Bank
of America’s  Dan Frahm  declined to comment beyond the annual
reports.  Origin of MERS  Attorneys for homeowners have challenged seizures in which
MERS began foreclosures on behalf of banks who named the firm as
their agent. Courts have differed on whether that’s allowed,
with a California appeals court ruling in favor of MERS last
month while a federal  bankruptcy court  in New York rejected the
practice.  Karmela Lejarde, a spokeswoman for MERS, declined to
comment. In January, the company said it was designed to “build
upon and supplement, but not displace, the existing public land-
record system.”  Merscorp was created in 1995 to improve servicing after
county offices couldn’t deal with the flood of mortgage
transfers, according to MERS. The system made it easier for  Wall
Street  to quickly bundle mortgages together in securitized
trusts, fueling the growth in home lending.  Foreclosure practices in addition to those related to MERS
are the subject of investigations. Attorneys general of all 50
states are jointly investigating whether banks and loan
servicers used false documents and signatures to justify
hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. Bank of America, JPMorgan
and PNC were among lenders that temporarily halted or delayed
foreclosures to review practices.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller who is coordinating the state probes, declined to
comment.  “A lot of these problems could have been avoided by doing
a little bit more legal due diligence and following the rules,”
Peterson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  