-- 
BofA Is Said to Hire Citigroup’s Paul Simpson as Treasury Solutions Chief

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-03-02T21:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/bofa-said-to-hire-citigroup-s-simpson-as-treasury-solutions-head.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the largest
U.S. bank by assets, hired  Citigroup Inc .’s Paul Simpson to fill
a newly created position as global head of treasury solutions, a
person briefed on the situation said.  Simpson, 43, was New York-based Citigroup’s global head of
treasury and trade solutions. He will join  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America in May, reporting to global
corporate banking head Paul Donofrio, the person said, declining
to be identified because the appointment isn’t yet public.
Simpson will also have oversight of the firm’s trade finance
department, which facilitates international trade by managing
the transfer of assets across borders, the person said.  The move is the first departure of a senior executive from
Citigroup’s GTS division since Vikram Pandit became chief
executive officer of the bank in December 2007. Simpson, who
reported directly to GTS head Francesco Vanni d’Archirafi,
oversaw a division with $7.26 billion in annual revenue, which
was 11 percent of the bank’s ongoing revenue last year.  “Any time you lose a key person that can hurt,” said
Alexandria, Virginia-based banking consultant Bert Ely. “Maybe
BofA sees some opportunity to increase market share so they’ve
gone after a guy with a good track record to get it.”  The GTS unit accounted for about 34 percent of Citigroup’s
$10.6 billion profit last year. Simpson’s former division will
be managed on an interim basis by Naveed Sultan, head of GTS for  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa , according to the memo.  Simpson “has decided to pursue new opportunities outside
of Citi,” said Vanni d’Archirafi in an internal memo obtained
by Bloomberg News and confirmed by spokeswoman Nina Das. “I
would like to thank Paul for his contributions to our business
and wish him the best in his new challenges.”  A final decision for Simpson’s replacement will be made
“in due course,” Vanni d’Archirafi said.  Simpson didn’t return phone calls to his cell phone. The
Wall Street Journal reported Simpson’s hire earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  Washington  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  