-- 
Brait South Africa to Raise $858 Million, Buy Pepkor, Premier Foods Stakes

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-03-02T15:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/brait-south-africa-to-raise-858-million-buy-pepkor-premier-foods-stakes.html
  Brait SA , South  Africa ’s largest
private equity company, plans to become an investment group and
will raise 6 billion rand ($857.7 million) to buy stakes in
Pepkor Ltd., the nation’s biggest clothing retailer, and  Premier
Foods .  Brait will use part of the proceeds to purchase 24.6
percent of Pepkor, which has more than 2,800 outlets in 12
countries under the Pep, Ackermans and Best & Less brands and
will obtain further exposure of 10.3 percent to Pepkor through a
special purpose vehicle, the company said in a statement to the
city’s bourse today. It will also buy 49.9 percent and 221.2
million rand of shareholders loans of Premier Foods, maker of
Blue Ribbon bread and Snowflake flour.  “This is one of those investment opportunities that comes
along once every 20 years,” Zaheer Joosub, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. said by phone from Johannesburg today. “It’s a
very prudent thing to do.”  Brait Chief Executive Officer Antony Ball will step down
and be replaced by John Gnodde, who is currently executive
director of the company with over $800 million in funds under
management in four funds. Pepkor and  Shoprite Holdings Ltd .
Chairman Christo Wiese, through a targeted shareholding of 33
percent, will become an anchor shareholder and non-executive
director of Brait.  Company Exposure  Brait helped Wiese, the majority shareholder in Pepkor, buy
out minorities in the clothing retailer in 2004 for 2.66 billion
rand. Pepkor didn’t respond to an e-mail asking for information
on Wiese’s shareholding.  “We are doing the deals to afford the market an
opportunity, through Brait, to get exposure in good, cash
companies,” Gnodde said by telephone from Johannesburg, adding
that the Brait Fund III owns 20 percent of Pepkor.  Brait’s planned acquisition will be in addition to the
stake held in the fund, the company said in an e-mailed response
to questions today.  Brait’s change in strategy to become an  investment company 
enables it to be a long-term investor rather than having the
short-term profile of a private equity operator, Gnodde said.  “This will be a better model in that it will allow us to
align our interests with those of investors,” he said. A
private equity fund earns performance fees on funds it invests
on behalf of third-party investors, with Brait holding most of
its investments for a period of up to eight years.  No Exit  “It is common knowledge that Brait Fund III was coming to
a close and Christo Wiese didn’t want to exit,” said
Citigroup’s Joosub. Brait buying directly into the investment
“was the best thing” and avoided having to list the company on
the stock exchange, with the resulting reduction in shareholding
for existing shareholders, he said.  Wiese’s Titan Nominees (Pty) Ltd., members of the Brait  South Africa  investment team and FirstRand Bank Ltd. through its
Rand Merchant Bank unit will underwrite the offer of three new
Brait shares for every one held, which will open on April 15 and
close on May 27.  Shareholders representing 57.41 percent of Brait’s issued
share capital, have signed commitments and/or irrevocable
undertakings supporting the transaction.  Wiese holds 15.8 percent of Shoprite, Africa’s largest food
retailer with operations in 16 countries that Brait tried to buy
in 2007.  The two companies ended buyout talks after failing to
agree on revising terms of an initial 4.2 billion-rand offer
that 20 percent of shareholders said was too low.  Brait declined 5.6 percent, the biggest drop in six months,
to 20.76 rand at the close of trading in Johannesburg at 5 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  