-- 
Breast Implant Risks Downplayed by Plastic Surgeons, Consumer Group Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-02T22:56:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/breast-implant-risks-downplayed-by-plastic-surgeons-consumer-group-says.html
Plastic surgery organizations have
drawn criticism from U.S. regulators by trying to downplay the
risk of cancer with breast implants, a consumer group said.  The  American Society of Plastic Surgeons  and the  American
Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery  said on their websites that
a rare form of cancer tied to Allergan Inc. and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  implants was benign and could be cured with surgery, the
Public Citizen consumer group  said  today. The  Food and Drug
Administration  talked to the organizations at the request of
Public Citizen and the information was removed.  About 60 cases of anaplastic large-cell lymphoma have been
reported globally in women with breast implants, including 34
published in studies from January 1997 to May 2010, the FDA said
Jan. 26. The agency hasn’t decided on an optimal treatment for
these women or what risk factors or prognosis they have.  “While ASPS and ASAPS are independent organizations that
the FDA does not regulate, we are committed to assuring that
health care providers and patients receive accurate
information,”  Jeffrey Shuren , director of the FDA’s Center for
Devices and Radiological Health, said in a Feb. 28  letter  to  Public Citizen .  The plastic surgery organizations say the FDA didn’t
require the information to be removed from their websites and
that it was replaced with newer information.  ‘Proactive’ Effort  “It was never our intention to downplay the risk of a very
rarely occurring cancer associated with breast implants,” said
Phil Hayes, a spokesman for the American Society of Plastic
Surgeons, in an e-mail. “We regret that our word choice caused
confusion, and we voluntarily removed the webinar from our
website.”  Allergan, of  Irvine ,  California , and the charitable
Allergan Foundation each have given at least $25,000 to the
American Society of Plastic Surgeons this year, according to the
association’s  website . The Ethicon, Ethicon Endo-Surgery and
Mentor divisions of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J have
given at least $25,000 each, according to the website.  Several companies, including Allergan and Mentor, have
provided educational grants to the aesthetic plastic surgery
organization, said Felmont Eaves, the president of the American
Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, in an e-mail. Neither
company provided funding for the information removed from the
website, he said.  The FDA is urging doctors to report confirmed cases while
it works with the plastic-surgeon society and others to develop
a registry to track women who receive breast implants.  “As the FDA moves forward with these plans, it is
essential that the agency closely monitors the control of the
registry to ensure that the integrity of the data being
collected is not corrupted by those with significant conflicts
of interest,” said Michael Carome, deputy director of health
research at  Public Citizen , in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 