-- 
Britain Plans to Airlift 6,000 Refugees From Libya-Tunisia Border to Egypt

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-03-02T14:20:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/britain-plans-to-airlift-6-000-refugees-from-libya-tunisia-border-to-egypt.html
Britain is beginning an airlift of
mostly Egyptian refugees who’ve fled to  Tunisia  to escape the
unrest in  Libya  after tens of thousands of people became
stranded on the border.  Three British charter aircraft will fly 6,000 people from
Djerba, Tunisia, to Cairo, in response to a request from the
office of the  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees  and
the  International Organization  for Migration, U.K. International
Development Secretary  Andrew Mitchell  said today.  “We are deeply concerned that the large number of migrant
workers fleeing Libya lack even basic shelter and face a
shortage of food and clean water,” Mitchell said in an e-mailed
statement. “We call on others from the international community
to follow our lead and help get these people out of the
desperate situation they are in and home to their families.”  About 85,000 people, mostly Egyptians, have crossed the
border and a further 40,000 are reported to be waiting to cross,
the  Department for International Development  said. The UNHCR and
the  IOM  told the U.K. government last night that an airlift is a
more effective way of alleviating the suffering than setting up
camps on the border.  Two aircraft are due to fly empty to Djerba from the U.K.
today and a third will join them, probably from the region,
Mitchell said.  Blankets, Tents  The U.K. has flown 36,000 blankets and tents for 1,500
people to Tunisia, Prime Minister  David Cameron  told lawmakers
in the House of Commons today.    Germany  is also looking at ways of helping Egyptian
refugees get home from Tunisia, possibly involving the German
armed forces, Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said in a
statement today. The German government is providing 1 million
euros ($1.4 million) to supply medicines, food and water to
camps on the Libyan-Tunisian border.  The EU will more than triple its funding for the refugee
crisis to 10 million euros from 3 million euros, European
Commission President Jose Barroso told reporters today in
Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  