-- 
Buffett Takeover Criteria Includes General Dynamics: Real M&A

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   T s a n g
-- 
2011-03-02T23:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/buffett-40-billion-takeover-criteria-include-general-dynamics-real-m-a.html
  Warren Buffett  wants to use his
almost $40 billion pile of cash to pursue bigger acquisitions.
That may put companies from Archer Daniels Midland Co. to  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  in his sights.  The 80-year-old billionaire investor and chairman of Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway Inc. said in his annual letter
to shareholders on Feb. 26 that he was looking for “more major
acquisitions,” a year after spending $26.5 billion to buy
Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad in his largest purchase.  The world’s most successful investor is eyeing takeovers
after a recovery from the worst U.S. recession since the Great
Depression helped Berkshire generate almost $1 billion in free
cashflow a month last year and near zero percent interest rates
limited returns in fixed-income markets. ADM, the world’s
biggest grain processor, and General Dynamics, the maker of
Gulfstream  business jets  and Abrams tanks, are among 45
companies that meet the acquisition criteria listed in Buffett’s
annual letter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “He’s probably looking for something along those lines,”
said  Barry James , who oversees $2.5 billion as president of
James Investment Research Inc. in Xenia,  Ohio . His James
Balanced Golden Rainbow Fund has beaten 94 percent of
competitors in the past five years. “All these are great fits
for any value investor. Obviously, we’re going to need defense,
energy and agriculture. Those are just good, solid companies.”  ‘Trigger Finger’  In his  annual letter , Buffett said Berkshire, whose cash
rose to a three-year high of $38.2 billion, needed more buyouts
and that the “elephant gun has been reloaded, and my trigger
finger is itchy.”  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment for this
story e-mailed to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  He typically prefers “simple” businesses with pretax
profit exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning power, and
“good” returns on equity while employing little or no debt,
according to his report. He has shifted his takeover strategy as
Berkshire has grown to focus on “capital intensive
businesses,” such as power producers and railroads, which
require consistent investment in infrastructure and equipment.  Buffett said in an interview on CNBC television today that
an acquisition is more likely to be in “the  United States  than
any other place, but we have certainly not bought our last
international company.”  Historical Standards  There are 45 U.S. companies with market values from $4
billion to $40 billion that have capital expenses accounting for
at least 5 percent of their net fixed assets; a return on equity
exceeding 10 percent; profit growth in the past five years that
ranked in the top 50 percent; and an average price-earnings
ratio in that span that was less than the median in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  So-called value investors such as Buffett also purchase
companies when their stock prices are low by historical
standards when compared with earnings.  Berkshire, which has a market value of $209 billion and
employed more than 260,000 people as of Dec. 31, owns 10
insurers including Geico and more than 60 other companies
ranging from food distributor McLane Co. and clothing-maker
Fruit of the Loom to toolmaker Iscar Metalworking Cos. and
utility MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.  Shares of Berkshire slipped $650, or 0.5 percent, to
$127,400 in U.S. composite trading today.  Relative Value  ADM, with a market value of $23.5 billion, has traded at an
average of 13 times profit in the past five years versus 16.7
times for the median  S&P 500  company, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. While the Decatur, Illinois-based company rose 22 percent
this year through yesterday, it traded at 12.1 times earnings.  The grain processor reported second-quarter profit and
sales that beat analysts’ estimates last month after exporting
record grain volumes from the U.S. Earnings from ADM’s
agricultural-services segment, which buys, sells and transports
grains, almost tripled to $426 million from $150 million a year
earlier, the company said.  Net income has climbed 85 percent in the past five years
and analysts estimate profits will rise to records this fiscal
year and next, the data show. ADM has also spent more than $1
billion on plants and equipment in each of the past four years.  “ADM, as a food processor and middleman, is more plausibly
up his alley,” said Brian Barish, president of Cambiar
Investors LLC, which manages $7 billion in Denver. “The jewel
of the company is that they have a huge business, which is
called agricultural services. This is transporting food, storing
food and grains. That’s a very difficult business to replicate.
That one seems potentially very interesting.”  Opportunity Fund  Barish’s  Cambiar Opportunity Fund (CAMOX)  returned 31 percent in
the past year, beating 99 percent of value funds investing in
the largest companies by stock-market capitalization.  Roman Blahoski, a spokesman at ADM, declined to comment.  Still, Buffett may not be interested in a company that has
been accused of fixing prices, according to Howard Ward, a money
manager for Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees about $33
billion in Rye,  New York .  In 1996, ADM agreed to pay a then-record $100 million
antitrust fine after being accused by the government of price-
fixing. Buffett’s son,  Howard Buffett , worked at ADM from 1992
to 1995, serving as a director and the company’s head of  investor relations . He resigned in July 1995, because he was
unhappy with the company’s actions related to the investigation,
the Wall Street Journal reported at the time.  ‘Checkered Past’  “I would doubt  Archer Daniels  because it is a company with
a checkered past,” said Gamco’s Ward.  ADM’s shares advanced 0.4 percent to $36.77 today.  General Dynamics, which Buffett owned a stake in more than
a decade ago, has a market value of $28 billion.  The stock traded at an average of 13.2 times its earnings
in the past five years, a 21 percent discount to the median S&P
500 company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Net income at the  Falls Church , Virginia-based company rose
19 percent in the fourth quarter as demand for Gulfstream jets
rose and Chief Executive Officer Jay Johnson said the aerospace
unit will increase sales at least 10 percent this year.  Buffett already owns NetJets Inc., the luxury air-travel
company that he bought in 1998 for $725 million. The Columbus,
Ohio-based company allows clients to share ownership and arrange
private flights on a fleet of planes operated by the Berkshire
unit. NetJets bought some Gulfstream aircrafts for its fleet.  ‘One That’s Possible’  NetJets said yesterday it ordered as many as 120 aircraft
from Bombardier Inc. of Montreal for more than $6.7 billion.  General Dynamics “does have a business that he’s familiar
with,” said Thomas A. Russo, who manages about $4 billion at
Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania . Russo has
owned Berkshire stock since the early 1980s. “That’s one that’s
possible” for him to acquire, he said.  Buffett said in the  annual report  that NetJets’ financial
results have been a “failure” since he bought it in 1998. The
company, which reported a pretax loss of $157 million in the 11
years ended 2009, would have lost “several hundreds of
millions” more without Berkshire’s financial support, he wrote.  General Dynamics bought Gulfstream in 1999, reducing its
reliance on defense spending. It has $591 million in net debt
and a credit rating of A1L, the seventh-highest level of
investment grade, according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit
Ratings. That model analyzes borrowers based on their
indebtedness, stock volatility, profitability and other
financial ratios.  General Dynamics, Exelon  Rob Doolittle, a spokesman for General Dynamics, declined
to comment. The company’s shares rose 0.1 percent to $75.11.  Exelon, the biggest U.S. nuclear power generator, may
become a takeover target as Buffett looks to build on his
investments in utilities and power producers, according to Harry Rady, who oversees $270 million as chief executive officer of
Rady Asset Management LLC in  La Jolla ,  California .  The Chicago-based power producer declined 7.6 percent in
the past year through yesterday, trailing the 7.8 percent gain
for utilities in the S&P 500. Exelon traded at 10.1 times
earnings, compared with its five-year average of 14.7, Bloomberg
data show.  Its return on equity, a measure of how much a company earns
for each dollar it invested, was 20 percent last year, almost
double the average for S&P 500 utilities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Up His Alley’  “He might look at a nuclear utility, like an Exelon,”
said Rady. “Exelon is trading at its historical low valuation.
It’s out of favor. That would be one that would be right up his
alley.”  Exelon’s spokesman Paul Elsberg declined to comment. The
company’s shares fell 0.2 percent to $41.04 today.  Paul Newsome, an analyst at New York-based Sandler O’Neill
& Partners LP, said Buffett may ultimately prefer to buy a
property-casualty insurer because the companies are cheap versus
historical valuation of between 1.3 to 1.4 times net assets.    Chubb Corp. (CB) , the Warren, New Jersey-based insurer of
commercial property and high-end homes, is currently valued at
1.14 times its book value.  Travelers Cos., the best-performing financial stock in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  last year, trades at 1.01 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Northbrook, Illinois-based  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, trades at 88 cents on the dollar, the data show.  ‘Definitely Makes Sense’  “It definitely makes sense” for Buffett to acquire an
insurer, said Newsome.    Shane Boyd , a spokesman for New York-based Travelers,
declined to comment, as did Allstate’s Maryellen Thielen. Mark Greenberg at Chubb didn’t return telephone messages left after
regular business hours.  Travelers fell 0.7 percent to $58.81 today, while Allstate
slipped 0.5 percent to $31.30. Chubb retreated 0.9 percent to
$59.15.  Overall, there have been 3,856 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $388.7 billion, a 29 percent increase from
the $301.7 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;  Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 