-- 
Buy H&R Block Put Options, FedEx Calls, Goldman Sachs Recommends

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-02T15:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/buy-h-r-block-put-options-fedex-calls-goldman-sachs-recommends.html
Investors should buy options on  H&R
Block Inc . and  FedEx Corp . as the stock of the biggest U.S. tax
preparer may decline and the selloff in the shipping company’s
shares may be overdone,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . said.  Derivatives strategists John Marshall and Katherine Fogertey recommended buying H&R Block April $14 puts because the
options are “attractive.” The  Kansas City , Missouri-based tax
preparer dropped 3.1 percent to $14.72 yesterday.  “H&R Block is rapidly losing market share in the tax
business to software based solutions,” the strategists wrote in
a note today. “Options appear attractive as we approach the
important tax filing season; H&R Block generates two-thirds of
their annual revenue in their busiest two weeks of tax season.”  H&R Block last week rose the most since October after
reporting total tax returns had increased from a year earlier.
The company has fallen 13 percent in the past year through
yesterday, compared with a 17 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. H&R Block on March 9 will report third-quarter
profit of 9 cents a share excluding some items, according to the
average of 10 estimates from a Bloomberg survey. The company
beat projections for the past five quarters.  H&R Block’s implied volatility, the key gauge of option
prices, for at-the-money options expiring in 30 days increased
3.1 percent to 47.85 yesterday.  FedEx  Marshall and Fogertey also said investors should buy FedEx
calls, without recommending a specific trade. The Memphis,
Tennessee-based shipping company advanced 2.9 percent in the
past year through yesterday, compared with a 23 percent increase
for the Standard and Poor’s 500 Industrials Index. FedEx fell
2.4 percent to $87.88 yesterday.  “Our transportation analyst also sees the selloff as
overdone in the context of his estimates and price target,” the
note said. “We believe options prices are attractive and
recommend buying calls to gain exposure to a rebound in
sentiment on growth sensitive stocks.”  The shipper on March 17 will post third-quarter adjusted
earnings of 82 cents a share, according to the average of 21
estimates from a Bloomberg survey. FedEx missed projections for
the past two quarters.  FedEx’s implied volatility rose 7.1 percent to 31.91
yesterday.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  