-- 
Flaherty Says His March 22 Budget to Have Measures Opposition May Support

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-02T17:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/canada-budget-to-be-presented-march-22-finance-minister-flaherty-says.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he will present a budget on March 22 that will
seek to bring the country’s finances back to balance by 2015,
and contain measures that opposition lawmakers may support.  Flaherty, speaking to reporters today in Ottawa, said he
has not completed writing the budget and that he is still
talking to opposition lawmakers.  “There are some discussions that are continuing,”
Flaherty said. “I expect there will be some items in the budget
that will engender consideration by opposition parties, at least
I hope so.”  The budget, if not supported by opposition lawmakers, may
trigger an election. The governing Conservatives hold a  minority
of seats  in the House of Commons and need support of one of
three opposition parties. If the fiscal plan is defeated,
elections would follow.  Flaherty also said the deficit for the current fiscal year
may be ‘modestly’ smaller than the C$45.4 billion the government
previously forecast. He said the government would maintain its
plan of reducing its deficit by winding down stimulus spending.  “We will not make dangerous new government spending
commitments that would trigger higher taxes, kill jobs, and
reverse  Canada ’s fragile economic growth,” Flaherty, 61, told
reporters today in Ottawa. “We are sticking with our low-tax
plan to create jobs and support families.”  Higher Revenue  Flaherty last month released forecasts showing economists
project Canada’s economy will generate C$61 billion ($62.8
billion) more output by 2015 than the government estimated in
its October  budget update . Based on previous government
assumptions, the higher output suggests Flaherty’s government
may take in as much as C$9 billion more in revenue over the next
five years than forecast last year. Flaherty said today he is
seeing some indications that growth may be stronger than earlier
forecast.  Canada had a record C$55.6 billion budget deficit in the
fiscal year that ended last March. The shortfall will disappear
altogether in 2015, according to Flaherty’s last fiscal plan, as
temporary stimulus projects expire, the government implements
cost controls and economic growth and higher payroll taxes boost
revenue.  Lawmakers from the opposition Liberals and  New Democratic
Party  have called on Flaherty to scrap reductions in the
corporate income tax rate that they say are unaffordable.
Flaherty said today the budget will have “nothing” in it about
corporate taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  