-- 
Canada December Farm Product Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-03-02T15:26:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/canada-december-farm-product-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s farm product price index report for December from  Statistics Canada .  In December, prices farmers received for their commodities rose
7.9% from December 2009, as both the livestock and animal
products index and the crops index increased.
Farm Product Price Index,  Canada   The prices producers received for livestock and animal products
rose 10.0% in December compared with December 2009, as increases
were recorded in all livestock commodities except poultry.
Cattle and calves and hogs, the two largest contributors to the
livestock index, have posted year-over-year increases in the
last seven and nine months respectively.  Over the last few years, livestock producers have been affected
by the US Country of Origin Labeling legislation, lower demand
driven by the economic situation and higher feed grain costs. By
the end of 2010, the number of cattle on Canadian farms had
declined to their lowest level since January 1995, while hog
inventories (+0.6%) recorded their first increase on a year-
over-year basis since April 1, 2006.  The prices producers received for crops in December were 5.7%
higher compared with the same month a year earlier, as increases
in oilseeds, fruit and grains offset declines in potatoes,
specialty crops and vegetables.  In December, the total crops index rose 3.3% over November, as
grains, oilseed, specialty crops and fruit posted increases. The
overall livestock and animal products index (+1.6%) was also up
from November, as all components except cattle and calves
increased.  Note: The growth rate of the total Farm Product Price Index
(FPPI) is derived from a weighted average of the component
indices using a different set of weights in consecutive months;
it is not a weighted average of the growth rates of its crop and
livestock components. Given this, the growth rate of the
composite FPPI can lie outside the growth rate of these
components.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  