-- 
Cape Earnings to Grow to 2015 After Returning to Profit

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-02T16:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/cape-expects-earnings-to-grow-to-2015-after-returning-to-profit.html
  Cape Plc , which supplies fire-
protection, scaffolding and cleaners to energy companies,
expects earnings to grow through 2015 after returning to profit
last year. The shares rose the most in 17 months in London.  The directors forecast “a return to organic revenue growth
from the second half of 2011,” Chairman Sean O’Connor said
today in a statement. “As capital expenditure in the global
energy sector begins to increase, we look forward to a sustained
period of high earnings growth from mid 2011 towards 2015.”  The company reported net income of 49.5 million pounds
($80.46 million) last year, from a 4.1 million-pound loss. It
halved its debt to 52.9 million pounds and agreed to pay a full-
year dividend of 12 pence.  Cape shares rose 59 pence, or 15 percent, to 466 pence as
of the 4:30 p.m. close in  London .  Uxbridge, England-based Cape is expanding its operations in
Australia and Papua New Guinea, said Chief Executive Martin May.
The company is progressing with its projects in Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, United Arab Emirates and in the Caspian Sea region. It
also has a project in Algeria.  “We are very well positioned to pick up a very substantial
amount of work,” May said in a phone interview. “We have a
small businesses in Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman,” which along with
the Algerian operations have experienced “no impact” so far
from unrest in region, he said.  Cape works for the  Chevron Corp .-led Gorgon and  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd .-led Pluto liquefied natural gas projects in
Australia. The company expects to secure more contracts with new
developments led by  BG Group Plc  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  in
the country.  “We have argued that an upturn in Cape’s business was
inevitable,” Keith Morris, a London-based analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd., wrote in an e-mail. “This is now confirmed in
the outlook statement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  