-- 
Capital & Counties Earnings Decline 39% on Its London Exhibition Centers

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-03-02T09:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/capital-counties-earnings-decline-39-on-its-london-exhibition-centers.html
  Capital & Counties Properties Plc ,
created by last year’s breakup of Liberty International, said
2010 profit fell 39 percent as the weak economic recovery hurt
the U.K. company’s exhibition centers in  London .  Adjusted earnings before asset revaluations and some items
dropped to 9.2 million pounds ($15 million), or 1.5 pence a
share, from 15.2 million pounds, or 2.4 pence, a year earlier,
Capco said in a statement today. That missed the 1.9 pence a
share estimate of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Net asset
value rose to 148 pence a share from 127 pence a year earlier.  The property company generated half its rental income from
its exhibitions and conference business by leasing space at the
Olympia and Earls Court centers in west London and another
location in the  City of London  financial district. Demand from
exhibitors at the three venues fell, causing net rental income
for this unit to decline 21 percent, the company said today.  Net rental income will “remain choppy,” Chief Executive
Officer Ian Hawksworth said on a conference call. Capco will
focus on attracting higher-paying tenants to its Covent Garden
properties and through development projects.  Capco rose 1.4 pence, or 0.9 percent, to 150.2 pence at
9:24 a.m. in London trading, valuing the company at 928 million
pounds. The shares climbed 27 percent in the six months through
Feb. 28, compared with an 8.4 percent gain for the FTSE All-
Share Real Estate Investment & Services Index.  Less Rental Income  Net rental income fell 12 percent to 69 million pounds
as the U.K.’s 18-month recession deterred exhibitors from
leasing space in the first half of 2010, Hawksworth said. The
exhibitions business is currently “performing very well” and
is “ahead of plan,” he said.  Rental income from Capco’s shops and offices owned
elsewhere in London’s  West End  district also fell because the
company sold four buildings and created vacancies by replacing
tenants with higher paying ones.  The gain in net asset value stemmed from a 135 million-
pound increase in the value of Capco’s real estate. The company
owns 44 properties in and around Covent Garden and has a
partnership with  Great Portland Estates Plc  in developing
offices in the West End, one the most expensive business
locations in the world.  The company is also seeking to redevelop land surrounding
the Earls Court and Olympia exhibition centers into a mix of
housing, shops and offices.  The increase in property values produced net income of
131.6 million pounds. That compared with a loss of 131.5 million
pounds in 2009. Capco said it will pay a second-half dividend of
1 penny, bringing the total payout to 1.5 pence a share, in line
with guidance given at the time of the division of Liberty
International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 