-- 
Carillion Drops Most Since July on Middle East Unrest Concern

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-03-02T12:05:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/carillion-drops-most-since-july-on-middle-east-unrest-concern.html
  Carillion Plc , which manages
buildings for companies including BT Group Plc, fell the most in
seven months on concern about the potential impact of Middle
East unrest on contracts.  Carillion plummeted as much as 5.6 percent to 352.9 pence
in  London , its biggest intraday drop since July 28. The company
reported a 22 percent gain in net income to 147.2 million pounds
($240 million), beating estimates. Analysts noted increasing
competition in the Middle East at a time when investment plans
may be in jeopardy.  “The services sector is pretty weak at the moment, even
though the results themselves were good,” said Howard Seymour,
an analyst at Numis Securities who cut the stock to a “hold”
rating today. “The market is also attaching a higher risk-
profile to the Middle East.”  Carillion’s construction revenue from the Middle East fell
11 percent last year, indicating competition could be squeezing
margins, Deutsche Bank analysts including Davina Mendelsohn
said. The company aims to double revenue from  Canada  and the
Middle East, primarily in  Abu Dhabi , Oman and Qatar, Chief
Executive Officer John McDonough said today in an interview.  Canada and the Middle East currently contribute about a
quarter of total revenue. Uprisings in North Africa have spread
since pro-democracy protestors toppled dictators in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Net income rose to the equivalent of 36.7 pence a share
from 30.3 pence a share, the Wolverhampton, England-based
company said in a statement today. Pretax profit after one-time
items was 188.1 million pounds, ahead of Deutsche Bank’s 186
million-pound estimate. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey predicted
129.8 million pounds of net income.  Budget Cuts  Contract opportunities in support services have jumped to
18 billion pounds driven by government outsourcing, CEOMcDonough said in the interview. Our support services also
delivered a 5.2 percent margin improvement last year, “which is
very pleasing,” he said.  The company aims to deliver “substantial growth” in U.K.
services from 2012. It’s targeting British contracts as it sees
an increase in outsourcing from local authorities seeking to
reduce costs. “Large, complex contracts” maintaining property
and infrastructure that have higher margins will be pursued,
McDonough said.  Carillion is one of two companies left bidding for service
contracts for Edinburgh and Sheffield City Council, he said.  The company increased its dividend to 15.5 pence a share,
up 6 percent from the 14.6 pence a share paid last year. Total
revenue declined 9 percent to 5.1 billion pounds, compared to an
average estimate of 4.58 billion pounds from a survey of 11
analysts.  The stock, rated a “buy” by Mendelsohn, traded 3.9
percent lower at 359.6 pence as of 11:40 a.m., compared with a
0.7 percent decline in the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index . The stock
has lost 6.5 percent this year, giving the company a market
value of 1.44 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  