-- 
Carroll Set for Liverpool Debut Against Manchester Utd., Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-02T05:41:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/carroll-set-for-liverpool-debut-against-manchester-utd-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Carroll Set for Debut  Andy Carroll is in line to make his Liverpool debut against
Premier League leader  Manchester United  at the weekend after
coming through his first full training session, the Sun
 reported .  Team medics will today assess the 22-year-old striker, who
joined Liverpool in January for 35 million pounds ($57 million)
from Newcastle, to make sure there is no reaction to the thigh
injury that has sidelined him since Dec. 28, the newspaper
added.  Toulouse Target  Liverpool is poised to beat Tottenham and Manchester United
to the signing of France midfielder Moussa Sissoko from Toulouse
in the offseason, the  Daily Mail   reported .  The 21-year-old, who turned down Liverpool and Bolton to
sign with the French club as a teenager, has told friends that
Liverpool is his preferred destination, the newspaper said.  Ferguson’s Ref Rant  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  faces a possible
Football Association charge after questioning the integrity of
referee  Martin Atkinson  following his team’s 2-1 loss at Chelsea
last night, the Independent  reported . The comments from
Ferguson, who has a history of criticizing Atkinson, warrant
further investigation by the F.A., the Independent said.  “You hope you get a really strong referee in games like
this,” the Independent cited Ferguson as telling MUTV. “It was
a major game for both clubs and you want a fair referee. You
want a strong referee anyway and we didn’t get that. I must tell
you -- I must say that when I saw who was refereeing it, I
feared the worst.”  Teenage Target  United, meantime, is poised to sign Anderlecht’s 16-year-
old winger Adnan Januzaj for 600,000 pounds, the Sun  reported .  Injuries Rock Everton  Everton midfielder Marouane Fellaini was ruled out for the
rest of the season after scans showed that he requires surgery
on an ankle injury, the Daily Mirror  reported .  The  Belgium  international will have the operation on March
7, the Mirror said. Fellow midfielder  Tim Cahill , who missed
last night’s F.A. Cup defeat to Reading, is out for three weeks
because of a foot injury, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  