-- 
Republican McCarthy Says U.S. Budget Will Tackle Entitlement Program Cuts

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/mccarthy-says-republican-plan-will-create-jobs-entitlements-to-be-tackled.html
U.S. Representative  Kevin McCarthy ,
third-ranking Republican in the House, places politicians in two
camps, “thermometers” and “thermostats.” He says President  Barack Obama  is playing “thermometer” to Republicans.  “He’s letting everything take its course, and he’s just
standing out, telling you what the temperature is after
everybody already knows it,” McCarthy, of  California , said
during a Bloomberg Breakfast with reporters in Washington
yesterday.  The Republican leadership, McCarthy said, “takes the
temperature of the room, but tells you where you need to get to,
and it may be uncomfortable.’  His party plans to heat things up soon: McCarthy said  House
Republicans  will introduce a spending plan in April that will
address cuts in entitlement programs representing 40 percent of
the federal budget  “We will be different than the president,” he said. “We
will address entitlements.”  He offered no specifics on how his party would overhaul
Medicare, Medicaid or Social Security, stopping short of
supporting a plan proposed by House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan 
that would transform Medicare into a voucher system.  The momentum to cut spending is on the side of Republicans,
he said, arguing that Democrats blinked by agreeing to temporary
budget cuts.  Stopgap Measure  He called the House vote this week for temporary budget
cuts a “bigger victory than anyone could imagine,” with 104
Democrats siding with Republicans. “More voted with us than
against it, of the Democrats,” he said.  Obama yesterday signed the budget bill funding the
government until March 18. The bill will prevent a government
shutdown while lawmakers negotiate over Republican demands to
further cut federal spending this year.  The Senate voted 91-9 to send Obama the measure, which
passed the House this week 335-91. Current  government spending 
authority would expire March 4 without this bill.  The House last month approved a Republican plan to cut $61
billion from 2011 government spending, which would mean
reductions of 10 percent or more in hundreds of programs.
Democrats and reports by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Moody’s
Analytics chief economist  Mark Zandi  say those cuts would harm
economic recovery.  The Republican proposal would reduce economic growth by 1.5
to 2 percentage points during the second and third quarters of
this year, according to the report released by Goldman Sachs
last week.  “I don’t believe the $61 billion is going to be a short-
term hit on jobs,” said McCarthy. “You’re going to say the $61
billion is going to shut down America? We just spent $1 trillion
with interest in the stimulus.”  Budget Bill  Commenting on unrest in the Middle East, McCarthy said he
would give Obama a grade of “C” for his handling of the
turmoil.  “He should put a clear position of where America stands
and where America is going,” he said. “It’s almost that the
policy keeps changing with each inroad, with each country.”  Libyan forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
counterattacked rebels yesterday. Western powers are debating
how to stop the attacks as two U.S. Navy ships head toward  Libya .  McCarthy wouldn’t say whether he would send military or
financial support to the country.  “There are ways to do it without troops,” he said.
“There are ways to have a no-fly zone. There are ways to give
people an opportunity.”  Presidential Race  McCarthy said there wasn’t a clear frontrunner for the
Republican nomination in the 2012 presidential race.  “You had a clearing of the deck per se after McCain,”
said McCarthy, referring to the party’s 2008 nominee, Arizona
Senator  John McCain . “Who really is sitting there that’s next
in line?”  No Republican candidate has formally declared for the 2012
race. Four years ago, when no incumbent was in the contest, a
total of 17 Republicans and Democrats had signaled their
candidacies or set up exploratory committees by the end of
January 2007, including Obama.  “Is there any hidden fact about who’s going to run
probably?” said McCarthy, who mentioned former Minnesota
Governor Tim Pawlenty, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ,
Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  and Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels as potential candidates. “By announcing, does that
change anything they’re doing?”  Longer Primary  He said a longer primary campaign would be “beneficial”
for the party because it would let candidates build stronger
campaign organizations and air potential issues.  “It’s not pretty, but I think it will be better for us in
the long term to carry it out,” he said.  The Republican majority in the House can set the agenda for
the presidential race, said McCarthy.  “Everything we do in the next year can lay up for what the
debate for the presidency will be about,” he said. “We make it
about  job creation , about the budget and spending, then you have
to debate that.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington 
at   llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  