-- 
Chelsea Fights Back to Defeat Premier League Leader Manchester United 2-1

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-02T04:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/chelsea-fights-back-to-defeat-premier-league-leader-manchester-united-2-1.html
Chelsea came from behind to beat  Manchester United  2-1 and move up to fourth place by sending the
Premier League leader to its second defeat of the season.    Frank Lampard  scored the winning goal from the penalty spot
with 10 minutes left at Stamford Bridge last night after David Luiz volleyed the equalizer following  Wayne Rooney ’s opener.
United leads Arsenal, which has played one fewer game, by four
points with defending champion Chelsea 12 points behind.  “We’re not firmly back in it, it’s still a lot of
points,” Lampard said in an interview with  Sky Sports .
“Manchester United are deservedly top, but we’ve got some fight,
as we showed.”  United manager  Alex Ferguson  disagreed with referee  Martin
Atkinson ’s penalty call against Chris Smalling and said Luiz
should have been sent off moments earlier for tripping Rooney.
United captain Nemanja Vidic was red-carded in second-half
stoppage time and will miss the game at Liverpool in five days.  “These are decisions that change the game,” Ferguson told
Sky Sports. “But I’m proud of the players. They’ve endured a
lot of decisions against them, but they’ve come through it,
they’ve done their best. They didn’t deserve that.”  It was United’s second loss in 28 league matches this
season. Chelsea moves one point ahead of Tottenham into fourth
place, the final qualifying spot for European soccer’s elite
Champions League.  “We are still alive,” Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti 
said. “It’s far to Manchester United, but our performance was
important, there are a lot of matches and we are ready to play
at our best.”  Early Chances  Chelsea’s Florent Malouda put the first chance straight at
United goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar in the opening minute and
Luiz cleared  Darren Fletcher ’s cross in front of goal after an
errant pass from  John Terry .  Rooney, who escaped Football Association punishment for
elbowing a Wigan player four days ago, fired United ahead in the
29th minute. The England striker took a pass from Nani and, left
alone by the Chelsea defense, drove a low shot from about 25
yards inside the left post.  Van der Sar kept United in front in the 41st minute when he
dived to get a hand to Lampard’s long free kick. The rebound
went off Branislav Ivanovic and van der Sar reached up to twice
claw the ball away.  Chelsea tied the game nine minutes into the second half as
Michael Essien’s cross fell to Luiz, who composed himself before
blasting a shot from 10 yards past van der Sar for his first
goal since joining the Blues in January.  Luiz Escape  Rooney then shot wide of the far post after going in alone
on goal and had another shot knocked away by Chelsea goalkeeper  Petr Cech . Luiz, on a yellow card, then wasn’t penalized by
Atkinson for a trip on Rooney that may have led to a red card.  “It was incredible,” Ferguson said. “He does Rooney
clear as day, (the referee) is six yards from it and doesn’t do
anything. That changed the game.”  Chelsea took the lead moments later after Atkinson gave the
home team a penalty when Smalling tangled with Yuri Zhirkov in
the area. Lampard slammed his kick past van der Sar.  Zhirkov almost added a third with a shot that deflected off
the inside of Vidic’s leg and then the post for a corner kick.  Vidic then received his second yellow card in the third of
four added minutes for pulling down Ramires on the edge of the
penalty area, ruling the defender out of the trip to Liverpool.  Wes Brown will be drafted in to play alongside Smalling at
Anfield because  Rio Ferdinand , United’s other first-choice
center-back, still isn’t fit, Ferguson said.  “Wes will take over,” Ferguson told MUTV. “He has great
experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  