-- 
China’s Founder of High-Speed Railways Under Investigation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-02T06:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/china-s-founder-of-high-speed-railways-under-investigation.html
  China ’s Ministry of Railways removed
Zhang Shuguang as deputy chief engineer and is investigating him
for alleged “severe violation of discipline,” Xinhua News
Agency said, in the second probe of an official from the
ministry in a week.  Zhang, 54, is known as the founder of China’s high-speed
railway technology and an ally of former railway minister Liu Zhijun, Caixin Online  reported  yesterday. He was being
investigated by the Communist Party of China Central Commission
for Discipline Inspection, Xinhua said. Wang Yongping, spokesman
for the Ministry of Railways, declined to comment when reached
by telephone.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to punish abuse of power
by officials in an online interview with citizens on Feb. 27 and
said the root of corruption lies in a government that has too
much unrestrained power.  China wants to spend as much as 4 trillion yuan ($609
billion) as part of a five-year plan starting this year as it
works to ease transport bottlenecks and spread economic
development, the China Securities Journal reported on Dec. 8.
China is planning to spend 2 trillion yuan on high-speed rail as
it plans to build a faster and bigger network.  A 220.9 billion-yuan high-speed rail line between Beijing
and  Shanghai  will begin operations by the middle of June, ahead
of a previously planned 2012 opening, Xinhua News Agency
reported Jan. 4, citing Liu.  Liu, 58, was removed from his post last month and is under
investigation for “severe” disciplinary violations, the Xinhua
News Agency reported Feb. 25. He was accused of abusing his
position and receiving “a large amount of money” in bribes,
Xinhua said Feb. 12.  Shares of CSR Corp., the nation’s largest trainmaker, slid
3.8 percent to 7.84 yuan in Shanghai as of 1:44 p.m. today,
while China CNR Corp. dropped 3.3 percent to 7.94 yuan.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ; 