-- 
China's Xunlei Said to Plan $200 Million U.S. Public Offering, Hire Banks

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-03-03T05:28:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/china-s-xunlei-said-to-plan-200-million-u-s-public-offering-hire-banks.html
Shenzhen Xunlei Network Technology
Ltd., the Chinese video and music file-sharing company partly
owned by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , is planning to raise about $200 million in
an initial public offering in the U.S. this year, according to
two people with knowledge of the situation.  The company has hired underwriters including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  for its IPO, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans aren’t public.  Xunlei may follow Chinese Internet companies including  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU)  and  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  in raising
capital from initial share sales in the U.S. Xunlei had about
190 million online video users at the end of last year, and also
offers other Web services including games, according to Tang
Yizhi, an analyst at Analysys International in Beijing.  “The company’s strength is in its technology - it’s able
to serve up high-definition videos to users,” Tang said by
telephone. “It has more diversified services than a site like
Youku, which is focused on online videos.”  Youku,  China ’s biggest online video site, surged 161
percent of its first day of trading in  New York  on Dec. 8, the
largest gain for a U.S. IPO since the 2005 debut of Baidu Inc.,
China’s most-popular search-engine.  LinkedIn Corp., the largest networking website for
professionals, and Oakland, California-based Pandora Media Inc.,
the biggest online-radio company, have both filed to go public
since the beginning of the year.  ‘Turning to IPOs’  Yin Tihua, a manager at Xunlei, didn’t immediately return
two calls to his office. Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for
JPMorgan, and Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment yesterday.  Technology companies worldwide are turning to IPOs to raise
funds. Yandex, a Moscow-based Internet search provider, and
Renren.com, the largest social-networking site in China, are
planning IPOs this year, people briefed on the proposals said in
the past two weeks. Along with Austin, Texas-based HomeAway.com
Inc. and Salt Lake City-based Fusion-io Inc., the offerings may
raise about $2 billion.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, announced its
investment in Xunlei in 2007, in partnership with Fidelity Asia
Ventures and Ceyuan Ventures as part of its efforts to win share
in China, the world’s second-largest Internet market.  The Motion Picture Association of America, a Washington-
based trade group, said in 2008 that its six member studios
filed a civil complaint against Xunlei in Shanghai Pudong
District Court for enabling piracy of movies including “Spider
Man 3.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  