-- 
China Joins Russia in Signaling Potential Opposition to Libya No-Fly Zone

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-02T21:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/china-s-un-ambassador-signals-potential-opposition-to-libyan-no-fly-zone.html
China joined  Russia  today in
signaling potential opposition to imposing a no-fly zone over
Libya if fighting continues between protesters and forces loyal
to leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Li Baodong, China’s ambassador to the United Nations,
didn’t explicitly rule out support for a move by the Security
Council to police air space over Libya. Instead, Li outlined
three guiding “principles” to China’s position, emphasizing
the need for diplomacy to resolve the crisis and respect for
Libya’s territorial integrity.  “We believe that this political crisis should be resolved
through peaceful means such as dialogue,” Li told reporters at
the UN in  New York . “We respect the sovereignty, independence
and territorial integrity of Libya.”  The third principle, that  China  would “heed and respect
the opinions and positions of Arab countries and African
countries,” left room for maneuvering.  The Arab League today said it may support and work with the  African Union  to enforce a no-fly zone over Libya. “The Arab
countries cannot stand with their hands tied regarding the
bloodshed that the brotherly Libyan people are being subjected
to,” the group said in a statement in Cairo after a meeting of
Arab foreign ministers.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov yesterday described
the idea of imposing limits on Libyan air space as
“superfluous,” the Associated Press reported. Lavrov said
world powers must instead focus on fully using the sanctions
approved by the UN  Security Council  on Feb. 26, AP reported.  ‘Serious Interference’  “A ban on the national air force or civil aviation to fly
over their own territory is still a serious interference into
the domestic affairs of another country, and at any rate it
requires a resolution of the UN  Security Council ,” Russian NATO
ambassador Dmitri Rogozin told the Interfax news agency
yesterday.  China and Russia, as permanent members of the Security
Council, could veto any draft resolution to authorize a no-fly
zone.  A “no-fly zone is an option we are actively considering,
discussing with allies and partners,” White House spokesman Jay Carney told reporters on Feb. 28.  The U.S. Senate yesterday called for imposition of a no-fly
zone over Libya, approved a non-binding resolution that also
endorsed U.S. outreach to forces opposing Qaddafi’s regime.  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  ordered his military
chiefs on Feb. 28 to draw up plans for a no-fly zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  