-- 
Clinton, Senators Stress Mideast Energy, U.S. Strategic Stakes

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-02T17:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/clinton-senators-stress-mideast-energy-u-s-strategic-stakes.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and lawmakers from both parties said unrest roiling the Middle
East will affect U.S. energy policy and national security, as
the top U.S. diplomat urged senators to meet her agency’s budget
request for the next fiscal year.  The administration has asked Congress for $47 billion of
funding for the State Department’s regular programs in fiscal
2012, which starts Oct. 1. The administration seeks an
additional $8.7 billion of temporary funding for operations in  Afghanistan ,  Pakistan  and  Iraq .  Senator  Richard Lugar , the senior Republican on the  Senate
Foreign Relations Committee , pointed to rising oil prices in the
wake of Libyan unrest and urged Clinton to diversify trade
routes and boost energy trade with non-Middle Eastern nations.  The committee’s Democratic chairman, Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , said the future of U.S. national security rests in
part on its response in the Middle East today. Kerry and Clinton
both said the U.S. response to events in that region will be
hampered under a Republican proposal to cut the administration’s
request by 16 percent.  “Now would be absolutely the wrong time to pull back,”
Clinton said.  Kerry called for forceful action on Libya, and said the
Senate may consider a bipartisan aid package for the Arab world
“to assist in this monumental and uplifting transformation.”
Committee spokesman Frederick Jones said discussions on an aid
plan had just begun and it wasn’t yet settled whether new funds
would be used. Kerry also called for the imposition of a no-fly
zone over  Libya .  “I think we are a long way from making that decision”
about a no-fly zone, Clinton told the committee.  ‘Lean Budget’  Clinton defended her department’s budget request,
describing it as “a lean budget for lean times.”  Republican Senator Robert Corker of  Tennessee  told Clinton
her department’s budget would likely be cut because he and his
colleagues in Congress “haven’t shown the knowledge or the
courage to deal with” escalating costs of Medicare and Social
Security “that are basically crowding out your programs.”  Clinton has said the deficit, projected to reach $1.6
trillion this year, also represents a threat to U.S. stability.  Lugar told Clinton that volatile energy prices are
threatening the U.S. economic recovery. “We’re living in an age
of extreme vulnerability to oil-supply disruptions from war,
instability, terrorism, or embargo,” Lugar said.  He urged the top U.S. diplomat to put the State Department
to work on boosting energy trade with “reliable and transparent
partners like  Canada , in place of shaky and sometimes hostile
suppliers.”  Oil Surges  Crude oil surged above $100 a barrel today, in part on
concerns that unrest curbing exports from Libya will spread to
other countries in the region. Crude oil for April delivery rose
$2.09, or 2.1 percent, to $101.76 a barrel at 12:06 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Kerry said that the Republican-suggested budget cut, which
would target foreign aid and global health programs, “does
violence to the Judeo-Christian ethic by which so many people
claim to lead their lives.”  “These cuts are not abstractions,” Kerry said. “These
are people. Cutting these programs will do almost nothing to
rein in our  budget deficit , but it will cost thousands of
lives.”  ‘Straight Realpolitik’  “Let’s talk straight realpolitik,” Clinton said. “We are
in a huge competition” for global influence and global markets.
She described countries circling around huge new oil discoveries
in the south Pacific. “China is there every day, figuring out
how they’re going to come in behind us, come in under us,” she
said.  She also said the U.S. had to do more to communicate its
values and spread its influence to the rest of the world through
government-backed media, such as Al-Hurrah Television, which
broadcasts in the Arab world.  “We are engaged in an information war and we are losing
that war,” she said.  China  and  Russia  have started multi-
language television networks, she said, even as the U.S. cuts
back in this area. “We are paying a big price” for dismantling
international communications networks after the end of the  Cold
War , Clinton said.  ‘Monumental’ Transformation  In the Middle East, which is “vital” to national
security, Kerry said he was convinced that “a significant
financial commitment by the U.S. to assist in this monumental
and uplifting transformation is key to its long-term outcome and
our relationship to it.”  While the U.S. must function on a tighter budget, the
country faces a choice, Kerry said. “We can either pay now to
help brave people build a better, democratic future for
themselves, or we will certainly pay later with increased
threats to our own national security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva   msilva34@bloomberg.net  