-- 
Clinical Data Sued by Shareholder Over Forest Laboratories Acquisition

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-03-02T16:38:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/clinical-data-sued-by-shareholder-over-forest-laboratories-acquisition.html
  Clinical Data Inc . was sued by a
shareholder who said investors will be shortchanged in a planned
$1.2 billion takeover of the drugmaker by  Forest Laboratories
Inc .  Clinical Data, based in Newton,  Massachusetts , said in a
statement Feb. 22 that it agreed to be bought by New York-based
Forest Laboratories for $30 a share plus as much as $6 a share
more depending on the success of Clinical Data’s antidepressant
 Viibryd .  The price “is inadequate and significantly undervalues the
company,” considering its prospects, said Bradley Wojno in a
Delaware Chancery Court complaint filed yesterday in Wilmington.
Wojno, seeking to proceed on behalf of all Clinical Data outside
shareholders, asked the court to stop the proposed transaction
and award damages and legal fees.  Viibryd was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration Jan. 21 for treatment of adult major depressive
disorder and may be introduced in the second half of the year,
the companies said in the statement. Forest has been looking to
license new drugs to replace Lexapro, an antidepressant that
accounts for 56 percent of its sales and is set to lose patent
protection next year.  Theresa McNeely, a Clinical Data spokeswoman, said the
company had no comment on the lawsuit. Frank Murdolo, a Forest
Laboratories spokesman, was traveling and wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  Clinical Data rose 5 cents to $30.29 at 11:13 a.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had climbed 90
percent this year before today.  The case is Wojno v. Fromkin, CA6233, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 