-- 
Coda Automative Reaffirms Goal of Selling Electric Cars From Second Half

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-02T09:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/coda-automative-reaffirms-goal-of-selling-electric-cars-from-second-half.html
Coda Automotive Inc., the electric
carmaker backed by billionaire  Philip Falcone , reaffirmed its on
schedule to starting sales of its electric car in the second
half of this year in California.  The cars will be sold at an “unbelievable value,” Chief
Executive Officer Philip Murtaugh said at a briefing in Beijing
today. “We only have one car to worry about. It will keep us
completely focused on the electric-vehicle business.”  Coda delayed plans to export Chinese-made electric vehicles
to the U.S. to the second half of 2011 from December after
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive Kevin Czinger resigned
as chief executive. Murtaugh, who helped establish General Motor
Co.’s Chinese operations, was appointed in January.  Coda’s electric car can travel as far as 120 miles (193
kilometers) on a full charge of its lithium battery pack,
according to the company’s website. The average charge time is
six hours.  The car is based on a Mitsubishi Motors Corp. chassis and
made in Harbin, China, through a partnership with Hafei Motor Co.
Final assembly takes place in  California . Lishen Miles Power
Battery Systems Co., a joint venture between Coda and  China ’s
Tianjin Lishen Battery Co. will supply the lithium cells for the
sedan’s batteries.  Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners was among the
investors who participated in Coda’s offering of $76 million of
Series D preferred shares, the company said in a Jan. 6
statement. The offering brought Coda’s total invested capital to
more than $200 million.  Other Coda investors include former U.S. Treasury Secretary
and Goldman Sachs CEO  Henry Paulson ; Miles Rubin, founder and
co-chairman; Thomas McLarty, former chief of staff for President  Bill Clinton ; private investment manager Aeris Capital AG, and
private-equity firm Riverstone Holdings LLC.  --Shen Feifei, Tian Ying. Editor:  Ian Rowley , Kae Inoue.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net 
Feifei Shen in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7528 or
 Fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  