-- 
Comverse CEO Dahan Departs After Restatements, Falling Sales

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-02T15:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/comverse-ceo-dahan-departs-after-restatements-falling-revenue.html
  Comverse Technology Inc ., a maker of
voice-mail software, said Chief Executive Officer Andre Dahan
will depart, citing the need for new leadership after a period
of financial restatements and an options-backdating scandal that
led to federal charges against his predecessor.  “The Comverse board appreciates Andre’s leadership under
extenuating circumstances and feels it is important to
transition the leadership to meet the challenges and
opportunities to come,” Comverse Chairman Charles Burdick, who
will succeed Dahan, said in a statement this week.  Dahan will work as a paid consultant for the company for 90
days after he departs later this month, and he will receive more
than $5 million in salary, bonus and other benefits, according
to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  Dahan became CEO in April 2007, replacing Jacob “Kobi” Alexander, who later fled the U.S. and moved to  Namibia  to avoid
charges of fraud involving the backdating of options. The
company was delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market that year, and
has restated earnings under Dahan’s leadership.  “He has been the point person during his approximate four-
year tenure in addressing the company’s filing status and
liquidity issues,”  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets, wrote of Dahan in a research note this week. “Burdick
is a very capable hire with a strong financial background that
could indicate a warming to new strategic issues as Comverse is
finally nearing an end to its ongoing filing debacle.”  Sales Slump  Sales declined to $1.58 billion in fiscal 2010 from $1.72
billion in 2008. Comverse, based in New York, said in August
that it hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to explore “strategic and
capital raising alternatives.”  Comverse rose 3 cents to $7.38 at 9:59 a.m. New York time
in over-the-counter trading. The stock has tumbled 68 percent
since the end of April 2007, when Dahan succeeded Alexander.  “When Dahan came in, I don’t know if everyone expected him
to be the guy who cleaned up the mess, but I think that became
his role,” said Howard Smith, an analyst at First Analysis Corp.
in  Chicago . “Did people think operationally that he’d get a
little more growth sooner? Tough to tell, but I think that
became clear over the past couple of years.”  Comverse said in October that Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Swad had resigned, and that Joel Legon would serve as
interim chief financial officer. Burdick has been chairman since
March 2008.  Alexander agreed to pay $53.6 million to settle an SEC
probe of allegations that he led an options-backdating scheme,
attorneys said in November. Alexander, an Israeli citizen, was
arrested in Namibia in September 2006. As of late last year, he
was free on bail in that country while the U.S. seeks his
extradition to face criminal charges related to the alleged
stock-option backdating.  Dahan will also receive the immediate vesting of all
deferred stock awards and the delivery of the underlying shares.  Paul Baker, a spokesman for Comverse, declined to elaborate
beyond the statement and filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  