-- 
Copper, Corn May Slump on Mideast Unrest as Gold Jumps to $1,500, UBS Says

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-03-02T09:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/copper-corn-may-slump-on-mideast-unrest-as-gold-jumps-to-1-500-ubs-says.html
Copper, corn and rubber may tumble
in the next six months, while gold climbs to a record $1,500 an
ounce as turmoil in the Middle East boosts oil, fuels inflation
and weakens Chinese raw-material demand, according to  UBS AG .  “There’s more potential for a correction in most of the
commodities,” Peter Hickson, global commodities strategist at
Switzerland’s largest bank, said by phone yesterday. “There’s a
risk. And the risk is driven by concerns over inflation, rising
oil prices and uncertainty the Middle East represents.”  Hickson’s comments add to forecasts that the turmoil from
Libya to Yemen that’s fueling a surge in energy costs may harm
the global recovery and stoke inflation.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
said last month it was “neutral” on commodities in the near
term as the unrest has raised concerns that global growth may
slow. Crude in New York traded at more than $100 barrel today.  “There’s a fear that  China  confidence has been damaged by
rising oil prices and the uncertainty,” said Hickson, who
joined UBS in 1996 and moved to  Hong Kong  from London in January.
Corn, cotton, rubber and copper have had sharp rises and there’s
the potential for retracements, Hickson said.  Commodities measured by the S&P GSCI Total Return Index
climbed for a sixth month in February, the longest rally since
May 2004, as global economic growth boosted demand for metals
and crop damage cut harvests. Copper and cotton reached records
last month, while corn has surged 93 percent in the past year.  Bear Market  Protests that started in Tunisia in January have spread to  Egypt , Bahrain,  Iran  and Yemen. The European Union this week
imposed an arms embargo on  Libya  where more than 1,000 people
have died in an uprising, according to a United Nation’s
estimate. Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index plunged the most
since November 2008 yesterday and entered bear-market territory.  Chinese demand for commodities may be waning, hurt by the
civil uprisings in the Middle East and accelerating inflation,
Hickson said. China is the world’s largest metals user. “We’re
seeing inventories rising in steel,  iron ore  and coal prices in
China haven’t shown a lot of life,” he said.  China’s manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in six
months last month as higher  interest rates  and lending curbs
aimed at containing inflation hurt demand. Consumer prices
climbed 4.9 percent in January, exceeding a government target.  Commodity futures trading volume in China dropped 21
percent in the first two months of this year, led by contracts
on the Shanghai Futures Exchange, according to data provided by
the China Futures Association.  Oil’s Surge  Oil for April delivery was at $99.84 a barrel on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:43 p.m. in  Singapore  after earlier
gaining as much as 1 percent to $100.64. Crude may rise to $120
to $150 on the Mideast tensions, billionaire energy investor T. Boone Pickens said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Immediate-delivery gold, which gained for a 10th year in
2010, advanced to a record $1,434.93 an ounce yesterday. Corn
for May delivery approached a 30-month high of $7.4425 a bushel
in  Chicago  on Feb. 22, while rubber futures climbed to a record
535.7 yen ($6.54) per kilogram in Tokyo on Feb. 18.  Cotton reached a record $2.0893 per pound on ICE Futures
U.S. on Feb. 18 and has more than doubled in the past year.
Three-month delivery copper surged to an all-time high of
$10,190 a metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange on Feb. 15.  “Obviously, gold is attractive,” Hickson said. “The more
the market becomes concerned about inflation or concerns about
unrest in Africa, more and more people will look to gold as a
safe haven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at s
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  