-- 
Copper Declines as Surging Energy Costs Spur Concern Economies May Weaken

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-03-02T19:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/copper-falls-in-london-trading-as-100-oil-revives-slowdown-speculation.html
Copper in  New York  fell for the
first time in five sessions on concern that surging energy
costs will hinder the global economy, eroding demand for
industrial metals.  Crude oil topped $100 a barrel for a second day on concern
that the unrest curbing exports from Libya will spread to other
countries in the region. European producer-price inflation
accelerated more than economists forecast in January. Officials
at the  European Central Bank  including Juergen Stark have
signaled they are ready to raise borrowing costs if needed.  A number of countries probably will raise  interest rates 
to curb inflation,  Edward Meir , a senior analyst at MF Global
Holdings Ltd. in Darien, Connecticut, said in a report. “This
scenario does not put us into the camp with those who are
looking for ever-increasing commodity prices over the course of
2011.”  Copper futures for May delivery slid 1.15 cents, or 0.3
percent, to close at $4.498 a pound at 1:22 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. The price gained 5.1 percent in the previous four
sessions on signs that the U.S. economic recovery is
accelerating.  “Higher energy costs chew up disposable income and act as
a de facto monetary tightening,” said  David Thurtell , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London.  Copper inventories tracked by the London Metal Exchange
have climbed 12 percent this year. Futures in New York have
gained 32 percent in the past 12 months, reaching a record
$4.6575 on Feb. 15.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months climbed
$30.50, or 0.3 percent, to $9,890 a metric ton ($4.49 a pound).
Lead also gained. Aluminum, tin, zinc and nickel declined.  The LME said in a member notice it is changing procedures
on closing prices to make them more transparent starting March
14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  