-- 
Ecuador's Correa Vows `Sincere Interest' to Lure Investors Back to Country

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-03-02T22:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/correa-says-he-has-sincere-interest-in-luring-investors-back-to-ecuador.html
Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa ,
who defaulted on $3.2 billion of bonds and renegotiated foreign
oil contracts, said the Andean nation has a “sincere interest”
in attracting investors to help finance infrastructure, tourism
and energy projects.  Correa, speaking at the Bloomberg Ecuador Summit in Quito,
said Ecuador is the most stable politically since 1996, its
economy is in “full recovery” from the global financial crisis
and it’s ready to seek “responsible” private investment to
help boost 2011 economic growth above the expected 5.1 percent.
Ecuador is seeking $7.5 billion of private investment in
infrastructure concessions over the next five years, Production
Minister Nathalie Cely said in an interview today.  “We know perfectly well that Ecuador needs local and
foreign investment to develop, but this must be done in a way so
it benefits the country,” said Correa in an address at the
summit. “We have an entire project portfolio, and we welcome
private investment. Ask any foreign investor if he lost money
here.”    Ecuador , which is rated two levels below Argentina and
Belize by Moody’s Investors Service, is rebounding from its
worst economic growth in a decade as oil nears $100 a barrel and
agriculture and manufacturing expand.  Yields on Ecuador’s only international bond have declined
to the lowest level since the debt default two years ago as the
rally in crude, the nation’s biggest export, eases concern over
the government’s 121 percent increase in public spending since
2006.  Debt  Correa, a 47-year-old former economics professor and ally
of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , took office in 2007
promising to reduce poverty in a nation where about 40 percent
of people can’t meet basic needs, according to the  United
Nations .  To that end, he renegotiated contracts with  oil companies ,
including  Spain ’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI) , to give the
government better terms and halted mining exploration for almost
two years.  After the default in December 2008, Correa called
bondholders “true monsters who won’t hesitate to crush the
country” and said he had “ rebelled against the system that
established odious, unfair, illegal, immoral debts.”  Now, Ecuador has been approached and is listening to
proposals from banks interested in helping the country sell debt
again, Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  said at the summit. In
an Oct. 21 interview with Bloomberg Television, Correa said he
is considering a debt sale in international markets.  ‘Winds of Change’  The 2015 bond, the nation’s only outstanding international
debt, is the highest returning bond among developing nations
tracked in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI - Global Diversified
index.  In 2011, the 9.375 percent bonds due in 2015 have gained
6.5 cents on the dollar to 98.5 cents, reducing the yield by
1.77 percentage point to 9.77 percent, the lowest since August
2008.  “There have been winds of change and that always brings
fear at the beginning,” Santiago Peralta, founder of Pacari
Chocolates, said today when asked about the policies brought by
Correa. “Socialism was the bogeyman, and now he’s gone. But
there’s still a lot to be done.”  Correa has boosted infrastructure spending on highways,
airports, and the nation’s energy grids to 8.7 percent of GDP
from 3.2 percent in 2006 in an attempt to spur productivity,
according to a government statement.  ‘Sincere Interest’  Ecuador will invest $4.7 billion in public works this year
on items including the construction of a $1.68 billion, 1,500-
megawatt dam in the country’s Amazon region, according to the  Finance Ministry .  “You can perceive our sincere interest in bringing the
economy closer to new investment and find the path to mutual
benefit,” Correa said.  The government also is considering deepening the Manta
port, on Ecuador’s Pacific coast, to 24 meters from 18 meters to
better connect Latin America with Asian markets, Correa said.  Companies including Portec and  Brazil ’s Bertolini Group are
studying concessions there, and Spanish investors are seeking
airport cargo operating concessions, Cely said.  “Infrastructure investment is fundamental for our exports
to be able to compete,” Cely said. “At least seven companies
have shown interest in port and airport concessions.”  ‘Open to Investment’  Public  capital expenditures  will represent 13 percent of
gross domestic product this year, up from 12 percent last year,
Correa said. Spending on social programs increased to 8.2
percent of gross domestic product last year from 4.7 percent in
2006, he said.  The percent of children studying and not working has
climbed to about 86 percent last year from 77 percent in 2006,
Correa said.  “Ecuador is a country open to investment, with clear and
stable rules,” said Correa. “The investment we seek is
responsible investment, committed to forming a partnership with
our country and betting on long-term economic and social
development. We have everything an investor looks for: an honest
government, clear rules of play and extremely profitable
projects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in  Quito  News at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Quito News at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  