-- 
Credit Suisse Hires Miller to Run Global Fixed-Income Research

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-02T20:39:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/credit-suisse-hires-miller-to-run-global-fixed-income-research.html
  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, hired Eric Miller, the former
head of credit research at Barclays Capital, to run fixed-income
research globally.  Miller, 41, will start in New York in June and report to
Gael de Boissard and Tony Ehinger, co-heads of global
securities, Zurich-based Credit Suisse said today in a
statement. Before joining Barclays Capital, the investment-
banking unit of  Barclays Plc , Miller worked at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . and Merrill Lynch & Co., now part of  Bank of America
Corp .  “With two decades of experience working in various
research roles, Eric brings a wealth of industry knowledge to
this position,” de Boissard said in the statement.  Miller fills a role vacated in June 2010 when Lara Warner
became head of finance for the investment-banking division,
Katherine Herring, a Credit Suisse spokeswoman, said.  Credit Suisse’s investment bank generated 6.45 billion
Swiss francs ($6.97 billion) in fixed-income sales and trading
revenue in 2010, a 38 percent decline from 2009, the company
 reported  last month.  Barclays Capital  made 8.81 billion pounds
($14.4 billion) from fixed-income, currency and commodities,
down 35 percent from 2009, the London-based company said.  In debt underwriting, Credit Suisse leads Barclays Capital
in high-yield and lags behind in investment-grade, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Barclays Capital was the sixth-
biggest underwriter of U.S. corporate debt in 2010, while Credit
Suisse ranked eighth. In global high-yield debt, Credit Suisse
held third place, ahead of Barclays Capital’s seventh place, the
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 