-- 
Crude Oil Advances to a 29-Month High, Gasoline Surges on Libyan Concern

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-02T20:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/crude-oil-rises-above-100-a-barrel-on-concern-libyan-unrest-will-spread.html
Crude oil climbed to a 29-month high
and gasoline surged on concern that the unrest curbing exports
from  Libya  will spread to other countries in the region.  Oil futures advanced 2.6 percent as Libyan forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  attacked rebels on the east coast where much of
the country’s oil is refined and shipped abroad. Prices extended
gains after a U.S. Energy Department report showed that crude
and fuel supplies fell last week.  “Prices are up on concern that the problems in Libya will
escalate, taking the remainder of the country’s oil off the
market, and spread elsewhere,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst
and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “As
long as the revolt continues, you are going to see a substantial  risk premium  in the oil price.”  Crude oil for April delivery rose $2.60 to $102.23 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since Sept. 26, 2008. Futures are up 28 percent from a year ago.  Gasoline for April delivery advanced 4.61 cents, or 1.5
percent, to end the session at $3.0295 a gallon in New York. It
was the highest settlement since Aug. 27, 2008.  Fighting in Libya may have shut as much as 1 million
barrels a day of the North African country’s output, according
to the  International Energy Agency .  Rebels regained control of an oil facility in Brega, on the
Gulf of Sidra today, driving away government forces, according
to a local industry official.  Riots have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt , and there
have been protests in Yemen to the south of  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s biggest crude exporter. Websites have called for a
nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on March 11 and March 20,
according to  Human Rights Watch .  Tehran Clashes  Demonstrators clashed with security forces in Tehran
yesterday.  Iran ’s Foreign Ministry said issues related to
opposition figures in the country are “internal affairs,”
without commenting on allegations that authorities had detained
Mehdi Karrubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi.  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.7 million barrels of oil
a day in February, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  In Oman, the largest Middle Eastern producer outside of
OPEC, protesters blocked a highway linking the northern city of
Sohar to the capital Muscat yesterday. The country pumped
885,600 barrels of oil a day in January, according to the state-
run Oman News Agency.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co.’s Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al- Falih this week said the kingdom is “ready to supply
incremental change in demand,” to cover any shortfall from
Libya. Saudi Arabia pumped 8.43 million barrels a day of oil in
February, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Offer  The kingdom offered two European refiners additional
cargoes of Arab Light crude for loading in March to make up for
the loss of Libyan oil, two officials involved in the
negotiations said.    Brent crude  for April settlement increased 93 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $116.35 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settlement
price since Aug. 21, 2008.  A U.S. Energy Department report today showed that
nationwide crude inventories slipped 364,000 barrels to 346.4
million in the seven days ended Feb. 25, the first decline in
seven weeks. A 750,000-barrel gain was projected, according to
the median of 17 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Prime Movers  “Supply and demand issues in the U.S. aren’t the main
drivers of the market right now,” said Carl Larry, president of
Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston. “Headlines from the
Middle East are what people are paying attention to and are the
prime movers of prices right now.”  Supplies at Cushing, the delivery point for New York-traded
West Texas Intermediate crude oil, surged 1.13 million barrels
to 38.6 million, the highest level since at least 2004 when the
department began tracking stockpiles at the hub.  Gasoline inventories tumbled 3.59 million barrels to 234.7
million, the biggest drop since October, the department said.
Demand for the fuel rose 0.7 percent to 9.16 million barrels a
day, the highest level since December.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, climbed
1.2 cents to $3.387 a gallon yesterday, the highest level since
Oct. 9, 2008, the AAA said on its  website .  ‘Bullish Report’  “This was a very bullish report for gasoline,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with  Weiss Research  in
Jupiter,  Florida . “Inventories are down and demand was up even
though prices are rising. It’s pretty clear that we’ll be paying
$4 a gallon at the pumps soon, probably by summer, or at the
very least Labor Day.”  U.S. gasoline consumption peaks during the summer. The
driving season lasts from the Memorial Day weekend in late May
to the Labor Day holiday in early September.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 836,053
contracts as of 3:18 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 739,473
contracts yesterday, 6.2 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.57 million contracts, the
highest since Sept. 12, 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  