-- 
Daiichi Sankyo, Kyowa Hakko Signal More Japanese Drug Takeovers

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-03-02T01:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/daiichi-sankyo-kyowa-hakko-signal-japanese-drug-takeovers-may-gain-pace.html
Daiichi Sankyo Co. and Kyowa Hakko
Kirin Co., which announced acquisitions totaling $1.4 billion in
the past nine days, may signal more overseas purchases by
Japanese drugmakers, spurred by a stronger yen and flat sales in
their home market.  The yen, up 8.5 percent against the dollar in the past 12
months, is bolstering the buying power of Japanese companies
scouting for U.S. and European targets with promising drugs in
development. Daiichi Sankyo said yesterday it’s buying Berkley,
California-based  Plexxikon Inc.  for as much as $935 million.
Kyowa Hakko announced plans to buy  ProStrakan Group Plc  for 292
million pounds ($475 million) last week. The buyouts will add
new experimental cancer medicines, the companies said.  Demand for potential new products fueled a 30 percent jump
in the number of overseas deals by Japanese companies in the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries during the past 12
months compared with a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Premiums on the transactions surged 72 percent.  “Overseas mergers and acquisitions will definitely
accelerate in the pharmaceutical industry in Japan,” said Koji Hirai, chief executive of Kachitas Corp., which advises
companies on deals. “They’re all cash-rich looking for
potential medicines and technologies for future growth. The
stronger yen will definitely help.”  Japanese companies announced 34 overseas pharmaceutical and
biotechnology deals and paid an average premium of 43 percent in
the year ended March 1, Bloomberg data show. That compares with
an average premium of 25 percent on 26 deals in the previous 12
months.  Tough Competition  “The competition is tough,” said Reed Maurer, president
of International Alliance, a Tokyo-based pharmaceutical industry
advisory firm. “Everybody is looking for pipeline.”    Fujifilm Holdings Corp ., seeking new avenues of growth
outside cameras and film, said Feb. 28 that it will buy two
units of Merck & Co. that make biopharmaceuticals. The Tokyo-
based maker of imaging equipment and digital cameras didn’t say
how much it will pay for the U.S. and U.K. assets, which make
vaccines and protein-based drugs to fight diseases such as
cancer.  “These two most recent deals are a further signal of the
continued commitment of the Japanese industry to oncology  drug
development  and wider opportunities in biotechnology,” said
Joshua Owide, a senior analyst at London-based researcher
Datamonitor Group Plc.  Sales Slowdown  An anticipated slowdown in prescription drug sales in the
Japanese market is helping drive mergers and acquisitions, Owide
said. Revenue from the domestic market will increase an average
of 1.6 percent a year over the next six years for Japan’s eight
largest drugmakers, he said. The same time, their U.S. sales
will decline by an average of 3.6 percent annually as mainstay
products face competition from cheaper generic drugs, Owide said.  In contrast, cancer-drug sales will expand 12 to 15 percent
annually, reaching as much as $80 billion by 2012, according to
IMS Health Inc., a Norwalk, Connecticut-based research firm.  The average debt of Japan’s largest eight pharmaceutical
companies is about $500 million, compared with an average debt 
of $6.7 billion for the remaining companies that make up the top
50 prescription drugmakers worldwide, according to Datamonitor. 
That gives Japanese companies an advantage, Owide said.  “It crucially highlights their relative position of
strength compared with the rest of the global  drug industry ,
which has already undertaken significant debt-driven M&A
growth,” he said. Japan’s drugmakers are “much better
positioned to carry out increasingly costly M&A deals.”  Daiichi Sankyo, Japan’s third-largest drugmaker, was one of
several bidders for closely held Plexxikon, said Alan Mendelson,
a partner at law firm  Latham & Watkins  in  Menlo Park ,  California ,
which advised Plexxikon on the deal.  “We just negotiated with each and tried to get the price
as high as we could,” Mendelson said in an interview yesterday.
“Needless to say Daiichi was very desirous of buying the
company and they agreed to pay a very fair price.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.nete  