-- 
Debt, Foreign Oil Dependence Are Two Biggest Threats to U.S., Conrad Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-02T18:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/debt-foreign-oil-dependence-are-two-biggest-threats-to-u-s-conrad-says.html
Dependence on foreign oil and the
federal deficit are the two biggest threats to the U.S., said  Kent Conrad , chairman of the Senate Budget Committee.  Congress should continue to support clean energy and
domestic production of fossil fuels like oil, gas and coal as it
works to reduce the U.S. deficit, Conrad, a North Dakota
Democrat, said during a hearing on the Energy Department’s 2012
budget request.  Conrad, a member of the presidential debt commission that
recommended ways to cut spending, said putting money into clean
energy will create jobs and make the economy less vulnerable as
unrest in places like the Middle East causes prices to spike.  “Funding to promote and support new energy technologies
represents a tiny fraction of the federal budget,” Conrad said.  According to President Barack Obama’s 2012 budget proposal,
the Energy Department’s budget would expand 12 percent to $29.5
billion from 2010, the last year the agency had an enacted
budget.  Republicans said the Obama administration isn’t doing
enough to increase U.S. oil output as gasoline prices rise, and
criticized the budget request as overly focused on clean-energy
technologies that are more expensive than fossil fuels.  “I reject the idea that you have made an investment,
necessarily, in a better future,” Senator  Jeff Sessions , an
Alabama Republican, told Energy Secretary Steven Chu, who
testified at the hearing.  Obama’s Earlier Attempts  Sessions called the proposed increase for the Energy
Department a non-starter because of the deficit. “We don’t have
the money,” he said.  The request calls for $8 billion in spending for clean-
energy innovation, a one-third increase over current funding.
The proposed budget also seeks to repeal tax subsidies for oil,
gas and coal companies to generate $3.61 billion in fiscal 2012
and $46.2 billion over 10 years.  Congress must approve the request. Obama has failed in two
previous efforts to repeal the subsidies.  Chu said losing the subsidies would not have a significant
effect on drilling costs in the U.S.  The U.S. needs “both short-term and long-term plans going
forward,” Chu said. Spending on clean energy will help U.S.
companies compete in an emerging green, global market, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  