-- 
Delta Flight Attendants Sue Airline Alleging Discrimination

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-02T22:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/delta-flight-attendants-sue-airline-alleging-discrimination.html
  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  was sued by
flight attendants claiming the carrier is punishing them for
their union membership while working for Northwest Airlines
Corp. before its acquisition in 2008.  “Delta management withheld higher profit-sharing checks
from over 7,500 pre-merger Northwest flight attendants based
solely upon their prior union membership,” the  Association of
Flight Attendants  said in a statement announcing the filing of
the complaint today in federal court in  Minneapolis .  Atlanta-based Delta and Northwest combined to create what
was the world’s largest airline in a transaction valued then at
$2.75 billion.  The six flight attendants who filed the complaint claim the
airline has discriminated against them for their pre-acquisition
membership in the union, which didn’t represent Delta crews.  The plaintiffs seek a court order directing the carrier to
“align compensation for the flight attendants without regard to
pre-merger status.” They also want back pay to compensate them
for the allegedly lower wages and profit-sharing.  After the carriers combined, the  National Mediation Board 
held a vote to decide whether the all of the flight attendants
would be represented by the union, according to the complaint.  When unionization was rejected, the flight attendants’
association asked the board to review the election process for
interference by the carrier, the plaintiffs allege.  ‘Separate Sets’  “Until representation is fully resolved, NMB rules require
that we continue to administer two separate sets of pay,
benefits and work rules,” Gina Laughlin, a spokeswoman for
Delta, said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News.  “All of our employee groups -- union or non-union -- have
had pay, benefits and work rules aligned when they’ve resolved
representation, not piecemeal. The AFA continues to disrespect
our flight attendants and the integrity of the voting process,”
Laughlin said.    United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the Chicago-based company
formed last year by UAL Corp.’s acquisition of Houston-based
Continental Airlines Inc., now operates the world’s biggest
carrier.  The case is McMahon v. Delta Air Lines Inc., 11-cv-00521,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  