-- 
Deutsche Bank Ousts Goldman as Broker Getting Best Stock Prices

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-03-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/deutsche-bank-ousts-goldman-as-broker-getting-best-stock-price-for-clients.html
“We’ve had a pretty good crisis,”
says Barry Bausano, smiling as he surveys  Deutsche Bank AG ’s
sprawling 35,000-square-foot equities trading floor in downtown  Manhattan . Behind him, on bookshelves in his glass-walled
office, sit two copies of “Too Big to Fail,” along with “Liar’s
Poker” and “Triumph of the Optimists,” which tracks 101 years of
worldwide investment returns.  Bausano, 47, who heads the Frankfurt-based bank’s equities
division in the Americas, has reasons to be upbeat, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its April issue. Deutsche Bank got
the best stock prices for institutional clients both globally
and in  North America  during the 12 months ended on Sept. 30,
2010, according to data compiled for Bloomberg Markets’
worldwide ranking of equities brokers.    Germany ’s biggest bank displaced  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,
which had swept all four categories in the previous ranking.
This time, New York-based Goldman Sachs was ninth in the world,
fifth in  Europe  and third in  Asia . The data were compiled by
 Ancerno Ltd. , a spinoff of brokerage Abel/Noser Corp. that
measures transaction costs for $7.5 trillion of trades in more
than 70 countries every year.  While U.S. banks retrenched, merged, took government
bailout money and -- in the case of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. -- declared bankruptcy during the financial meltdown of
2008 and 2009, Deutsche Bank overhauled its electronic stock
trading and analytics.  SuperX  It hired computer trading veterans, including Jose Marques
from  Credit Suisse Group AG , and rolled out algorithms that
customers can adapt to their needs.  One program, called SuperX, responds to instructions about
how aggressive to be in filling an order while tapping up to 20
dark pools -- private trading venues that don’t display bids and
offers in advance. The bank also boosted the historical and
real-time data analytics that feed its algorithms and expanded
trading in its own dark pool, called DBA, Bausano says.  In a world obsessed with speed, stealth and sniffing out
the best platform for a trade at any given millisecond,
customers are looking for brokers with strong electronic
offerings, says Peter Weiler, executive vice president of global
sales at New York-based Abel/Noser.  “Deutsche Bank and the other top brokers have invested a
tremendous amount in their electronic execution, and they early
on recognized the need to service clients globally,” Weiler
says. “Deutsche Bank has built a really comprehensive offering.”  Less Volume, Volatility  Since the beginning of 2010, brokers have had to navigate a
marketplace with lower average volume and less volatility than
during the crisis, which erased $37 trillion from global equity
markets from the peak in October 2007 to the low in March 2009.
While a rough, plunging market was good for the biggest brokers,
a calmer environment showcased the ability of specialized firms
such as Liquidnet Holdings Inc., a New York-based operator of
dark-pool platforms. It was No. 4 in the global ranking.  An average of 8.4 billion shares a day changed hands in
U.S. markets in 2010, down from 9.8 billion in 2009 and 8.8
billion the previous year, according to data from Credit Suisse
Securities. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index,
a gauge of investor uncertainty, averaged 22.6 in 2010, dropping
from 31.5 in 2009. Volatility is expected to be even lower this
year: The VIX averaged 17.37 through Feb. 28.  “In 2008, asset managers and their clients were getting
crushed and there was so much volatility, which brokers
benefited from,” Weiler says. “Two years later, you have a
situation where people are trading less, money flows are going
out of equities and everything is moving in lock step in the
market.”  Hunt for Liquidity  This year’s best performers found ways to piece together
the liquidity investors needed even with trading splintered
across public exchanges, dark pools and private platforms.  “We’re looking for brokers that can adapt to market
conditions as liquidity becomes fragmented,” says Ryan Larson,
head of U.S. equity trading at Toronto-based RBC Global Asset
Management Inc. His firm, which manages about $200 billion, uses
about 60 securities firms, including Deutsche Bank, to execute
its trades.  Larson says it’s crucial for brokers to offer a mix of
electronic and traditional strategies to get the best trades
without causing speculators to jump in and exacerbate price
moves.  “The ability to trade stock with the least amount of price
impact is first and foremost,” he says.  Hand-Holding  Larson says smaller brokers that handle fewer orders than
big banks are important in specialized areas such as trading
financial stocks. These companies may give individual orders
more attention than a larger firm.  “Some banks may not hand-hold my trade in the same way,” he
says. He singles out Liquidnet and  Investment Technology Group
Inc . for creating what he says are good venues to trade blocks
of stocks while reducing the market impact and costs.  One big change in the post-financial-crisis world: Clients
look at whether a firm will be around for the long haul. Before
Lehman declared bankruptcy in September 2008, many asset
managers didn’t worry about the risk that a big broker-dealer
could fail or not settle trades, says RBC’s Larson, who says his
firm did consider the risk. These days, everyone has to think
about it, he says.  Newcomers on List  Only five of the top 10 global brokers remained on the
current list from the previous ranking, which covered the 12
months ended on June 30, 2009.  Right behind Deutsche Bank in Bloomberg’s world ranking is
Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, which moved up
from 10th.  Macquarie Group Ltd .,  Australia ’s largest investment
bank, was a new entry in third place. No. 4 Liquidnet operates a
platform on which the average U.S. trade size exceeds 45,000
shares, compared with just a few hundred shares on most U.S.
markets.    UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank, followed at fifth.  Citigroup Inc .,  Nomura Holdings Inc .,  Jefferies Group Inc . and
BNY ConvergEx Group LLC all joined the top 10. Goldman Sachs was
ninth.  Bank of America Corp ., Morgan Stanley, Barclays Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Investment Technology Group dropped off
the top 10 global list.  For the current ranking, Ancerno changed its methods to
account for the difficulty of a trade and assess how much value
a broker was providing. Ancerno first calculates the difference
between the price of a share when the broker gets the order and
the average price a client winds up with, called the
implementation shortfall.  Europe, Asia  Then it subtracts that figure, in basis points, from the
median result for trades with similar difficulty based on such
factors as the stock’s momentum while the broker was executing
the trade. (A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.) The
previous ranking assessed brokers only on the implementation
shortfall.  Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, did well on its home turf,
coming in at No. 1 in Europe. Citigroup was next, followed by
Deutsche Bank and UBS. Macquarie proved best in Asia, with Hong
Kong-based CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, a unit of Paris-based  Credit Agricole SA , in second place. Since securities regulations
differ sharply across the continent, brokers have to master a
range of approaches in Asia, says Stevan Vrcelj, Sydney-based
head of global cash equities trading at Macquarie.  “An execution is not just something you throw into a
machine,” he says. “You need to customize the technology to the
nuance of each market, visit clients to understand what they
want to achieve from the execution and assess whether the right
algo and trading strategies are being used at the appropriate
time.”  Jefferies Revamps  Like Deutsche Bank, Jefferies, No. 2 in North America, has
revamped its offerings as clients demand more tools.  The 49-year-old firm, which has relied on human traders to
quietly locate counterparties for customers who want to dispatch
blocks of shares, built an electronic equities-trading business
from scratch in the past few years, says Dan Charney, who heads
both electronic trading and U.S. equity sales trading. Brokers
now need algorithms, as well as research, derivatives and
salespeople who can compete globally, he says.  “We went from a relatively low footprint in the electronic
trading business to it being a meaningful part of what we do,”
he says.  James Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown University 
in  Washington , says brokerages have to balance people and
computers.  “You can’t be a good institutional broker without the old-
fashioned smartness of the guy who watches the market,” he says.
“You also need the technology and you need the understanding of
market structure to get really good executions.”  High-Touch Desks  This year is the first that money managers’ trading with
algorithms will claim the same portion of their orders as human
brokers, or “high-touch desks” -- 35 percent each, New York-
based research firm Tabb Group LLC estimated in July.  Deutsche Bank began building up its electronic trading two
years ago. It focused on algorithms that continually rank and
reassess dark pools so clients and its own staff can trade with
the least amount of detection.  “We’ve been very nimble and aggressive in developing
products that help customers improve their execution quality,”
says Bausano, who adds that big customers will no longer work
with brokers whose electronic offerings and human traders aren’t
-- in his word -- “superb.”  High-Frequency Tactics  Marques, 46, who has a doctorate in particle physics from
 the University of California, Irvine , joined in January 2010.
Today, he oversees 45 people around the world from his New York
office -- half of whom arrived since mid-2009.  On a January day, Marques’s team is analyzing statistical
differences in how trading occurs across more than 50 venues in
the U.S. and which types of firms are likely to be in those
markets. They’ve adopted some tactics of high-frequency traders.  If an algorithm discovers that the relationship between a
stock price and a basket of shares is veering from its
historical level, the program may alter how it trades or it may
not transact at all.  “We monitor every trade in real time,” Marques says. “We’re
choosing when not to trade, and we’re minimizing information
leakage while maximizing liquidity.”  As markets splinter and rivals rebound, Marques’s computers
will have to work even harder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 