-- 
Djibouti Opposition Plans Another Protest Against President

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-02T13:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/djibouti-opposition-plans-another-protest-against-president.html
Opposition parties in  Djibouti ,
which hosts the only U.S. military base in  Africa , are planning
another demonstration against the rule of President Ismail Guelleh on March 4.  “All the opposition are together,” Mohamed Daoud Chehem,
head of the Djibouti Party for Development, said by phone from
Djibouti, the capital city, today. “We hope there will be
60,000 people or more. We sent a letter to the Interior Ministry
asking for permission, but we have had no reply.”  Violence broke out at an opposition rally in the Horn of
Africa nation on Feb. 18 when security forces acted to contain
“trouble-makers” who hijacked the protest, Foreign Minister
Mahmoud Ali Yousef said on Feb. 21. One policeman died and nine
other people were injured, he said.  Anti-government protests have spread from  Libya  to Yemen
since January after popular uprisings ousted the presidents of
Egypt and Tunisia. In Djibouti, Guelleh’s People’s Rally for
Progress party has ruled since independence in 1977. The 63-
year-old leader, first elected in 1999, amended the constitution
in March 2010 to allow him to extend his rule by two more six-
year terms.  “They did not ask for permission to organize a
demonstration,” Interior Minister Yacin Elmi Bouh said by phone
from Djibouti today. “Opposition and citizens have to respect
the law. If they don’t go through the formalities for a
demonstration they will be in an illegal situation.”  Opposition parties, which also include the National
Democratic Party and three-party alliance Union for a Democratic
Alternative, are calling for Guelleh’s resignation or for a
presidential election on April 8 to be delayed to give time to
create conditions for a fair poll.  The U.S. has had a military base in Djibouti since 2001,
while former colonial power  France  has around 3,000 troops
stationed in the country, which is smaller than the U.S. state
of  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 