-- 
Dodgers Owner McCourt's Ex-Wife Seeks Documents on Baseball Team Finances

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-02T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/dodgers-owner-mccourt-s-ex-wife-seeks-documents-on-baseball-team-finances.html
  Frank McCourt , embroiled in a
divorce dispute over ownership of the  Los Angeles Dodgers ,
should turn over documentation about the Major League Baseball
team’s finances and business dealings, his ex-wife said.  Jamie McCourt, in a filing yesterday in state court in Los
Angeles, asked a judge to order her ex-husband to turn over the
information following a Feb. 25 Los Angeles Times report that
Frank McCourt made a secret deal with a Fox unit of  News Corp .
for a $200 million loan secured by the team’s television rights.  Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig rejected the
agreement, Jamie McCourt said, citing the Times article.  “It is outrageous that Jamie and her counsel have to rely
upon the news media for information that Frank is affirmatively
obligated under  California  law to provide before the fact,”
Jamie McCourt’s lawyers said in the filing.  Frank McCourt last year lost a trial over the validity of a
postnuptial agreement that he said made him the team’ sole
owner. Without the agreement, signed before the couple moved to
California, their assets, including the Dodgers, are presumed to
be community property unless proven otherwise and Jamie McCourt
is entitled to any material information about those assets, her
lawyers said.  Ryan Kirkpatrick, a lawyer for Frank McCourt, said in an e-
mailed statement that his client has complied with his
obligations to Jamie McCourt and that their attorneys have
already scheduled a meeting to discuss how to exchange
information about assets under their separate control.  ‘Not Clear’  “It is not clear why Jamie decided to file a motion for
the disclosure of information before that meeting even took
place, and before she has disclosed any information to Frank
regarding the assets under her control,” Kirkpatrick said. “In
any event, we will respond to the substance of the motion
through our responsive filing.”  The couple went to trial in September, a year after Jamie
McCourt filed for divorce, over the validity of the postnuptial
agreement they signed when they moved to  Los Angeles  from  Boston . The $421 million acquisition of the Dodgers from Fox
Entertainment Group Inc. was completed Feb. 13, 2004. The team
is worth about $727 million, Forbes magazine said in April.  The McCourts were officially divorced Oct. 26, almost 31
years after they were married.  No date has been set for the next phase of the trial, which
will address their ownership claims to the Dodgers and their
other assets.  Dennis Wasser , another lawyer for Jamie McCourt,
said in January that phase of the trial was at least one year
away.  The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 