-- 
Dollar Falls Versus Most Peers as Oil Climbs; Euro Advances on Price Data

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-02T22:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/dollar-falls-versus-most-peers-as-oil-climbs-euro-advances-on-price-data.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major counterparts, reaching the weakest level versus the euro
since November, as oil rose above $100 a barrel for a second day
amid unrest in North Africa and the Middle East.  The greenback slumped versus the euro as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  wouldn’t rule out another round of
asset purchases to spur the economy. The euro gained versus most
major currencies after a report showed European producer-price
inflation accelerated, adding to speculation the central bank
will signal tightening monetary policy at its meeting tomorrow.
The Swiss franc rose to a record versus the greenback.  “The spike in  oil prices  to three digits today has renewed
concern not only about regional unrest but also inflationary
concerns,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director at the
foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon, the
world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in
assets under administration. “Continued dovishness of key
Federal Reserve officials has also served to undermine the
greenback.”  The dollar fell 0.6 percent versus the euro to $1.3866 at 5
p.m. in  New York , from $1.3777 yesterday. It touched $1.3891,
the weakest level since Nov. 9. The greenback was little changed
at 81.87 yen after earlier sliding 0.4 percent. The euro gained
0.7 percent to 113.52 yen, from 112.77.    Beige Book   The yen erased its advance versus the dollar as Treasury
yields jumped after the Fed said in its Beige Book business
survey that the labor market improved modestly early this year
and the overall  U.S. economy  “continued to expand at a modest
to moderate pace” throughout the country. The report is
released two weeks before policy meetings.  “These are slow and steady gains overall,” said Mary Nicola, a New York-based currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA.
“Dollar-yen has reacted on the back of the news and rates
jumped significantly afterwards, indicating people are more
positive on the economy.”  The yield on two-year Treasuries rose five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 0.69 percent. The yield on the
comparable Japanese security fell one basis point to 0.24
percent, making dollar-denominated assets more attractive.  Bernanke, in congressional testimony today and yesterday,
signaled he’ll keep the Fed on course to finish $600 billion of
Treasury purchases through June. Another round of buys “has to
be a decision” of the  Federal Open Market Committee , and
“depends again on our mandate” for stable prices and maximum
employment, he said in response to a question. Bernanke said he
doesn’t want to see the economy to relapse into recession.  European Prices  The euro rose after factory-gate prices in the euro region
jumped 6.1 percent from a year earlier, following a 5.3 percent
rise in December, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. It was the fastest pace since September
2008.  The shared currency has risen against 13 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts this year as traders raised bets the  European Central Bank  will increase its key rate. Policy makers
have kept the benchmark at 1 percent since May 2009.  The Fed has kept the main U.S. interest rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008. It reiterated in January the
rate would stay low for an “extended period.”  Crude oil for April delivery climbed as much as 2.9 percent
to $102.50 a barrel in New York as turmoil in North Africa and
the Mideast spread, fueling concern supplies will be disrupted.  Saudi Concern  Libyan forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  counterattacked
rebels in the east coast, where much of the country’s crude is
refined or shipped abroad.  Saudi Arabia ’s benchmark stock index
extended its biggest plunge in two years on concern disturbances
may extend to the kingdom, the largest supplier in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  “Oil prices aren’t high enough yet to threaten demand and
growth, but it’s inflationary so that is dollar-negative,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider Foreign
Exchange in London. “On the other hand, a sudden spike in the
price of crude oil which severely impairs the outlook for global
demand could be much more resolutely positive for the dollar.”  The Swiss franc touched a record high 92.02 centimes per
dollar as the escalating turmoil increased demand for the
perceived safety of the currency. The franc tends to strengthen
during periods of financial stress because  Switzerland ’s export-
reliant economy doesn’t need foreign capital to balance the
current account, the broadest measure of trade.  The franc later traded at 92.36 centimes per greenback, up
0.5 percent. It fell 0.1 percent versus the euro to 1.2805.  Krone Climbs  The Norwegian krone reached its strongest level since
November 2009 against the dollar as  Brent crude  in  London  traded
near the highest since August 2008.  The krone strengthened as much as 1 percent against the
dollar to 5.5456 before trading at 5.5469 per dollar. Brent
crude for April delivery reached $117.81 a barrel in London.    New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, reached the
lowest level this year after Prime Minister John Key said the
market anticipates a cut in the nation’s benchmark rate. The
kiwi traded at 74.29 U.S. cents, down 0.5 percent, after
touching 73.84 cents, the least since Dec. 20.  New Zealand’s currency depreciated against all of its 16
most-traded counterparts. It slid versus  Australia ’s dollar as
much as 1 percent to NZ$1.3696, the weakest since 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  