-- 
Dutch Ruling Bloc May Fail to Win Upper-House Majority, Exit Poll Suggests

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-03-02T21:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/dutch-ruling-bloc-may-fail-to-win-upper-house-majority-exit-poll-suggests.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s
ruling bloc failed to gain a majority in the upper house of
parliament in regional elections today, an exit poll suggested.  Rutte’s Liberals, his Christian Democratic Alliance
coalition partners and the  Freedom Party , which supports the
minority government, are set to take 35 upper-house seats, three
short of a majority, according to an exit poll by Synovate for
Dutch  NOS  public television.  Rutte’s coalition relies on an agreement with Geert Wilders’s anti-Islam Freedom Party for its majority in the lower
chamber. The coalition has lacked a majority in the upper house
in The Hague since taking office in October and needs to gain
control to ensure it can push through planned legislation
including budget cuts.  “A scenario in which the government becomes reliant upon
small parties with the potential for blackmail is becoming
reality,”  Andre Krouwel , who teaches political science at VU
University in Amsterdam, said by telephone. “Prime Minister
Rutte will have to negotiate well” with groupings that draw
their support from devout Protestants and the elderly.  The  Christian Democrats  are set to lose 11 seats in the
upper house, leaving them with 10, according to the exit poll.
The  Liberal Party  is forecast to increase its number of seats to
16 from 14. The  Freedom Party , which currently isn’t represented
in the chamber because it didn’t contest in last provincial
elections in 2007, is set to secure nine seats.  Possible Allies  Among Rutte’s possible allies, the Reformed Political
Party, known as the SGP in Dutch, which appeals to Protestants,
is set to lose one of its two seats, according to the exit poll.
The new 50PLUS party is forecast to get two seats.  The elections in the 12 Dutch provinces, the youngest
reclaimed from the waters of the IJsselmeer only in 1968, were
to choose regional councilors. They will in turn vote in May to
select members of the upper house, which has to approve all new
laws passed by the lower chamber. The makeup of the upper
chamber can be extrapolated from today’s results.  The head of the main opposition  Labor Party , Job Cohen,
suggested last month that new elections to the lower chamber
might be the consequence if Rutte and Wilders can’t secure an
upper-house majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  