-- 
Hedge Funds in U.S. May Face Unprecedented Demands for Information on Risk

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-03-02T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/hedge-funds-brokers-in-u-s-may-face-fresh-calls-for-risk-data.html
  Hedge funds , broker-dealers and
mortgage companies may face unprecedented demands for data on
everything from risk exposure to trading partners as U.S.
regulators seek to identify firms that pose a potential threat
to the financial system, a confidential government report says.  The staff of the Financial Stability Oversight Council
identified dozens of “potential metrics” to decide which non-
bank financial firms should be designated “systemically
important” and subject to Federal Reserve supervision,
according to an 80-page study obtained by Bloomberg News.  For example, insurance companies might be asked to divulge
their derivatives exposure and the names of principal creditors,
according to the study. Asset managers might have to submit a
new form, dubbed PF for private funds, with details of their
gross exposure, ties to other firms and portfolio risk as
measured in stress tests.  “The FSOC will be after a lot of information,” Amy Friend, managing director of Promontory Financial Group in  Washington , said at a Feb. 25 seminar at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce. “The Fed may come knocking on some doors, and people
need to know how to talk to the Fed.” Friend is former chief
counsel of the Senate Banking Committee, where she worked on the
Dodd-Frank bill that created the council.  The council, charged with averting another financial
crisis, will collect data that can be used to force firms to
raise capital, increase liquidity and sell assets deemed too
concentrated in any segment of the economy. Industry groups for
hedge funds, mutual funds and insurance companies are lobbying
to avoid being designated systemically important.  Draft Report  The study is “a draft report and should be treated as a
draft report,” Treasury spokesman Steve Adamske said yesterday.
He said the Treasury would have no further comment until draft
rules are released.  The council, whose members include Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , may begin
making its designations of non-bank financial companies by
midyear.  The Feb. 3 report offers a glimpse of issues the council
will consider without making recommendations. Some its contents
were first reported by Bloomberg on Feb. 17.  A list of metrics dated Jan. 26 and marked
“draft/sensitive/confidential” covers eight categories of non-
bank firms. Some, such as community development financial
institutions, are considered unlikely to pose a broad threat.
Others, like insurance companies and asset managers, are flagged
for further study.  Private Equity  The report describes a $40 trillion investment-management
industry that includes retirement programs, private equity firms
and $2.4 trillion in specialty funds that banks use to manage
their assets. It warns that futures dealers who handle swaps,
commodities and foreign-exchange agreements could have a
systemic impact if a “large default” set off a chain reaction
within the industry.  Regulators may want to collect data from broker-dealers on
their market share, concentration and counterparty exposures,
along with any hedging and off-balance-sheet activity, the study
said.  “Firms that are concentrated in particular assets or
sources of funding and revenues are susceptible to shocks from
those assets or sources,” the study said in its list of
possible data requests. “Large exposure to particular
counterparties increases the likelihood that shocks to those
counterparties will affect a firm.”  Derivatives Exposure  Mortgage companies might be asked in a survey for their
potential, current and future exposure on derivatives. Likewise,
real estate investment trusts, or REITS, could be asked about
their derivatives exposure and the identity and exposure of
their counterparties, the study said.  Financial companies don’t have any incentive to disclose
more information than they do now, said Thomas Cooley, an
economics professor at New York University’s Stern School of
Business.  “Opacity has been the friend of Wall Street firms,” said
Cooley, who studies issues related to financial stability. “At
least they see it that way. They probably make more money when
people don’t know exactly what they are doing.”  Data can be used as a “starting point” that can be
supplemented by a more detailed analysis of each financial firm,
he said.  The data collection and analysis may be more important than
the designations, said John Douglas, a partner in the financial
institutions group of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP in Washington.  ‘Gentle’ Process  “A gentle information-gathering process from large,
interconnected institutions is more useful and valuable than
trying to make some artificial determination at this point as to
which ones are systemically important,” Douglas said.
“Knowledge and information will be extremely valuable, not some
list.”  Geithner, the council’s chairman, suggested in September
that such a list could encompass New York-based  American
International Group Inc ., the bailed-out insurer, and  GE
Capital , a unit of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric
Co . that benefited from a government backstop for financial-
company debt. The Treasury chief has indicated he’d like
regulators to have some discretion in assessing risk.  “There’s no objective standard for what’s systemic,”
Geithner told the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  in 2009
testimony released in February. “It’s only a judgment you can
make at the time.”  Asset Managers  The study said asset-management firms could be required to
fill out a new form on so-called gross notional exposure “to
give an indication of whether the firm takes large derivatives
positions.” Notional refers to the face value of a contract
rather than a firm’s cost of purchasing an agreement.  Specialty lenders that, for example, offer financing for
education needs or big-ticket purchases could be subject to a
new industry survey. Data such as a firm’s market share of
assets can capture “how difficult it would be for other firms
to step in and provide the same or similar financial services,”
the report said.  Insurance companies could be asked for data on their off-
balance-sheet positions, which could help the council gauge the
true size of the firm. Insurers may also be required to give
information on how many shares of other companies and
municipal bonds they own -- data that could allow regulators to
judge how tied the insurer is to other firms.  Regulators also could assess how hard it would be to
dismantle an insurance firm by studying the number of regulators
involved and the complexity of the company. Geithner said in
2009 that he changed his mind on whether to rescue AIG after
recognizing how much chaos a failure could cause.  Hedge Funds  The list suggests new document requirements so the council
could see how much capital asset managers have to support their
investment positions, the complexity of hedge funds’ portfolios,
and the amount of leverage  private-equity  funds use. Another
proposed form would include stress tests of asset managers.  Agencies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission,
are also proposing to step up demands for information from firms
such as hedge funds, which SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  in
November said have been “out of sight and were unknown to
financial regulators and the public.”  The FSOC staff report’s considerations “are meant to
provide context and an initial filter” for regulators as they
consider individual firms, the document said.  In addition to Geithner and Bernanke, the council’s 10
voting members include the chairmen of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  ‘Aggregate Picture’  Data is “so critical to regulators to get an aggregate
picture,” the CFTC’s chairman,  Gary Gensler , said in a Feb. 17
banking committee hearing.  In some cases, such as assets-to-equity for a publicly
traded company, data would come from SEC filings. In other
cases, regulators might tap into sources such as money-market
mutual fund data gathered by iMoneyNet and Crane Data LLC.  “If size is one of the most important factors, then the
odds are a money fund may fall under that category,” said Pete Crane, president of the Westborough, Massachusetts-based money-
fund research firm. “But mutual funds overall have a good
chance of not being systemically important.”  U.S. bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets -- including  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Bank of America Corp .,  Citigroup Inc . and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . -- are automatically
eligible to be designated systemically important.  Regulators have had little public discussion of how they
might collect new categories of data. At the Feb. 17 hearing,
Bernanke indicated that an annual industry-wide assessment would
fit with the council’s mandate.  “It makes sense that there be an annual review of all the
major financial sectors to try to identify any emerging problems
or developments in those sectors,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  