-- 
Lehman Failed to Advise of CDO Risks, Australian Towns Tell Sydney Court

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-03-02T05:57:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/lehman-failed-to-advise-of-cdo-risks-australia-towns-tell-sydney-court.html
  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .’s
Australian unit failed to advise of the risks of collateralized
debt obligations and ignored policies that required
municipalities to invest conservatively, a lawyer for towns and
councils seeking to recoup investment losses said.  The town officials “had little or no knowledge of the
complex structured investments,” Tony Meagher, a lawyer
representing the towns, told Federal Court Judge Steven Rares in
Sydney today at the start of the trial.  Wingecarribee Shire Council , the City of Swan and Parkes
Shire Council claim they were sold improper investments as
Lehman pushed synthetic collateralized debt obligations, or
SCDOs, to collect fees and commissions that were greater than it
would have earned from selling term deposits. The towns, which
represent Australian municipalities that bought SCDOs from
Lehman from March 2003 to May 2008 and lost money, seek refunds
for the cost of the investments.  By June 2005, 110 local governments in Australia, including
55 in New South Wales, with A$640 million ($646 million) in
funds were being advised by Lehman, the towns said in court
papers. Wingecarribee has A$21.4 million of losses on the books
from the investments, some of which the town continues to hold,
Meagher said. Swan and Parkes have losses of A$15.9 million on
the books, he said.  ‘Ignored Requests’  The synthetic collateralized debt obligations, which invest
in credit default swaps or other non-cash assets to gain
exposure to pools of debt comprising of mortgages,  car loans  or
credit card debt, weren’t the sort of investments municipalities
were allowed to make by law and Lehman ignored municipal
officials’ requests to invest in floating rate notes where
capital was guaranteed 100 percent, Meagher said.  In some of the CDOs, all the invested capital could be
wiped out if one of the companies holding the debt defaulted,
Meagher said.  “I can’t imagine local government officials having the
capacity to assess the risk of default of companies around the
world,” Rares said.  Lehman Brothers Holdings, the Australian unit’s parent, was
the fourth-largest investment bank before filing for the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history on Sept. 15, 2008. The Australian
unit followed and appointed a voluntary administrator under the
country’s bankruptcy laws, on Sept. 26, 2008.  Lehman’s Lawyer  John Sheahan, Lehman’s lawyer, declined to make an opening
statement. He said the judge had “a good understanding” of the
areas in dispute.  The Australian suit is the first time Lehman has been
forced to defend itself in a trial over the sale of the SCDOs,
John Walker, executive director of IMF (Australia), the
country’s largest litigation funder, said in a telephone
interview. IMF is paying the costs of the lawsuit.  “It’s the first one to go to trial internationally,”
Walker said. Similar lawsuits have been filed in the U.S. and  Europe , although none have reached the trial stage, he said.  Wingecarribee was repeatedly offered between November 2005
and January 2007 an individually managed portfolio program
developed by Lehman for local governments, the town said.
Wingecarribee signed the deal Jan. 15, 2007, and Lehman
recommended the municipality invest A$3 million in a so-called
Federation CDO. The town sold the CDO less than two years later
for A$450,000, according to its financial statements.  Witness and expert testimony in the trial is scheduled to
take four weeks, with an additional two weeks set aside for
closing arguments, Meagher said outside court.  The case is Between Wingecarribee Shire Council and Lehman
Brothers Australia Ltd. NSD 2492/2007. Federal Court of  Australia  (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  