-- 
EPA Carbon Rules Would Be Blocked Under U.S. Bill Readied by Republicans

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-03T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/epa-chief-jackson-urges-u-s-lawmaker-not-to-slash-her-agency-s-funding.html
Legislation that would bar the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gases
will be introduced as early as today by Republicans in Congress
with the support of some Democrats.  Matching bills by House Energy and Commerce Committee
Chairman  Fred Upton  of  Michigan  and Senator James Inhofe of  Oklahoma , both Republicans, would bar the EPA from mandating
emission limits from factories and power plants, while allowing
a previous agreement the Obama administration reached with
automakers to cut vehicle tailpipe emissions.  EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, whose agency began on Jan.
2 to regulate gases blamed for contributing to climate change,
has said President  Barack Obama  would veto any attempt to stop
the rules. Critics say the regulations will harm the economy and
the matter should be handled by Congress.  “This bill puts Congress in charge of deciding our
nation’s climate-change policy, not EPA bureaucrats,” Inhofe,
who has called the idea of man-made  climate change  a hoax, said
yesterday during a Senate hearing on the EPA’s budget.  Plans to introduce the House and Senate EPA bills as soon
as today were confirmed by Inhofe and Representative Ed Whitfield of  Kentucky , chairman of the House Energy and Power
subcommittee.  Among Democrats, Representative Collin Peterson of
Minnesota said he will support the EPA measure, and
Representative Nick Rahall of West Virginia said he probably
will do so.  “EPA is out of control, and we have to send them a
message,” Peterson, who headed the Agriculture Committee until
Republicans won control of the House in the November elections,
said in an interview yesterday.  Rahall, Rockefeller  Rahall, former chairman of the House Natural Resources
panel, said a draft of the bill was “very favorable” and that
he is “exploring very seriously” supporting the measure.  “It seems like the right message and it’s in line with
legislation I’ve already supported,” Rahall said. He has backed
a bill to delay EPA regulation for two years, legislation being
pushed by Democratic Senator Jay Rockefeller of  West Virginia .  Rockefeller’s bill probably has a better chance to pass
Congress, given concerns in the Senate over permanently blocking
EPA regulation, Rahall said in an interview.  The chief of one utility said he is worried Congress will
take away EPA’s power and then do nothing. Legislation
establishing a cap on  carbon emissions  failed in the last
Congress.  “I’d much rather see Congress itself address greenhouse
gases than have the EPA do it,” Ralph Izzo, chief executive
officer of  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) , owner of  New
Jersey ’s largest utility, said yesterday in an interview. “My
fear is Congress doesn’t address the issue and then the courts
step in and make our life even crazier.”  Won’t Go Away  Companies such as  Newark , New Jersey-based Public Service
need certainty about government rules on  greenhouse gases  so
they know how to proceed with long-term business plans, Izzo
said.  “We shouldn’t conclude that global warming as an issue and
greenhouse gases as an issue is simply going to go away if we
pretend it doesn’t exist,” he said.  The fight over greenhouse-gas regulations is intertwined
with an effort by Republicans to slash the EPA’s budget.  Republicans in the House have proposed cutting EPA funding
about 30 percent, or $3 billion, almost double a budget
reduction of $1.3 billion proposed last month by Obama.  “If Congress slashed EPA’s funding, concentrations of
harmful pollution would increase from current levels,” Jackson
told the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee
yesterday. “The result would be more asthma attacks, more
missed school and work days, more heart attacks, more cancer
cases, more premature deaths.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  