-- 
Merck KGaA Fails to Win FDA's Backing for Pill Against Multiple Sclerosis

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-02T16:58:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/merck-kgaa-fails-to-win-fda-s-backing-for-pill-against-multiple-sclerosis.html
  Merck KGaA  failed to win U.S.
regulators’ backing for its multiple sclerosis pill cladribine,
shutting the German drugmaker for now out of the market for new
treatments for the crippling disease.  The  Food and Drug Administration  asked for more analysis or
additional studies to get a better understanding of the
medicine’s risks, Darmstadt-based Merck said in a statement
today. Merck plans to seek an end-of-review meeting with the FDA
to determine whether data already collected will be sufficient
to address the concerns, according to the statement.  Merck had expected to compete with  Switzerland ’s  Novartis
AG , whose drug Gilenya became the first pill in the U.S. to
combat multiple sclerosis when it won approval in September. Now
the German drugmaker is losing its foothold in the market as
setbacks accumulate for cladribine and its older injected
treatment Rebif faces competition from new therapies, said
Cornelia Thomas, a London-based analyst for WestLB AG.  “In the U.S., they’re likely to lose significant market
share because of Gilenya,” Thomas said in a telephone interview
before the decision. Thomas rates Merck’s shares “reduce.”  The shares rose 1 cent to 65.01 euros in Frankfurt trading.  Without U.S. approval for cladribine, Merck’s sales this
year are likely to climb 10 percent to 15 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Karl-Ludwig Kley said on Feb. 21. That
compares with an estimate of 13 percent to 18 percent if the
drug had won clearance.  Withdrawn in Europe  Merck withdrew its European application to sell cladribine
last month after regulators in September said the drug’s
benefits don’t outweigh its risks. Cladribine, originally a
cancer drug, is sold in Russia and  Australia  under the brand
name Movectro.  Multiple sclerosis causes the body to attack nerve cells
through the immune system. Both Gilenya and cladribine blunt the
attack by targeting white blood cells that harm the protective
coating of nerve cells. Gilenya keeps a type of white blood cell
called lymphocytes from being released into the immune system.
Cladribine kills the cells outright and has a more lingering
effect on the immune system.  MS affects about 2.5 million people. Many patients have
found it’s difficult to stick with injected therapies because
they’re difficult to use or have side effects, according to the
 National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  Merck KGaA isn’t affiliated with Merck & Co. of Whitehouse
Station,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  