-- 
Merkel Digs In on Bailout Terms as Discord Mars European Debt Crisis Talks

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-03-03T10:12:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/merkel-digs-in-on-bailout-terms-as-discord-mars-eu-crisis-talks.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
digging in against easing bailout conditions as haggling over a
blueprint to end the euro debt crisis enters its home stretch.  With the European Union nearing its March 25 deadline for a
reinforced plan to aid debt-strapped countries, Merkel has told
parliamentary allies that a deal was unlikely on cutting rescue-
loan rates, a sign that German officials are stepping back from
a willingness to forge a grand bargain to protect the euro.  Hemmed in by state elections and EU resistance to her calls
for economic-policy coordination, Merkel meets European allies
in Helsinki tomorrow amid mounting speculation that Portugal
will be the third country to seek a lifeline. Failing to forge a
consensus on an anti-crisis plan threatens to roil the euro and
extend declines in bonds of Spain,  Italy  and Ireland.  “People are increasingly braced for a disappointment,”  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said by phone. “We’re closer
than we have been for a long time, but I don’t think the market
is braced for peace between the core and periphery.”  Risk premiums for Spain, Portugal and Italy have increased
since a Feb. 4 EU summit that failed to endorse an economic
competiveness plan proposed by Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  as a condition for aid. The euro, meantime, has
climbed as euro-area inflation accelerated.  Rate Discord  Underscoring the discord over the debt-fighting formula,
officials at the meeting of European Conservative party leaders
called by Finland include incoming Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , who wants to renegotiate the bailout, and Finnish Finance
Minister Jyrki Katainen, who has signaled opposition to easing
Ireland’s loan rate, which averages 5.8 percent.  Merkel told the lawmakers in Berlin this week that she
didn’t expect Ireland and  Greece  to accept the additional budget
cuts she would demand in exchange for the concession on bailout
rates, according to two officials at the meeting.  EU leaders can’t “artificially reduce” the rates on aid
loans, Merkel said yesterday at a joint briefing with Portuguese
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates . “If the Irish government now has
a problem with  interest rates , our job is to figure out what we
can do -- or whether we can do anything.”  Gone from statements by German officials is the flexibility
signaled Jan. 25 by Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen. He
said then that there was a “certain margin” on rescue loans
that could be considered in exchange for commitments by
governments to rein in debts and deficits.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  also defended charging
market interest rates in exchange for bailouts.  ‘Not Ready’  “We can’t back off from this conditionality,” he said
Feb. 28. “That would be the end of the foundation we’ve built
for the European currency. This is why the German government is
not ready to make any compromises on this issue.”  Those public comments are reflected in closed-door
negotiations in the run-up to EU summits on March 11 and March
24-25, according to two European officials involved in the
talks.  Germany , backed by Austria,  Finland  and the Netherlands,
opposes cutting rates on emergency loans and using the European
Financial Stability Facility, the main bailout fund, for debt
buybacks, the officials say.  Nor is there consensus on boosting the firepower of the 440
billion-euro ($609 billion) EFSF, whose lending capacity is
limited to about 250 billion euros to protect its AAA rating.  The officials say one possible tweak would allow the EFSF
to make purchases in the primary markets, giving aid recipients
access to markets.  It’s Not Over  “We just don’t believe the sovereign debt crisis is
over,” Michala Marcussen, London-based chief economist at
Societe Generale SA, said in an interview. “People
underestimate German conditionality. It’s clear that European
governments and especially the German leadership are not willing
to have the taxpayer take up the whole rescue load.”  Frustration has boiled over publicly. “The discussions are
taking longer than desirable and delays and hesitations affect
the euro zone and the stabilization of the euro,” Portuguese
Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said Feb. 15.    Portugal  is already taking Merkel’s medicine, raising
taxes, cutting spending by the most in three decades and taking
steps to boost competitiveness. That may not be enough to avoid
a rescue and debt restructuring, says Harvard University
professor  Kenneth Rogoff .  Restructuring Seen  “I do think the eventual restructuring of two or three
countries -- Greece, Ireland, Portugal -- is inevitable,” Rogoff
said at an event at the German Finance Ministry in Berlin late
yesterday. It “may be called something else, for face-saving
reasons.”  Presiding over the country that contributed the most to the
Greek and Irish bailouts, Merkel has hammered home her demand
that the euro area commit to cutting debt and deficits in return
for her pledge to keep the 17-nation currency bloc together.  “All European countries, especially the members of the
euro, have to accept the best of us as their model,” she said
in Hanover, Germany, on Feb. 28. Settling for “the European
average isn’t competitive on the global stage.”  Germany’s own deficit-cutting and the nation’s fastest
economic growth in two decades are behind Merkel’s argument,
even as her domestic constraints for mending the euro region’s
cracks increase.  Merkel’s Bind  She lost her candidate to succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  as
the first German head of the  European Central Bank  when  Axel Weber  pulled out of the race Feb. 11. Lawmakers are warning her
against risking more taxpayer money to help profligate euro
nations and insisting they have a say on any deal. Her Free
Democrat coalition partners have objected to any softening.  Merkel is on the defensive after her party lost Feb. 20
state elections in Hamburg, the first of seven in Germany this
year, and Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, the country’s most popular
politician, quit as defense minister on March 1 amid allegations
he copied part of his doctoral thesis.  Baden-Wuerttemberg, a state run by Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats  since 1953, goes to the polls two days after the
second EU summit in the year’s key electoral test. Polls
indicate the race between the state’s ruling coalition and the
opposition Social Democrats and Greens is too close to call.  Losing the region, home to companies such as Daimler AG and
SAP AG, would increase the majority of Merkel’s opponents in the
German parliament’s upper house, or Bundesrat, where state
governments are represented.  Merkel, whose favorite saying is “Calm is the source of
strength,” isn’t showing signs of being rushed.  Europe ’s
economy may be held back for years if she succeeds in imposing
her conditions,  Societe Generale (GLE) ’s Marcussen said.  “All of these things are going to be hard to achieve,”
she said. “If they impose the German diet, Europe will look
stronger in 10 to 20 years, but it will go through a nasty
period first. I don’t see where you get a growth impetus from.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  