-- 
Amazon Deforestation Jumped Sixfold on Expanded Soy Planting, Brazil Says

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-05-18T16:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/amazon-deforestation-jumped-sixfold-on-expanded-soy-planting-brazil-says.html
Deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon
jumped almost sixfold in the March-April period, led by the
destruction of trees in Mato Grosso, the country’s biggest
soybean-producing state.  Deforestation in the world’s largest rain forest increased
in March and April to 593 square kilometers (147,000 acres),
about the size of Toronto, from 103.5 square kilometers in the
same period last year, the National Institute for Space Research
said in statement posted on its  website  today. The institute
uses data from its Real Time Deforestation Detection System,
known as Deter, according to the statement. In January and
February, 19.2 square kilometers of forest were destroyed.  Latin America ’s biggest economy will increase soy output by
7.2 percent this year to 73.7 million tons, the  Agriculture
Ministry  said this month. Mato Grosso, which produced 27 percent
of  Brazil ’s last soybean harvest, will boost production 8.8
percent to 20.4 million tons, according to ministry figures.  Erai Scheffer, president of Grupo Bom Futuro, Brazil’s
largest soybean producer, said he is expecting a record crop
this season as rains boost yields to the highest in three years.  Former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  approved a
decree in December for Brazil to reduce its greenhouse-gas
emissions by as much as 1.3 billion tons in 2020. The decree
includes measures to reduce deforestation by 80 percent in the
Amazon and the planting of 3 million hectares of trees, Brazil’s
Secretariat for Social Communication said.  The decree carries out a pledge Brazil made at a climate
change summit in Copenhagen in 2009 to voluntarily reduce
emissions by 36 percent to 39 percent by 2020 compared with
“business-as-usual" levels.  Tropical forests are disappearing at a rate of about 13
million hectares (32 million acres) each year, or an area the
size of  Greece , according to a UN Environment Program report
published May 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  