-- 
Merkel’s Cabinet Approves Bank Restructuring Levy Decree

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-03-02T15:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/merkel-s-cabinet-approves-bank-restructuring-levy-decree.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
Cabinet approved the terms under which a national restructuring
fund will impose levies on all banks to prevent the collapse of
“crucial” lenders.  The fee banks must pay depends on their liabilities as well
as off-balance sheet derivatives, said a Finance Ministry
proposal that the Cabinet in Berlin backed today. While the fee
will be capped, banks will have to pay the levy in subsequent
years if earnings are insufficient to pay it in a given year.  “This regulation creates a balance between banks with
highly volatile earnings and those with more stable earnings,”
the government press office  said  in a statement on its website.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest lender, will be
affected the most by the fee, Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann has said.  Japan ’s Financial Services Agency and
central bank ranked Deutsche Bank as the world’s most important
among 60 peers based on the impact its failure would have on the
global financial system, the Mainichi newspaper said on Dec. 29.  Liabilities of as much as 10 billion euros ($13.8 billion)
will be subject to a charge of 0.02 percent, rising to 0.03
percent for liabilities of up to 100 billion euros and 0.04
percent thereafter, the draft shows. Derivatives will be subject
to a fee of 0.00015 percent.  Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has said German banks
together will pay as much as 1.2 billion euros a year into the
pool. The crisis prevention fund, a federal special asset, came
into force in December.  The BDB association of German banks  has criticized  that
banks have to pay minimum amounts even when they make losses and
that dues to be paid by unprofitable banks will be moved to
subsequent years.  The definition of liabilities generally excludes amounts
owed to depositors, funds for bank risks and equity capital. The
fee has to be paid by Sept. 30 of each calendar year and the
restructuring fund can levy special charges if needed.  The decree needs the approval of both houses of parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  