-- 
Estonian Retail Sales Declined for First Time in Six Months

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-03-02T06:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/estonian-retail-sales-declined-for-first-time-in-six-months.html
Estonian retail sales declined in
January from a year earlier for the first time in six months as
the Baltic nation adopted the euro and faster inflation stifled
spending.  Retail sales, excluding cars and fuel, fell an annual 2
percent, the first decrease since July, compared with a 5
percent rise in December, the statistics office in Tallinn said
today on its website. Retail sales fell a seasonally adjusted 4
percent on the month.  “The retail sales in January could also be influenced by
transition to the euro,” the statistics office said. “Many
people bought goods for kroons in December and cut down their
expenditures in January.”  Retailers including  Tallinna Kaubamaja AS ’s Selver chain,
Maxima Eesti AS and Rimi Eesti Food, part-owned by Royal Ahold
NV, said in January they had been concerned spending would slow
after the currency changeover, citing a decline in Slovakia
during the first months after euro adoption in January 2009.  Retail sales in Slovakia fell an annual 6.5 percent in
January 2009 and 14.6 percent the following month, the most
since at least January 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  The $19 billion economy, the second-smallest in the
eurozone behind Malta, grew an annual 6.6 percent in the fourth
quarter, helped mainly by export demand from Sweden and  Finland .
The central bank and the  Finance Ministry  have said in past
months further recovery depends on improvement in domestic
demand.  Private consumption probably declined 0.9 percent last
year, following an 18.8 percent plunge in 2009, according to
central bank forecasts in September. Spending has been hampered
as harmonized inflation was at 5.1 percent in January and
unemployment remained at 14.3 percent, according to Eurostat
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  