-- 
Mets Fans Can Prove Customers Are Smarter Now: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-02T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/mets-fans-can-show-customers-are-smarter-now-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Whenever Green Bay  Packers Inc.  has
asked its most loyal customers for money, there’s been no
shortage of willing givers.  It’s an investment of the heart, not head. The stock is
illiquid. It pays no dividend and resale is prohibited, except
to the club -- make that Super Bowl-winning club -- at a
fraction of the original price.  As the only not-for-profit among the four major U.S. sports
leagues, the Packers are a special case. Heck, volunteers man  Lambeau Field ’s concession stands, which last season produced
$780,000 for local charities. That’s what it means to be part of
a community.  Contrary to what the owners and executives of the other
teams want you to believe, they aren’t like the Packers. Not
even close. They’re profit-seeking businesses. They’re modes of
entertainment. No different than a skating rink or movie
theater.  Which raises the question: Given a Packers-like opportunity,
would fans of, say, the  New York Mets  -- just to pick a team
whose owners need a cash infusion -- spend their hard-earned
money on a worthless piece of paper that says they own a piece
of the franchise?  You have to wonder -- with the  National Football League  and
National Basketball Association warning of lockouts, bickering
over billions in revenue -- whether fans have kicked their
addiction to professional sports and come to the long overdue
realization that the hometown team is no different than a Wal-
Mart or Burger King.  Money Wins  Based on what happened two nights ago, it seems the
basketball fans of Sacramento need a reminder of why the city’s
only professional sports team, the Kings, exist. It isn’t civic
pride. The Kings exist to, sorry to disappoint, make money.  A sold-out crowd showed up the other night, chanting in
unison, pleading with the team’s owners, the Maloof family, to
keep the franchise in  Sacramento .  The Kings, you see, and we’ve heard this before, say they
can’t survive without a new arena. Only they want the taxpayers
to pay for the bulk of it. In case you haven’t heard, money is a
little tight in California these days.  The Maloofs are doing what plenty of other sports team
owners have done before. They’re using the threat of relocation,
in this instance to  Southern California , as leverage to get what
they want.  They’re counting on addicted sports fans to do anything,
pay any price, to keep their team. Sin Tax. User tax. Special
tax. Whatever it takes.  It’s the same tactic used in Seattle, where to their credit
taxpayers didn’t budge. The NBA’s SuperSonics are now the
Thunder and reside in  Oklahoma City .  Customers Come Last  The Maloofs like to preach a message of catering to the
customer. This time around, however, they’re catering to the
coffers.  Owners think nothing of charging ungodly prices for
tickets, personal-seat licenses, parking and concessions.  Mets owner Fred Wilpon is trying to sell a portion of the
team because of a lawsuit tied to the  Ponzi scheme  run by  Bernard Madoff . The Mets in November received a $25 million loan
from  Major League Baseball  to deal with what the club termed a
temporary liquidity issue. No details were provided.  Fan Bailout  Maybe, just maybe, if no institutional money is available,
Wilpon, a la Packers, will take his case to the people.  Would Mets fans, knowing what they know about a team that
plays in Pandit Park, er, Citi Field, fork over whatever
disposable income they have for a worthless piece of paper that
says they own a piece of the team?  In return for their contribution, the Mets could offer so-
called owners exclusive merchandise that identifies them as
franchise saviors. A separate parking lot, maybe, and an owners-
and-family day in the offseason.  Let’s hope the paying customers are smarter now. Let’s hope
they understand that the home team isn’t some irreplaceable
piece of the community and that loyalty and love in sports are
unrequited. The fans give and give and give. Rarely do they get.  Supporters of the Packers do get something for their
investment: peace of mind knowing that in all likelihood their
team will remain their team. That’s more than can be said for
the football followers of  San Diego , where the Chargers want a
new stadium or, well, you know. See Sacramento or  Seattle . Most
important, see  Los Angeles , where developers are making a lot of
noise about the NFL.  As Seattle City Councilman Nick Licata likes to say: The
difference between the Wal-Mart customer and the sports team
customer is that the fan is an addict.  The first step is to admit there’s a problem.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  