-- 
Euro Trades Near November High on ECB Rate Outlook; Yen Erases Its Gains

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-03T08:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/euro-trades-near-highest-since-november-versus-dollar-on-ecb-rates-outlook.html
The euro rose toward its strongest
since November against the dollar on speculation the  European
Central Bank  will emphasize its readiness to raise  interest
rates  as price pressures increase.  The single currency maintained gains from yesterday before
a report forecast to show European retail sales increased and
before U.S. figures tomorrow on non-farm payrolls. The yen
erased gains versus the euro as reports the Arab League was
studying a peace plan for Libya curbed demand for Japan’s
currency as a refuge.  “The ECB must act to curb inflation given they already
have sustained growth -- the U.S. doesn’t have that,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Sydney. “If payrolls disappoint in the U.S. we could
see euro through $1.40 by Friday.”  The euro traded at $1.3867 as of 7:58 a.m. in  London  from
$1.3866 in  New York  yesterday, when it reached $1.3891, the
strongest since Nov. 9.  Europe ’s common currency was at 113.55
yen from 113.52 yen. The greenback fell as low as 81.77 yen
before buying 81.89 yen from 81.87. It yesterday declined to
81.57, the weakest since Feb. 4.  The ECB, which aims to keep annual gains in consumer prices
to just below 2 percent, will publish inflation projections for
2011 and 2012 today after its monthly policy meeting. Council
member Yves Mersch said Feb. 21 the central bank may raise its
2011 inflation forecast to more than 2 percent from 1.8 percent.
Policy makers have kept the benchmark interest rate at 1 percent
since May 2009.  European Inflation  The euro was supported by “speculation the ECB will
sharpen its anti-inflation rhetoric,”  John Kyriakopoulos , head
of currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney,
wrote today in a note to clients.  Retail sales in the bloc rose 0.3 percent in January after
falling 0.4 percent the prior month, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists before today’s European Union statistics
office report. An index of services and manufacturing industries
in the euro area rose to 58.4 from 57, a separate survey showed
ahead of the Markit Economics data today. Figures above 50
indicate growth.  U.S. employers added 195,000 jobs last month, the most
since May 2010, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before tomorrow’s Labor Department report.  Bernanke signaled in congressional testimony he will keep
the Fed on course to finish $600 billion of Treasury purchases
through June.  Bernanke Comments  Asked at a House Financial Services Committee hearing
yesterday what conditions would warrant a third round of so-
called quantitative easing, Bernanke said “what we’d like to
see is a sustainable recovery. We don’t want to see the economy
falling back into a double dip or to a stall-out.”  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  The yen erased gains after Al Arabiya TV cited the  Arab
League  secretary general as saying the group is studying a plan
proposed by Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  to end the violence
in Libya.  Japan’s currency earlier climbed against most of its major
peers as crude oil held above $100 a barrel. A U.S. government
report showed crude stockpiles unexpectedly dropped last week,
while fighting in Libya renewed concern that supply disruptions
may spread to the Middle East.  Oil Prices    Nouriel Roubini , an economist who predicted the credit-
market collapse, said yesterday an expansion of troubles in the
Mideast could push oil prices as high as $140 to $150 per
barrel, triggering a double-dip recession in parts of Europe.  “We could still see some more significant  risk aversion ,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in  Singapore  at
Westpac Banking Corp,  Australia ’s second-largest lender. “The
Middle East situation still remains very uncertain.”  The yen typically strengthens in times of political,
financial and economic turmoil. Japan’s trade surplus makes the
currency attractive because it means the nation doesn’t have to
rely on overseas lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 