-- 
European Producer-Price Inflation Accelerates More Than Forecast on Energy

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-02T10:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/european-inflation-accelerates-more-than-forecast-on-soaring-energy-costs.html
European producer-price inflation
accelerated more than economists forecast in January, as soaring
energy costs added to the  European Central Bank ’s concerns that
inflationary pressures are building.  Factory-gate prices  in the euro region jumped 6.1 percent
from a year earlier, after increasing 5.3 percent in December,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s the fastest since September 2008 and above the 5.7
percent gain forecast by economists, according to the median of
16 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. January prices rose 1.5
percent from December.  Crude oil has surged 33 percent over the past six months,
increasing pressure on companies to pass on higher costs just as
some labor unions demand more pay. Consumer-price inflation in
the 17-nation euro area accelerated to 2.4 percent in February
and ECB officials including Juergen Stark have signaled they are
ready to raise borrowing costs from a record low if needed.  “Given surging oil and food prices, we are likely to see a
further acceleration in inflation in the coming months,” said  Aline Schuiling , a senior economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam. “There is a clear risk that the central bank hikes
earlier than September, which is our current call.”  The euro was higher against the dollar after the data,
trading at $1.3796 at 10:02 a.m. in  London , up 0.1 percent on
the day.  Energy Prices  Energy prices jumped 13 percent in January from a year
earlier and the cost of intermediate goods rose 7.4 percent, the
statistics office said in today’s report. Excluding construction
and energy, producer prices advanced 3.9 percent in the year. In
the 27-nation EU, producer-price inflation accelerated to 6.5
percent from 5.9 percent in the previous month.  The European Commission said on March 1 that euro-area
inflation may average 2.2 percent this year instead of a
previously projected 1.8 percent.  Europe ’s economy may expand
1.6 percent, above a November forecast of 1.5 percent, the
Brussels-based EU executive said.  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer goods
company, plans to offset higher input prices this year through
price increases and cost savings, Chief Financial Officer Jean- Marc Huet said on Feb. 3.  Volkswagen AG ,  Germany ’s largest
automotive employer, last month agreed to raise compensation for
100,000 workers by 3.2 percent.  Annual Gains  The ECB, which aims to keep annual gains in consumer prices
just below 2 percent, will publish its latest inflation
projections for this year and next tomorrow after its monthly
rate meeting. ECB council member Yves Mersch said in an
interview on Feb. 21 the bank may raise its 2011 inflation
forecast to more than 2 percent from 1.8 percent.  ECB Executive Board member Stark said last week that the
ECB is “prepared to act decisively and immediately if needed”
to maintain  price stability , and fellow board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the bank may need to reassess its policy
stance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  