-- 
Ex-Colonial Bank Official Admits Role in Lender’s Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-02T23:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ex-colonial-bank-official-admits-role-in-lender-s-fraud-1-.html
A former  Colonial Bank  executive
admitted to conspiring with officials at Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp. to defraud investors and the government of about
$970 million.  Catherine Kissick, 50, pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiracy to commit wire, securities and bank fraud today in
federal court in Alexandria, Virginia. She agreed to cooperate
with prosecutors bringing  Lee Farkas , Taylor Bean’s former
chairman, to trial on April 4 in what the  Justice Department 
says was a $1.9 billion fraud scheme.  Kissick, a former Colonial Bank senior vice president,
admitted that from 2002 through August 2009 she conspired with
Farkas and other Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank officials to
transfer more than $400 million between the bank and the
mortgage lender to hide  Taylor Bean  overdrafts.  “I think there will be other related cases we’ll be
sentencing as well,”  U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema said,
predicting more guilty pleas.  Kissick is the second person to plead guilty in what the
Justice Department said was a scheme that targeted the
government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and contributed to
the Montgomery, Alabama-based bank’s failure.  SEC Suit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, using a figure
of $1.5 billion to describe the size of the scheme, filed a
related securities suit today against Kissick, along with a
proposed settlement of the case. Kissick didn’t admit or deny
the SEC’s allegations.  Taylor Bean’s, former treasurer, Desiree Brown, pleaded
guilty Feb. 24 to the same conspiracy charge and agreed to
cooperate with prosecutors. Brown, 45, also settled an SEC suit.  Kissick, of  Orlando ,  Florida , faces a maximum sentence of
30 years in prison, a $250,000 fine and an order to pay
restitution to more than 250 victims. She is scheduled for
sentencing June 17.  Farkas, 58, was the only person until last week to be
charged in the alleged scheme to deceive financial firms and
TARP by covering up shortfalls at Ocala, Florida-based Taylor
Bean, according to an SEC statement. Taylor Bean was once the
largest non-depository mortgage lender in the U.S., the SEC
said.  Farkas was indicted on 16 counts in June and faces the
possibility of spending the rest of his life in prison,
according to a Justice Department statement.  ‘No Value’  Kissick admitted in writing that she caused “Colonial Bank
to purchase assets from TBW of substantially more than
$400 million that in fact had no value.”  Kissick said she helped Farkas and other co-conspirators in
November 2003 transfer Taylor Bean’s deficit to Colonial Bank’s
mortgage loan purchasing facility. The facility was used to
provide mortgage originators such as Taylor Bean with funds for
new loans while they worked to sell existing ones to investors.  The conspirators in a scheme called “Plan B” sent
mortgage data to Colonial Bank for loans that didn’t exist or
that Taylor, Bean had already committed or sold to other third-
party investors, according to court records.  For about four years, the conspirators sold fictitious and
improperly valued mortgage pools to Colonial Bank.  Deleted Records  Kissick admitted to deleting records on her personal
BlackBerry and instructing staff members to do the same “‘to
evade subpoenas for documents” from TARP’s special inspector
general.  She also admitted filing false financial statements with
Colonial BancGroup, which were then incorporated into the bank’s
SEC filings.  Kissick said in her statement that she “did not personally
receive funds paid out by Colonial Bank and Colonial BancGroup
to TBS.”  In 2008, as Taylor Bean’s operating losses mounted, Farkas,
Kissick and other conspirators allegedly tried through Colonial
BancGroup, Colonial Bank’s parent, to obtain about $570 million
through TARP, prosecutors said.  The application for funding included false information, and
investigators detected irregularities before any TARP money was
released, according to the Justice Department.  Alabama regulators seized Colonial Bank in 2009 and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. was appointed as receiver.
Colonial BancGroup and Taylor Bean, once the 12th largest U.S.
mortgage lender, filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  The case is U.S. v. Kissick, 11-cr-00088, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 