-- 
Ex-Goldman Programmer Aleynikov Declared Flight Risk, Returned to Custody

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ex-goldman-sachs-programmer-aleynikov-in-custody-after-judge-revokes-bail.html
Sergey Aleynikov, the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  programmer convicted of stealing the firm’s
trade secrets by appropriating computer source code, was
returned to custody after a judge declared him a flight risk.  U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  in Manhattan revoked the
bail of Aleynikov, 41, and ordered him remanded to the custody
of the U.S. Marshal’s Service on Feb. 24, court records show.
The defense has appealed the ruling to the 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in  New York .  Aleynikov, a U.S. citizen who emigrated from  Russia , was
convicted in December of theft of trade secrets and
transportation of stolen property in interstate and foreign
commerce. Set for sentencing March 18, he faces a  maximum  of 15
years in prison, according to the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara.  “The government has abiding concerns about the risk of the
defendant’s flight, in light of new information about the
defendant’s family circumstances,” the U.S. Attorney said in a
letter to the judge dated Feb. 23. “The defendant reportedly
has a close relationship with his mother, who plans to return to
Russia.”  In the appeal of the bail revocation,  Kevin Marino , a
lawyer representing Aleynikov, said “the record reflects clear
and convincing evidence that Aleynikov is not a risk of
flight.”  The bail revocation was reported earlier by the New York
Times.  Computer Code  Aleynikov was employed by New York-based Goldman for two
years developing computer code for its high-frequency trading
business. He resigned in June 2009 to work for Teza Technologies
LLC, a Chicago-based trading firm, according to court documents.  On his last day at Goldman, Aleynikov transferred
“substantial portions” of proprietary code from Goldman’s
computer network to an outside server in  Germany , prosecutors
said. Later at home in  New Jersey  he downloaded the source code
files to his home computer, according to the indictment.  His annual compensation at Goldman was about $400,000,
court filings show. Teza offered him a salary, bonus and profit-
sharing that totaled more than $1 million a year, according to
the indictment.  He had been released on $750,000 bond. Following his
conviction he was subject to home detention with electronic
monitoring.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 10-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donald Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  