-- 
Ex-McKinsey `High Priest' Gupta Linked to Rajaratnam by SEC

-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 
2011-03-02T10:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ex-mckinsey-high-priest-gupta-linked-to-rajaratnam-by-sec-case.html
When the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission sued Rajat K. Gupta for  insider trading 
yesterday, it wasn’t simply  accusing  “a Westport, Conn.-based
business consultant” of providing illegal tips to the
billionaire hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam .  Gupta, unlike the 26 people charged in the government’s
multiyear criminal insider-trading investigation that went
public with Rajaratnam’s arrest in October 2009, has served on
the boards of some of the largest multinationals, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Procter & Gamble Co . From 1994 to
2003, he ran McKinsey & Co., the global consulting firm that has
plotted strategy for companies such as General Electric Co. and
AT&T Inc. Gupta remained a senior McKinsey partner until 2007.  “McKinsey is the closest thing the business world has to a
confessional, and he was the high priest,” said Terry Connelly,
dean of the Ageno School of Business at Golden Gate University
in San Francisco, and a former managing director at  Salomon
Brothers . “They have been an icon in the consulting business
almost since they were founded.”  Gupta, 62, is the only member of the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation’s Global Development Program Advisory Panel who has
not led a country or at least worked directly for its president
or administration, according to foundation  biographies . He
chairs the panel.  The panel “provides strategic guidance and does not have
any financial, fiduciary or audit responsibilities,” the
Seattle-based foundation said in a statement. “Rajat is a
valued member of the panel and will continue to serve on it.”  Initial Rejection  Gupta has served on advisory boards at Northwestern
University’s Kellogg School of Management,  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Sloan School of Management and Harvard Business
School, his alma mater. He went from Harvard to McKinsey, though
was rejected after his first application to the consulting firm.
He was reconsidered after a recommendation from professor Walter J. Salmon.  “I can only say that he was an outstanding student, and as
far as I could tell in my exposure to him in those years an
outstanding person,” Salmon said yesterday.  In 2008 and 2009, after stepping down from McKinsey, Gupta
passed confidential information to Rajaratnam, founder of New
York-based Galleon Group LLC, including early word on quarterly
earnings at Goldman Sachs and P&G, according to the SEC’s civil
suit. Gupta called Rajaratnam 23 seconds after an October 2008
Goldman Sachs board call during which senior executives informed
the board of poor results by the bank, the SEC said.  $18 Million  A month earlier, he disclosed information to Rajaratnam on
the $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs from  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., according to the lawsuit.  The tips generated more than $18 million in illicit profits
or losses that were avoided by Galleon, the SEC said.  “Gupta was honored with the highest trust of leading
public companies, and he betrayed that trust by disclosing their
most sensitive and valuable secrets,”  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s
enforcement director, said yesterday in a statement.  The allegations are “totally baseless,”  Gary Naftalis , a
lawyer for Gupta, said in a statement. Gupta’s “40-year record
of ethical conduct, integrity and commitment to guarding his
clients’ confidences is beyond reproach,” Naftalis said.    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment. Gupta, who stepped down from Goldman
Sachs’s board last year, resigned yesterday from the Procter &
Gamble board “to prevent any distraction,” said Paul Fox, a
spokesman for the Cincinnati-based consumer-products company.  “We were saddened to learn about the civil charges against
our former colleague,” Yolande Daeninck, a spokeswoman for
McKinsey in  New York , said in a statement.  Rajaratnam’s Reaction  The SEC action “is simply an effort to destroy a favorable
witness,” said  John Dowd , Rajaratnam’s attorney at Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP in  Washington . “There is no case,
absolutely none.”  In 1994, after his promotion to the head of McKinsey, the
Chicago Tribune reported that the two people Gupta admired most
were Mother Teresa and Swami Vivekananda, a 19th-century Hindu
hero credited with helping make Hinduism a major world religion.  “I think of him like Thomas Aquinas,” the philosopher and
Catholic theologian and priest, former P&G Chief Executive
Officer Alan Lafley said of Gupta in an October Fortune  story .  A former McKinsey partner recalls Gupta’s philosophical
talks, while managing director, in which he likened the firm to
a Banyan tree. As the various consulting practices grew, Gupta
would say, they would strengthen the overall firm, as the
Banyan’s maturing roots do the tree, according to the former
partner, who asked not to be named because of the case pending
against Gupta.  ‘McKinsey Mafia’  McKinsey grew to 9,000 employees from 500 in the 35 years
he spent there. Even by 1995, his second year at the helm, its
global sway was such that a Sunday Times headline complained of
a “McKinsey mafia.” In the past year, the newspaper said then,
one firm veteran had taken over the prime minister’s policy
unit, another became the youngest member of the cabinet and a
third became deputy governor of the  Bank of England , leaving the
helm of the  Confederation of British Industry . He was replaced
there by a McKinsey veteran.  In 2001, Gupta founded a business school in Hyderabad,  India , called the Indian School of Business, whose board was
stocked with that country’s corporate leaders, along with
McKinsey director Anil Kumar, who has pleaded guilty to
providing Rajaratnam, 53, with inside information.  Investing Partners  Rajaratnam and Gupta have a 13-year history of business
collaboration and co-investing. As of May, Rajaratnam had a
stake in a fund managed by New Silk Route NSR Partners LLC, co-
founded by Gupta. At a January 2007 benefit honoring Rajaratnam
called “A Night for India,” Gupta was the honorary chair along
with Zubin Mehta, who conducted the  New York Philharmonic  in an
Elgar cello concerto and Bruckner symphony, according to a
 program . The music played after a black-tie dinner and before a
champagne reception.  Gupta’s reach has extended beyond India, where he was born
in the Communist-run Eastern city Kolkata. After McKinsey, he
joined the boards of  Russia ’s OAO Sberbank, American Airlines
parent AMR Corp., Harman International Industries Inc. and the
business outsourcing company Genpact Ltd. Last year, Sberbank
 announced  that Gupta, its highest-paid director, would instead
become a ”strategic adviser.” He has also served as the UN
Secretary General’s special adviser on management reform, and in
July became chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce.
His vice chairman,  Stephen Green , another McKinsey alumnus, was
the chairman of HSBC Holdings Plc. He left HSBC and ICC to
become the U.K. trade minister.  ‘Classy Guy’  Bala Balachandran, who has known Gupta for three decades
and was on the founding faculty of the Indian School of
Business, sees his old colleague as “a classy guy” who
“delivered results as the number one guy at McKinsey.”  Balachandran, who left that school to found the Great Lakes
Institute of Management in  Chennai , India, in 2004, said Gupta’s
post-McKinsey world of investments was different.  “The arrogance became so high” among sophisticated
investors, he said in a May 2010 interview.  “This goes to the heart of the market’s credibility,”
Connelly, the business school dean, said of the SEC’s insider-
trading lawsuit against Gupta. “All the SEC has done today is
introduce the possibility that this kind of chicanery has gone
on at what can only be called the highest levels.”  A former managing director at Goldman Sachs described
McKinsey yesterday as the psychiatrist-in-chief for corporate
America. The executive asked not to be identified because of the
SEC case. If Gupta is guilty, the person said, pointing out that
the ”if” is necessary because the charges are so
extraordinary, it means you can trust no one.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net ;
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
John Helyar in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 