-- 
Fed Says Labor Market Strengthened on Manufacturing, Retail

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-02T22:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/fed-says-labor-market-strengthened-on-manufacturing-growth-retail-sales.html
The  Federal Reserve  said the labor
market improved throughout the country early this year, driven
by rising retail sales and “solid growth” in manufacturing.  “Labor market conditions continued to strengthen modestly,
with all Districts reporting some degree of improvement,” the
Fed said today in its Beige Book report, an anecdotal account of
the economy released two weeks before meetings of the  Federal
Open Market Committee . Its last survey, released Jan. 12, said
the job market was “firming somewhat.”  Overall, the economy “continued to expand at a modest to
moderate pace,” the central bank said in Washington. Eleven of
the Fed’s 12 regional banks, including  San Francisco  and
Philadelphia, described their regions as expanding, improving or
experiencing moderate growth. Only  Chicago  reported growth “at
a pace not quite as strong” as before.  Fed policy makers at their last meeting in January took a
more optimistic view of the economy while maintaining their
dissatisfaction with job growth. Policy makers, who are pressing
ahead with their plan to buy $600 billion in Treasuries through
June, raised projections for economic growth this year and made
little change to forecasts after 2011 for unemployment and
inflation.  The Beige Book reported that all districts except St. Louis
“experienced solid growth in manufacturing production” and
noted an increase in retail sales in every district except
Richmond and Atlanta.  ‘Just Great’  “The manufacturing sector is doing just great,”  Michael Moran , Chief Economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc., said in
an interview on “Bloomberg Bottom Line” with Mark Crumpton,
adding that the report wouldn’t dissuade Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  from completing the asset-purchase plan, known as QE2
for the second round of quantitative easing.  “He’s planning to go ahead with QE2,” said Moran.
“There’s nothing in the Beige Book today which would suggest
they should back away from that either.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,308.44 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in New York. The yield
on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 3.47 percent as of 4:48
p.m. in  New York , from 3.39 percent yesterday.  The Beige Book followed a report earlier in the day from
ADP Employer Services showing that U.S. companies added more
workers in February than forecast by economists. Employment
increased by 217,000 after a revised 189,000 gain in January.
The median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey called for a
gain of 180,000 last month.  Jobs Report  The Labor Department will report March 4 that the world’s
largest economy added 190,000 jobs in February, the most since
May 2010 when the government was hiring to conduct the decennial
census, according to the median forecast of a Bloomberg News
survey. The  unemployment rate  will rise to 9.1 percent.  Bernanke, in congressional testimony today, said he’s still
not satisfied with the strength of the recovery from a recession
that the  National Bureau of Economic Research  describes as the
longest since the Great Depression.  “The economy’s recovery is not firmly established, and we
think monetary policy needs to be supportive,” Bernanke said in
semiannual testimony to the House Financial Services Committee.  Responding to a question, Bernanke said the Fed’s policy of
keeping its benchmark rate near zero for an “extended period”
helps provide support to the economy, “which in our judgment,
it still needs.”  Economies Growing  The  Beige Book ’s characterization of growth was little
changed from January, when six Fed regions, including Atlanta
and Chicago, showed local economies expanding “modestly to
moderately,” and four, including New York and  Boston , reported
“improving” conditions.  The Commerce Department last week reduced its estimate of
fourth-quarter growth to a 2.8 percent annual pace from 3.2
percent as state and local governments made deeper cuts in
spending. Consumer purchases rose at a 4.1 percent rate, the
most since 2006, providing a boost for retailers.  Last week Target Corp., the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, projected sales at stores open at least a year may
rise as much as 5 percent this year, after a 2.1 percent gain
the prior period.  “Retail spending strengthened compared with a year ago
across all Districts except Richmond and Atlanta,” today’s
report said, while noting that winter weather “had a negative
impact on retail activity” in Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
Atlanta,  Kansas City  and  Dallas .  The Beige Book report released today reflects information
collected on or before Feb. 18 and summarized by the Atlanta
Fed.  Labor Demand  Boston,  Cleveland ,  Minneapolis , and Dallas cited
“noticeable improvements” in manufacturing, and Boston and
Cleveland “also observed increased labor demand in the health-
care and medical sectors,” the report said.  Four districts, including Dallas and Boston, described the
manufacturing outlook as “optimistic” and four, including
Philadelphia and Atlanta, reported “more rapid improvement in
factory orders.”  Manufacturing grew in February at the fastest pace in
almost seven years, driven by gains in orders, employment and
exports that signal factories will continue to propel the
expansion, according to a report this week from the  Institute
for Supply Management .  Auto dealers are seeing improved demand. General Motors Co.
yesterday said U.S. sales of its four remaining brands rose 49
percent in February, topping analysts’ estimates.  Berkshire Hathaway  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s quarterly profit rose 43 percent
to the highest since 2007, boosted in part by Chairman  Warren Buffett ’s purchase last year of Burlington Northern Santa Fe,
the second biggest railroad in the  United States .  The Beige Book described the real estate market as
“varied, but overall sales and construction remained at low
levels across all districts.”  The improvement in the job market has not translated to pay
increases, the report said, describing wage pressures as
“minimal across all Districts.”  The report noted that “non-wage input costs increased for
manufacturers and retailers” and that many manufacturers
“reported having greater ability to pass through higher input
costs to customers.”  “Retailers in some Districts mentioned they had
implemented price increases or were anticipating such action in
the next few months,” the Fed said.  Price Gauge  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  Oil and crop prices have soared even as  core inflation  has
remained low. The price of gasoline, among the most visible
expenses consumers, has risen 25 percent in the last year,
according to an index from the American Automobile Association.  Experience with such price gains in recent decades, along
with currently stable labor costs, suggests a “temporary and
relatively modest increase in U.S. consumer price inflation,”
Bernanke told Congress today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  