-- 
Fed Treasury Purchases `Monetizing Debt,' May Spur Inflation, Hoenig Says

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-03-02T14:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/fed-treasury-purchases-monetizing-debt-may-spur-inflation-hoenig-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said the central bank is “monetizing
debt” with its purchases of  U.S. Treasuries , a program that he
says may spur inflation.  “Yes, we are monetizing debt,” Hoenig said today in a
speech in  New York . “You buy bonds and you monetize debt. Right
now, a lot of that is going into excess reserves so it is not
having an immediate effect on inflation. It will initiate
inflationary impulses. It takes time.”  Hoenig, the lone dissenter from every Fed meeting last
year, warned that the central bank’s near-zero interest rates
and record monetary stimulus could lead to asset price bubbles
and increase inflation in a few years. He voted against the
Fed’s plan to purchase $600 billion in U.S. Treasury securities
through June during the final two meetings of 2010.  Hoenig told the  Council on Foreign Relations  the Fed needs
to explain how it plans to reduce its record $2.54 trillion
balance sheet. While he would avoid “shock therapy” of selling
assets all at once, “we want to begin to show how we will
withdraw that.”  Policy makers were divided over whether further evidence of
a strengthening recovery would warrant slowing or reducing the
$600 billion of purchases, according to minutes of their January
meeting.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , Richmond Fed
President Jeffrey Lacker and St. Louis’s  James Bullard  have
urged a review of the purchases in light of a strengthening
economy and concern over future inflation. Hoenig currently
doesn’t have a vote on the  Federal Open Market Committee .  Target Rate  The central bank should raise the target federal funds rate
to 1 percent from near zero rather than ease during the current
economic recovery, Hoenig said, reiterating comments from last
year.  “You really need to get off of zero, in my opinion,”
Hoenig said. “I would think of moving back to 1 percent, and
then I would pause. Let the market settle out” and then move to
a higher rate, possibly 2 percent.  The Kansas City Fed leader also urged breaking up the
largest banks, which he said have a lower cost of funds because
of an implied government safety net. He would restore the
barrier between commercial and investment banking.  “I think this is a good idea as they are so large they
cannot be allowed to fail,” Hoenig said.  Hoenig also said standards for bank capital need to be
raised further, and the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s
overhaul of standards may not go far enough in reducing
leverage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  