-- 
Fed's Lockhart Says Rising Commodity Prices Creating `Inflation Anxiety'

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-02T21:30:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/fed-s-lockhart-says-rising-commodity-prices-creating-inflation-anxiety-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said rising commodity prices are
creating “inflation anxiety” even while consumer cost gauges
fail to show broader increases.  “There is clearly rising inflation anxiety focused on
particular price categories,” Lockhart said today in a speech
in Atlanta. “I would expect inflation to continue to firm but
not leap out of control” and approach the Fed’s informal goal
of around 2 percent, with unemployment declining at a “slow
pace,” he said.  Lockhart said it would be “wise” to complete the Fed’s
planned $600 billion of asset purchases as scheduled under the
program aimed at boosting U.S. growth. Earlier today, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reiterated to Congress his forecast
that growth will accelerate this year, while he wants to see a
“sustained period of stronger  job creation .”  “We see a sustained recovery at a moderate pace of
growth,” meaning annualized gains in gross domestic product of
3 percent to 4 percent this year, Lockhart said to the Southeast
Venture Conference.  Oil traded near a 29-month high as Libyan rebels braced for
more attacks by leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops, while Iranian
protesters clashed with security forces, Al Arabiya television
reported. Lockhart, who spent part of his career in the Middle
East, said if unrest spreads to  Saudi Arabia , that would be a
“wild card” for the economic outlook.  Slow Price Increases  It’s important to have “humility” about events in Middle
East as “they are really quite unpredictable,” Lockhart said.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.    Core inflation  is still tracking below 2 percent,”
Lockhart said. “Long-term inflation expectations remain quite
stable.”  Companies in the U.S. added 217,000 workers in February,
according to data from ADP Employer Services today. The median
estimate in the Bloomberg News survey called for a 180,000 gain
last month. The report comes two days before the Labor
Department’s February jobs data, which economists said may show
payrolls grew by 193,000 workers, the most since May.  The ADP report is “encouraging,” Lockhart said, and he
hopes the government release will be “strong.”  ‘Subdued’ Wage Growth  “Wage growth continues to be quite subdued, largely
because we are looking at high rates of unemployment, around 9
percent,” he said.  The Commerce Department last week reduced its estimate of
fourth-quarter growth to a 2.8 percent annual pace. Consumer
purchases rose at a 4.1 percent pace, the most since the same
three months in 2006, compared with a 4.4 percent rate
originally estimated.  While state and municipal budget deficits represent a
downside risk for the economy, they’re “not a deal killer” for
the outlook, Lockhart said.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  