-- 
Finaport Reduces Clients’ Emerging Stock Holdings by Half

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-03-02T07:16:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/finaport-reduces-clients-emerging-stock-holdings-by-half-2-.html
Finaport Investment Intelligence , a
Zurich-based company that oversees $1.4 billion in client assets,
said it has cut its holdings in emerging-market stocks by half
as  oil prices  stoke inflation.  “It’s a bit too early” to buy shares in India, Asia and
emerging markets, Hans Goetti, Finaport’s chief investment
officer for  Asia , said in an interview from Singapore today. He
declined to say how much his clients held in emerging markets
before the reduction.  Oil futures rose to the highest since September 2008
yesterday on concern escalating turmoil in the Middle East will
disrupt crude supplies. Asian countries from  China  and India to
Indonesia all increased borrowing costs this year, widening the
gap with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s near-zero benchmark rate, as
rising oil and commodity prices threaten to fuel inflation.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index has slumped 4 percent this
year as a wave of popular uprisings spread through the Middle
East, ousting the presidents of Egypt and  Tunisia . The MSCI
World Index of developed nations climbed 4.3 percent.  Oil for April delivery in  New York  gained as much as 1
percent to $100.64 a barrel in electronic trading today. Futures
climbed 2.7 percent to $99.63 yesterday, the highest level since
September 2008.  The global economy may tip back into recession if oil
prices reach $120 because of unrest in the Middle East and North
Africa,  Jonathan Garner , Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia and
emerging-market strategist, said on Feb. 23. Libyan rebels are
bracing for renewed clashes with forces loyal to leader Muammar
Qaddafi. Yemeni opposition groups have been protesting daily,
demanding the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.    India   India “is one of those countries that are very much
affected by high oil prices,” said Goetti. The nation’s
inflation “really depends how high oil prices will go.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index has dropped 10
percent this year, Asia’s worst-performing benchmark index this
year apart from the  Philippines . Companies on the measure trade
at an average 17.3 times estimated earnings, down from 21.5
times in March 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sensex, which rose 3.5 percent to 18,446.50 yesterday,
may “look interesting again” once it drops to 16,000, he said.
The index climbed 17 percent last year, adding to an 81 percent
surge in 2009.  Asian equities may become attractive in three months to
six months, provided a peak in inflation in the middle of the
year prompts an end to central bank tightening, said Goetti, who
was previously chief investment officer at LGT Bank in
Liechtenstein   Singapore ) Ltd.  “If oil prices go to $120 and stay for three months, we
will have a global problem in equity markets,” Goetti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  