-- 
Fitch Assigns Zambia `B+' Sovereign Rating and Says It Has Stable Outlook

-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 
2011-03-02T11:34:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/fitch-assigns-zambia-b-sovereign-rating-and-says-it-has-stable-outlook.html
Zambia, Africa’s biggest copper
producer, obtained a  credit rating  from  Fitch Ratings  as it
plans to sell its first dollar-denominated bonds this year.  The southern African nation was rated B+ by Fitch, its
fourth-highest non-investment grade rating, with a “stable”
outlook, the company said in a statement today. Zambia’s rating
is the same as that for Ghana,  Kenya  and Angola and one step
above Lebanon’s.  The rating reflects “the marked improvement in Zambia’s
economic performance since 2003, driven by improved
macroeconomic stability, economic liberalization, rising private
investment and production in the mining sector, and more
recently, a strong agricultural performance,” Veronica Kalema,
a director in Fitch’s sovereign group, said in the statement.  Zambia is making final preparations for the sale of
Eurobonds, Finance Minister  Situmbeko Musokotwane  said on Dec.
15, without saying how much it planned to raise. The country
postponed in 2008 a plan to seek a credit rating and sell its
first global bond of $1 billion because of the global financial
crisis.  The nation’s economy expanded about 7.1 percent in 2010
from 6.4 percent in 2009, driven by increased mining output,
transport, communication, construction and agriculture, the
Central Statistics Office said on Dec. 30. Zambia’s gross
domestic product growth after inflation has averaged 6.3 percent
since 2006, Fitch said.  Nigeria, Kenya  Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest oil producer, raised
$500 million selling 10-year Eurobonds, its first offering of
international debt, on Jan. 21, attracting buyers from  Europe ,
the U.S., Asia and Africa. The notes maturing in January 2021
fell, sending the yield up 3 basis points to 7.009 percent at
12:28 p.m. in Lagos.  Kenya, which more than two years ago halted a planned sale
of bonds on the international market, may issue a sovereign bond
by  June 2013 or earlier if  interest rates  are “favorable” and
should “market conditions permit,” it said in a letter of
intent to the  International Monetary Fund  on Feb. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  