-- 
Fitch Cuts Tunisia to BBB-, Negative Outlook on Uncertainty

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-02T16:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/fitch-cuts-tunisia-to-bbb-negative-outlook-on-uncertainty.html
  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Tunisia’s
long-term foreign currency issuer default rating to BBB- from
BBB as well as lowering the long-term local currency rating to
BBB from A-.  “The downgrades reflect uncertainties about Tunisia’s
stability and economic policy during a difficult political
transition,” Charles Seville of Fitch’s Sovereign Ratings Group
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Although the transition
to democracy could well improve confidence in the long term,
political upheaval has worsened the short-term outlook for the
economy, public finances and financial system.”  The outlooks on the issuer default ratings are negative,
according to the statement released by Fitch. The agency also
downgraded Tunisia’s country ceiling to BBB from BBB+ and its
short-term foreign currency default rating to F3 from F2, it
said.    Tunisia ’s caretaker government is trying to bring stability
to the North African country, where weeks of protests over
unemployment, high food prices and political repression forced
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from power. Prime Minister
Mohamed Ghannouchi, who formed the interim government four days
after Ben Ali’s Jan. 14 ouster and promised to hold elections
within six months, quit three days ago. He was replaced by Beji
Caid Essebsi, a former foreign minister.  While Essebsi’s administration “may prove more durable
than its predecessor,” there is a risk that “Tunisia’s first
fully democratic elections will fail to produce a stable
government with a strong mandate that can implement responsible
economic policies and inspire investor confidence,” Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 