-- 
LG Working on Chips for Mobile Devices Amid Push for Smartphones

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-03-02T08:34:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/lg-working-on-chips-for-mobile-devices-amid-push-for-smartphones.html
  LG Electronics Inc ., the world’s
third-largest maker of mobile phones, said it is working to
develop its own chips for smartphones to strengthen the
company’s handset business.  “We’re working on it, but we haven’t come to any specifics
we can announce right now,” Ken Hong, a spokesman for Seoul-
based LG, said by telephone today.  LG would benefit from developing its own chips, known as
application processors, by saving costs and time to introduce
new devices, said Soh Hyun Cheol, an analyst at Shinhan
Investment Corp. in  Seoul . In January, the company’s mobile
division reported a loss for a third straight quarter after it
lagged behind HTC Corp. and Samsung Electronics Co. in rolling
out new smartphones.  “This can be very positive for LG,” Soh said. “Being
able to get key components within their own supply chain can be
a good advantage in beating rivals.”  MtekVision Co., a South Korean maker of semiconductors used
in communication devices, is looking into developing chips with
LG, Kim Chang Gyo, a spokesman for MtekVision said, confirming a
Feb. 28 report by Digital Times. Hong neither denied nor
confirmed the report.  Samsung and Apple Inc. are the only handset makers that
design chips that go into their smartphones, according to Kang Yoon Hum, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment & Securities
Co. LG has used processors from Qualcomm Inc., Texas Instruments
Inc. and  Nvidia Corp . in smartphones, according to Hong.  LG’s mobile unit aims to return to profit this year by
introducing new smartphones, including a model capable of
recording 3-D images, Park Jong Seok, head of the business, said
Feb. 14. The electronics maker aims to quadruple smartphone
sales this year with 20 new models and plans to expand its
research and development staff by 15 percent, LG said Feb. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  