-- 
Designer Galliano Apologizes for Drunken Behavior, Denies Allegations

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-02T18:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/galliano-apologizes-for-drunken-behavior-while-filing-defamation-complaint.html
  John Galliano , the designer who is
being fired by  Christian Dior SA , apologized for his behavior
after a couple alleged he made anti-semitic and racist comments
to them at a cafe in Paris and denied harboring such views.  “I only have myself to blame and I know that I must face
up to my own failures,” Galliano said today in a statement from
his law firm Harbottle & Lewis. “To start this process I am
seeking help, and all I can hope for in time is to address the
personal failure which led to these circumstances and try and
earn people’s forgiveness.”  Galliano, 50, was drunk and insulted the couple at a cafe
in the fashionable third arrondissement on Feb. 24, according to
a spokeswoman for the public prosecutor’s office. The designer
denies the charges and has filed a defamation complaint, saying
he was attacked first.  Galliano will face trial in the second quarter for
allegedly publicly insulting three individuals on racial and
religious grounds, the prosecutors’ office said today in a
statement. The designer risks a 22,500-euro ($31,203) fine and
six months in prison, according to the statement. Jo Milloy, a
London-based spokeswoman for the designer declined to comment.  ‘Independent Witnesses’  “A number of independent witnesses have given evidence and
have told the police that I was subjected to verbal harassment
and an unprovoked assault when an individual tried to hit me
with a chair, having taken violent exception to my look and my
clothing,” Galliano, who has been known to dress as a pirate,
said in the statement.  Dior said yesterday it will fire Galliano after a video of
the designer saying “I love Hitler” in a separate incident at
the same cafe in Paris was posted on the website of The Sun, a
U.K. tabloid.  While Gibraltar-born Galliano made no reference to the
video in the statement, he said “anti-semitism and racism have
no part in our society.”  “I have fought my entire life against prejudice,
intolerance and discrimination, having been subjected to it
myself,” he said. “In all my work my inspiration has been to
unite people of every race, creed, religion and sexuality by
celebrating their cultural and ethnic diversity through fashion.
That remains my guiding light.”  Dior’s fall-winter women’s ready-to-wear show will go ahead
as planned on Friday, according to the company. Galliano will
not attend the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 