-- 
Gasoline Surges to 30-Month High as Mideast Tensions Escalate

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-02T14:37:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/gasoline-surges-to-30-month-high-as-mideast-tensions-escalate.html
Gasoline surged above $3 a gallon as
spreading political unrest in North Africa and the Middle East
threatened crude oil supplies for refiners.  Gasoline rose to a 30-month high as Libyan forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  counterattacked against rebels who have seized
the east coast ports where much of the country’s oil is refined
or shipped abroad. Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index plunged
to the lowest level since April 2009 on concern political unrest
in nearby Bahrain and Oman may spread to the kingdom.  “Everything is escalating in Libya, it looks like Qaddafi
is gaining ground and the market is a little bit edgy,” said  Dan Flynn , an energy analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Everything
could explode today.”  Gasoline for April delivery rose 2.06 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $3.004 a gallon at 9:27 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Prices touched $3.0215, the highest level
for the contract closest to expiration since Aug. 29, 2008.  Futures pared gains after April-delivery Brent crude on  London ’s ICE Futures exchange retreated from its highs. Brent
added 14 cents to $115.56 a barrel at 9:15 a.m. in New York,
after touching $116.37. Futures are vulnerable to changes in
Brent because refineries supplying fuel to New York Harbor, the
delivery point for heating oil and gasoline futures, process
crude oil grades priced relative to the European oil.  Libya shut as much as 1 million barrels a day, or two-
thirds, of its oil production amid civil unrest in North
Africa’s third-largest crude producer, the International Energy
Agency said.  Libyan Oil  Most Libyan oil is light and low sulfur, easier to refine
into gasoline and distillates. Less Libyan oil going to Europe
could reduce the region’s available gasoline exports and
increase demand for distillate fuel from the U.S.  The Libyan uprising follows the ousting of longtime rulers
by protest movements in Tunisia and Egypt in the past two
months. Anti-government demonstrations have also erupted in
Yemen,  Bahrain , Oman, Jordan, Algeria,  Morocco ,  Iran  and Iraq.  Heating oil for April delivery added 0.82 cent, or 0.3
percent, to $3.0317 a gallon.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
1.2 cents to $3.387 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  