-- 
Gators, Ghosts Sink Florida Carnival; Hanged Girl Haunts Dowser

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 
2011-03-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/gators-ghosts-sink-florida-carnival-hanged-girl-haunts-dowser.html
The sole residents of a Florida
island, the Bigtree family of five work a tacky alligator theme
park starring the mother, Hilola.  She swims with gators, entertaining tourists and keeping
the family afloat. Then cancer pulls her under.  Hilola is one of the many ghosts in “ Swamplandia!, ” a
rich, disturbing first novel by Karen Russell, who wrote the
well-received story collection “ St. Lucy’s Home for Girls
Raised by Wolves .”  Trying to carry on after the mother’s death becomes harder
when a modern theme park called the World of Darkness opens on
the mainland and steals the Bigtrees’ audience.  The father leaves to raise money. The 17-year-old son,
Kiwi, runs away to work at the new park. Osceola, 16, indulges
her spirit-world obsession by eloping with the spectral crewman
from a ghost ship -- and it is as odd as it sounds.  Left alone is the book’s narrator, 13-year-old Ava, who had
hoped to succeed her mother as gator star and now feels she must
pursue her sister by boat through swamp and open water. Helping
her is a strange itinerant who rids people of their problem
birds.  Chapters alternate between Ava’s odyssey and Kiwi’s
headlong dive into the unsheltered life of the mainland. As she
journeys into an ever-darker and uncertain quasi-underworld, he
is introduced to sex, drugs and night school, to theme park
patrons known as Lost Souls who dine on Dante’s Tamales at
Beelzebub’s Snack Bar. His adventures bring comic relief during
Ava’s increasingly dark voyage.
      Russell  is wonderfully inventive, especially with the voice
of her young heroine. Ava offers a winning package of tough,
bright and resourceful without pushing the age envelope. She’s
the right vehicle for Russell’s exuberant prose and a vital part
of this offbeat nuclear family.  ‘Diviner’s Tale’  Bradford Morrow’s “ The Diviner’s Tale”  presents a subtler
take on the high-tension ghost story.  The narrator is a diviner, or dowser, named Cassandra
Brooks, a 36-year-old woman in upstate  New York  who while
searching a client’s property for water sees a girl hanged from
a tree. Yet the girl is gone when the sheriff arrives.  Not being believed is old news for Cassandra, who since
childhood has had “forevisions,” or glimpses of future events.
Most painfully, her older brother, Christopher, ignored her
warning one day and died in a car crash.  Childhood Ghosts  Searching for the hanged girl does lead the authorities to
find a runaway in the same area, while the original vision
haunts Cassandra through a series of strange occurrences that
will tie together the runaway, other missing girls and ghosts
from the diviner’s childhood.  One of these is a girl whose death from a fall was ruled
accidental. Cassandra saw the fatal struggle and knows
otherwise, yet her mother tells her to remain silent. So there
is a guilty party never brought to justice and the guilt of a
gagged witness.  Morrow  adds to these psychological elements some classic
scary stuff: laughter with no source, nightmares, a haven
invaded by threats, a seemingly ubiquitous stalker and the
unresolved past made flesh.  What’s unconventional about Morrow is the restraint of his
finely tuned writing and the treat of his allusions (setting
aside naming a doubted prophet/dowser Cassandra Brooks). The
author of several novels, he teaches at  Bard College  and is
among those acknowledged at the end of Russell’s book.  Scary Stuff  Morrow is adept at lulling the reader and then jolting.
Early in one paragraph a character is holding “a long light
brown snake.” The last sentence reveals a link to the hanging:
“The snake was a rope.” Telling words invade innocent
passages. In a weather reference, we get “a fiendishly hot
summer.”  Overall, Morrow’s ghostly tale delivers more than enough
frissons along with writing well above genre: “Baker Island and
the Cranberries are still shrouded in morning mist but I can
distinguish their outlines, conifer-capped pink granite plates
in the green calm water.”  “Swamplandia!” is published by Knopf (316 pages, $24.95).
“The Diviner’s Tale” is published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt
(311 pages, $26). To order the former book in  North America ,
click  here ; for the latter, click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 