-- 
German Run-off Insurer Darag Seeks 12 Acquisitions by 2013

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-03-02T14:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/german-run-off-insurer-darag-seeks-12-acquisitions-by-2013.html
Darag Deutsche Versicherungs- und
Rueckversicherungs-AG, a German company that buys risks from
insurers seeking to exit businesses, aims to make four purchases
on average in each of the next three years.  “That would translate into an acquisition volume of about
100 million euros ($138 million) in technical reserves in
2013,” Darag Chief Executive Officer Arndt Gossmann said in an
interview. “We will exclusively focus on non-life transactions
as those are less exposed to movement in  interest rates .”  Darag, based in Wedel near Hamburg, specializes in buying
closed businesses from insurers and reinsurers via so-called
run-off acquisitions by assuming the underlying reserves at a
discount for taking over the risks associated with them. It
managed about 65 million euros in technical reserves at the end
of 2010, down from 71 million euros a year earlier, as it was
able to settle more business than it acquired, Gossmann said.  “Depending on the individual transaction, a return on
equity of more than 20 percent is achievable for early
participants in this business,” Gossmann said.  Darag, fully owned by German private equity firm Augur
Capital AG, made three acquisitions last year including the
Belgian insurance business of Liechtenstein-based Quantum
Holdings and Hamburger Versicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft, a
German industry and transport insurer active from 1999 to 2008.  The volume of discontinued insurance business in German-
speaking countries amounts to an estimated 115 billion euros,
 according  to a survey by consultant KPMG LLP. “Of that, about
20 percent should be suitable to put into a form of external
solution over the next five years,” Gossmann said.  Solvency II Rules  Solvency II, a proposed new risk-based regulation for
insurers in  Europe  scheduled to come into effect in 2013, will
also require insurers to set aside more capital for business
that is no longer active. “We expect more run-off deals to be
evaluated the closer we get to the new framework’s introduction
in 2013,” Gossmann said.  Darag, which competes with companies including  Enstar Group
Ltd ., formerly was the German Democratic Republic’s foreign
trade and transport insurer. Enstar in December agreed to buy
Clarendon National Insurance Co. from  Hannover Re  for $200
million as the German reinsurer was seeking to limit risks from
the wind-down of the operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  