-- 
Getty Realty Drops Most in Three Years After Lukoil Sells Biggest Tenant

-- B y   R e b e c c a   M c C l a y
-- 
2011-03-02T23:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/getty-realty-drops-most-in-three-years-after-biggest-tenant-gets-new-owner.html
  Getty Realty Corp. (GTY) , an owner of gas
stations in the U.S. Northeast and mid-Atlantic states, fell the
most in almost three years on concern that revenue may drop
after a change in ownership at the company’s biggest tenant.  OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s second-largest oil producer, sold its
interest in Getty Petroleum Marketing Inc., Jericho,  New York- 
based Getty Realty said in a statement yesterday. The tenant’s
new management said it will delay rental payments due yesterday
until on or before March 7, the property company said.  Getty Realty fell $5.10, or 18 percent, to $23.75 as of
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
decline was the biggest since March 18, 2008.  Lukoil, based in Moscow, said after the close of U.S.
trading today that its Lukoil Americas unit sold Getty Petroleum
to an affiliate of Cambridge Securities LLC, a firm specializing
in investments in oil and gas services. The deal was completed
on Feb. 28, Lukoil said in a statement. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Getty Realty leases about 78 percent of its properties to
Getty Petroleum, according to its website. The new owner and
delayed rental payments are “not a good sign” and may signal a
reworking of the master leases with the tenant, said Anthony Paolone, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  “Until the situation is resolved, we think the shares will
face a significant headwind and external growth initiatives are
likely to be hampered,” Paolone wrote in a note to clients
today. He cut Getty Realty to “underweight” from “neutral.”  A renegotiated lease may reduce Getty’s funds from
operations by 9 percent or more, Paolone said. FFO is a measure
of  cash flow  used by real estate investment trusts.  Getty Petroleum accounts for about 60 percent of the real
estate company’s revenue, according to Paolone. Getty Realty
owned 907 properties and leased 45 as of the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca McClay in New York at 
 rmcclay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  