-- 
Food Crisis Not as Bad as 2008 Because of Rice Price, OECD Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-02T12:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/global-food-crisis-was-worse-in-2008-when-rice-costs-rose-more-oecd-says.html
A global food crisis on the scale of
what happened three years ago isn’t recurring because an
increase in the cost of rice, a staple for half the world, has
lagged behind a jump for other grains, according to the OECD.  Rice futures traded on the  Chicago  Board of Trade rose 3.4
percent in the past 12 months, compared with 60 percent for
wheat and 93 percent for corn. World milled-rice output will
rise 2.4 percent to a record 451.7 million metric tons in
2010-2011, the U.S. Department of Agriculture forecasts, helping
keep stockpiles near the highest in seven years.  Rice prices almost tripled in the 20 months to April 2008,
contributing to a worsening in world hunger that meant a record
1.02 billion people were deemed by the  United Nations  to be
undernourished in 2009. That figure fell to 925 million people
last year, the first decline in 15 years, as food costs dropped
and economic growth lifted incomes.  “The scale of the problem is not as bad for large parts of
the world as it was in 2008,” said Ken Ash, the trade and
agriculture director at the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development in Paris. “With two-thirds of the
world’s hungry largely reliant on rice as a staple, rice prices
have not increased and supplies are relatively strong.”  Rice added to the previous peak in food costs in 2008, with
prices climbing 33 percent in 2007 and another 11 percent the
next year, after export bans by producers including Cambodia,
Vietnam, India and  Egypt . Rice, which jumped as high as $25.07
for 100 pounds in Chicago in April 2008, traded at $14.315 on
the Chicago Board of Trade at 12:38 p.m. Paris time.  Asian Benchmark  Thai grade-B white rice, the Asian benchmark, has dropped
almost 3 percent from a year ago to $533 a ton this week,
according to the Thai Rice Exporters Association. The price of
rice from Thailand, the world’s largest exporter of the grain,
reached $1,038 a ton in May 2008.  Global food prices rose 28 percent in the past 12 months
and reached a record in January, according to the UN’s  Food and
Agriculture Organization . That’s fueled riots across North
Africa and the Middle East that have already toppled leaders in
Tunisia and Egypt. More than 60 food riots occurred worldwide
from 2007 to 2009, according to the U.S. State Department.  World prices for rice “are well below what they were back
then,” Ash said Feb. 24 in his office at the OECD headquarters
in Paris. “In developing countries the impact should not be as
negative. That’s not to say there’s no problem.”  ‘Low Levels’  The price of rice has risen in some local markets, Ash
said. In  Bangladesh , the biggest South Asian rice buyer, prices
rose to a record in January because of “low levels” of public
stocks after the government cut purchases in the previous crop
season, the UN  reported  last month.  Global food prices are expected to rise in the first half
of the 21st century after falling in the second half of the
previous century because of a rising population and higher
incomes, slower crop-yield growth and the effect of climate
change,  Ross Garnaut , the Australian government’s  climate-change 
adviser, said today.  Rice planting in the U.S., the world’s third-largest
exporter, may drop 25 percent this year because growers can earn
more from corn and soybeans, according to the median in a
Bloomberg survey of nine analysts and farmers in January.  “Good seasons” in parts of Africa and Asia have helped
build up grain supplies there to levels above those of 2007-08,
reducing the impact of rising world prices, Ash said. “Local
grain supplies in parts of  Africa  and  Asia  are very good.”  ‘Extreme’ Poverty  Higher food prices have pushed 44 million people into
“extreme”  poverty  in developing countries since June, the  World Bank  said Feb. 15.  Wheat prices climbed in the past six months after Russia
banned grain exports in August following a crop-damaging
drought, while rising U.S. ethanol production has lifted demand
for the feedstock corn.  Rice is the most important food crop in the developing
world and a staple for more than half of the global population,
according to the  International Rice Research Institute .  World rice stocks are forecast to slip 0.7 percent to 93.9
million tons at the end of 2010-2011, after climbing in the
previous three years on rising production in China and  Thailand ,
USDA  data  shows.  OECD countries may see more inflation from food compared
with 2007-08 because of rising meat prices, a “significant”
part of the diet in developed economies, Ash said.  Higher Food Costs  The effect of higher food costs on OECD inflation “was
relatively modest and relatively short-lived” in 2007-08, Ash
said. For consumers in developed economies, “the fact that
wheat is a bit more expensive is not a life or death matter.”  The OECD expects the supply response to higher grain prices
to mainly come from developed countries, with planting up
“quite significantly,” Ash said. That could “quickly” push
grain prices down “by the summer, early fall” in the Northern
Hemisphere, he said.  While public focus is on the impact of expensive food on
poor consumers, the OECD is trying to focus attention on the
“fundamental” problem that “the international community may
tend to forget a little bit about,” Ash said.  “The problem is poverty,” Ash said. “At relatively low
prices a decade ago there were still 800 million people hungry.
What high prices, economic crises and various natural disasters
do is, for some period of time, increase that number.”  Policy makers should focus on helping  developing countries 
raise crop output and their purchasing power, he said.  ‘Stable and Secure’  “There’s a self interest in a world that’s stable and
secure, and where growth is more inclusive,” Ash said. “People
who are well-fed are more productive.”  To address  food security , the OECD is studying the idea of
food stocks in regions prone to supply shortages, Ash said. The
alternative is to “pre-position” cash, he said.  “There is no costless way to do this,” Ash said. “One of
the advantages of cash as opposed to physical food aid is that
you don’t have the same kind of negative disruption on local
markets. You get the food, plus the producer benefits.”    Ivory Coast ’s political crisis may lead to food shortages
in the country and neighboring states as imports of staples
including rice have been cut off and movement of food is
hampered by the conflict, the U.S.-funded Famine Early Warning
Systems Network said yesterday.  “When a country is in conflict, you’ve got a problem,”
Ash said. For sub-Saharan Africa, “if you take out of those
countries the ones characterized as in conflict, in the rest
there’s been significant improvement in food security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 