-- 
GM Offers Interest-Free Financing as Sales Pace Accelerates

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-03-02T21:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/gm-offers-interest-free-financing-to-keep-sales-going.html
  General Motors Co . is offering
buyers interest-free financing on some 2011 models after the
company increased discounts and incentives to lead all major
automakers’ U.S. sales gains last month.  The loans became available yesterday for 72 months on the
Chevrolet Impala sedan, as well as for 60 months on the Malibu
sedan, HHR wagon, Traverse sport-utility vehicle, and Silverado,
Colorado and Avalanche pickups, according to AIS Rebates in  Ann
Arbor , Michigan. The 60-month deal also applies to the Buick
Enclave and GMC Acadia SUVs and Sierra pickups.  GM raised discounts 12 percent from a year earlier to an
estimated $3,732 per vehicle last month, the most among major
automakers and 45 percent more than the average, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. The company’s spending on incentives
will “moderate” this month,  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president
for U.S. sales, said earlier this week.  “GM’s rhetoric has been saying one thing -- discipline,
discipline, discipline -- and then their actions have been going
completely in another direction,”  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive
officer of  Santa Monica , California-based Edmunds.com, said in a
telephone interview.  GM doesn’t comment on specific incentive programs, Tom Henderson, a spokesman, said today in a telephone interview. GM
still has the highest average transaction prices among
mainstream automakers according to J.D. Power & Associates and
GM data, he said, without giving specifics.  Other Offers  GM fell 7 cents to $32.88 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The Detroit-based company’s shares
have dropped 0.4 percent from their $33 initial offering price
in November.  Reduced-rate financing also is being offered on other
models, such as 2.9 percent, 60-month loans on the Chevy Cruze
compact and 3.9 percent, 60-month loans on the Cadillac SRX,
according to AIS.  The automaker’s discounts may force rival  Ford Motor Co . to
increase its sales incentives, Anwyl said. GM’s U.S. sales in
February climbed 46 percent, giving it a 20.8 percent share of
the market last month, topping Ford’s 15.7 percent and  Toyota
Motor Corp .’s 14.3 percent, according to in  Woodcliff Lake , New
Jersey-based Autodata.  Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has emphasized
profitability over market share, with Ford boosting prices in
February by $700 to $800 a vehicle from January,  George Pipas ,
the automaker’s sales analyst, told reporters on Feb. 28.  Ford’s Share  “Up until three months ago, Ford was the one everybody was
talking about,” Anwyl said. “The question is, ‘How long are
they going to want to be the disciplined car company and allow
GM to pick up their share?’”  Ford reduced average incentive spending 9.7 percent to
$2,542 last month. The Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s 10
percent increase in February sales trailed GM and Toyota, which
had a 42 percent gain after it raised spending 11 percent to
$2,003. Chrysler Group LLC’s average discounts fell 14 percent
to $3,052, while sales climbed 13 percent.  Chrysler, the U.S. automaker operated by  Fiat SpA , said its
March incentives include offering financing as low as zero
percent on some vehicles, including the Ram 1500, according to
its website.  GM needs steeper incentives to clear out older models such
as the Impala and Malibu, said  Maryann Keller , principal of a
self-titled consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The
automaker also can afford discounted lease deals because
vehicles’ resale values are now at high levels, she said.  ‘Old Models’  “You use incentives on stuff that’s old,” Keller said in
an interview yesterday. “Leasing can be done today very
affordably because  interest rates  are low and residual values on
the cars are high.”  GM’s sales gains were “far stronger than the magnitude of
the incentive spend,” Itay Michaeli, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in  New York , wrote today in a research note.  “This may remain a subject of debate until GM demonstrates
solid share on lower incentives,” Michaeli said. “The industry
did not appear to plunge into a price war in February as some
feared.”  The discounts by GM and Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota may
be artificially inflating the U.S. auto market, said Ernst Lieb,
chief executive officer of Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz USA.  Light-vehicle sales in February ran at a seasonally
adjusted 13.4 million annual rate, according to Autodata. The
pace topped the 12.5 million average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg and exceeded 13 million for the first time
since the U.S. government’s “cash for clunkers” program in
August 2009.  ‘Extremely Unpredictable’  “I wonder if you’d see such a strong market, month after
month” without the incentives from GM and Toyota, Lieb said in
an interview yesterday. “Things are still extremely
unpredictable. Look at fuel prices and the uncertainty and
unrest in the Middle East.”  Auto incentive spending throughout the U.S. industry in
February fell 4.6 percent to $2,578 per vehicle, according to
Autodata. GM plans to reduce incentives to get back in line with
the industry average, Johnson said yesterday on a conference
call with reporters and analysts.  The reluctance on the part of the entire industry to raise
incentives has probably constrained the market prior to last
month, Edmunds’ Anwyl said. Incentives helped propel the U.S. to
its all-time fastest auto sales pace in 2001 when GM introduced
its no-interest campaign dubbed “Keep America Rolling,” after
the September 11 terrorist attacks.  “If GM plans to make good on its promise to keep
incentives in line with the industry average over the course of
the year, it will have to post below-average incentives at some
point,” Chris Ceraso, a New York-based analyst with Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a research report today. “This may
get difficult, as its key competitors are showing a willingness
to increase incentive levels in order to stay competitive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 