-- 
Gold Extends Rally to Record Amid Inflation Concerns, Middle East Turmoil

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-02T19:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/gold-trades-near-record-on-turmoil-in-the-middle-east-inflation-concerns.html
Gold rose to a record for the second
straight day on mounting demand for an investment haven amid
surging commodity prices and turmoil in  Libya . Silver climbed to
the highest since 1980.  In New York, gold futures reached $1,441 an ounce, the
highest ever. Crude oil topped $102 a barrel as Libyan rebels
braced for renewed clashes with forces loyal to Muammar Qaddafi.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rose
to the highest since September 2008.  “People are buying gold because they believe that
commodity inflation is coming,” said  Leonard Kaplan , the
president of Prospector Asset Management in Evanston,  Illinois .
“The geopolitical tension in the Middle East is forcing the
price of oil into the atmosphere, and that is going to derail
the economy.”  Gold futures for April delivery rose $6.50, or 0.5 percent,
to settle at $1,437.70 at 1:42 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
The metal, up for the 11th time in 12 sessions, has gained 26
percent in the past 12 months.  Silver futures for May delivery rose 40.8 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $34.835 an ounce. Earlier, the metal reached
$34.975, the highest since March 7, 1980. In that year, the
record was $50.35. The commodity has doubled in the past 12
months.  Libyan forces loyal to Qaddafi attacked rebels in the
coastal region, where much of the country’s crude oil is refined
or shipped abroad, and the leader said his control of petroleum
reserves is secure. Western powers are debating how to stop the
attacks as two U.S. Navy ships head toward the northern  Africa 
country.  Saudi Spending  In Africa and the Middle East, unrest that started in
Tunisia in January spread to  Egypt , Bahrain,  Iran  and Yemen.
Governments in the region, including the royal family in  Saudi
Arabia , the holder of the world’s biggest oil reserves, have
announced increased spending on social programs, such as food
and energy subsidies and job creation plans, to quell protests.  “Given the continuing strong fundamentals and the concerns
of geopolitical instability spreading to Saudi Arabia and other
autocratic oil-producing nations, gold and silver look set to
challenge $1,500 and $40 in the coming weeks,” analysts at
Goldcore Ltd. in Dublin said in an e-mail.  A United Nations measure of global food prices rose to a
record in January. Costs have surged to “dangerous levels,”
pushing 44 million people into extreme poverty since June, the  World Bank  said in February.  Bernanke, Inflation  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday
that the surge in oil and other commodity prices probably won’t
cause a permanent increase in broader inflation. He repeated
that U.S. borrowing costs are likely to stay low.    Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the Suffolk,
Virginia-based Gartman Letter, recommends holding gold in non-
U.S. currencies.  “In doing so, we are hedged against disaster and further
diminution of fiat currencies,” Gartman said in his report.  Palladium futures for June delivery climbed $5.95, or 0.7
percent, to $822.65 an ounce on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The price has jumped 85 percent in the past 12 months.  Platinum futures for April delivery gained $14.20, or 0.8
percent, to $1,859.30 an ounce. The metal has gained 18 percent
in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 