-- 
Gold Buying in China Jumps as Inflation Flares, Boosting Demand, UBS Says

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-03-02T09:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/gold-buying-in-china-totals-200-tons-so-far-this-year-ubs-says.html
Gold purchases in China, the world’s
largest producer, climbed to 200 metric tons in the first two
months of 2011 as faster inflation boosted consumer demand,
according to  UBS AG , which said the price may gain to $1,500.  “China is the big buyer,” Peter Hickson, global
commodities strategist at  Switzerland ’s largest bank, said by
phone yesterday, without giving a comparable figure for 2010.
The estimate for the two-month period compares with full-year
consumer demand from China of 579.5 tons for last year,
according to the World Gold Council, a producer-funded group.  Bullion, which rallied 30 percent last year, surged to a
record yesterday as uprisings in the Middle East, quickening
inflation and currency debasement boosted global demand. China’s
consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in January from a year earlier,
exceeding policy makers’ 4 percent ceiling for a fourth month.  “Chinese interest is huge,” said Peter Tse, Hong Kong-
based head of precious metals at Bank of Nova Scotia. “Demand
for physical gold and imports has increased substantially” due
to the Lunar New Year holiday, Tse said today, referring to the
week-long break that began Feb. 2.  Immediate-delivery gold was at $1,429.05 an ounce at 5:08
p.m. in  Singapore  compared with yesterday’s peak of $1,434.93.
Yuan-denominated bullion rose 0.5 percent to 303.58 yuan ($46.19)
a gram in  Shanghai , approaching the record 314 yuan, set Nov. 9.  ‘Gold Is Attractive’  “Gold is attractive,” Hickson said. “The more the market
becomes concerned about inflation or concerns about unrest in
Africa, more and more people will look to gold.” The price may
rise to $1,500 an ounce in the next six months, said Hong Kong-
based Hickson, who’s worked for UBS since 1996.  Blackstone Group LP’s  Byron Wien  said in January that gold
may rise to more than $1,600 this year “as investors across the
world place more of their assets in something they consider
‘real’.” The price may reach $1,600 this year, Wayne Atwell, a
managing director at Casimir Capital LP said the same month.  Protests partly linked to record food prices have erupted
across North Africa and the Middle East this year, toppling
leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and boosting  oil prices . Libyan
rebels braced for renewed clashes today with forces loyal to
leader Muammar Qaddafi. Iranian protesters have clashed with
security forces in Tehran, Al Arabiya reported.  Gold investment in China, the largest buyer of the precious
metal after  India , may gain 40 percent to 50 percent this year
amid a lack of alternatives, Wang Lixin, China representative
for the World Gold Council, said last month. He called that
forecast a “conservative estimate.”  Bars and Coins  China’s investment demand in 2010 jumped 70 percent to
179.9 tons, surpassing  Germany  and the U.S., as buyers sought
out bars and coins, the London-based industry group said.
Consumption by the jewelry sector rose to a record 399.7 tons,
it said. China imported more than 300 tons last year, People’s
Bank of  China  Vice Governor  Yi Gang  said on Feb. 26 in Beijing.  China may be the “next big buyer” of gold, driven by
institutional and retail demand, Credit Suisse Group AG analyst  Tom Kendall  said in  Cape Town  on Feb. 7. “If you’re sitting
there in China with money in a deposit account, you’re losing
between 1-2 percent a year through inflation,” Kendall said.  The boom in gold demand in China is driven by concern about
inflation pressure and the poor performance of alternative
investments, the producer-funded council has said. Premier  Wen
Jiabao  pledged on Feb. 27 to boost food supplies to hold down
costs, and to tackle surging property prices.  Spooked by Inflation  Jewelers at shopping malls across Beijing are witnessing a
gold rush as residents spooked by inflation look to protect
their money, the  China Daily  reported on Feb. 28.  Statistics from Beijing Caibai, the city’s largest jewelry
store, show sales of gold and other jewelry have totaled about 4
billion yuan so far this year, a 70 percent increase from a year
ago, the report said.  China displaced South  Africa  as the world’s biggest gold
producer in 2007. Imports through last October rose almost
fivefold to 209 tons from the total shipped in the previous year,
according to the Shanghai Gold Exchange. Mine output reached a
record 340 tons last year, the China Gold Association has said.  The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the
world’s biggest lender by market value, started physical-gold
linked  savings accounts  in December with the World Gold Council.
Account openings have surpassed 1 million, with more than 12
tons of gold stored on behalf of investors, it has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  