-- 
Gross Says Treasury Yields Too Low as Fed Approaches End of Asset Buying

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-02T15:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/gross-says-treasury-yields-too-low-as-fed-approaches-end-of-asset-buying.html
  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
yields on Treasuries may be too low to sustain demand for  U.S.
government debt  as the  Federal Reserve  approaches the end of its
second round of quantitative easing.  Treasury yields are about 150 basis points too low when
viewed on a historical context and when compared with expected
nominal gross domestic product growth of 5 percent, Gross wrote
in a monthly investment outlook posted today on the  Newport
Beach , California-based company’s  website . The Fed is scheduled
to complete purchases of $600 billion of Treasuries in June.  “A successful handoff from public to private credit
creation has yet to be accomplished,” Gross said. “That
handoff ultimately will determine the outlook for real growth
and the potential reversal in our astronomical deficits and
escalating debt levels.”  Gross reduced in January the holdings of U.S. government
and related debt in Pimco’s $239 billion Total Return Fund to
the smallest proportion in two years. The securities were cut to
12 percent of assets, from 22 percent in December, according to
a statement on the firm’s website Feb. 14. He advised investors
last month to reduce holdings of Treasuries and U.K. gilts and
buy higher-returning securities such as debt from emerging-
market nations as central banks keep borrowing rates low.  Rising Yields  The “25 basis-point policy rates for an ‘extended period
of time’ may not be enough to entice arbitrage Treasury buyers,
nor bond fund asset allocators to reenter a Treasury market at
today’s artificially low yields,” Gross wrote today. “Yields
may have to go higher, maybe even much higher to attract buying
interest.”  Ten-year Treasury yields have risen for each of the past
six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the longest
run since June 2006, as the economy showed signs of improvement.  Government securities  handed investors a 0.1 percent loss last
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Yields on the 10-year note rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.42 percent in New York at 10:15 a.m.,
according to BGCantor Market data.  Foreign Demand  The Fed sought to lower borrowing costs in a first round of
quantitative easing that ended in March 2010 as it bought $1.75
trillion in securities, including $300 billion in Treasuries.
The central bank kicked off another round of buying in November
to sustain the economic recovery and prevent deflation.  “Nearly 70% of the annualized issuance since the beginning
of QE II has been purchased by the Fed, with the balance
absorbed by those old standbys - the Chinese, Japanese and other
reserve surplus sovereigns,” Gross wrote, noting that yields may
rise with the end of QE II as the Fed would be “ripping a Band-
Aid off a partially healed scab.”    China ’s investment in  U.S. debt  totaled $1.16 trillion at
year-end, the Treasury Department reported Feb. 28. Japan
maintained its place as America’s second-largest lender, with
$882.3 billion of Treasuries at year-end.  Quantitative easing has worked so far, Gross wrote. Stock
prices have nearly doubled since the first round of asset
purchases were announced and the  U.S. economy  will likely expand
by 4 percent this year amid a $1.5 trillion federal  budget
deficit , he added.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, slower than previously calculated, as state and
local governments made deeper cuts in spending, Commerce
Department data showed on Feb. 25. The initial estimated was for
a 3.2 percent increase.  ‘Artificial Foundation’  The U.S. added 190,000 jobs in February, the most since May
2010, according to the median forecast of 77 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before a Labor Department report on March
4. Private payrolls are forecast to rise by 200,000 while the  unemployment rate  is estimated at 9.1 percent, up from 9
percent. The government added 36,000 jobs in January.  “Bond yields and stock prices are resting on an artificial
foundation of QE II credit that may or may not lead to a
successful private market handoff and stability in currency and
financial markets,” Gross wrote. If at the end of QE, “the
private sector cannot stand on its own two legs - issuing debt
at low yields and narrow credit spreads, creating the jobs
necessary to reduce unemployment and instilling global
confidence in the sanctity and stability of the  U.S. dollar , -
then the QEs will have been a colossal flop.”  Emerging-Market Debt  Gross kept holdings of emerging-market debt at 9 percent
in January, the same as the previous month. He trimmed holdings
of mortgage securities to 42 percent, from 45 percent in
December, and raised the Total Return Fund’s net cash-and-
equivalent position from negative 7 percent to 5 percent, the
highest since April. It can have a so-called negative position
by using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund has returned 7.22 percent in the
past year, beating 82 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 0.64 percent over the past
month.  The firm’s U.S. government-related debt category can
include conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency
debt, interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options
and bank debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
according to the company’s website. Pimco, a unit of the Munich-
based insurer  Allianz SE , managed $1.24 trillion of assets as of
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  