-- 
Guggenheim Eschews ‘Bond-Bubble Thinking’ About Junk Debt

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-03-02T16:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/guggenheim-counters-bond-bubble-thinking-says-junk-rally-may-keep-going.html
  Junk bonds  that have rallied 88
percent since the end of 2008 have “more to run,” Guggenheim
Partners LLC’s Anne Walsh told the Bloomberg Link Insurance
Portfolio Strategies conference in New York.  “We’re not falling into the bond-bubble thinking that a
lot of the other investment management parts of the industry
believe,” said Walsh, a managing director at Guggenheim, which
oversees more than $100 billion. “We’re contrary to a lot of
other investment managers in high-yield corporates as well as
asset-backed securities.”  Insurers hold more than $2 trillion of corporate debt and
may face lower returns than in previous years as yields on the
securities tumble. Absolute yields on junk debt fell last month
to a record low 7.29 percent before rising as spreading tension
in the Middle East drove up fuel costs. Hedge-fund manager  Paul Tudor Jones  and the investment firm Axa Framlington are among
those who have warned that record monetary stimulus by the  Federal Reserve  may be causing a “bubble” in bonds.  Companies have sold $55.4 billion of the debt this year
after a record $287.6 billion of issuance in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own junk debt, rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , fell to 476 basis points yesterday and
reached 452 basis points on Feb. 21, the lowest since October
2007, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads
narrowed to as tight as 241 basis points in June 2007.  Urging Caution  While relative yields may continue to decline, investors
should be cautious of debt covenants providing fewer
protections, Sarah Street, chief investment officer of  XL Group
Plc , the Dublin-business insurer, said at the conference.  “We are starting to see fraying at the edges with things
like terms, and covenants, and that wonderful covenant-lite that
we heard about through the crisis,” Street said. “It’s
remarkable to me how quickly that has been coming back into the
marketplace, and generally in corporate credit as a whole.”  So-called covenant-lite loans, which lack typical
protections for creditors, have been arranged this year by
private-equity firms including the  Carlyle Group  and KKR & Co.
At the same time, borrowers have raised more than $10 billion in
debt for dividends, after $47 billion last year, according to
S&P Leveraged Commentary and Data.  “Their balance sheets are in very good shape, but we are
starting to see more of the shareholder friendly versus bond-
friendly actions take place through more aggressive buybacks,
dividends, leverage,” Street said. “While we don’t think it’s
yet ready to lighten up on corporate credit, we’re starting to
see signs that would lead you to start to be much more selective
in where in the corporate credit spectrum you want to play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  