-- 
Terra Firma Capital May Invest Almost $700 Million in Clean Energy in 2011

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-03-02T09:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/guy-hands-earmarks-692-million-for-clean-energy-investments-as-oil-jumps.html
  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. may invest as much as 500 million euros ($692
million) in clean energy this year as low interest rates and
rising oil prices make the industry more attractive.  The British private equity firm’s founder said he earmarked
300 million euros to 500 million euros for renewable energy in
his TFCP III fund, which raised 5.4 billion euros in 2007.
Hands, 51, is looking at onshore wind projects and anaerobic
digestion technology, which converts waste to energy.  “Clean energy was bubble-like in the U.S. about five years
ago,” Hands said in an interview in the  Channel Islands .
“Today, our view is that people have gone too much the other
way and are too conservative. Without doubt, clean energy will
increase as an investment type over the next five to 10 years.”  Hands, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . executive who
built Terra Firma into one of the U.K.’s most prominent funds,
has taken stakes in clean energy since the start of the credit
crisis three years ago. His leveraged buyout fund lost almost a
third of its value when  Citigroup Inc . wrested control of the
EMI Group Ltd. record label. Hands said his “green energy”
investments have returned four times what he put into them.  Speaking from his office in Guernsey between the U.K. and  France , Hands said cheap financing is bringing together buyers
and seller of projects so “there will be a vast increase in the
amount of energy derived from low-carbon sources.” Should
Middle East unrest push crude prices higher than the $103.41 a
barrel it reached in the U.S. last week, that may prompt
regulations benefitting alternatives to fossil fuel.  Oil’s Impact  “If it goes on for a year and the situation develops
adversely and  oil prices  are higher for a longer amount of time,
that will clearly start to affect economic decisions,” Hands
said. “If it became a feature of the next five to 10 years, it
could have a pretty major effect. Having control over your
supply has a lot of value.”  West Texas Intermediate crude futures in  New York  rose 58
cents a barrel to $100.21 this morning after closing at the
highese prices since September 2008 yesterday.  Terra Firma, which has completed transactions worth 43
billion euros since it formed in 1994, invests in clean energy
as part of a general fund. The funds for clean energy will come
from the 1 billion euros yet to be allocated in the TFCP III. It
also buys stakes in housing, agriculture and entertainment. The
firm has invested 13 billion euros of its own equity and
distributed 12 billion to clients, with an internal rate of
return of 40 percent since then.  Wind Purchases  It paid $143 million for the British wind turbine operator
Novera Energy Plc and $350 million for Everpower Wind Holdings
Inc. in the U.S. in the last two years.  “We are not compelled to invest in clean power, and deals
have to stack up against our other investments,” Hands said.
“It’s about getting into the cycle and investing when it’s
economically attractive.”  Terra Firma already produces 10 percent of the U.K.’s
electricity from clean sources.  “That’s something that people miss,” he said. Terra Firma
has gained prominence with EMI, the Beatles record label that
Citigroup wrested control of from his private equity firm last
month.  Terra Firma may buy two dozen smaller generation companies
or a few bigger ones and is evaluating about 20 wind projects,
Hands said.  ‘Opportunity’  “We’re seeing a significant amount of opportunity, and
it’s a question of finding the ones we like,” he said. Terra
Firma also has gas and hydro assets.  It’s four to six weeks from completing an agreement to buy
the solar energy company Rete Rinnovabile Srl from Terna SpA,  Italy ’s grid operator, for as much as 670 million euros. That
could be a platform for further solar purchases, Hands said.  Quentin Stewart, Terra Firma’s financial managing director,
said the firm is “starting to think carefully through anaerobic
digestion” because “there’s a potentially interesting shift”
in the technology and financial incentives on offer in the U.K.  On wind, he said, Terra Firma focuses on buying cheap
assets so incentives or subsidies aren’t so crucial. It’s
focusing on projects onshore as the industry focuses on
developing bigger offshore projects.  Interest Rates  The plans are predicated on borrowing costs remaining low,
though Hands didn’t specify how cheap they need to be.  “If there’s a pickup in  interest rates , buyers will run
for the hills, and sellers will be stuck with assets they cannot
sell,” Hands said. “It’s a fragile market, but it’s a better
market than it’s been for a few years from a transactional point
of view.”  The clean  energy industry  attracted record investment of
$243 billion in 2010, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Hands said his plans don’t require changes in government policy,
though he expects some form of carbon tax to emerge in the U.S.  A national carbon cap-and-trade bill backed by President  Barack Obama  to curtail emissions from burning fossil fuels
didn’t get enough support to pass last year.  In that market, Terra Firma bought Everpower Wind, a New
York-based developer, in August 2009. It was a way of entering
an industry where no capital flowed after the financial crisis,
Stewart said.  Debt Expense  Late last year, Terra Firma cut debt expense at Everpower’s
Pennsylvania-based Highland wind farm by refinancing a high-cost
loan it agreed to around the time Lehman Brothers collapsed in
2008, Stewart said.  Terra Firma intends to use Everpower as a platform to buy
distressed wind farms assets and to build a portfolio business,
he said.  The company has avoided investments in  Spain . The solar
market there cut subsidies as the government sought to reduce
electricity costs. “We didn’t like the market structure, and I
think that’s proved to be right,” Stewart said.  It bought Infinis Plc in 2003 when it was an under-managed
10-megawatt waste-to-energy company that no one thought worth
anything, Hands said. It now produces almost 500 megawatts of
renewable power.  “On a mark-to-market basis, our green energy investments
have returned about four times their initial investments, which
is pretty decent,” Hands said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  