-- 
Qaddafi Counterattacks in Rebel-Held East After UN Rebuke

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-02T16:19:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/libyan-rebels-boost-defenses-after-repelling-attacks-as-un-rebukes-qaddafi.html
Libyan forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  counterattacked against rebels on the east coast where
much of the country’s crude is refined or shipped abroad, and
the leader said his control of oil reserves is secure.  The two sides fought over Brega on the Gulf of Sidra today,
and rebels regained control of an oil facility in the town,
driving away government forces, according to a local oil
official. Planes bombarded the area around Ajdabiya, about 40
miles (64 kilometers) northeast of Brega, where rebels took
control of a military camp, a witness said.  Qaddafi, speaking on state television, said his government
retains control of  oil fields  though output has fallen to “the
lowest level” after workers fled. He said Chinese and Indian
oil companies can fill the gap if Western producers leave. In a
speech lasting almost three hours, Qaddafi warned of piracy in
the Mediterranean and sabotage of gas pipelines if  Libya  is
destabilized, and attacked foreign journalists, defecting
diplomats, Western countries that froze Libyan financial assets,
the U.K., the U.S., al-Qaeda and the  United Nations , which
yesterday condemned his efforts to crush the two-week uprising.  Western powers are debating how to stop the violence as two
U.S. Navy ships head toward Libya. Rebel leaders are discussing
whether to request international air strikes to help defeat
Qaddafi, the New York Times reported. Oil rose from yesterday’s
2 1/2-year high and Gulf shares extended declines.  ‘Lot of Options’  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said the U.S. ships will
help with evacuations and humanitarian relief, and his
government is “looking at a lot of options.” UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon says more than 1,000 Libyans have died in
the most violent clashes in two months of popular unrest
spreading across the Middle East.  Crude for April delivery gained about 1.5 percent during
the first two hours of Qaddafi’s speech, and traded at $100 a
barrel at 10:45 a.m. in  New York . As much as 1 million barrels a
day of Libyan output has been shut, the  International Energy
Agency  said today.  Total SA  said output at its Mabruk onshore
field in Libya is likely to halt, though output at the offshore
al-Jurf field continues.  Saudi Arabia’s main stock index fell 3.9 percent, taking
its loss this week to 15 percent, and the Bloomberg GCC200
regional benchmark fell 3.3 percent. Dubai’s index dropped to
the lowest in almost seven years.  Battle for Brega  Fighting over Brega began in the early hours of today.
Rebel forces regained control of the town’s oil facility, Ahmed
Jerksi, a manager at the chairman’s office of Sirte Oil Co.,
said by phone from Benghazi.  Al Jazeera  earlier reported
fighting over the town with both sides claiming control. At
least five people were killed, and opposition forces were
running short of ammunition, the Benghazi-based Yosberides
newspaper said.  The refinery at Brega has an effective capacity of about
8,400 barrels per day, and the town also has a gas liquefaction
plant with an effective capacity of 2.5 million cubic meters a
day and an export terminal for crude oil and refined products,
according to the Arab Oil and Gas Directory for 2006.  Northeast of Brega, fighter jets bombed an area near
Ajdabiya, said Irham Ali, an electrical engineer at a project
based 27 kilometers from the town. Ali said he heard the sound
of bombing at dawn and again at 11 a.m., coming from the area
where rebels have taken control of a military camp.  Explosion Heard  “We heard the sound of aircraft flying over and then a
loud sound of an explosion,” he said by phone today. “We went
outside to see what’s going on but there was dust and wind, so
we couldn’t really see anything.”  Al Arabiya television reported that 16 people were killed
in Ajdabiya.  Gates said discussions about a no-fly zone over Libya, to
prevent Qaddafi forces from carrying out air strikes against the
rebels, are continuing with North Atlantic Treaty Organization
allies. He said there is “no unanimity” within NATO about the
use of force. Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, told reporters at the Pentagon that establishing a no-
fly zone over Libya would be “an extraordinarily complex
operation.”  Opposition leaders in Benghazi are discussing a possible
call for UN-backed air attacks on Qaddafi’s military
installations, the Times said citing four people with knowledge
of the debate.  ‘Thousands Would Die’  Qaddafi said “thousands would die” in a NATO or U.S.
attack on Libya. He said loyalists have surrounded opposition
forces, though they aren’t firing on them, and said rebel
leaders may be allowed to escape to  Egypt  or  Tunisia  while their
young supporters who were “misled” will be pardoned.  Nouri el-Mismari, Qaddafi’s former protocol chief who left
the country in November, argued against foreign military
intervention, and predicted a drawn-out conflict.  “Bombings would kill lots of innocent people, and foreign
troops wouldn’t be accepted,” he said at a press conference in
Paris today. Qaddafi will fight to the end because his
supporters “still think they will win” and also “have
committed lots of crimes that won’t be forgiven,” he said.  The city council running Benghazi has called for mass
protests later today to “show that the people have regained
their rightful position,” said Fathi Baja, a council member, in
a phone interview. A military council of ranking officers who
sided with the protesters has been formed in the city to protect
Benghazi and other eastern cities from a Qaddafi counterattack,
he said by phone today.  Fighting in West  In the west of the country, rebels in Zawiyah, 28 miles
west of Tripoli, held on to the city yesterday after an attack
by pro-Qaddafi forces who also targeted Misrata, 115 miles east
of the capital. Loyalists reclaimed control of Libya’s western
border with Tunisia on Feb. 28.  The  International Criminal Court  in The Hague said today it
concluded a preliminary investigation into possible crimes in
Libya during the uprising, and will announce the name of
suspects tomorrow.  More than 150,000 people have fled Libya to neighboring
Egypt and Tunisia since Feb. 19, the UN refugee agency said
yesterday.  China  has evacuated more than 35,000 nationals,
Xinhua news agency said. Thousands of foreign workers are
stranded in Benghazi and on the Tunisian border, New York-based
 Human Rights Watch  said today, adding that “evacuation efforts
have not adequately included the plight of African workers.”  Democracy, Welfare  The Libyan revolt follows the ousting of longtime rulers by
protest movements in Tunisia and Egypt in the past two months.
Anti-government demonstrations have also erupted in Yemen,
Bahrain, Oman, Jordan,  Algeria ,  Morocco ,  Iran  and  Iraq .  Governments throughout the region, including the royal
family in  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil
reserves, have announced increased spending on social programs,
such as food and energy subsidies and job creation plans, to
assuage the unrest. The protesters are demanding moves toward
democracy as well as higher  living standards .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at   ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at   mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  