-- 
Mickey Rooney Warns of Financial Abuse Against Seniors in Senate Hearing

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-03-02T22:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/mickey-rooney-warns-of-financial-abuse-against-seniors-in-senate-hearing.html
Actor Mickey Rooney said Congress
should pass legislation to protect elders from abuse in a
hearing before the Senate Special Committee on Aging today.  “My money was stolen from me, by someone close,” said
Rooney, 90, an entertainment legend whose credits include the
“Andy Hardy” film series and movies such as “Night at the
Museum.” “I was eventually and completely stripped of the
ability to make even the most basic decisions in my own life.”  Rooney told other seniors who may be victims not to stay
silent as he did for years. “You are not alone and you have
nothing to be ashamed of,” he said.  Senator Herb Kohl, a Wisconsin Democrat and chairman of the
aging committee, said he was reintroducing the “Elder Abuse
Victims Act” today. The bill would establish an Office of Elder
Justice within the  Department of Justice  and strengthen
enforcement in cases of abuse. Kohl said he would also introduce
another bill to address domestic abuse in later life.  Rooney received a temporary restraining order Feb. 14 in  California  Superior Court in  Los Angeles  against his stepson,
Christopher Aber, who was allegedly harming Rooney physically
and financially. Rooney is “extremely fearful of Chris, who has
taken control of Mickey’s personal and financial affairs,” the
court document said.  “Allegations that Mr. Aber threatens, intimidates,
harasses, yells and screams at Mr. Rooney are false,” said
Aber’s lawyer, John O’Meara, a partner at Bremer Whyte Brown &
O’Meara LLP in  Woodland Hills , California.  Abuse May Grow  A 2009 study estimated that 14 percent of non-
institutionalized older adults had experienced some form of
elder abuse in the past year, according to a report by the
Government Accountability Office released today.  “As the American population ages, the extent of abuse will
likely grow,” the GAO report said. According to the U.S. Census
Bureau, persons age 65 or older will represent almost 20 percent
of the population by 2030, up from 13 percent in 2008, the study
said.  Stronger federal leadership may enhance the response to
elder abuse, the GAO found. That’s because Adult Protective
Services programs in states, which are generally responsible for
investigating, resolving and preventing abuse, face “daunting
challenges,” while federal efforts have been “scattered across
agencies” and “had a limited impact,” the GAO found.  One out of five Americans age 65 or older have been conned
by investment scammers, a total of more than 7.3 million people,
according to a June 15 survey of 2,022 adults by the Investor
Protection Trust, a Washington-based nonprofit that promotes
shareholder education.  Investment Scammers  Forty percent of children who have parents age 65 and older
said they are “very” or “somewhat” worried their parents’
ability to handle personal finances will deteriorate over time,
the survey found.  To help protect seniors from fraud, securities regulators
in 22 states are expanding a program to teach medical
professionals how to spot victims of investment fraud.  The project will show health-care professionals how to
determine when older patients are vulnerable to investment abuse
and how to refer them to regulators, the Investor Protection
Trust said in Nov. 17 conference call. The $712,000 initiative
is funded by fines levied by participating states from financial
firms found liable for misconduct, the group said.  Seniors with mild cognitive impairment, those who can
perform daily functions but have trouble following medication
schedules and managing finances, are a particular concern, the
Investor Protection Trust said. About 22 percent, or about 5.4
million people, age 70 or older have mild cognitive impairment,
according to a 2008  study  by  Duke University .  To contact the reporter on this story:  Margaret Collins  in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net . 