-- 
MIDEAST DAYBOOK: Libya Ratings Cut; Saudi Housing; Qatar Telecom

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-03-02T04:04:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/mideast-daybook-libya-ratings-cut-saudi-housing-qatar-telecom.html
Fitch Ratings  said it downgraded
 Libya ’s long-term foreign and local currency issuer default
ratings to BB from BBB. The ratings remain on rating watch
negative, Fitch said.  Egypt ’s bourse, home to the world’s worst performing
benchmark index this year, risks losing international investment
after failing to resume trading amid protests from local
investors who fear deeper losses.  Libyan rebels dug in for battle after repulsing attacks by
forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  that fueled talk of a civil war,
as the full membership of the  United Nations  rebuked the regime.  Saudi King Abdullah’s pledge to increase spending on
housing by 55 billion riyals ($15 billion) probably will do
little to relieve the country’s home shortage unless it’s
coupled with long-delayed changes in mortgage financing laws.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* Bahrain said there were no Saudi Arabian military tanks in the
  Persian Gulf country.
* Qatari consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in more than a
  year as transportation and food costs increased.
* Reopening Egypt’s stock market was delayed by logistics issues
  and the closure of banks, the exchange’s Vice Chairman Farid
  Saleh said.
*  Abu Dhabi  National Oil Co. maintained its 10 percent supply
  cut for Murban crude, the emirate’s largest export grade.
*  Carlyle Group , the world’s second-biggest private equity firm,
  halted plans to invest in Egypt amid unrest that toppled
  President  Hosni Mubarak , co-founder  David Rubenstein  said.
* The  United Arab Emirates  is interested in taking part in the
  recapitalization of Spanish savings banks, the Madrid-based
  government said in a statement on its website.  CONFERENCES:
* The Saudi Economic Forum in  Riyadh , where the CEOs of Alinma
  Bank and Saudi Electricity Co. will give presentations.
* Global Financial Markets Forum organized by National Bank of
  Abu Dhabi in Abu Dhabi.
* Argus Mideast Gulf and Indian Ocean Oil conference in Dubai,
  focusing on oil and products trading in the  middle east .  MARKETS:
*  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  fell 1.4 percent.
* Crude oil futures for April delivery rose 0.3 percent to
  $99.90 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
  Mercantile Exchange at 8:01 a.m. in Dubai.
* Gold for April delivery lost 0.1 percent to $1,430.3 an ounce.
*  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  plunged 6.8 percent,
  Kuwait Stock Exchange Index dropped 2.5 percent,  ADX General
  Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.6 percent and  Bahrain All Share Index (BHSEASI)  lost 0.5
  percent.  Muscat Securities Market (MSM30)  surged 4.1 percent, Dubai
  Financial Market General Index gained 1 percent, and  QE Index (DSM) 
  rose 0.1 percent. Morocco Casablanca Stock Exchange Index
  gained 0.3 percent.
*  Tunisia’s stock exchange  regulator suspends trading until
  further notice.  EQUITY MOVERS:
* Etisalat (ETISALAT UH), the Abu Dhabi-based phone company
  seeking control of Kuwait’s Zain (ZAIN KK), missed a second
  deadline in its attempt to acquire a 46 percent stake for $12
  billion, Zain’s second-biggest shareholder said.
* Zain Iraq, a unit of Kuwait’s Mobile Telecommunications Co.,
  borrowed $400 million from the  World Bank ’s International
  Finance Corp and other lenders.
* Bahrain Telecommunications Co. (BATELCO BI), the phone company
  known as Batelco, may consider a revised offer to
  buy a 25 percent stake in Zain Saudi Arabia, Chief Executive
  Officer Peter Kaliaropoulos said.
* National Industries Group (NIND KK) of Kuwait had its ratings
  lowered to B2 from B1 at Moody’s Investors Service. The
  outlook on the ratings remains negative.
* A panel of Egyptian judges recommended the annulment of a
  966,000 square-meter land sale to Palm Hills Developments SAE
 (PHDC EY), an Egyptian real-estate developer, by the government
  because the plot wasn’t sold at an auction.
* Gulf Navigation Holding ( GULFNAV UH (GULFNAV) ) was raised to “neutral”
  from “sell” at EFG-Hermes Holding with a price estimate of
  34 fils a share.
* Agthia Goup PJSC ( AGTHIA UH (AGTHIA) ), a United Arab Emirates-based
  food producer, signed a license agreement with Chiquita Brands
  International Inc., to manufacture and distribute Chiquita
  brand products in the Middle East.
* Egypt for Poultry (EGPL EY) plans to buy back 2.365 million
  shares within a month from the first day of resumption of
  trade on the Egyptian Exchange.  FINANCIAL RESULTS AND MEETINGS:
*  Qatar Telecom  QSC (QTEL QD), the Persian Gulf nation’s largest
  company by revenue, said fourth-quarter profit fell 5.2
  percent amid increased competition in its home market and as
  margin on earnings declined.
* Industries Qatar (IQCD QD), the Gulf emirate’s state-  controlled petrochemical and steel maker, said full-year
  profit rose to 5.6 billion riyals from 5 billion riyals in
  2009. The board proposed a dividend of 5.50 riyals a share.
* Al Jouf (JADCO AB) shareholders meeting on capital increase.
* Ash-Sharqiyah Development (ASACO AB) shareholders meeting.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  