-- 
India Needs Disruptive Policies to Meet Challenges, Ambani Says

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-03-02T04:54:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/india-needs-disruptive-policies-to-achieve-growth-challenges-ambani-says.html
India needs disruptive policies and
fundamentally different solutions to help meet future challenges,  Mukesh Ambani , the country’s richest man, told a group of
industrialists.  “Mere policy reforms to incrementally affect the status
quo will be meaningless,” Ambani, 53, said in a speech in New
Delhi yesterday. “We will need disruptive policies, like the
one which changed the future of India in 1991. The disruptive
policy that allowed India to compete with the rest of the
world.”    India’s economy  has grown nearly six times since 1991, when
then finance minister Manmohan Singh introduced free-market
measures that cut red tape, removed capacity caps on steel and
cement makers and allowed overseas companies including Ford
Motor Co. to set up operations locally. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee’s budget on Feb. 28, refrained from spelling out a
timeframe to ease investment rules for overseas insurance and
retail companies.  Since 2004, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has presided over
an annual average economic expansion of about 8.5 percent, the
fastest pace in the country’s history since independence in 1947.
The growth was accompanied by inflation as demand for
Infrastructure, including roads and ports, outstripped supply.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy expanded 8.2 percent last
quarter, making it the fastest-growing major economy after  China .
The  finance ministry  predicts GDP may grow as much as 9.25
percent in the year starting April 1.  Lower Investments  Even so, foreign direct investment in India is headed for
the first drop since the year ending March 2003, hindering a bid
to match China’s $5.88 trillion economy, which expanded 9.8
percent last quarter.  India needs to create 15 million jobs annually for the next
10 years, said Ambani, who is chairman of  Reliance Industries
Ltd ., the country’s biggest company by market value. Most of the
new jobs would have to come from industrialization, creating
infrastructure and rejuvenating agriculture, he said.  “In the next 10 years, there is an opportunity to add $500
billion year on year” in agriculture, Ambani said. “India has
to transform its agriculture into a productive enterprise to
propel itself into becoming a global economic power.”  Ambani called for radical reforms in health and education.
The South Asian nation needs to increase health spending at
least five times from the current level of 1 percent of gross
domestic product to keep the youth healthy, Ambani said.  ‘Demographic Dividend’  “The accent cannot be limited to sustaining the diseases
of the affluent and managing the old,” Ambani said. “Our
demographic dividend, the youth and the young, are largely
unprotected and uncared for.”    India  has “grossly underperformed” in expanding access
and improving the quality of education, Ambani said.  Mukherjee lowered incomes taxes, increased wages and
boosted spending on the “social sector,” which includes health
and education, to protect citizens from spiraling prices. The
minister increased social spending by 17 percent for the
financial year starting April 1.  Ambani was ranked by Forbes India as the nation’s richest
person with $27 billion of wealth. Reliance Industries has
investments in energy exploration, refining, chemicals and
retailing.  Ambani told shareholders in November 2009 that Reliance
would make efforts to improve the quality of lives in rural
India through endeavors in education, health, natural resource
management and community development.  Largest Economy  India has the potential to become the world’s largest
economy by 2050, though growth is constrained by dilapidated
infrastructure and a “hostile attitude” toward foreign direct
investment, Citigroup Inc. said last month.  Foreign direct investment into India fell 24 percent to $19
billion in the eight months ended November, compared with the
same period a year earlier, according to government data.    Nouriel Roubini , the New York University professor and
chairman of Roubini Global Economics who predicted the global
financial crisis, said in December India’s economy may expand
more than China’s in the next 10 years if the second-most
populous nation lifts curbs on foreign investment in retail and
boosts spending on roads and bridges.  More than four years after  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . formed a
venture with Indian billionaire Sunil Mittal, the world’s
biggest retailer is barred from selling directly to the nation’s
1.2 billion people. Legislation to allow insurers including New
York Life Insurance Co. to increase investment has been
languishing for at least seven years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 