-- 
Indian Depositary Receipts Rise for Second Day on Government Budget Plan

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-03-02T23:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/indian-depositary-receipts-rise-for-second-day-on-government-budget-plan.html
Indian companies’ American
depositary receipts rose for a second day as speculation the
government will reduce the deficit and curb inflation with its
annual spending plan offset a surge in oil prices.  The Bank of New York Mellon  India  ADR index gained 0.2
percent to 1,209.44 as of 4:10 p.m. New York time. The Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose the most in 21
months yesterday after the budget announcement. Markets are
closed today in India for a holiday.  India will narrow its  budget deficit  to 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product in the year to March 2012, Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in his annual budget speech to
parliament on Feb. 28. Spending on roads, ports and other large
projects will be increased by 23 percent in the year, he said.  “There is some optimism over the budget after the
government’s announcement.” said Greg Lesko, who helps oversee
$800 million at New York-based Deltec Asset Management. “Indian
stocks have seen big losses this year, and it’s no surprise to
see a technical rally.”  The Sensex has fallen 12 percent from the record on Nov. 5,
exceeding the 10 percent drop that’s termed a correction by some
investors. The gauge climbed 3.5 percent on March 1, the most
since May 2009, after the government pledged to trim its budget
shortfall, boost spending on projects needed to sustain growth
and give the poorest cash to buy fuel to shield them from
inflation.  March futures on the S&P CNX Nifty Index lost 0.9 percent
to 5,503, signaling declines for Indian equities when trading
resumes tomorrow. The Nifty surged 3.5 percent to 5,522.3
yesterday.    Oil Prices   “The futures are having a knee-jerk reaction to oil
prices,” said Seth Freeman, chief executive officer of San
Francisco-based EM Capital Management LLC. “Higher oil prices
would require the Indian government to issue a larger sum of
debt to pay for the fuel subsidies that could be a drag on the
budget.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index has fallen 10
percent this year,  Asia ’s second-worst performer among benchmark
indexes tracked by Bloomberg. Stocks have tumbled as the central
bank raised  interest rates  to stem inflation worsened by a rally
in crude oil prices. Sensex companies trade at an average 17.3
times estimated profit, down from a high of about 21 times a
year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Oil prices rose to the highest level since September 2008
this week on concern turmoil in the Middle East will disrupt
crude supplies. Protracted unrest will have “implications” for
oil prices, flagging a fresh inflation risk,  Reserve Bank  of
India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on Feb. 10. India imports
about three-quarters of its annual energy needs.  ‘A Bit Early’  “It is a bit too early to go into India,” said Hans Goetti, Asia chief investment officer for Finaport Investment
Intelligence, which oversees $1.4 billion in client assets. “It
is one of those countries that are very much affected by high
oil prices. The Sensex could go to 16,000, then it could look
interesting again.” The gauge settled at 18,446.50 on March 1.  The government’s legislative agenda has been paralyzed
since November by protests over alleged revenue losses during a
2008 sale of telecommunications permits, with the ruling
Congress party’s chief rival, the  Bharatiya Janata Party ,
leading calls for an investigation by a bipartisan panel of
lawmakers. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  on Feb. 22 agreed to a
parliamentary probe into the sale of mobile-phone licenses.  Recover Losses  Indian stocks will probably recover losses and return to
record levels in the second half of this year as risks from
higher interest rates and inflation abate, according to
Prudential International Investments Advisors.  “In the near term there are still some risks, but come
second half, the market should rise,”  John Praveen , the  Newark ,
New Jersey-based chief investment strategist at the unit of
Prudential Financial Inc. which oversees $750 billion, told
Bloomberg Television in Mumbai on March 1. “The perfect storm
of negative factors such as inflation, interest rate tightening,
corruption scandals and the Middle East tensions are probably
going to ease in the next couple of months.”  Infrastructure stocks and manufacturers of agricultural and
irrigation equipment are likely to lead a rebound this year,
Praveen said. Consumer stocks will also benefit from increased
rural income, he said. Prudential is a money manager in India
through its local unit, Pramerica Asset Managers Pvt.  A measure of India’s manufacturing output stood at 57.9 in
February, according to the Purchasing Managers’ Index compiled
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics that was released
yesterday. A reading over 50 indicates expansion. The gauge was
at 56.8 in January.  “The fundamentals in India have not changed and remain
extremely positive in the long term,” EM Capital Management
LLC’s Freeman said. “Presuming that oil prices begin declining
once this crisis is over, Indian stocks should rebound.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  