-- 
Indonesia Rate-Rise Case Weakened by Slowing Inflation as BI Set to Meet

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 
2011-03-03T03:29:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/indonesia-rate-increase-case-weakened-by-slower-inflation-pace.html
Analysts pared forecasts for  Indonesia ’s central bank to raise  interest rates  tomorrow after
inflation slowed for the first time in four months.  Ten of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict  Bank Indonesia  will keep its benchmark  reference rate  at 6.75
percent, while the rest expect a quarter-point increase.
Economists at banks from Bank of America Merrill Lynch to
Citigroup Inc. put off their call for a March 4 move after a
report this week showed smaller price increases in February.  A prolonged delay in raising borrowing costs risks adding
to the decline in the  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI) , which has fallen
more than 5 percent this year amid concern Bank Indonesia will
fall behind in combating inflation and be forced to administer
more aggressive steps later. Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono
said last week the central bank may refrain from adding to a
February rate increase for now.  “The fall in headline inflation in February and the recent
appreciation of the rupiah suggest that Bank Indonesia might
pause,” said Kun Lung Wu, a Singapore-based economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “However, if  core inflation  continues to pick
up as we expect, then Bank Indonesia would need to tighten
monetary policy further in the coming months.”  Investors may respond with a sell-off in the bond and
equity markets, similar to what happened in early January, if
the central bank hesitates in raising rates when needed, Wu
said. Yields on benchmark 10-year  government bonds  rose 1.26
percentage points in January, the biggest monthly increase in
almost two years, according to Bloomberg data. Inflation erodes
the value of a bond’s fixed payments.  Fuel Subsidy  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution unexpectedly raised
rates in February after avoiding joining counterparts from  Malaysia  to  India  in tightening policy last year. Sarwono said
last week efforts to tame inflation have been sufficient and the
government’s proposal to delay phasing out subsidized fuel sales
may restrain price gains.  Consumer prices in Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy rose
6.84 percent last month from a year earlier, slower than the
7.02 percent pace in January. Core inflation was 4.36 percent in
February, gaining from 4.18 percent the previous month.  “Despite the modest decline in headline inflation, we do
not think that price pressures are fully under control,” said
Daniel Wilson, an analyst at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Singapore. “Core inflation is increasing, which
means that inflation pressures are spreading beyond food, fuel
and other volatile components. We do not think that Bank
Indonesia can relax” based on this week’s inflation data, he
said.  Oil Surges  Indonesia should delay a plan to limit the sale of
subsidized fuel because of current high oil prices, Coordinating
Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said last month. The
government had initially planned to gradually curb sales of
subsidized fuel starting from April 1, and will discuss a
possible delay with parliament before making any decision,
Rajasa said.  Oil prices have exceeded $100 a barrel, to levels not seen
since 2008, as protests spreading across the Middle East and
North Africa stoke concern that supplies may be disrupted. The
rally in crude is temporary and the government has no plans to
raise the price of subsidized fuel, Rajasa said.  “We only expect another 25 basis-point increase in
interest rates in 2011, which will be delivered in the second
quarter to anticipate the rising inflation expectations
triggered by the implementation of the fuel consumption
limitation policy,” said Destry Damayanti, an economist at PT
Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta.  Rupiah Gains  The Indonesian rupiah is the biggest gainer in Asia in the
past month, climbing more than 2 percent, according to Bloomberg
data. A stronger currency reduces the cost of imports.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is targeting annual
growth of 6.6 percent on average through the remainder of his
term ending in 2014, and companies from PT Bank Pan Indonesia to  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  are counting on rising demand in the world’s
fourth-most populous nation to boost their businesses. The
economy grew 6.9 percent last quarter, the most in six years.    Fitch Ratings  on Feb. 24 raised its outlook on Indonesia’s
sovereign rating to positive from stable and affirming its BB+
grade, one level below investment. That brings the country
closer to its first investment-grade rating since the Asian
financial crisis more than a decade ago.  “Inflation poses a near-term risk to economic prospects,”
the ratings company said, estimating inflation will average 6.5
percent in 2011.  Before its rate increase last month, Bank Indonesia had
resisted higher borrowing costs to avoid attracting more foreign
capital inflows, while opting to increase lenders’ reserve
requirements and tighten rules on banks’ foreign-exchange
holdings to help curb price advances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Manish Modi in  New Delhi  at 
 mmodi6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  