-- 
Insider Trading Suspect Jiau Loses Bail Over Risk She Might Flee

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/insider-trading-suspect-jiau-ordered-jailed-because-of-risk-she-would-flee.html
     March 3 (Bloomberg)-- Winifred Jiau, a former Primary
Global Research LLC consultant, lost her bid to be released from
custody while facing insider-trading charges after the U.S. said
she was making plans to flee in recorded jailhouse phone calls.  U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson in New York yesterday
ordered Jiau held without bail, reversing a decision last week
approving her release on a $500,000 bond package. She has been
in custody since her arrest on Dec. 28.  Prosecutors said Jiau was recorded in conversations with
Terry Peng, a friend who agreed to be a co-signer on her bond,
according to a letter dated yesterday to the court.  “While Jiau at times attempted to speak in code, in those
calls she makes her intention to leave the  United States 
unmistakably clear,” prosecutors said.  Jiau, 43, was indicted Feb. 22 for conspiracy and
securities fraud stemming from an insider-trading scheme
involving expert networkers and  hedge funds . She has pleaded not
guilty to the charges.  Her lawyer, Joanna Hendon, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message left at her office after regular business
hours seeking comment.  ‘Planning to Leave’  The prosecutors’ letter quotes excerpts of recorded
jailhouse phone conversations in which Jiau says to Peng in
Mandarin, “Originally, I was already planning to leave.”
Prosecutors said that’s a reference to suitcases found by FBI
agents in her bedroom in plain view when they arrived at her
home in Fremont,  California , to arrest her.  The U.S. said this was evidence “of Jiau’s intention to
leave for  Taiwan ,” contrary to her explanation that she hadn’t
yet unpacked from a trip to Taiwan six weeks earlier.  Prosecutors said they also discovered assets that Jiau
failed to disclose to court officials after she was apprehended.
Two days after her arrest, prosecutors said Jiau talked to Peng
and instructed him to “enter her apartment to take possession
of about $20,000 in cash which Jiau was hiding in her bedroom,”
prosecutors said.  The U.S. said that on Jan. 11, Jiau directed Peng in a call
from jail to ask her California defense lawyer not to hand over
her U.S. and Taiwanese passports to the government and to
instead turn them over to her  New York  lawyer. Prosecutors said
both they and court authorities sought the passports.  Liquidate Bank Account  On Jan. 15, in another call, Jiau directed Peng to
liquidate her bank account by transferring the money to her
brokerage account and then withdrawing the entire $25,000 from
that account as cash, according to prosecutors.  “Far from innocent conduct, these conversations
beg several questions that make her intention to flee
inescapable,” the U.S. said in its letter. “Why would Jiau
hide nearly $20,000 in cash in her residence? Why didn’t Jiau
disclose the hidden assets” to the court? “And why
would Jiau instruct Peng to liquidate her bank accounts if she
intends to remain in the United States to fight the charges
against her?”  Prosecutors said they have determined that Jiau had more
than $105,000 in her bank accounts and wrote more than
$91,000 in checks to herself as cash.  Passed Tips  The U.S. said Peng wasn’t forthcoming when confronted with
his involvement with Jiau and initially denied removing cash
from her residence. He also may have destroyed letters Jiau
sent him, prosecutors said.  “Given the secretive nature of the conversations between
Jiau and Peng, Peng’s suspicious involvement in destroying
Jiau’s letters to him, as well as his involvement in removing
items and assets from her residence, liquidating her bank
accounts and lying to the government about these actions, it
makes it clear that Peng would not, in any event, be an
appropriate co-signer to secure Jiau’s attendance in court,”
prosecutors said in their letter.  Peng didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment.  The next court hearing in the case is set for March 9.  Prosecutors claim that from 2006 to 2008, Jiau passed
inside information to an unidentified hedge fund portfolio
manager and to Noah Freeman, the Boston hedge fund manager who
pleaded guilty Feb. 7 to  securities fraud .  Jiau passed tips on Nvidia Corp. and Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. to the two men, according to the indictment. She was
paid as much as $10,000 a month in return. Jiau allegedly
received a total of $208,000 from Primary Global in two years.  The case is U.S. v. Winifred Jiau, 11-CR-161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 