-- 
Interior Department to Comply With Order on Drilling Permits

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-02T17:29:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/interior-department-to-comply-with-court-order-on-permits.html
The U.S. Interior Department said
today it will follow a federal judge’s order to rule on more
deep-water oil drilling permits within 30 days.  “We will comply with the court order and make the
decision, up or down, on the pending permits,” Deputy Secretary
David J. Hayes told the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources today.  The department picked  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  to restart deep-
water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico 10 months after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Macondo well blowout. The Houston-based company won an
exploration permit on Feb. 28.  The permit to  Noble Energy  will serve as a “template for
others to be issued in days ahead,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  told the Senate panel today. He said the pace of permit
approvals may never return to the rate before the BP spill.  U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  on Feb. 17 ordered U.S.
offshore energy regulators to act within 30 days on five permit
applications filed by companies that have drilling contracts
with Ensco Offshore Co., the company leading the legal challenge
to the government’s offshore drilling bans.  Feldman said those permits have been delayed four months to
nine months by drilling suspensions imposed by regulators after
the biggest U.S. offshore oil spill. Before that, permits were
typically processed within two weeks.  Judge ‘Was Wrong’  “The judge in this particular case in my view was wrong,”
Salazar said at the hearing today. “I don’t think the court has
the jurisdiction to basically tell the  Department of Interior ”
what its responsibilities are.  The Noble Energy permit isn’t among the five that the judge
ruled on, Kendra Barkoff, a spokeswoman for the Interior
Department, told reporters in  Washington  today.  The department had said  oil companies  must show they met
new standards for safety and spill control before they are
allowed to resume exploration in the deep waters.  Hayes said the department will approve more permits because
oil containment systems have been developed. The equipment used
by  Helix Energy Solutions Group Inc. (HLX)  and Marine Well Containment
Co. still requires a “significant amount of work,” Salazar
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 