-- 
Missing Madoff’s Fraud Gives Top SEC Lawyer Cover: Ann Woolner

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-03-02T00:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/missing-madoff-s-fraud-gives-sec-lawyer-cover-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Just when the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  might hope to shed some of the shame of
missing the biggest investment scam in U.S. history comes news
that its own top lawyer profited from the scheme.  He didn’t do it knowingly because, embarrassingly enough,
the SEC didn’t know it was a scam. Still, David M. Becker, the
agency’s former chief counsel, wound up profiting from  Bernard Madoff ’s investment pyramid. That’s according to Becker’s own
explanation.  And so he is among the hundreds of people, funds and firms
that bankruptcy trustee  Irving Picard  is suing to recover money
for those who lost principal in the Ponzi scheme.  Becker became a beneficiary because his mother invested
$500,000 with Madoff that became $2 million by the time she died
in 2004, according to the suit. Her sons cashed it out in early
2005, almost four years before the pyramid collapsed.  However unwittingly they profited from the crime, there’s
more than a little irony in the suit Picard filed against the
three Becker brothers to recover the $1.5 million the family
made off of other investors.  For one thing, Picard is claiming in other, more
spectacular suits that sophisticated investors and banks,
including JPMorgan Chase, knew or should have known they were
pumping money into and reaping profits back from a massive scam.  But of all those who should have known that there was
something deeply wrong with Madoff’s operations, the SEC tops
the list. It’s the agency’s core job to know that sort of thing,
yet it blew off the very idea.  Missed Clues  Beginning in 1992, the SEC repeatedly failed to take
seriously “numerous credible and detailed complaints” and
“never took the necessary, but basic, steps to determine if
Madoff was operating a  Ponzi scheme ,” the agency’s inspector
general concluded in a 2009  report .  The report blamed poor staffing and simple ineptitude.  Precisely because the SEC investigations never uncovered
the fraud, Becker was spared any knowledge of the allegations.
In a letter to inquiring  House Republicans  last week, he
defended himself by citing the same inspector general report
that slammed his agency.  “The report finds that the complaints were not reviewed
and distributed as they should have been,” Becker wrote, which
is to say they never reached his office.  Picard’s suit against the Beckers doesn’t claim that any of
them “knew or should have known” Madoff was scamming his
clients. They’re being sued because they took out more money
than their mother invested with Madoff. The presumed profit that
they and other net winners received was actually principal that
other, newer investors were putting in.  Marketing Tool  If the SEC had done its job, there wouldn’t have been so
many newer investors -- perhaps not even Dorothy Becker.  That the SEC’s ineptness made it possible for Madoff to
draw in more and more victims can’t be disputed. Not only did
the agency fail to shut down the fund, the clean bill of health
it gave Madoff became a marketing tool for him.  So some victims blame their losses on the SEC’s botched
investigations and are suing the federal government because of
it. Among them, a favorite exhibit is the SEC inspector general
report.  Whether any of the suits can survive a governmental
immunity defense remains to be seen. A federal judge in  Los
Angeles  tentatively dismissed such a case in April and tossed it
out last month. But no federal judge in  Manhattan , where most of
the suits are pending, has decided that question.  Return Engagement  As for Becker, he served two stints as the SEC’s top
lawyer, from 2000 until mid-2002 and then again from 2009 until
he stepped down this week.  The first time around, he “helped shape the commission’s
major policy and regulatory initiatives,” the agency said in a
 press release . None of those initiatives produced an agency
sufficiently aggressive or capable to uncover the Madoff fraud.  He returned two months after Madoff’s arrest to
“coordinate the commission’s efforts at revitalization and
reform,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in the release.  That was five years after he and his brothers had cashed
out their mother’s Madoff investment.  Still, the agency and its top lawyer were involved in
issues that would eventually affect the Becker brothers. Under
David Becker’s signature, the SEC filed legal briefs to say what
compensation Picard could legally pursue for Madoff investors.  Opposing Victims  Becker told the House Republicans that he sought advice
from the agency’s ethics guru as to whether he should recuse
himself. Amazingly, the ethics lawyer found no reason to.  And so he was involved when the agency staked out a legal
position opposite that taken by some Madoff victims who wanted
compensation based on what their Madoff investments were
supposedly worth when the scheme collapsed.  Picard and the SEC, with Becker as top legal counsel,
successfully  argued  in  bankruptcy court  that they shouldn’t be
paid on the basis of false account statements that Madoff
generated, although that’s a point a federal appeals court will
take up tomorrow.  Becker had consulted with the ethics counsel because he
realized that issue might hit him financially through clawback
suits Picard would file, he told House members.  It did affect the Beckers in a way that clearly doesn’t
benefit them. When they liquidated their mother’s Madoff
account, they received what Madoff said it was worth: $1.5
million more than the original investment.  That’s why Picard is suing the Beckers. It’s why Becker,
who just left his job at the SEC, is now on the opposite side of
Picard in litigation -- because the two men were on the same,
winning side when arguing that nobody deserves pyramid profits.  And it’s why the SEC probably can’t wait for Madoff finally
to retreat from the news.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  