-- 
Mitsubishi’s Oakajee Port Project Gets Deadline Extension

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-03-02T02:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/mitsubishi-s-oakajee-port-project-gets-deadline-extension-1-.html
  Mitsubishi Corp . and  Murchison
Metals Ltd . were given an extra nine months to decide whether to
build a A$4.3 billion ($4.3 billion)  iron ore  rail and port
development in Western Australia.  The state government extended the deadline to Dec. 31 from
March 31, it said today in an e-mailed  statement . Construction
is now expected to start in the first quarter of 2012 and port
operations are expected to commence in 2015, it said.  “There will be no further extension to the deadline unless
there are exceptional circumstances,”  Premier  Colin Barnett 
said in the statement. “If major hurdles are identified and the
state government considers the project to be at risk, the
proponents and the government will jointly address these issues,
including restructuring the joint venture to bring in new
partners.”  Oakajee Port & Rail Pty, jointly owned by Mitsubishi and
Perth-based Murchison, on Nov. 4 delayed the start of the
project by as many as six months. The terminal project near
Geraldton, 430 kilometers (267 miles) north of the Western
Australia capital, Perth, should have the capacity to export 45
million metric tons of iron ore a year.  Mitsubishi, Japan’s largest trading company by market
value, and Murchison needed to raise about A$3 billion to fund
construction, Oakajee Port & Rail said in March 2009. The
companies are also partners in Crosslands Resources Ltd., which
is developing the Jack Hills project and intends to use
Oakajee’s transport infrastructure.  Government funding, split between the state and federal
branches, will total A$678 million.  Oakajee Port in August signed initial agreements with
potential customers of the project including Karara Mining Ltd.,
a venture between  Gindalbie Metals Ltd . and  China ’s Anshan Iron
& Steel Group, Sinosteel Midwest Corp. and Crosslands Resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  