-- 
Ivory Coast Unrest May Spark Regional Food Crisis, Fewsnet Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-03-02T09:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ivory-coast-unrest-may-spark-regional-food-crisis-fewsnet-says.html
  Ivory Coast ’s political crisis may
lead to food shortages in the West African nation and
neighboring states, the U.S.-funded Famine Early Warning Systems
Network said.  “Countries like  Burkina Faso  and Mali, which are highly
dependent on the Ivory Coast for their supplies of food, energy,
and other staple commodities will be most affected,” the
organization, known as Fewsnet, said in an  e-mailed statement 
from Burkina Faso yesterday.  Imports of rice, edible oil and wheat to Ivory Coast have
been cut off, while the movement of imported foods has been
stifled by the conflict, Fewsnet said. Moreover, a “de facto”
division of Ivory Coast between north and south has made it
difficult for the 5 million residents of the capital, Abidjan,
to procure grain, fresh produce and meat from the northern
Bouake wholesale grain markets, it said.  “Food insecurity levels are rapidly rising across the
country,” the organization said.  Ivory Coast has been in crisis since a disputed election on
Nov. 28 left the country with two rival administrations. While
the international community recognizes  Alassane Ouattara  as the
winner of the vote, incumbent President Laurent Gbagbo refuses
to cede power, alleging voter fraud.  The conflict may also lead to increased hunger because
seasonal workers from Niger, Burkina Faso and Mali will be cut
off from work.  “In addition to this migration income, Ivory Coast
supplies Niger with an average of over 20,000 metric tons of
corn per year, particularly during the lean season when its
closest sources of supply;  Nigeria , Benin,  Ghana  and Burkina
Faso, are depleted,” the famine-monitoring body said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 