-- 
Ivory Coast Papers Halt Publication, BBC and RFI Off the Air

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-02T16:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ivory-coast-opposition-papers-suspend-publication-amid-threats.html
  Ivory Coast ’s eight privately owned
opposition newspapers and one independent suspended publication
starting yesterday to protest threats and harassment by the
supporters of incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo .  The dailies “are regularly threatened about attacks and
acts of vandalism,” said an alliance of newspapers that back  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of the
Nov. 28 election.  The National Press Council, headed since early February by
Gbagbo’s supporters, barred publication of le Nouvel Reveil
newspaper for a week on Feb. 26, while three other Abidjan-based
newspapers were fined as much as 2 million  CFA francs  ($4,210).  “Our concern for press freedom in Cote d’Ivoire is
mounting by the day,” Paris-based Reporters Without Borders
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The situation “has
become impossible for the press.”  Radio broadcasts by the  British Broadcasting Corp.  and
Radio France Internationale were unavailable in Abidjan today.
The National Broadcasting Council, which pulled the stations
temporarily off the air in December, said it was not responsible
for the shut-down.  “We don’t have anything to do with that,” said Franck
Anderson Kouassi, president of the council, by phone. “It is an
act of sabotage,” he said, without giving further details.  The  BBC  is “investigating the cause of these problems and
potential solutions,” according to statement e-mailed by Peter
Connors, the broadcaster’s London-based corporate communications
manager. RFI  said  the broadcasts were halted since the morning
without “official explanation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 