-- 
Ivory Coast's Incumbent President Gbagbo Cuts Electricity Supply to North

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-03-02T12:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ivory-coast-s-incumbent-president-gbagbo-cuts-power-supplies-to-north.html
  Ivory Coast ’s  Laurent Gbagbo , who
refuses to cede the presidency of the West African nation,
ordered the closely held electricity utility to cut power
supplies to the north of the country, the company said.  The Mines and Energy Ministry sent three men with an armed
escort to the company on Feb. 28 to order the suspension of
power supplies, the Compagnie Ivoirienne d’Electricite said in a
statement late yesterday.  Gbagbo’s rival Alassane Ouattara, the internationally
recognized winner of a Nov. 28 election, draws much of his
support in the northern half of the country, which shares
borders with  Burkina Faso ,  Ghana , Mali and Guinea. In six
northern regions, Ouattara received 85 percent of votes,
according to the country’s electoral commission.  The world’s second-biggest cocoa producer has been divided
between a rebel-held north and government controlled south since
an uprising of mutinous army officers led to a civil conflict in
2002-3. Gbagbo has ruled for a decade and refuses to hand power
to Ouattara, alleging electoral fraud in the north.  On Jan. 19, Gbagbo’s administration seized the electricity
company’s national power distribution center in the commercial
capital, Abidjan. A week later, the company said it was ordered
to cut power to some parts of the north for one evening and on
Feb. 1, Gbagbo ceded control of the facility.  Fleeing Abidjan  The utility is owned by Washington-based investment fund
 Emerging Capital Partners , through its Finagestion unit that
also has holdings in  Senegal .  At least 315 people have been killed in violence since the
disputed vote, according to the  United Nations . Security forces
who remain loyal to Gbagbo have clashed with supporters of
Ouattara, opening fire on the protesters in Abidjan.  “Tens of thousands” of residents of the city are fleeing
the fighting, according to  Amnesty International . “Many of those
displaced by the fighting, including women and children, are
having difficulty finding shelter and some are sleeping in the
open air,” said Veronique Aubert, Africa deputy director of the
London-based human-rights group, in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 