-- 
J&J's Risperdal Consta No More Effective Than Cheaper Treatments in Study

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/j-j-s-risperdal-consta-no-better-than-cheaper-drugs-study-says.html
  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s antipsychotic
medicine Risperdal Consta, its third-best-selling drug, fared no
better than less expensive treatments at keeping schizophrenia
patients out of the hospital, U.S. researchers said.  Patients on Risperdal Consta, a twice-monthly injection,
ended up in the hospital 39 percent of the time during the
three-year analysis, about the same as those who took other
drugs as a daily pill, a  study  released yesterday in the  New
England Journal of Medicine  said. People on the J&J treatment
also reported more headaches and muscle tremors among their side
effects, scientists found.  Risperdal Consta generated $1.5 billion in sales last year
for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J. Today’s findings
undercut what has been the injection’s main selling point: that
patients are more likely to stay on the medicine because it’s
taken less often, said Robert Rosenheck, the study’s lead
author. Researchers saw no better adherence after the initial
two-week dose, he said.  “This study gives no reason why the use of this treatment
should be increased” over other drugs, said Rosenheck, a
researcher with the U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs , which
funded the study. “It may be effective for individual patients,
but as a matter of policy, this is an expensive treatment and
there’s no reason to aggressively promote it.”  $7,000 Price  A year of Risperdal Consta costs about $7,000 a patient,
making it the most expensive of all antipsychotic drugs, said
Rosenheck, lead investigator at the VA’s New England  Mental
Illness, Research Education and Clinical Center .  J&J is contending with product recalls and manufacturing
shutdowns that cut sales by $900 million in 2010. The company
retracted 40 consumer products last year, led by over-the-
counter children’s medicines and Tylenol pain pills, along with
artificial hips and  contact lenses . U.K. regulators yesterday
said the company had also pulled batches of four brands of
sutures after faulty packaging threatened their sterile seals.  The journal study is unlikely to hurt J&J sales, said Glenn Novarro, a New York-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , in an
interview. The company has already shifting sales to a newer
antipsychotic injection, the once-a-month Invega Sustenna, he
said.  Risperdal Consta “is yesterday’s drug,” Novarro said.
“It’ll have zero impact on the stock,” he said of the study.  While economic arguments may persuade those who manage
health-care systems, doctors are still likely to opt for what
seems like a more convenient drug, he said. “It would surprise
me if we see any drop-off” in Risperdal Consta sales.  Invega Sustenna  Invega Sustenna, introduced in 2009, generated $183 million
in sales last year and may reach $330 million this year, said
Lawrence Biegelsen, a Wells Fargo Securities analyst in New
York, in a note to clients March 1.  Risperdal Consta is manufactured for J&J by Waltham,
Massachusetts-based  Alkermes Inc. (ALKS)  The drug generated about $146
million, about 82 percent of the company’s total revenue, in the
fiscal year that ended in March 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. An Alkermes spokeswoman, Eva Stroynowski, didn’t
respond yesterday to messages left after regular business hours.  J&J rose 11 cents to $60.81 at the 4 p.m. close yesterday
of New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
declined 4.1 percent in the 12 months before today. Alkermes
gained 16 cents to $14.10 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The study followed 369 patients with a history of
hospitalization for the disease. J&J’s Ortho-McNeil Janssen
unit, which sells Risperdal Consta, provided an unrestricted
funding grant along with free medication.  Non-Inferior Testing  The research was designed to test whether switching to the
injection was superior to continuing oral medications, said Kara
Russell, a J&J spokeswoman, in an e-mailed statement. “It was
not designed to show whether these treatments were non-inferior
to each other, which requires different analytic assumptions and
methods,” she said.  “We believe changes in the conduct and analysis of this
study from the original study protocol significantly compromised
meaningful interpretation of the results, especially those
related to superiority or equivalence,” Russell said. In a
telephone interview, she declined to specify those changes.  Schizophrenia  is a mental disorder affecting about 1 in 100
Americans that makes it hard to distinguish reality, think
logically and behave normally in social settings, according to
the  National Institutes of Health . Drug treatments help control
severe symptoms, such as hearing voices or violent outbursts.
They also can produce side effects such as weight gain,
diabetes, and movement disorders.  Patients not taking Risperdal Consta were on a variety of
alternative medications, among them Zyprexa, made by
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , and J&J’s Risperdal, an
older drug taken as daily pill. The seeming benefit of taking
the Consta version only twice a month proved a disadvantage when
it came to avoiding side effects, Rosenheck said.  “Patients on oral medication, when they start getting side
effects they can cut back on the dose, whereas when you inject
somebody with a chemical in their body, they have no control
over it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  