-- 
Jack Nicklaus `Very Surprised' Tiger Woods Hasn't Bounced Back From Slump

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-03-02T18:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/jack-nicklaus-very-surprised-tiger-woods-hasn-t-bounced-back-from-slump.html
  Jack Nicklaus  said he is “very
surprised” that  Tiger Woods  hasn’t won a tournament in 16
months and still believes the former top-ranked golfer will
surpass his record of 18 career major golf titles.  “I’m surprised that he hasn’t bounced back by now,”
Nicklaus said during a press conference prior to tomorrow’s
start of the U.S. PGA Tour’s  Honda Classic  in  Palm Beach
Gardens , Florida. “He’s got a great work ethic, or at least he
did. I assume he still does.”  Woods, 35, has fallen to No. 5 in the Official World Golf
 Ranking  and hasn’t won since the Australian Masters in November,
2009, shortly before he was involved in a single-car accident
outside his  Florida  home. The crash led to the unraveling of his
private life, a divorce and the end of his record five-year
reign atop the golf rankings.  Woods exited golf’s Match Play Championship last week in
the opening round for the first time in nine years, losing to
Thomas Bjorn, a player 62 places below him in the rankings.  The winner of 14 major championships, Woods has played 15
U.S. PGA Tour events over 10 months without a win, his worst
streak since he turned professional in 1996. He’s four wins shy
of matching Nicklaus’s record of 18 majors, a number he has been
stuck at since winning the 2008  U.S. Open .  “I think he’ll still break my record,” said Nicklaus, 71.
“We haven’t played any majors this year. Ask me that same
question again at the end of this year. I’m very surprised that
he hasn’t popped back.”  New No. 1  As Woods has struggled on the golf course,  Germany ’s Martin Kaymer has risen to No. 1, followed by England’s  Lee Westwood 
and  Luke Donald  and  Northern Ireland ’s Graeme McDowell.  Nicklaus said he expects Woods to reclaim the No. 1 spot in
the near future.  “When you have as much talent as he has, he’s not going to
go anywhere,” Nicklaus said. “He didn’t get there by playing
poorly. He has won a lot of tournaments hitting it all over the
world, but he still figured out a way to get that ball in the
hole. He’ll do it again.”  Woods, who got the most recent of his 71 wins on the U.S.  PGA Tour  at the BMW Championship in September 2009, has been
undergoing a swing change with new coach  Sean Foley  since
August. His best finish in three events this season is a tie for
20th place at the Dubai Desert Classic last month. He finished
the tournament with a  3-over par 75 , including a double-bogey on
his final hole.  Nicklaus said he’s also surprised it has taken Woods so
long to adapt to the swing changes.  Under Pressure  “If you understand what you’re doing, you ought to be able
to make a swing change during a round,” he said. “Once the
round is over and you have tested it under pressure, you ought
to be able to solidify it in a half hour.”  Eventually, Woods will figure it out, Nicklaus said.  “I have no idea what is going through his head,” he said.
“I don’t think it’s fair for me to guess what’s going through
his head. I think, basically, Tiger is really a principled kid.
Yes, he got off the track. Are we all perfect? No.”  Woods may return to the U.S. PGA Tour next week at the
World Golf Championships  Cadillac Championship  event in Miami.
Woods has won the tournament at the TPC Blue Monster course six
times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta  at
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  