-- 
Japan's Bonds Drop Most in Two Weeks on Signs Global Recovery Gaining Pace

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-03T06:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/japan-s-10-year-government-bonds-may-fall-on-speculation-u-s-added-jobs.html
Japanese bonds fell the most in two
weeks before U.S. reports that economists said will show service
industries expanded in February and employers stepped up hiring.  Ten-year bonds dropped for the fourth time in five days
after Japan’s  Finance Ministry  said companies increased spending
for a second quarter, signaling confidence in the nation’s
recovery. Treasuries dropped for a second day after the  Federal
Reserve  said in its Beige Book report yesterday that the overall  U.S. economy  expanded “at a modest to moderate pace.”  “Should U.S. nonfarm payrolls play catch-up to other
economic data, Japan’s yields may test higher levels,” said  Akito Fukunaga , chief rates strategist at the brokerage unit of
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc., Britain’s biggest government-
controlled lender. “Bonds are being sold following the decline
in Treasuries.”  The yield on the 10-year bond climbed three basis points to
1.29 percent as of 3:41 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The price declined
0.267 yen to 100.088 yen. The drop was the biggest for a
benchmark bond since Feb. 16.  Ten-year futures for March delivery slipped 0.16 to 139.54
at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Ten-year
Treasury yields rose two basis points to 3.49 percent.  Spending Increases    Capital spending  by Japanese companies rose 4.8 percent in
the three months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the same
amount as the previous quarter, the Finance Ministry said today.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
gauge will show 59.3 for February after a 59.4 reading for
January that was the highest since 2005, according to a
Bloomberg survey before today’s data. A number greater than 50
signals growth. American employers hired 195,000 workers in
February, after adding 36,000 the month before, a separate
survey showed before tomorrow’s Labor Department report.    Bank of Japan  board member Tadao Noda said the central bank
stands ready to take “appropriate” policy action should risks
to the nation’s recovery emerge.  “We are determined to implement flexible and appropriate
policies if the path for ending deflation becomes uncertain or
the outlook for the economy and prices changes dramatically,”
Noda said today in Kumamoto, southern Japan.  Oil Prices  The decline in bonds was tempered by speculation unrest in
the Middle East and North Africa will drive up oil prices,
hampering global growth.  Libyan forces loyal to Muammar Qaddafi counter-attacked
rebels in the coastal region where much of the country’s crude
is refined or shipped abroad, according to a local oil official.
Qaddafi, speaking on state television yesterday, said his
government retains control of  oil fields .  Crude oil for April delivery rose as much as 0.7 percent
today after closing yesterday at $102.23 a barrel in  New York ,
the highest settlement since September 2008.  “Further gains in oil may stoke concern about the global
economy,”  Chotaro Morita , chief strategist at Barclays Capital
Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, wrote in a note to clients. The yield curve
“is under pressure to flatten from an economic stand point.”  A yield curve is a chart that plots the yields of bonds of
the same quality, but different maturities. It flattens when
yields on longer-maturity bonds fall, those on shorter-dated
notes rise, or both happen simultaneously.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 