-- 
Johnny Can’t Read Teacher’s Plush Contract: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-03-02T00:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/johnny-can-t-read-teacher-s-plush-contract-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Among the many things we have to say
goodbye to --  Charlie Sheen , Regis, a gallon of gas rounded down
to $3 -- add the nose-to-the-grindstone governor who’s above
engaging in national political battle. The last demilitarized
zone in politics has been overrun.  At  past winter meetings  of the  National Governors
Association , the workhorses of democracy would come to
Washington, remove their red and blue ties and share best
practices with their fellow executives. They left the
histrionics to members of Congress, who can afford to run their
mouths because they don’t have to run a state.  Suddenly, governors have gone rogue.  Most are Republicans. Most are out of money and gimmicks
and, it would seem, curiosity: Hardly any showed up on the
conference’s final day to hear  Bill Gates , who’s spent billions
figuring out how to fix education, tell them how to improve
their schools. They’re busy pushing intra-class warfare to solve
their fiscal emergencies, pitting a toll collector who still has
a pension against an auto worker who doesn’t have a job.  Their pace-setter is Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , who
was the center of attention at the conference even though he
wasn’t in attendance. He was back home escalating his war with
public-employee unions, trying to turn the workers who clean his
office into the squeegee men of Budget Crisis 2011.  The unions had quickly given in, recognizing that their
members had enjoyed outsized benefits and escaped the brutal
cuts endured by their private-company counterparts. Still Walker
persisted, attempting to strip collective-bargaining rights, end
automatic payment of dues and force workers to vote every year
on whether to have a union at all.  Tough Weekend  As the weekend wore on, Walker lost his winner’s glow.
Stalling by outnumbered Democrats in the state legislature had
given people a chance to learn the fine print of the bill.
Protesters in Madison swelled to an estimated 100,000 from
70,000, in a snowstorm. Walker backed off evicting them from the
Capitol when the police, whose union he isn’t at odds with,
seemed reluctant to carry out the dirty work.  And Walker seemed sneaky when he said, in a taped phone
call with an imposter posing as conservative financier  David Koch , that he’d thought of planting troublemakers among
the protesters, presumably to make them look bad.  Polls showed 
Walker’s support sinking.  As Walker was falling to earth, another governor continued
his rise to stardom.  At each annual conference, there’s one governor trailing
clouds of reporters. One year it was the young leader of  Arkansas ,  Bill Clinton . Another year it was  Mitt Romney  of  Massachusetts . Then came  Alaska ’s Sarah Palin.  Working Christie  This year it was  Chris Christie  of New Jersey. While other
governors hovered near the television cameras, reporters and a
table offering free root-beer floats -- courtesy of  Utah ’s
travel bureau -- Christie didn’t have to work the room. The room
worked him.  Settled in a comfortable red chair in the lobby, he listed
for me his well-known bill of particulars against workers whose
benefits are bankrupting his state. He marveled at how
premiums for the very best health insurance costs state
employees, him included, the same as the bad ones. Did I know
that the state’s pension fund is almost empty, thanks to years
of politicians not paying into it? Or that teachers paid nothing
at all toward their benefits?  Yes, even Miss Witherspoon, your third-grade teacher with
her multiplication tables, is now vulnerable. We love teachers
individually, but their largest union is stuck in an era before  charter schools  and “Waiting for Superman.” Johnny isn’t
learning as well as students elsewhere: a respected
international test released in December showed American
teenagers scoring 31st in math and 17th in reading. Yet the
union stubbornly clings to the principle of lifetime tenure.  At the Table  As much as critics try to lump Christie in with Walker, the  New Jersey  governor is no union buster. Collective bargaining is
a good thing, he says, but only when somebody truly representing
the taxpayer is sitting across from the union leaders. Don’t be
surprised, he tells me, if he shows up personally when 14
contracts come up for renegotiation in June.  Christie is the governor more likely to come out of his
budget battle with his popularity intact.  Walker, when he draws blood, seems to thirst for more to
sate his conservative ideology, to please the Kochs of the
world. Christie may relish rolling over critics at his town hall
meetings, in encounters his staff is  happy to post  on YouTube,
but he remains popular because he makes such a good everyman.  No Laughing Matter  When asked about first lady  Michelle Obama ’s healthy food
campaign, he resisted making fun of it, noting his own girth and
struggles since childhood controlling his eating.  He seems driven less by ideology than by nostalgia for a
day gone by when the Garden State was in clover, without a $1
billion hole in the treasury or residents so tapped out by taxes
they have to move elsewhere. Fairness, he keeps saying, is what
he seeks.  Whether Christie really does spread the pain evenly, from
the hamlets along the Palisades to the mean streets of  Newark ,
he comes across as a regular guy who wants to. In these days of
militant governors, that’s enough.    Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How  George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  