-- 
Jumbo-Sized Smoker, 47, Sheds 64 Pounds to Race His Dream Horse

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-02T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/jumbo-sized-smoker-47-sheds-64-pounds-to-race-his-dream-horse-interview.html
     March 2 (Bloomberg) - It’s shortly after 8 a.m. on a gusty,
rain-spattered Monday morning, and Dominic Prince is standing in
a field in Berkshire,  England .  Zipped into a green rain jacket -- a lone flash of color in
this landscape of mud -- his eyes are trained on a churned-up
track, impatient for a glimpse of the obsession that inspired
him to put his life as a journalist and documentarian on hold
for 11 months, and lose 64 pounds (29 kilos) on a grains-and-
water diet.  Fast cars and equally fleet women are the cliched
manifestation of the male midlife crisis. Prince was a little
more original. When he turned 47, it was a passion for fast
horses that seized him.  At 5 foot 10 inches, his weight was topping 231 pounds. He
drank a bottle of wine each evening and defined exercise as a
stroll to the neighborhood shop to fuel his 20-a-day cigarette
habit. There was just one thing he’d sacrifice his bon vivant’s
vices for, he told his food writer wife. Not her. Not their two
kids. A horse. And he didn’t just want to ride, either. He
wanted to race.  He chronicles the realization of this neglected boyhood
dream in his memoir “Jumbo to Jockey.” A brisk canter through
the dieting, training, and yet more dieting that led up to race
day, it straddles two different worlds -- his comfortable  London 
home and Heads Farm Stables, which is where I’ve come to meet
him and Billy, the butterscotch cocker spaniel who proved his
secret flab-fighting weapon, running alongside him as he
bicycled mile after mile.  Morning Gallop  Racing followers are more obsessive than any other breed of
sports fan, Prince says. As the animals gallop into view,
nostrils steaming in the chill, it’s easy to understand why.
Sleek and sinewy, nimble despite the imposing bulk of all that
muscle, each horse is the result of generations of breeding for
this very purpose.  Back in their stables, they are different creatures. Some
are sweet natured and friendly, many are skittish, and a few
appear downright mean. Though they don’t seem especially pleased
to see Prince, they tolerate him as he wanders up and down
patting them. He, meanwhile, appears soothed in their presence.  Chatty enough on the page (the  reader  learns plenty about
his teenage tantrums and his middle-aged bowel movements),
Prince is brusque and easily distracted in person. Except when
there’s a horse nearby.  He was only five or six when he first rode one, he says,
and can still remember its “bar of moldy soap” scent. “I felt
possessed, as if I’d been dispossessed up until that point. From
then on, there was always something to focus on.”  Madcap Mission  That changed in adulthood. Mid-jump, the horse he was
riding clipped its hoofs on the top of a wall and got its legs
and neck tangled in barbed wire. Though the animal survived,
Prince was a near-hysterical wreck. The accident spooked him
badly, and by the time he embarked upon his madcap mission to
ride in a race, 20 years had passed since he last sat in the
saddle.  Finding someone prepared to let him anywhere near one of
their horses might have proved as arduous as losing the weight
(12 stones, or 168 pounds, is the maximum weight allowance for a
U.K. jockey), were it not for his pal  Charles “Edgy” Egerton .  The award-winning trainer and owner of  Heads Farm  is a
rotund  Old Etonian  who says racehorses have an “electricity”
that the rest of their species lacks. Or as Prince puts it,
“They’re bred to be mad, and they’re trained to be mad.”
Riding them is like driving a Ferrari -- with one key
difference: “Your steering and brakes don’t always work.”  Following Dettori  Dancing Marabout, the three-year-old chestnut gelding he
rode when he finally got to race, has since retired and is back
with his owner, who hunts with him. Before Prince took his
reins, he was ridden by Frankie Dettori,  Ryan Moore  and A.P. McCoy. Did he mind having a hefty amateur on his back? Prince
insists not.  The question of whether the animals actually want to race
divides the friends. Egerton says that if they don’t want to
run, there’s a reason and it’s the trainer’s job to find out.
Prince believes they would rather stay in their stables, eating
oats. “They run because the industry demands it,” he says.  As a former City Editor of the  Daily Express , a U.K.
tabloid, he is fascinated by the economics of racing. It
encompasses extremes of wealth, from the owners to the stable
lads. And because it’s betting-led, while huge sums can ride on
a horse’s victory, the actual prize money has on average
decreased, sometimes covering just a fortnight’s training fees.  Hobby Horse  What you cannot do, he says, is think of a horse as an
investment. You have to see the relationship as a hobby. Only
occasionally does a horse make a profit or even pay for itself.  “It’s like walking into a casino,” Egerton says. “It
doesn’t necessarily follow that the more you spend on a horse,
the more prize money it’ll win.”  Back at the sprawling 1930s house where the trainer grew
up, Billy has whipped himself into a frenzy of excitement over a
brace of freshly killed partridges, hung just out of his reach.
In the kitchen, the housekeeper is plating up sausages, bacon
and eggs under the watchful eye of a parrot named Humphrey. It’s
a far cry from the oats, barley and linseed that Prince
breakfasted on while training.  Away from the horses, he is reluctant to talk about
himself. Did he ever doubt he’d accomplish his mission? “Every
day.” What was the hardest part, the dieting, the training
regime, or actually riding the 4:30 at Towcester? “All of it.”
Was there anything anticlimactic about that race? “Nothing.”  His last answer is uttered wistfully. If only the
experience had been a letdown, he might have exorcised that
dream of a life lived with horses once and for all. Instead,
though he finished fifth, it was thrilling, leaving him
wondering when he could do it again. He celebrated with a meal
of contraband carbs -- pasta with a Bolognese sauce that he’d
made and frozen especially for the occasion -- before heading
back to London to his family and his desk.  “Jumbo to Jockey: Fasting to the Finishing Post” is
published by Fourth Estate (217 pages, 10.99 pounds).  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 