-- 
Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg Profit Advances 21%, Aided by Internet, Telephony

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-03-02T13:18:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/kabel-baden-wuerttemberg-profit-advances-21-aided-by-internet-telephony.html
Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH & Co
KG, whose owners are contemplating its sale or initial public
offering, said 2010 operating profit rose 21 percent as more
customers signed up for Internet and telephony services.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization at  Germany ’s third-largest cable operator rose to
316 million euros ($437 million) from 260 million euros, the
Heidelberg-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  “We’re profiting from extraordinary high investments in
our infrastructure in the last few years, making it possible for
us to offer good services at reasonable prices,” Chief
Executive Officer Harald Roesch said in the statement.  Kabel BW’s largest holder, Swedish private equity firm EQT
Partners AB, is considering whether to sell shares in the cable
television operator on the stock exchange, following  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG , whose shares have risen 78 percent since
it listed on the stock exchange in March last year. EQT may
alternatively decide to sell all or part of the company to a
financial investor or a rival cable operator in Germany.  German cable companies have lagged behind the rest of  Europe  in offering premium TV, Internet and telephony services.
European cable operations are set to grow more than 30 percent
by 2014 from about 19 billion euros at present, according to IHS
Screen Digest.  Both  Liberty Global Inc ., controlled by U.S. billionaire  John Malone  and owner of Germany’s second-largest cable operator
Unitymedia, and Kabel Deutschland’s largest owner,  Providence
Equity Partners , have said they are interested in Kabel BW.  German Consolidation  In Germany, attempts to consolidate have failed in the past
because of antitrust concerns. Cable companies argue that their
push into broadband and telephony means that they should be
regulated as telecommunications companies rather than as
television distributors.  Kabel BW said sales in 2010 rose 70 million euros to 563
million euros, helped by premium television services such as
video on demand and high-definition channels.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  