-- 
Key Expects New Zealand Central Bank to Lower Rates, Sends Kiwi Tumbling

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-03-02T05:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/key-says-would-welcome-new-zealand-interest-rate-cut.html
  New Zealand ’s Prime Minister John Key expects the central bank to cut  interest rates  as the nation
grapples with the aftermath of the deadliest earthquake in 80
years. The local currency slid to the lowest level this year.  “We’d certainly welcome it,” Key, 49, said in an
interview in Wellington today. “The market has priced in a cut
from the Reserve Bank. That would probably be my expectation,
that the  Reserve Bank  would cut, but it’s for them to determine
that.”  Key’s remarks were his most explicit on the outlook for
borrowing costs since the Feb. 22 temblor devastated New
Zealand’s second-largest city. The central bank has kept rates
unchanged since July after two increases in the middle of last
year, and a reduction would contrast with steps by counterparts
around the world to check escalating inflation pressures.  “The RBNZ already has a very difficult decision to make
and whether real or perceived, there’s now an additional layer
of pressure,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities in  Singapore . “He should be
maintaining the appropriate distance between central bank
decisions and the government.”  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  declined to comment on the
prime minister’s remarks.  The  New Zealand dollar  fell 0.8 percent to 74.10 U.S. cents
as of 4:59 p.m. in Wellington from 74.72 cents yesterday in  New
York .  ‘Virtually No Growth’  A recession in the first half of 2011 cannot be ruled out,
and there’s likely to be “virtually no growth” recorded in New
Zealand for the financial year through June, Key said. He
estimated the impact of the earthquake will reduce gross
domestic product by about NZ$15 billion ($11 billion) and result
in about NZ$5 billion less in  tax revenue .  The 6.3-magnitude earthquake, which killed more than 150
people, is likely to slow an economy that already contracted in
the third quarter of 2010. Christchurch’s second major temblor
in six months, following a magnitude 7.0 quake on Sept. 4,
wrecked its central business district. Both quakes may have
caused as much as NZ$20 billion in damage, Key said this week.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand’s next rate-setting meeting
is scheduled for March 10. Four of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predict the official cash rate will be lowered
from 3 percent.  “Certainly they are going to have a period of where, like
us, they’ll be looking at very flat growth,” Key said,
referring to the central bank. Asked about a potential
recession, he said “our hope would be that wouldn’t be the
case.” He cited high New Zealand commodity prices as a
potential factor in preventing a recession this year.  Earthquake Levy  About three-quarters of the estimated earthquake costs will
be covered by the Earthquake Commission levy, reinsurance
agreements and private insurance, according to Key. The
government may have to pay NZ$5 billion to NZ$10 billion of the
damage to infrastructure “over time,” Key said.  “The overall economic position isn’t dire in New Zealand
by any stretch of the imagination, it’s just that the earthquake
is a dominant factor,” Key said.  While the government wasn’t expecting a downgrade to New
Zealand’s sovereign credit rating following the earthquake, the
country’s high level of private-sector debt was a concern, Key
said. New Zealand owed the equivalent of about 85 percent of its
gross domestic product, most of it privately, he said.  “It will now be more difficult to get on top of that debt
position from a government point of view, so that could put some
pressure on the rating agencies, but we’re hopeful we can make
enough adjustments to stave off a credit downgrade,” Key said.  Fund-raising Effort  Key is coordinating a global  fund-raising appeal  for the
Christchurch earthquake and is seeking to raise “hundreds of
millions” for its victims. The government was preparing to seek
contributions from wealthy investors, banks and institutions
around the world, he said.  New Zealand isn’t ruling out a separate levy to help repair
Christchurch, Key said, calling that option “unlikely.”  Before last week’s temblor struck, New Zealand’s government
expected that a  budget deficit  projected to be NZ$15.6 billion
in the year ending June 30 would start to narrow, with a surplus
targeted by 2015.  “It’s fair to say it makes it more challenging  -- not
impossible, but certainly more challenging,” Key said of the
surplus goal.  Key graduated from the University of Canterbury in 1982
with a degree in commerce. He worked as an auditor before
joining Elderbank in Wellington, the financial unit of
agriculture company Elders Australia Ltd., becoming its head
foreign-exchange trader.  He joined Merrill Lynch & Co. in Singapore in 1995, where
he rose to become head of foreign exchange. He returned to New
Zealand in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  