-- 
Nebraska Book Said to Weigh Bankruptcy as Maturities Loom

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-02T22:36:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/nebraska-book-said-to-weigh-bankruptcy-as-debt-maturities-loom.html
Nebraska Book Co., the textbook
retailer with creditors including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Cerberus Capital Management LP, hired advisers to help
restructure its debt and prepare for a possible bankruptcy
filing, people familiar with the talks said.  Rothschild and Kirkland & Ellis LLP are advising the
company, which is owned by private-equity firm Weston Presidio,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. While a filing isn’t imminent, Nebraska Book may
seek  bankruptcy protection  if it’s unable to reach agreement
with creditors, the people said.  Nebraska Book has about $450 million of loans and bonds
coming due by the end of 2012, including $200 million of 10
percent notes maturing this December, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The retailer may not to be able to refinance due
to its “highly leveraged capital structure,” according to a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “We have long-standing relationships with our investment
bankers and advisors and continue to seek their counsel as we
move through our refinancing efforts,” said Alan Siemek,  Nebraska  Book’s chief financial officer. He declined to comment
on a potential bankruptcy filing.  Therese Mrozek, chief operating officer at Weston Presidio,
didn’t reply to two messages and e-mails seeking comment.  Goldman, Cerberus  Goldman Sachs and Cerberus, which bought Nebraska Book’s
senior subordinated notes at distressed prices, are now two of
the company’s largest creditors and are leading its
restructuring talks, according to the people. The firms may gain
control of the Lincoln, Nebraska-based company if it
reorganizes, the people said.  Representatives of Rothschild, Cerberus and Goldman Sachs
declined to comment. A Kirkland representative didn’t return a
call for comment.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the so-called probability of
default grade for the company’s parent, NBC Acquisition Corp.
one grade to Caa2 on Feb. 17, citing upcoming debt maturities
and online competition in textbooks.  “Substantially all debt” of Nebraska Book matures before
March 15, 2012, Moody’s said in the report. “The developing
outlook reflects the uncertainty around NBC’s ability to execute
a refinancing plan in the very near term.”  Default Rate    Standard & Poor’s  estimates that only three companies
worldwide have defaulted this year, compared with 17 at this
point in 2010, as borrowing costs for high-yield, high-risk
companies declined to record lows, enabling the neediest
companies to refinance debt.  Borders Group Inc., the bookstore chain, filed for
bankruptcy on Feb. 16 after management changes, job cuts and
debt restructuring failed to make up for sagging sales.  Nebraska Book’s $175 million of 8.625 percent senior
subordinated bonds due March 2012 fell 1 cent to 88.75 cents on
the dollar as of 3:25 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The securities have risen from 50 cents in January
2009, Trace data show.  The company’s $200 million of 10 percent secured bonds due
in December declined 0.25 cent to 101 cents on the dollar to
yield 8.5 percent.  The retailer, which began in 1915 with a single bookstore
near the University of Nebraska campus, operates 250 stores in
the U.S., according to its  website .  Weston Presidio , a San Francisco-based investment firm,
gained a controlling interest in Nebraska Book in 2004,
according to regulatory filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in  New York  at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  