-- 
New York Times to Start Charging Online ‘Shortly’

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-03-05T17:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/new-york-times-to-start-charging-online-very-shortly-chairman-says.html
The New York Times  will start
charging readers for online access “very shortly,” Chairman
and Publisher Arthur O. Sulzberger Jr. said in London today.  The daily will introduce a “metered” model based on one
used by the  Financial Times  newspaper that allows readers to
view some articles for free each month, he said at the FT
Digital Media & Broadcasting conference. He declined to
elaborate on when the model would be introduced.  “We can no longer afford to have iPad and iPhone apps for
free,” Sulzberger said. “The metered model will still allow
people to engage with your journalism when they are not deep
loyalists, and still make ad dollars from that.”  The  New York Times Co. (NYT) , which publishes the namesake
newspaper and owns magazines, reported a 26 percent decline in
fourth-quarter profit and lower revenue as print advertising and
circulation revenue continued to shrink. The newspaper is
following peers like the Financial Times and Wall Street Journal
into charging for online content as print advertising drops and
readers increasingly move online.  Still, the paid model may not work for every newspaper,
cautioned Claire Enders of London-based researcher Enders
Analysis Ltd. While business-to-business newspapers like the FT
and Wall Street Journal have had some success targeting online
readers, general newspaper may have a harder time.  “We haven’t seen any success yet,” Enders said at the
conference, citing  Rupert Murdoch ’s  Times of London  and Sunday
Times, which erected “hard” paywalls in July and has since
lost readers.  Consumer Press    James Murdoch , the head of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s European and Asian
operation, said in November those newspapers had more than
105,000 paying online customers, and characterized paying
readers as “more engaged.”  At the Financial Times’ online paid version, readership and
revenue is growing by more than 50 percent a year, Chief
Executive Officer John Ridding said at the conference.  “It is possible across all kinds of media,” he said.
“It’s not just charging that matters; what’s really important
is you can create a kind of machine” to target readers’ reading
habits and behaviors with various offers and advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at   kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Pairs at   vroot@bloomberg.net  