-- 
NFL Improperly Negotiated $4 Billion in TV Contracts, Federal Judge Rules

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-03-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/nfl-improperly-negotiated-4-billion-in-tv-contracts-federal-judge-rules.html
The  National Football League 
improperly negotiated to receive $4 billion in income from
television networks even if a work stoppage cancels games in the
2011 season, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge David Doty in  Minneapolis  yesterday
upheld a complaint from the players’ union, overruling an
earlier decision on the matter by a special master, or
arbitrator. Doty, who has overseen the NFL labor contract since
1993, ordered a hearing to consider the award of money damages
and equitable relief to the players.  The judge agreed with the union that, in extending the
contracts into the 2011 season, the league failed to get the
best terms available to maximize revenue in 2009 and 2010.  “This ruling means there is irrefutable evidence that
owners had a premeditated plan to lock out players and fans for
more than two years,” George Atallah, an  NFL Players
Association  spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The union and NFL are in talks in  Washington  to try to
reach an agreement on a new labor deal before the current one
expires tomorrow at midnight. The sides are arguing over how to
distribute about $9 billion in league revenue. Other areas of
dispute include the addition of two games to the regular season,
a cap on rookie pay and health care for players.  Federal Mediator  The sides agreed last month to hold negotiations along with
George Cohen, the director of the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service.  The union is seeking to have the $4 billion placed in
escrow during any lockout, rather than allowing the NFL to use
it to fund operations. The NFL said the money is a loan that
will have to be repaid if no games are played.  “The NFL negotiated access to over $4 billion in rights
fees in 2011 if it locks out the players,”  the judge said in
his decision . “Of that sum, it has no obligation to repay $421
million to the broadcasters.”  The NFL extended contracts and altered lock out provisions
with  DirecTV ,  CBS Corp .,  News Corp .’s Fox,  Comcast Corp .’s NBC
and  Walt Disney Co .’s ESPN Inc.  Special Master Stephen Burbank had earlier given the NFL
access to the money and awarded the players $6.9 million in
damages, about 10 percent of the $60 million they were seeking.  “Our clubs are prepared for any contingency, this decision
included,”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the NFL, said in an e-
mail. The “ruling will have no effect on our efforts to
negotiate a new, balanced labor agreement.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  