-- 
Nokia Plans to Open Vietnam Factory for Low-End Handsets

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-02T08:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/nokia-plans-invest-eur200-million-for-vietnam-manufacturing-site.html
  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, said it plans to open a plant in Vietnam to
manufacture low-end phones, bringing its number of handset
factories to 11.  The Espoo, Finland-based company will initially invest 200
million euros ($275 million) at the site near Hanoi, and expects
“further sizeable investments” in the future, it said in a
statement. Nokia aims to have the plant open in 2012.  Nokia churns out about a million low-end phones a day at
prices as low as 20 euros apiece. The company aims to cement its
position as the biggest manufacturer of phones for emerging
markets and upgrade users of basic devices to more powerful
feature handsets with Web browsers as higher-speed networks come
on line.  “The new manufacturing site will play a key role in our
effort to connect the next billion to the Web,” Nokia Senior
Vice President Juha Putkiranta said in the statement.  The factory would add to plants already built in Vietnam by
technology companies including  Intel Corp . and  Canon Inc ., which
are among the biggest investors in the Southeast Asian nation of
87 million people.  Last year, Intel opened a $1 billion assembly and testing
plant in  Ho Chi Minh City  which Chief Executive Paul Otellini
said helped put Vietnam “on the map for high-tech investment,”
while  Microsoft Corp . Chairman  Bill Gates  said during a 2006
visit to Hanoi that Vietnam has the potential to develop as an
outsourcing center similar to India.  Nokia Sites  “After the Intel plant came into operation, technology
companies now recognize that Vietnam can be a viable location,”
said Than Trong Phuc, the Ho Chi Minh City-based managing
director of investment fund DFJ VinaCapital L.P. “Costs are
rising in China and Vietnam has a cost advantage, although
Vietnam still lacks a sufficient supply chain.”  Nokia currently manufactures low-end phones in countries
including Brazil, China, India, Hungary, Romania and Mexico. It
makes smartphones in Finland, China and South Korea. The company
faces challenges in Asia from manufacturers using standard
components from Taiwan’s  MediaTek Inc ., as well as from Samsung
Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc ., the world’s second- and
third-largest mobile phone makers.  Low-end phones, which have a limited set of features and
lack the flexible programming capabilities of smartphones,
accounted for about 80 percent of phone shipments by units last
year, according to Gartner Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  