-- 
New York City Pensions Said to Weigh $2 Billion Private-Equity Funds Sale

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   M a r t i n   B r a u n
-- 
2011-07-19T18:44:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/nyc-police-pension-picks-permal-for-first-hedge-fund-of-funds.html
New York City ’s pension plans may
unload a $2 billion portfolio of buyout funds to trim their
private-equity relationships, said two people with knowledge of
the plan.  At least one of the five pension plans is weighing whether
to sell stakes managed by Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC and
 Silver Lake  Management LLC, said the people, who requested
anonymity because investment decisions are confidential. Details
about which holdings will be sold and what price would be
acceptable are still being worked out, according to the people.  U.S. pension plans have been severing ties with asset
managers through so-called secondary sales of private-equity
stakes to free up money for new investments and improve returns.
 New York , which had 108 private-equity managers as of June 2010,
is among investors seeking to concentrate bets with a smaller
number of better-performing managers. Private equity accounted
for about 6 percent of the $122.4 billion in assets for New
York’s pension funds as of April 30.  “It was taboo for pensions to sell funds, but now they’re
using a secondary sale as a portfolio-management tool,” said
Brian Talbot, head of New York-based  Neuberger Berman Group
LLC’s  secondaries team. “Pensions are invested in hundreds of
funds, which has become a huge administrative burden that many
of them have decided they can’t manage efficiently.”  Performance Gains  Overall, the city’s funds gained more than 20 percent in
fiscal 2011, the most in 13 years, which Comptroller  John Liu 
attributed to the hiring of new asset managers and improved
stock and bond markets. That follows gains of 14 percent for
fiscal 2010, according to a July 5 statement.  The private equity portfolio of New York City’s civil
employees pension fund returned 12.5 percent since inception and
7.06 percent over five years ended March 31, according to a
meeting agenda on the comptroller’s website.  Mike Loughran, a spokesman for Liu, Thomas Franco, a
spokesman for New York-based Clayton Dubilier, and Jenny Farrelly, an outside spokeswoman for Silver Lake, declined to
comment. Private-equity buyout funds typically use debt to buy
companies with the goal of selling them within about five years.
To pay the debt, the new owners try to improve operations and
slash costs.  Earlier this year, the pension funds fired five of six
activist managers who buy stakes in publicly traded companies
and press for higher share prices. The funds dismissed included
Breeden Capital Management LLC, headed by former U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairman  Richard Breeden , and Ralph Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC.  In the secondary market, investors trade stakes in private-
equity funds originally sold by buyout and venture capital
firms. New York is hoping to capitalize on the growth of
secondary sales and take advantage of record amounts raised to
purchase previously owned private-equity holdings.  Ready to Sell  Among private-equity investors, more than one-third of
North Americans, a quarter of the Europeans and as much as 42
percent of those in the Asia-Pacific region expect to stage
secondaries sales in the next two years, according to the
“Summer 2011”  survey  by Coller Capital Ltd. Those are record
levels, according to Coller, a London-based buyer of
secondaries, which said that as of mid-2008, only 22 percent of
investors had conducted sales.  Sellers of private-equity fund stakes sometimes have to
offer discounts from net asset value. Discounts were wider at
the height of the 2008-09 financial crisis when sellers needed
liquidity, according to  Preqin Ltd. , the London-based research
firm. Those discounts have narrowed to about 19 percent of net
asset value on buyout funds as pensions and endowments sell more
opportunistically, according to Preqin.  Pooling Assets  Lexington Partners has amassed a $7 billion pool for
private-equity secondaries, the largest of its kind, according
to Preqin. There are 26 funds seeking to raise $18.6 billion to
buy secondaries, according to Preqin, including Coller
International Partners VI, which has a $5 billion goal, and AXA
Secondary Fund V, which is targeting $3.5 billion from
investors.  New York City’s pension funds serve more than 237,000
retirees and beneficiaries and 344,000 employees, according to
the comptroller’s  website .  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
nation’s biggest public pension fund, set the stage for
secondary sales when it sold $2 billion of partnerships at the
end of 2007, ahead of the financial crisis. Less than a year
later, Calpers was hunting for new investments in private
equity.  New York is poised to free up money for new commitments as
private-equity managers commence raising new pools. KKR & Co.,
the firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is pitching its
latest North American buyout fund and LBO firms globally are
seeking more than $170 billion this year, more than what they
sought in 2006, at the height of the private-equity boom,
according to Preqin. Other firms seeking new pools include
 Providence Equity Partners  and  Warburg Pincus .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  