-- 
NYSE Euronext Holds Talks to Link Trading System With Tokyo Stock Exchange

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i
-- 
2011-03-02T12:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/nyse-euronext-tokyo-exchange-in-talks-to-link-trade-systems.html
  NYSE Euronext  and Tokyo Stock
Exchange, the biggest stock market operators in the U.S. and
Japan, said they may allow their customers to trade shares
listed on each other’s venues.  The companies are exploring a link between their networks,
according to a statement issued after the New York market closed
yesterday. NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock Exchange,
is the target of $9.5 billion takeover announced by Deutsche
Boerse AG last month. The U.S. and Japan have the world’s
largest stock markets by value of listed companies, at $16.3
trillion and $4.21 trillion respectively, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  NYSE Euronext  said  in February 2010 that it would give
investors in  Malaysia ,  Philippines , Singapore and Thailand the
ability to trade stocks listed in the U.S. The Tokyo bourse is
considering expanding its network to  Hong Kong , Singapore and  Australia  after connecting to the New York-based network, said
Ryusuke Yokoyama, director of information-technology business at
the Tokyo exchange, during a press briefing in Tokyo after the
announcement. Both exchanges aim to agree to connect networks by
the end of this year, he said.  Trading linkages are “not easy” to forge because of
regulatory hurdles, Jochen Thiel, executive director of Deutsche
Boerse AG, said in Singapore today. “We have tried
unsuccessfully for many years to get approval for mutual
recognition, meaning that a U.S.-based company can become a
stock exchange member on Xetra and the other way around.”  ‘More Open Environment’    Deutsche Boerse ’s proposed combination with NYSE Euronext
to create the world’s biggest exchange was the third cross-
border merger announced since Singapore Exchange Ltd. offered to
buy Australia’s ASX Ltd. in October. London Stock Exchange Group
Plc agreed on Feb. 9 to buy Toronto Stock Exchange owner TMX
Group Inc.  “With all these proposed cross-border mergers, I would
expect that on the regulatory side maybe we are getting a more
open environment to enable globalized trading,” said Thiel, who
was in Singapore to introduce a new clearing service for asset
managers.  It is not the first agreement Tokyo Stock Exchange has
struck with a foreign bourse operator. The Japanese company
signed a deal in February 2007 with the London Stock Exchange
Group Plc to develop jointly traded products and to encourage
access by member companies to each other’s market. The two
bourses established Tokyo AIM, a market seeking to attract
listings from fast-growing start-up companies in Japan and  Asia ,
in 2009 and are preparing to set up a market for bonds, TSE
spokesman Satoshi Mimura said today.  “In the future, foreign investors will be able to order
at the Tokyo Stock Exchange easier,” said Yokoyama. The link up
will mean investors save money because they are able to trade
different markets using a single connection, he said.  The New York bourse has 1,300 market users connected,
including brokerages and institutional investors. Tokyo doesn’t
allow institutional investors to connect right now but may
consider removing the prohibition, Yokoyama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net . 