-- 
NYSE Plan to Take On CME in Rate Futures to Begin March 21

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-03-02T21:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/nyse-s-plan-to-challenge-cme-in-rate-futures-scheduled-to-begin-march-21.html
  NYSE Euronext ’s plan to compete with  CME Group Inc . by allowing investors to reduce their margin for
offsetting interest-rate futures and U.S. Treasury positions
will begin March 21.  New York Portfolio Clearing, the venture between NYSE
Euronext and the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., received
approval from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
offer investors the margin offset, the company said in a
statement today. It’s targeting CME Group’s 98 percent share of
U.S. futures trading. Chicago-based CME Group said two days ago
that it would offer the same type of margin reduction between
futures and cash Treasury positions by the end of the month.  CME Group has beaten back efforts over the past decade by
Eurex AG and Euronext.liffe, now NYSE Liffe, to take business
from its Treasury and interest-rate future franchises, two of
its largest products. Unlike those attempts,  New York  Portfolio
Clearing doesn’t aim to compete against CME Group on the price
of the transaction. It will offer cross margining to reduce how
much cash investors have to post to clearinghouses to back their
trades.  “Our efforts have been based on bringing some sort of
catalyst to competition in the futures market,” Walt Lukken,
chief executive officer of New York Portfolio Clearing, said on
a conference call with reporters today. He dismissed CME Group’s
similar plan as lacking details.  ‘Highest Form of Flattery’  “Imitation is the highest form of flattery, so we think
we’re on to something,” said Lukken, the former acting chairman
of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The New York
Portfolio offer “is the kind of value that can’t be replicated
in press releases.”  “With over 37 million contracts in open interest in our  interest rates  complex, we are continually looking to enhance
and improve our overall set of products and services for our
global customer base,” Michael Shore, a CME Group spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Improving margin efficiencies
builds on our successful track record in new product
development.”  NYSE Euronext’s New York-based exchange NYSE Liffe U.S.
will offer futures trading for Eurodollar contracts on March 21,
followed by futures on 2-, 5- and 10-year U.S. Treasuries
pending regulatory approval, NYSE Euronext said in a separate
statement today.  65% Savings  CME’s interest-rate futures, consisting of Eurodollar and
Treasury contracts, are the company’s largest single source of
revenue, according to a  presentation  it gave last month when
discussing fourth-quarter earnings.  Investors may save as much as 65 percent in futures margin
costs for interest-rate futures and  U.S. Treasuries , CME Group
said earlier this week. The savings can be granted if an
investor owns a Treasury bill and an offsetting short futures
position, for example. The risk would be viewed as effectively
flat on the trade, reducing the amount of cash pledged to the
clearinghouse.  Lukken said investors would be able to save on average 15
percent to 30 percent in margin cost on a combined cash and
derivatives portfolio with his company’s proposal, with higher
savings coming from cash and derivatives positions that are well
matched.  “Anyone trying to compete or advertise the degree of
capital efficiency isn’t being reflective of the realities of
complex client portfolios,” said Tom Callahan, chief executive
officer of NYSE Liffe U.S.  Liffe U.S. Ownership  NYSE Liffe U.S. is partly owned by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc .,  Morgan Stanley , UBS AG, Citadel LLC, Getco LLC and DRW
Ventures LLC. Liffe U.S. got its start by buying the metals
futures operation from the Chicago Board of Trade in 2008 after
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange bought CBOT in 2007.  CME Group fell $2.46 to $304.04 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. NYSE Euronext was down 17 cents to $36.33 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Eurex is a unit of Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG . Last
month,  Deutsche Boerse  announced a $9.5 billion takeover of NYSE
Euronext that would create the world’s largest exchange
operator.  New York Portfolio Clearing plans to allow several
exchanges or trading platforms to connect to its clearinghouse,
giving investors the ability to offset margins using a variety
of products that span asset classes and close out contracts at
any of the connected units. That would differ from CME Group,
where investors who enter into Eurodollar contracts or other
futures must close out their transactions at the exchange,
what’s known as vertical clearing.  ‘Open Access’  “‘Open access’ architecture will enable other derivatives
exchanges and clearinghouses to link into the ‘one-pot’
margining system, providing a viable alternative to the dominant
vertical clearing model and enabling new entrants to compete in
the U.S. futures market,” the company said.  Clearinghouses , capitalized by their members, are intended
to lessen the effects of a bank default by guaranteeing
counterparty payment. Each day they collect margins on open
trades to keep accounts current and allow regulators to monitor
prices and positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 