-- 
O’Brien Hits Fastest Hundred as Ireland Stuns England at Cricket World Cup

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-02T22:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/o-brien-s-100-helps-ireland-stun-england-in-cricket-world-cup-in-india.html
Kevin O’Brien scored the fastest
Cricket  World Cup  century to lead Ireland to a three-wicket win
over England in one of the biggest upsets in the tournament’s
35-year history.  O’Brien reached 100 in 50 balls and totaled 113 as Ireland,
which rarely plays against cricket’s elite teams, chased down
England’s 327-8 with four balls to spare in Bangalore, India.
O’Brien and Alex Cusack shared a 162-run stand to set their team
on the way to the highest successful World Cup run chase.  “I’m pretty speechless at the moment,” O’Brien, who plays
for English team Northamptonshire, said in televised comments.
“To be honest, it’s the best innings I’ve ever played since I
started playing cricket. I just kept going and kept believing
and it went our way.”  Ireland’s first win in four attempts against  England  lifts
it into  10th place  in the International Cricket Council’s one-
day rankings and leaves the English with three points from as
many games as they seek a first World Cup title.  England, whose only win so far was against the Netherlands,
remains in second place in Group B. Ireland moves up to fifth
after two games. The top four from each of the two groups
advance to the quarterfinals after a round-robin competition.  Ireland next plays group leader India on March 6, while
England plays  South Africa  the same day.  The South Africans play their second game today against the
Netherlands in Mohali, India, while 1992 champion  Pakistan  faces  Canada  in a Group A match in Colombo.  1,000 Runs  England’s  Jonathan Trott  reached 1,000 one-day runs on his
way to making 92. He was supported by Ian Bell, with 81, and
Kevin Pietersen’s 59. Their efforts weren’t enough as the green-
shirted Irish celebrated on the field at M Chinnaswamy Stadium.  O’Brien beat the previous record for the fastest century,
held by  Australia ’s Matthew Hayden, who reached triple figures
in 66 balls against South Africa at the last tournament, in the
West Indies in 2007. Ireland’s successful chase eclipses  Sri
Lanka ’s 313-7 against Zimbabwe in 1992.  Ireland was 111-5 when Cusack joined O’Brien in the middle.
He scored 47 in 58 balls and kept O’Brien company as the 26-
year-old tore into the English bowlers.  “I was just trying to knock it around for Kev because he’s
got the power,” Cusack said. “He’s got the big shots.”  O’Brien struck six sixes and 13 fours in his 63-ball
innings.  England captain Andrew Strauss bemoaned his players’
efforts in the field. Catching chances off O’Brien, who was
eventually run out, and Cusack were missed.  “Our World Cup dream is not over, but we’ve been
hemorrhaging runs too quickly,” Strauss said. “We’ve got to go
away, lick our wounds.”  The tournament, co-hosted by  India , Sri Lanka and  Bangladesh , ends April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  