-- 
Obama Proposes Panel to Cut Government Property Costs

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-02T18:44:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/obama-to-propose-advisory-panel-to-cut-government-property-costs.html
President  Barack Obama  is proposing
today to create an advisory panel to come up with a list of
unneeded federal properties that can be sold to save taxpayer
money.  The panel would examine 14,000 federal properties that are
no longer needed and thousands more that are underutilized,
which could save as much as $15 billion over three years by
selling or consolidating some facilities, according to Jeffrey Zients, the Office of Management and Budget’s deputy director
for management.  The government owns 1.2 million individual properties
around the country, Zients said, at a cost of $20 billion a
year.  “The government doesn’t need all these properties,”
Zients said told reporters at the White House today.  Members of the property advisory board would come from the
private and public sectors, would make recommendations on what
to do with excess federal buildings and structures, according to
an administration statement. To speed the process, the
recommendations would be submitted in a package to Congress for
an up-or-down vote.  Zients said the panel, the creation of which would require
congressional approval, would be able to cut through the red-
tape that has for years prevented the government from unloading
properties it doesn’t need.  ‘Proven Approach’  “This is a proven approach,” Zients said, citing the Base
Realignment and Closure Commission, which was created to deal
with disposing of unneeded military facilities.  The  BRAC Commission  reviewed, analyzed and voted on the
Defense Department’s recommendations for closure or realignment
of military installations. The final lists are submitted to
Congress, which must consider the recommendations as a group.
There have been five BRAC rounds since 1988, most recently in
2005. The intent is to sidestep political fights among lawmakers
over federal facilities, and the jobs they bring, in their
districts.  Obama has proposed other steps to reduce the federal  budget
deficit , including freezing salaries for some government
employees, eliminating spending increases for some non-security
discretionary spending programs, overhauling technology spending
and eliminating redundant programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  