-- 
Ohio Debate Over Collective-Bargaining Shifts to House of Representatives

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ohio-senate-panel-passes-bill-limiting-collective-bargaining.html
Ohio’s speaker of the  House of
Representatives  plans a “thoughtful and deliberative” review
of a bill limiting collective-bargaining rights for government
employees that passed the Senate and has sparked protests, a
spokesman said.  Committee hearings may start as early as next week, and
there is no timetable for a vote on the bill, said Mike Dittoe,
a spokesman for Speaker William Batchelder, a Republican from
Medina.  “The speaker knows that there’s a lot of information in
this bill that needs to be digested,” Dittoe said in a
telephone interview.  The Ohio Senate passed the bill 17-16 yesterday, with all
Democrats and six Republicans objecting. Senators debated the
bill in front of a packed  Senate chamber , where spectators
included six men wearing firefighter helmets. Protesters outside
listened to the proceedings, and their cheers and jeers could be
heard inside. There were shouts of “shame” after the bill
passed.  Senator Shannon Jones, the bill’s sponsor, acknowledged the
demonstrators, though she said the measure is needed to give
state and local governments the ability to cut costs and lower
the number of firings needed in the face of budget reductions.  “I understand that change is hard,” Jones, a Republican,
said during the debate. “But sometimes change is the only
option because the status quo has failed us.”  Republicans control the  Ohio  House by a 59-to-40 margin,
and Governor John Kasich supports the bill.  “This is a major step forward in correcting the imbalance
between taxpayers and the government unions that work for
them,” Kasich said in a statement after yesterday’s vote.  ‘Bust Unions’  Democrats and labor leaders in Ohio have called the bill an
attempt to “bust unions.” They say that it isn’t needed
because workers have accepted concessions, and that it gives too
much power to governments in contract negotiations.  State Senator Tom Sawyer, a Democrat, said he was in the
Legislature when the current collective-bargaining law was
passed in 1983. The law has limited the number of strikes by
government unions to five during the past three years, with none
last year, he said.  “It has worked, and it is working,” Sawyer said during
debate. “It may not be perfect, but I would submit that this is
not the time to tear this apart.”  With states facing projected total deficits of $125
billion, according to the Washington-based Center on Policy and
Budget Priorities, governors including Kasich and fellow
Republican  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin are seeking to require
government workers to pay more for health care and pensions
while restricting their power to negotiate future contracts.  Wisconsin Democrats  The Wisconsin Assembly passed a bill curtailing government
union power while a boycott by Senate Democrats stalled the
measure.  The Ohio bill would allow about 360,000 state and local
government unions to bargain only for wages, hours and working
conditions, as well as require workers to pay at least 15
percent of their health-care premiums. It would also prohibit
governments from contributing toward workers’ share of pension
costs.  The measure also would ban strikes by government unions,
though the Senate removed an amendment that would have imposed
fines of up to $1,000 and 30 days in jail for offenders. The
measure eliminates binding arbitration and lets a legislative
body accept the final offer from a union or government employer
if a negotiated agreement can’t be achieved.  Supporters got the seventh vote they needed to move the
bill out of the Senate Insurance, Commerce and Labor Committee
yesterday after Senator Bill Seitz from western Hamilton, who
opposed the bill, was replaced on the committee by fellow
Republican Senator Cliff Hite, who voted for it.  ‘Tails You Lose’  Seitz said during debate that the bill restricts the
ability of police and fire unions to negotiate. He also objected
to letting a legislative body accept a final offer, which he
called a “heads-I-win, tails-you-lose solution.”  Leaders of police and fire unions said that the legislation
will jeopardize the safety of their members by prohibiting them
from negotiating for equipment, including bullet-proof vests.  “I should have the right to stand up and ask for things
that could save my life,” Jay McDonald, president of the
26,000-member Fraternal Order of Police of Ohio, said during a
press conference at the Statehouse.  Claim Disputed  Republican Senate President Thomas Niehaus disputed that
interpretation, telling reporters after the vote yesterday,
“Who in their right mind is going to put safety personnel out
on the street with inadequate protection?”  Niehaus said he decided to replace Seitz to ensure the bill
would come before the full Senate. The terms for settling
disputes are appropriate because legislative bodies are elected
and accountable for the tax dollars they spend, he said.  Ohio voters may get the final say on the bill. If the
Legislature passes the measure in its current form, there will
be a move to repeal it, Democratic Senator Joe Schiavoni said.  To place the issue on a statewide ballot and put the law on
hold until then, petition forms with more than 231,000 valid
signatures of registered voters must be collected by July 6,
according to the Ohio secretary of state’s office. The number of
signatures required is 6 percent of the total vote cast for
governor last year.  Kasich plans to release his proposed budget for the next
biennium on March 15. Ohio faces a potential deficit of $8
billion, Kasich has said. He has promised to balance the
spending plan without raising taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  New York  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  