-- 
Oil Trades Near 29-Month High in New York on Middle East Supply Concern

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-02T13:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/oil-trades-near-29-month-high-in-new-york-on-middle-east-supply-concern.html
Oil traded near its highest closing
price in 29 months in  New York  on concern that the unrest
curbing crude exports from Libya will spread to the Middle East.  Crude futures gained as much as 1 percent as Libyan rebels
braced for renewed clashes with forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index extended its
biggest plunge in two years on concern disturbances may extend
to the kingdom, the biggest supplier in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. The U.S. Energy Department will
release weekly supply data today.  “With the shut-downs in Libya and possibility for more in
other producing areas, the potential for a rise to $130, $140 is
of course there,” said Gerrit Zambo, a trader at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich. “You can’t rule out that we might see
this same unrest in Saudi Arabia.”  Oil for April delivery gained as much as $1.01 to $100.64 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $100.54 at 1:27 p.m. London time.
Yesterday, the contract rose 2.7 percent to $99.63, the highest
since close September 2008. Prices are 25 percent higher
compared with a year ago.    Brent crude  for April settlement was at $116.06 a barrel,
64 cents higher, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Yesterday, it climbed $3.62, or 3.2 percent, to
$115.42, the highest settlement since Aug. 27, 2008.  Gasoline surged to the highest level in New York since
August 2008 yesterday, with the April contract gaining as much
as 10.6 cents to $3.0179 a gallon.  Record Prices  Prices in the U.K. surged past 130 pence a liter ($8 a
gallon) yesterday for the first time, according to the
Automobile Association, the nation’s largest motoring
organization. On average, the pump price of gasoline was 130.03
pence a liter, while diesel averaged 135.44 pence.  A U.S. Energy Department report today may show crude
inventories rose 750,000 barrels last week from 346.7 million
barrels, according to the median of 17 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. It would be the seventh week of gains.
The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday
that supplies fell 1.1 million barrels.  Fighting in Libya may have shut as much as 850,000 to 1
million barrels a day of the North Africa’s output, according to
the  International Energy Agency .  Demonstrators clashed with security forces in Tehran
yesterday. Iran’s Foreign Ministry said issues related to
opposition figures in the country are “internal affairs,”
without commenting on allegations by dissidents that authorities
had detained the main opposition leaders Mehdi Karrubi and Mir- Hossein Mousavi.  Iran  pumped 3.7 million barrels a day in
February, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Oman Protests  In Oman, the largest Middle Eastern producer outside of
OPEC, protesters blocked a highway linking the northern city of
Sohar to the capital Muscat yesterday as the army set up
checkpoints around Sohar and inspected vehicles. The country
pumped 885,600 barrels of oil a day in January, according to
data reported by the state-run Oman News Agency.  Riots from  Morocco  to Bahrain have toppled leaders in
Tunisia and  Egypt  and there have been protests in Yemen, to the
south of  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest crude exporter.
Websites have called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on
March 11 and 20, according to  Human Rights Watch .  Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index dropped 2.6 percent
today, taking declines this week to 14 percent.  Saudi Oil  Prices will probably decline to below $100 a barrel as
Saudi Arabia releases supply from its reserves and demand drops
from elevated December levels,  Andrew Garthwaite , an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note today. The rise in prices
is “manageable,” he said.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co.’s Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al- Falih this week said the kingdom is “ready to supply
incremental change in demand,” to cover any shortfall from  Libya . Saudi Arabia pumped 8.43 million barrels a day of oil in
February, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The kingdom offered two European refiners additional
cargoes of Arab Light crude for loading in March to make up for
the loss of Libyan oil, two officials involved in the
negotiations said.  One refiner turned down the offer as the quality of the
crude didn’t meet its requirements while the other has yet to
make a final decision, said the officials, who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  