-- 
Holcim Profit Jumps, Proposes Higher-Than-Estimated Payout

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-03-02T12:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/holcim-profit-jumps-proposes-higher-than-estimated-payout.html
  Holcim Ltd ., the world’s second-
biggest cement maker, reported a jump in fourth-quarter profit
and proposed paying shareholders a higher-than-estimated
dividend after cutting costs.  Net income gained to 307 million Swiss francs ($331
million) from 271 million francs a year earlier, the Jona,
Switzerland-based company said today. Analysts predicted profit
of 143.9 million francs. Management proposed a dividend of 1.5
francs, compared with a Bloomberg forecast of 1.35 francs.  Holcim, which cut 312 million francs in costs this year,
said sales would rise in 2011, led by  Asia  and the start of a
gradual recovery in Europe and  North America  in the second half.
The company has cut jobs, closed factories and centralized
support workers in regions worst hit by the recession such as
eastern  Europe  and the U.S.  “They’ve done a great job in terms of the cost take-out,”
said Tim Cahill, an analyst at J&E Davy Holdings Ltd, who has an
“outperform” rating on the stock. “It’s very positive in
terms of the outlook. That’s what people will focus on today.
They see volume growth in North America and Asia.”  Holcim fell 1.2 percent to 67.5 francs in Zurich trading as
of 11:40 a.m., tracking a general decline in European stocks.
They have dropped 4.5 percent this year for a market value of
22.1 billion francs.  Lafarge SA  of  France  has declined 8.4
percent in the same period.  More Upbeat  The Swiss company was more upbeat in its outlook than
Lafarge, which said this month it was bracing itself for a tough
year in the building-material industry and for the company. The
French cement maker may be poised to lose a battle to retain its
investment grade credit rating after debt swelled and markets
deteriorated, prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to place the company
on review for a possible downgrade.  Holcim’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in Europe fell by 15 percent as cost-cutting
measures failed to counter a decline in volumes and prices.  Overall, sales at Holcim declined 5 percent to 5.09 billion
francs, with the fall limited by growth in  India , where the
company is adding kilns and grinding stations to meet pent-up
local demand for houses and infrastructure.  Adding Capacity  Holcim is building capacity in Russia and central Asia to
take advantage of faster growth there. The company will
commission a kiln line this quarter at its Shurovo,  Russia  plant
to replace an old, Soviet-era wet line. Other projects for this
year include a new kiln in  Azerbaijan  and a cement plant in
Tuban, Indonesia, Holcim said.  “The main focus of the expansion has been and still is on
the emerging markets, where needs in the housing and
infrastructure sectors are on a huge scale and will continue to
grow as urbanization continues,” the company said today at a
press conference in Zurich.  Cement companies face the double challenge of struggling
construction markets such as the Middle East and rising costs
for fuel to power kilns. Holcim has already announced price
increases in several countries and is planning more, Chief
Executive Officer Markus Akermann said today at the conference.  “A big part of the story is rising input costs,” Cahill
said. “But they’re going to be successful in passing on costs.
I see margin expansion. Pricing power is a lot stronger than
people think.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in  Frankfurt  on 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  