-- 
Hong Kong’s $5.2 Billion Budget Handout U-Turn May Fuel Inflation Threat

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-03-02T16:38:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/hong-kong-s-5-2-billion-budget-handout-u-turn-may-fuel-inflation-threat.html
  Hong Kong ’s decision to hand out
HK$40.5 billion ($5.2 billion) in cash and tax rebates in its
latest budget may stoke inflation, which Financial Secretary
John Tsang said was the economy’s main threat this year.  Tsang yesterday abandoned a Feb. 23 budget  plan  to inject
HK$24 billion into pension fund accounts, caving into demand
from lawmakers for a cash handout and tax rebates, after polls
showed the government’s popularity slumped.  “The move was a reaction to the political backlash from
the budget that pleased nobody last week, rather than something
that the economy really needs,” said Joseph Lau, a Hong Kong-
based economist at Societe Generale SA. The handouts will
“certainly have an impact on inflation driven by domestic
demand.”  Inflation in the city may reach 4.5 percent this year, the
fastest gain since 1997, Tsang forecast last week, as rising
commodity costs, low  interest rates  and capital flows from
developed economies stoke prices. Hong Kong Chief Executive
Donald Tsang was assaulted at a public event on March 1 by
protesters who said he was ignoring the plight of the poor.  The government now plans to give HK$6,000 to permanent
residents aged 18 or above, and will also give the 38 percent of
the workforce that pays income tax a 75 percent rebate capped at
HK$6,000. It scrapped a plan to give workers HK$6,000 each in
their pension accounts.  “We find this is the best way to respond to demands from
residents and the most important thing for now is to strive for
consensus,” John Tsang told reporters yesterday, saying
complaints were heard “loud and clear.’”  Battling Inflation  Inflation is accelerating in  Asia  from  Singapore  to
Vietnam, spurring governments to raise interest rates and let
currencies appreciate. China, India, Indonesia,  South Korea ,
Thailand and  Vietnam  all increased borrowing costs this year,
widening the gap with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s near-zero
benchmark rate  Tsang said when he announced his budget a week ago that
battling inflation and getting ahead of a property bubble are
his government’s main tasks this year. The cash handouts will
cost the government about HK$36 billion and the tax rebates
almost HK$4.5 billion, government spokesman Patrick Wong said.  The financial secretary said earlier that the  pension plan 
was preferable because it benefited more workers and wouldn’t
drive up prices. There was to have been no tax rebate for the
first time in four years in the original budget.  Chief Executive Donald Tsang’s popularity “dropped
sharply” and satisfaction with the initial budget “plummeted
amid waves of public anger,” the University of Hong Kong said
on its  website , citing results from a poll.    Living Standards   China Premier  Wen Jiabao  told Hong Kong’s Donald Tsang to
address “deep-rooted contradictions” in society in December
2009. A year later, he told Tsang to improve living standards.  “The fact that half a year of hard work preparing the
budget can be thrown away and started again shows populism and
not rationality dictates the policy-making process,” said Ivan Choi, a lecturer at the  Chinese University of Hong Kong ’s
government and politics department. “The government will pay
for the damage done to its integrity.”  The number of Hong Kong’s 7 million people living in
poverty rose to a record 1.26 million in the first half of 2010,
from 1.2 million the prior year, the Hong Kong Council of Social
Service, an advisory body to the government, said in an Oct. 3
report. The wealth of the city’s 40 richest people grew 20
percent to $163 billion from $135 billion in 2010, according to
Forbes Magazine in January.  Under the new budget plan, handouts will also benefit about
6 million residents, including housewives, retirees and other
residents who don’t have a mandatory pension fund account.  Lawmakers Vote  Lawmakers will vote on the budget proposal on April 13, the
Legislative Council said on its website.  Inflation in the city accelerated to the fastest pace in 29
months in January.  The  Democratic Party  of Hong Kong said earlier it will hold
a demonstration against the budget on March 6, and other
political parties including the Democratic Alliance for the
Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong have said the government
should have done more, including giving cash.  The fiscal reserve will probably rise this financial year
to HK$591.6 billion, or 34 percent of gross domestic product,
the financial secretary said. The government will likely have a
surplus of HK$71.3 billion by the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  