-- 
Hong Kong's Tsang to Hand Out Cash, Tax Rebates After Backlash Over Budget

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-03-02T06:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/hong-kong-to-give-residents-cash-tax-rebates-after-backlash-over-budget.html
  Hong Kong ’s financial secretary
caved in to protests over plans to bolster residents’ pension
funds, opting to hand out cash and tax rebates that a week ago
he said would stoke inflation.  John Tsang said he will give HK$6,000 ($770) to permanent
residents aged 18 or above, abandoning a Feb. 23 budget  plan  to
inject the same amount into their pension fund accounts after
polls showed the government’s popularity slumped. The government
also plans to give the 38 percent of the workforce that pays
income tax a 75 percent rebate capped at HK$6,000.  “The fact that half a year of hard work preparing the
budget can be thrown away and started again shows populism and
not rationality dictates the policy-making process,” said Ivan
Choi, a lecturer at the  Chinese University of Hong Kong ’s
government and politics department. “The government will pay
for the damage done to its integrity.”  Political parties attacked Tsang for failing to do enough
to alleviate the impact of soaring food and housing costs. Asian
governments are grappling with inflation fueled by rising
commodity costs and capital flows from developed economies drawn
by the region’s faster economic growth.  Tsang said when he announced his budget a week ago that
battling inflation and getting ahead of a property bubble are
his government’s main tasks this year. The cash handouts and tax
rebates will cost the government about HK$40.5 billion, a
government spokesman Patrick Wong said today. The pension
handout was to cost the government HK$24 billion.  Pension Fund  The financial secretary said earlier that the  pension plan 
was preferable because it benefited more workers and wouldn’t
drive up prices. There was to have been no tax rebate for the
first time in four years in the original budget.  Chief Executive Donald Tsang’s popularity “dropped
sharply” and satisfaction with the budget “plummeted amid
waves of public anger,” the University of Hong Kong said on its
 website , citing results from a poll conducted after the budget
announcement.  The chief executive, the highest-ranked official in the
Chinese semi-autonomous city, was yesterday assaulted at a
public event by protesters who said he was ignoring the plight
of the poor. Tsang has come under pressure from top leaders in
Beijing over social discontent in Hong Kong.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  told him to address “deep-rooted
contradictions” in society in December 2009. A year later, he
told Tsang to improve  living standards  in the city.  Poverty Problem  The number of Hong Kong’s 7 million people living in
poverty rose to a record 1.26 million in the first half of 2010,
from 1.2 million the prior year, the Hong Kong Council of Social
Service, an advisory body to the government, said in an Oct. 3
report. The wealth of Hong Kong’s 40 richest people grew 20
percent to $163 billion from $135 billion in 2010, according to
Forbes Magazine in January.  Under the plan announced today, handouts will also benefit
about 6 million residents, including housewives, retirees and
other residents who don’t have a mandatory pension fund account.  “The immediate cash handouts will add to inflationary
pressure in the city, as this will boost already-strong domestic
demand and push up prices,” said Irina Fan, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Hang Seng Bank Ltd., a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc.  Inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 29 months in
January, and the financial secretary forecast consumer prices
this year will rise 4.5 percent, the highest level since 1997.  Lawmakers will vote on the budget proposal on April 13, the
Legislative Council said on its website.  ‘Should Do More’  The  Democratic Party  said earlier it will hold a
demonstration against the budget on March 6 and other political
parties including the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and
Progress of Hong Kong have said the government should have done
more, including giving cash.  “We find this is the best way to respond to demands from
residents and the most important thing for now is to strive for
consensus,” John Tsang told reporters today.  The fiscal reserve will probably rise this financial year
to HK$591.6 billion, or 34 percent of gross domestic product,
the financial secretary said. The government will likely have a
surplus of HK$71.3 billion by the end of March.  The Singapore government said last month it will give
S$1.55 billion ($1.22 billion) in cash to all adult citizens as
a “dividend” from record growth.  Singapore’s GDP expanded 12 percent from a year earlier in
the most recent quarter, compared with 2.7 percent growth in the  United States . Hong Kong’s GDP grew by 6.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  