-- 
Canada’s Dollar Strengthens After Oil Tops $100 a Barrel Amid Libya Unrest

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-02T22:18:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/loonie-trades-at-more-than-as-three-year-high-as-oil-tops-100-a-barrel.html
  Canada ’s dollar gained against its
U.S. counterpart for the fifth time in six days as oil, the
nation’s biggest export, advanced above $100 a barrel.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the waterfowl
on the C$1 coin, traded a more than three-year high as Libyan
crude exports dropped about 50 percent during the uprising
against Muammar Qaddafi’s regime. The currency rebounded from
losses yesterday, when Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  left
the benchmark rate unchanged and reiterated that a strong
currency poses economic challenges.  The Canadian currency “has done quite a bit better than we
would have expected over the last few weeks essentially because
oil prices have been quite a bit higher on the back of the
Middle East and North Africa tensions,” said  Shaun Osborne ,
chief currency strategist in Toronto at Toronto-Dominion Bank.
“For the moment, the bank is continuing to play a fairly dovish
hand with its statement yesterday.”  The Canadian currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 97.31
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.48
yesterday. It reached 96.84 cents yesterday, the strongest level
since November 2007. One Canadian dollar purchases C$1.0276.  Crude oil for April delivery increased as much as 2.9
percent to $102.50 a barrel in New York as Libyan forces loyal
to Qaddafi attacked rebels on the east coast where much of the
country’s oil is refined and shipped abroad. Prices extended
gains after a U.S. Energy Department report showed that crude
and fuel supplies fell last week. Oil touched $103.41 on Feb.
24, the highest since September 2008.  Commodities Rally    Oil prices  close to and above $100 have helped the
Canadian dollar,” said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova Scotia
currency strategist in Toronto. “Sentiment has remained fairly
strong towards Canada.”  Other commodities also gained. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rose for a
fourth day, led by sugar and cotton.  “Canada is still receiving support from the commodity
prices,” said  Dean Popplewell , an analyst in Toronto at the
online  currency-trading  firm Oanda Corp. “Whatever the Bank of
Canada and Governor Carney have been saying tentatively to try
to talk down the currency is just giving the loonie bulls an
opportunity to buy the loonie at a better value.”  The  Bank of Canada , which led the Group of Seven nations
with three interest-rate increases last year, yesterday held its
target rate for overnight lending between commercial banks at 1
percent, where it’s been since September. The decision matched
the forecasts of all 29 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Five-Year Auction  “There is early evidence of a recovery in net exports,
supported by stronger U.S. activity and global demand for
commodities,” Carney and his five deputies said in a statement.
Exporters still face “considerable challenges” from a currency
trading near three-year highs and “poor relative
productivity,” the Ottawa-based bank said.  Canada sold C$3.2 billion of 5-year bonds today maturing in
June 2016 with a 2 percent coupon. The average yield was 2.70
percent, and the bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
2.32.  The last five-year auction Jan. 12 sold C$3.2 billion and
drew an average yield of 2.674 percent as demand exceeded supply
by 2.30 times. The spread between U.S. and Canadian five-year
securities was 55 basis points at the last sale, compared with a
five-year average of 6 basis points. Canadian securities yielded
48 basis points more today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  