-- 
Toronto Role as Financial Hub Won't Decline in TMX, LSE Deal, Rolet Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-02T21:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/toronto-role-as-financial-hub-won-t-decline-in-tmx-lse-deal-rolet-says.html
Toronto’s role as the hub of
Canadian capital markets won’t be diminished in any future
takeovers by a merged  TMX Group Inc . and  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc , LSE Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  told an
Ontario parliamentary hearing.  “Regardless of the type of transaction that we, as a
merged group, may entertain in the future, separate Canadian-
based governance, management and regulatory oversight for
Canadian exchanges will always remain in place,” Rolet said.  Rolet and TMX CEO Thomas Kloet answered questions on the
C$3.2 billion ($3.29 billion) transaction during the committee
hearing in Toronto. Lawmakers asked the CEOs about control of
the combined company, regulatory issues, its operations, and
economic impacts.  “Canadians and Ontarians are rightfully worried about what
this is going to mean to Canada over the longer term,” said
Gilles Bisson, a lawmaker from the opposition  New Democratic
Party .  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan of the ruling  Liberal Party  called the Toronto exchange a “strategic asset”
and has questioned the impact of the deal on the province and
country. TMX and LSE shareholder  Thomas Caldwell , CEO of
Caldwell Securities Ltd., has said there is a “50-50” chance
the sale will be approved by Canadian lawmakers.  ‘Best Interests’  “We have to be able to ensure that the stakeholders --
whether that be the issuers, the shareholders or the economies
of Ontario and rest of Canada -- that whatever takes place here
has to be in our best interests,” Progressive Conservative
lawmaker Frank Klees said after the hearing.  The TMX-LSE transaction requires approval from the federal
government and five Canadian provincial regulators including
Ontario and  Quebec , as well as the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “Any future transaction would serve to further expand
Toronto’s role in global financial services, not diminish it,”
Rolet  said.   TMX Group CEO Thomas Kloet told lawmakers the transaction
will create more job opportunities for lawyers, accountants,
geologists and other professionals who work in the financial
sector.  “As trading volumes and liquidity rise, so will the need
for Canadian (mainly Toronto-based) market participating
organizations to grow in parallel,” Kloet said today.  Separate Board  He added that the Toronto exchange will have a separate
board from the combined holding company and that the Ontario
Securities Commission will maintain its regulatory oversight of
the bourse.  “The Toronto Stock Exchange will operate for all intents
and purposes as before,” he said.  The LSE agreed Feb. 9 to buy the Toronto Stock Exchange
owner in an all-stock transaction that would give shareholders
of the London-based company 55 percent of the Canadian exchange
owner, with the rest held by TMX investors.  Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement has said he will
review the TMX deal under the Investment  Canada  Act to determine
if the transaction has a “net benefit” to the country.  Bisson said safeguards need to be in place to protect
Canadian interests as the combined company merges with other
exchange owners in the future. He suggested TMX should be the
acquirer of the  London  exchange owner.  ‘Buy Them Out’  “We should buy them out, and if we don’t buy them out we
need to certainly safeguard,” Bisson said. “If we don’t have
the safeguards this shouldn’t happen.”  Other speakers at the Ontario hearing included Frank Smeenk, president of Montreal-based minerals explorer KWG
Resources Inc., Wellington Financial CEO Mark McQueen, and Alpha
Group CEO Jos Schmitt, whose company operates an alternative
trading system that competes with TMX.  Speakers scheduled tomorrow morning include Maude Barlow of
the Council of Canadians, a non-government organization; and  Roger Martin , dean of Rotman School of Management at the  University of Toronto . Other hearings are scheduled for March 9
and March 10.  TMX Group fell 7 cents to C$40.49 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. LSE fell 11 pence to 885
pence in London.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; Nick
Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  