-- 
Mortgage Applications in the U.S. Dropped Last Week as Purchases Declined

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-02T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/mortgage-applications-in-u-s-fell-last-week-as-purchases-slid.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
fell last week, reflecting declines in purchases and refinancing
that signal a lasting housing recovery will take time to
develop.  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s index of loan
applications decreased 6.5 percent in the week ended Feb. 25.
The group’s purchase index dropped 6.1 percent, and its
refinancing gauge declined 6.5 percent.  Unemployment at 9 percent may be holding back sales, at the
same time mounting foreclosures limit construction and depress  house prices . Recent gains in borrowing costs also have removed
some of the incentive for purchases and refinancing, delaying a
sustained rebound in the industry that triggered the recession.  “The housing market is still fragile,”  Russell Price , a
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said
before the report. “But it looks like we are bouncing along the
bottom rather than seeing new downside.”  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan declined last week
to 4.84 percent from 5 percent the prior week. Borrowing costs
have been moving up after reaching 4.21 percent in October, the
lowest since the group’s records began in 1990.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage fell to 4.17
percent from 4.28 percent.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan dropped
to 64.9 percent last week from 65.7 percent the prior week.  Purchases of new houses fell 13 percent in January,
Commerce Department figures showed. Sales of previously owned
homes, which make up more than 90 percent of the market, climbed
to the highest level in eight months, led by rising demand for
distressed properties, according to the National Association of
Realtors.  2011 Foreclosures  The number of homes receiving a foreclosure notice will
climb about 20 percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing
crisis, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an  Irvine , California-
based dataseller.  Builders have pulled back. Housing permits fell 10 percent
in January, according to Commerce Department figures.  Homebuilders see little improvement. D.R. Horton Inc., the
second-largest U.S. homebuilder by stock-market value, on Jan.
27 reported a fiscal first-quarter loss that was wider than
analysts projected.  “I don’t see anything in ‘11 that’s going to make ‘11
better than ‘10,” D.R. Horton Chief Executive Officer Donald
Tomnitz said during a conference call. “We need job growth, we
need  consumer confidence  and we still have issues with
qualifying people with tighter mortgage underwriting”
standards.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell
2.4 percent in December from a year earlier, the biggest 12-
month decrease since December 2009. Prices were down 31 percent
from their peak in July 2006, the data showed.  The Washington-based  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s loan
survey, compiled every week, covers about half of all U.S.
retail residential mortgage originations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  