-- 
REITs Bolster Mortgages With Share Sale ‘Surge’: Credit Markets

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-03-02T11:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/mortgage-reit-surge-adds-50-billion-of-bond-buying-fuel-credit-markets.html
Investors are pouring the most money
in at least five years into publicly traded funds that buy
mortgage assets, bolstering the market for the debt and reducing
borrowing costs for homeowners.    Annaly Capital Management Inc . and  American Capital Agency
Corp . led real estate investment trusts that have raised almost
$6 billion in share sales in the past three months. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. estimated in a Feb. 26 report that this “surge” of
equity investment may fuel purchases of as much as $50 billion
of additional government-backed mortgage bonds, based on how
much they typically borrow.  Investors are offering more capital to so-called REITs,
with dividends averaging 13 percent, because their borrowing
costs are being held at close to zero by the  Federal Reserve 
while they buy higher yielding, mostly U.S.-guaranteed
securities. One measure of the potential profits from such
investing reached the highest in 10 months in February.  “The Fed is the key,” said Walt Schmidt, a mortgage
strategist in  Chicago  at FTN Financial, the brokerage unit of
First Horizon National Corp. “The game is only really up
regarding REIT and bank purchases if the Fed has to tighten”
liquidity, he said. Benchmark interest rates are set at a range
of zero to 0.25 percent, where they’ve been since 2008.  Using Leverage  The REITs’ growth shows how the central bank is helping to
restrain home buyers’ financing costs even after it completed
purchasing $1.25 trillion of mortgage bonds a year ago. The
companies, which don’t pay taxes as long as they distribute most
of their earnings, use leverage to multiply potential returns.  They can now earn 3.95 percentage points more than the cost
of borrowing for three months against certain mortgage bonds
through so-called  repurchase agreements , or repos. That spread
reached 4.21 percentage points last month.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the Senate Banking
Committee yesterday that he wants to see “a sustained period of
stronger  job creation ,” signaling the Fed plans to keep
borrowing costs low.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield that investors
demand to own corporate instead of government debt was unchanged
at 152 basis points yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. Yields were largely unchanged at 3.94
percent, the data show.  Harley-Davidson Financial Services Inc. led at least $3.9
billion of bond sales in the U.S. yesterday as issuance
accelerated. The lending unit sold $450 million of five-year,
3.875 percent notes that pay a spread of 175 basis points over
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. Issuance has risen to $10.8
billion in the past two days, surpassing the $7.1 billion in the
U.S. bond market sold last week, the least this year, Bloomberg
data show.    ArcelorMittal   Bonds from ArcelorMittal were the most actively traded U.S.
corporate securities by dealers yesterday with 277 trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The world’s biggest steelmaker sold $3 billion of debt on
Feb. 28 to refinance a loan due in November. The Luxembourg-
based company’s $1 billion of 6.75 percent notes due in March
2041 rose 0.3 cent to 99.5 cents on the dollar, Trace data show.
The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt was unchanged
at 230 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ally Trust-Preferreds  The U.S. Treasury Department said it plans to sell trust-
preferred securities received from Ally Financial Inc. as the
government unwinds its bailout of the Detroit-based auto and
home lender.  The securities may yield 8.125 percent for the first five
years, after which they pay 578.5 basis points more than the
three-month London interbank offered rate if not called,
according to a person familiar with the sale who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set.  Ally won’t receive proceeds from the sale of the
securities, known as TruPS, the firm said yesterday in a
 prospectus  filed with securities regulators. The Treasury got
$2.7 billion of the securities in the restructuring of Ally,
formerly known as GMAC Inc., after the firm almost collapsed
during the financial crisis.  Oil traded near its highest closing price in 29 months
today, with crude for April delivery rising as much as 1 percent
as Libyan rebels braced for renewed clashes with forces loyal to
leader  Muammar Qaddafi . The contracts were 0.2 percent higher at
$99.79 at 11:16 a.m. London time.  Loans Rise  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose
0.05 cent to 96.06 cents on the dollar yesterday. The index,
which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien
leveraged loans, is up from 92.91 at year-end and on Feb. 14
reached 96.48, the highest level since November 2007.  Calpine Corp., the Houston-based energy company that exited
bankruptcy in 2008, plans to seek a $1.3 billion seven-year
covenant-lite  term loan  as issuers seek to push out debt
maturities and lower borrowing costs.  IStar Financial Inc . and
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. are also seeking loans to refinance
debt.  Leveraged loans and  junk bonds  are rated below Baa3 at
Moody’s Investors Service or lower than BBB- at S&P.  Mortgage Rates Climb  Relative yields on emerging market debt widened one basis
point to 270 basis points, according to JPMorgan index data. The
index has increased from 219 on Jan. 5.  The three-month period since the end of November has been
the busiest for mortgage REIT share sales since at least 2005,
almost double the $3.1 billion issued in the period through
January 2008, the previous high, according to SNL Financial, a
Charlottesville, Virginia-based financial information and
research provider. Some of the REITs invest in bonds and loans
without government backing.  The largest mortgage REITs held about $115 billion of the
$5.2 trillion of agency mortgage securities guaranteed by
government-supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned
Ginnie Mae, Credit Suisse Group AG estimated in a January
report. U.S. commercial banks owned $1.09 trillion of the debt
as of Feb. 16, up from $994 billion on June 30, according to Fed
data.  The average rate on a typical 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
climbed last week to 4.95 percent from a record low of 4.17
percent in early November, according to Freddie Mac. The
difference between the cost and 10-year Treasury yields has
averaged about 1.4 percentage point this year, compared with a
1.8 percentage point gap over five years.  Annaly REIT  Annaly, the largest mortgage REIT with $83 billion of
assets at year-end, has returned 74 percent in the past two
years, including reinvested dividends. The New York-based
company’s dividend yield is now 14 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Increases in yields on longer-term bonds since September as
the Fed succeeded in boosting inflation expectations have
created an even “steeper yield curve,” contributing to demand
for Annaly’s shares that allowed the REIT to sell $3 billion in
two offerings this year, said Wellington J. Denahan-Norris, the
firm’s chief investment officer.  “Among the menu of options investors have to look at for
returns, this sector of the market provides a relatively
attractive risk-adjusted return profile,” she said in a
telephone interview.  American Capital  Three-month repo loans used by mortgage REITs cost 0.28
percent, after falling from 5.5 percent in 2007 as the Fed cut
its benchmark rate to support the economy during the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, according to data
from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  After reaching the lowest level since 2008, the gap between
the financing rates and yields on Fannie Mae’s 30-year mortgage
securities that trade closest to face value has widened from 291
basis points on Oct. 7 to 395 basis points, according to
Bloomberg and ICAP data. The spread has expanded from 17 basis
points in 2006.  American Capital Agency, the Bethesda, Maryland-based REIT
with $14.5 billion of assets as of Dec. 31, raised $753 million
in a January share sale after a $229.5 million offering in
December, its third of the year.  REITs are also drawing investors because there’s less
uncertainty about how quickly homeowners will repay their loans,
and they’re employing hedges to guard against higher  interest
rates , said Gary Kain, American Capital’s chief investment
officer.  “The REIT space is much better hedged than it was in 2003
and 2004,” he said. “We feel confident that the space can
continue making money even in the absence of a steep yield
curve.''  ‘Quite Manageable’  Higher short-term rates would reduce REITs’ investment
margins, though would be “quite manageable” until the Fed
raises them by “hundreds” of basis points, saidBose George,
an equity analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods in  New York . George
said he is recommending investors buy shares of most mortgage
REITs because the economy is probably too weak for such
increases soon.  Further gains in long-term rates may also damage REITs by
decreasing the value of current holdings, and potentially force
asset sales to help meet margin calls on their financing, he
said. While reduced homeowner refinancing in the wake of higher
loan rates last year helped REITs, “you get to a certain point
and no one can refi,” George said.  ‘Risk/Reward Proposition’  Traders assign a 67.4 percent probability to the Fed
holding rates steady through its December meeting, and a 23.9
percent chance of an increase of just 25 basis points, according
to futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange.  “People are buying agency MBS REITs due to the high
dividend yields with little consideration for the risk/reward
proposition,” said  Scott Simon , head of mortgage bonds at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  The Fed is likely to unwind its unconventional purchases of
Treasuries, agency debt and mortgage bonds, a strategy termed
quantitative easing, before it raises short-term borrowing
costs, Annaly’s Denahan-Norris said. Her company, like many
REITs, has entered into interest-rate swaps to mitigate the
effects of increases in rates, she said.  “We leave money on the table quarter in and quarter out to
try to protect the portfolio when short rates rise,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  