-- 
Total Agrees to Buy $4 Billion Stake in Novatek, Join Arctic LNG Project

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-03T11:54:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/total-agrees-to-buy-12-of-novatek-enter-yamal-lng-project.html
  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil
company, agreed to buy 12 percent of OAO Novatek and join the
Yamal LNG project to snap up reserves as international energy
producers rush to explore Russia’s Arctic resources.  “It is a good deal that has great potential,” Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  said at his residence near Moscow late
yesterday after the heads of Total and Novatek signed accords.  Total is paying about $4 billion for the Novatek stake,
said Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie. The French
explorer plans to raise its holding to 19.4 percent within three
years, according to a statement.  Global oil producers are looking to Russia to boost
reserves amid unrest in northern  Africa  and the Middle East.
Russia, the world’s biggest energy producer, needs foreign
expertise to develop projects in harsh, remote areas to maintain
output and wants to boost liquefied natural gas output to expand
in growing Asian markets and compete in Europe.  Novatek shares climbed as much as 5.9 percent to 389.97
rubles, before erasing gains to trade down 0.5 percent at 366.68
rubles at 2:53 p.m. in Moscow. Total rose as much as 2 percent
to 44.22 euros in Paris.  Novatek gained more than 30 percent in the previous three
months, raising the value of the stake to $4.7 billion based on
yesterday’s close. That is more than the company’s market value
in 2004 when Total made a failed bid to buy 25 percent.  Safe Russia  Total will gain access to equity production of 120,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day and about 1 billion barrels of
proved and probable reserves, and appoint a director to
Novatek’s board, the company said in a statement.  “Russia is today the go-to place for energy deals,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp., said in a
note today. “It has the resource base and is open for business
with clearer investment rules.”  The recent upheavals in oil and gas producing countries
show the need to be in Russia, de Margerie said yesterday in a
meeting with President  Dmitry Medvedev , according to a Russian
transcript. Russia has safer conditions for investment, he said.  Putin in January praised a planned strategic alliance
between BP Plc and state-run OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil
producer, to swap shares and explore Arctic offshore resources.
TNK-BP, BP’s oil venture with a group of billionaires, is
seeking to replace the U.K. company in that deal.  Major Deals  The Russian prime minister, who approves major energy deals
in the country, pledged “good administrative support” for
Total at a meeting with de Margerie in June.  Total will gain 20 percent of the Novatek-led Yamal LNG
project, according to yesterday’s agreement. The companies aim
to complete the deal in the first half, Total said.  “It is great that Total was picked,” said Alexander Nazarov, an oil and gas analyst at IFC Metropol in Moscow.
“Novatek has raised its chances of implementing the project.”  Total is also working with OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s gas export
monopoly, to develop the Shtokman field. De Margerie in June
urged Putin to keep the Arctic project on track. Delays have put
its first gas in 2016 and LNG in 2017. Shtokman may start in
2018, said Pyotr Sadovnik, deputy head of the subsoil resources
agency, last month.  Shtokman and Yamal won’t conflict, de Margerie said.  Main Partner  Yamal LNG aims to start producing LNG, which is gas chilled
to a liquid for transport by tanker, in 2016. The project needs
$20 billion of investment, and may reach output of 15 million
metric tons a year in 2018, according to the documents.  Novatek, which will hold 51 percent of the project, plans
to select other participants “soon,” keeping Total as the main
partner, billionaire CEO Leonid Mikhelson said.  Total is buying the stock from Mikhelson, 55, and  Gennady Timchenko , co-founder of energy trader Gunvor International BV.
Mikhelson held 27.2 percent of Novatek, while Timchenko’s
investment fund, Volga Resources SICAV SIF SA, owned almost 23.5
percent before the sale.  The two men don’t plan to significantly cut their stakes
and will exercise an option to buy 9.4 percent of Novatek,
Mikhelson said. Those shares used to belong to Gazprom, which
now holds about 10 percent of the smaller producer.  The sale may close in April, Total said.  Total’s attempt to buy 25 percent in Novatek for $900
million failed in 2005 as the Tarko-Sale, Russia-based producer
sought a higher price and decided to sell shares to the public.  “Total’s acquisition of a significant equity position in
Novatek puts the independent Russian producer even more firmly
on the map,”  Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at Eurasia Group, said
by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  