-- 
Budget-Cut Report Targets Oxygen, Imaging Companies

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-03-02T22:02:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/oxygen-and-imaging-companies-targeted-in-u-s-budget-cut-report.html
(Corrects to remove  Invacare Corp ., which does not service
oxygen equipment, in the first paragraph.)  Oxygen therapy companies led by  Lincare Holdings Inc . are among government health-care vendors
that are overpaid and should have reimbursements cut, according
to a federal budget report.  Medical-imaging services provided by companies such as Los
Angeles-based  RadNet Inc . also are being overprescribed by
doctors paid by Medicare, the U.S. health program for the
elderly and disabled, according to the report released yesterday
by the  Government Accountability Office .  “Significant potential for savings exists by profiling
physician practice patterns to encourage more efficient
provision of health-care services,” the GAO, the investigative
agency for Congress said in the  report .  Medical services may be targeted for reductions as
Republicans in Congress seek ways to cut $100 billion from the
federal budget. Medicare spending, about $500 billion annually,
is the largest single component of federal outlays. The GAO
report offered 345 pages of recommended cuts, most in areas
where the agency found overlapping or wasteful spending.  Imaging and oxygen payments in Medicare are regular targets
for health spending reductions, and have been highlighted in
past reports by the GAO as well as the  Medicare Payment Advisory
Commission , or MedPAC, which advises Congress on payment policy.
The health-care overhaul cut imaging payments by $2.3 billion
across a decade, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Rival Companies  Madison, New Jersey-based Quest Diagnostics Inc. and
Burlington, North Carolina-based Laboratory Corporation of
America Holdings are among other imaging companies. Lincare is
based in Clearwater,  Florida .  Lincare’s shares gained 8 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$29.08 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading. Radnet was unchanged at $3.23.  Medicare pays oxygen companies 44 percent more than what it
costs them to provide services, the GAO found. Even as imaging
spending overall has declined, more doctors are using in-office
scanners, non-radiologists are utilizing added tests, and the
rates of scans vary by as much as eightfold across the U.S.,
facts the agency says “raise concerns that imaging services may
be over utilized.”  Further Scrutiny  “The government grinds slowly, but it grinds fine,” said
Alec Vachon, president of health-care consulting firm Hamilton
PPB in  Washington . “There’s a focus on physician self-referral,
and I think that’s an area Congress and MedPAC are going to
continue to scrutinize,” he said in a phone interview about
imaging payment cuts.  Medicare’s spending on imaging decreased $12.1 billion in
2007, largely because of cuts to reimbursement rates, according
to the GAO report. The number of tests doctors are performing is
going up, though. Some parts of the country account for eight
times as many tests as other regions, the report found.  Oxygen companies also have had payments cut. Medicare
reduced payments for oxygen services $800 million in 2009,
according to a  report  by the Washington health consulting firm
 Avalere Health .  Kathleen King, the GAO’s director of health care, testified
before Congress today and urged more effort to cut waste from
the program.  “Although these rates have been reduced or limited several
times, further savings are possible,” King said in written
testimony.  Bidding Program  The vendors face more pressure as a government program to
require bidding for medical services expands this year,
according to the report. Because the program doesn’t fully roll
out nationwide until 2015, the GAO said in the report it “would
be appropriate for Congress to consider reducing Medicare home
oxygen rates” in the meantime.  Michael Reinemer, a spokesman for the oxygen industry’s
Washington trade group, the  American Association  for Homecare,
called the GAO study “flawed” and narrow. “The GAO’s narrow
scope of study, its comparisons between Medicare rates for home
oxygen and the entirely different VA payment model, and its
reliance on the unsustainable low-ball rates from a badly
designed bidding program raise serious questions about the
reliability of the GAO analysis and conclusions,” Reinemer said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 