-- 
Itochu to Buy Kwik-Fit From PAI Partners for $1.04 Billion

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-03-03T03:11:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/pai-partners-said-to-sell-kwik-fit-to-itochu-for-1-04-billion.html
  Itochu Corp. (8001) , a Japanese trading
company, agreed to buy the U.K.’s Kwik-Fit Group Ltd. from  France ’s PAI Partners for 637 million pounds ($1.04 billion),
adding to its auto tire retailing business in  Europe .  Kwik-Fit had sales of 875 million pounds last year and is
the market leader in tire retailing in the U.K. and Holland,
Itochu said in a statement today announcing the acquisition. The
purchase will need approval from Europe’s competition
authorities, the statement said.  Itochu trades energy and metals and is involved in food,
textiles and aerospace. If completed, the takeover of Kwik-Fit
would be Osaka-based Itochu’s largest in at least 10 years,
according to Bloomberg data.  PAI, a Paris-based private equity firm, bought Kwik-Fit in
2005 for 800 million pounds from London-based CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. Companies are resuming asset sales after the
credit crisis brought deal-making to a near halt. Firms have led
$51 billion of takeovers this year, more than double the amount
in the same period last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  PAI sold Kwik-Fit’s insurance unit to Aegeas, the insurer
formerly known as Fortis, for about 215 million pounds in July.  Formerly the private equity unit of French bank Paribas,
PAI invests in companies valued at more than 500 million euros
($693 million).  It owns stakes in  United Biscuits , the maker of McVitie’s
products, and Yoplait, the French yogurt maker. Credit Suisse
Group AG acted as financial adviser to PAI in the Kwik-Fit
transaction.  The French company is also in talks to sell its stake in
Yoplait. General Mills Inc. and Nestle SA are among leading
bidders for the company’s 50 percent holding, people with
knowledge of the process said on March 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  