-- 
Pakistani Minister Assassinated in Second Killing Linked to Blasphemy Law

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-03-03T05:04:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/pakistan-s-minorities-minister-bhatti-is-killed-in-gun-attack-in-islamabad.html
Gunmen in  Pakistan ’s capital
Islamabad killed the country’s minister for minorities’ affairs,
in the city’s second high-profile murder this year linked to a
blasphemy law.  As many as four men ambushed Shahbaz Bhatti, a 42-year-old
Christian, yesterday as he left home without a security escort,
 Geo television  reported, citing a police official, Bin Yamin.
Bhatti was dead when brought to the city’s Al-Shifa Hospital,
the institution’s spokesman, Azmatullah Quraishi, said by
telephone.  Television channels showed leaflets found at the scene in
which the Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for killing
Bhatti. They said he was targeted for heading a government-
appointed committee to review the blasphemy law, which
prescribes the death penalty for anyone convicted of insulting
the  Prophet Muhammad .  Bhatti, a Roman Catholic and former leader of Pakistan’s
main minority-rights group, was killed eight weeks after Salman Taseer, governor of Pakistan’s Punjab province, was shot to
death by one of his bodyguards. Both men had called publicly for
changes to the law.  Bhatti’s assassination is likely to deepen fears of even
talking about the blasphemy law, said S.K. Tessler, a Christian
retired army colonel who served as minority affairs minister
under the military regime of former president  Pervez Musharraf .  ‘Horrific Act’  Religious intolerance in Pakistan is growing largely
because “many Muslims see the U.S. war in  Afghanistan  as a war
against Islam,” Tessler said in a telephone interview. “That
has led on to more pressure and violence against the Christians
and other minorities.”  Of the blasphemy law, Tessler said “no one should even
mention this sensitive issue. We have to live here.”  In  Washington , President  Barack Obama  denounced “this
horrific act of violence” and offered condolences to Bhatti’s
family.  “He was clear-eyed about the risks of speaking out, and,
despite innumerable death threats, he insisted he had a duty to
his fellow Pakistanis to defend equal rights and tolerance from
those who preach division, hate, and violence,” Obama said in a
statement. “He most courageously challenged the blasphemy laws
of Pakistan under which individuals have been prosecuted for
speaking their minds or practicing their own faiths.”  Economy Stalls  Amid escalated Islamic militant violence and Pakistan’s
worst-ever monsoon flooding in 2010, the country’s $167 billion
economy has slowed its growth to what the central bank estimated
Feb. 2 will be a rate of 3 percent in the year through June,
down from a government target of 4.5 percent. The government has
faced protests over high food prices, electricity shortages and
its effort to broaden the country’s narrow tax base, a demand
made by the  International Monetary Fund  last year as it withheld
more than 10 percent of an $11.3 billion loan.  For Pakistan’s economy, “some degree of violence and
political uncertainty is already built in” to expectations,
said Mohammed Sohail, chief executive officer at Topline
Securities Ltd. in Karachi, the country’s financial center.
“There may be a marginal, short-term shift in sentiment, but I
don’t see a material shift in investors’ attitude after this
killing.”  An estimated 509 people died in sectarian attacks last year
in Pakistan, the highest total since the New Delhi-based South
Asia Terrorism Portal began compiling figures in 1989, according
to the monitoring group’s website. Many of those have been
members of the minority Ahmadi sect or non-Muslims, mainly
Christians or Hindus, who form 5 percent of the population.  Blasphemy Law  The blasphemy law was passed in 1987 under the army rule of
General Muhammad Zia ul-Haq as part of his policy of building a
more explicitly Islamic state in Pakistan. While no one has been
executed by the state under the law, killings over alleged
blasphemy cases have included seven Christians amid riots in
2009 in Gojra, Punjab, and two shot dead in July in the city of
Faisalabad.  Controversy over the law escalated in November after a
court used it to sentence a Christian women, Aasia Bibi, to
death. The government of President Asif Ali Zardari expressed
readiness to pardon Bibi and consider changes to the law, which
religious conservatives have used to conduct a “reign of
terror” against minorities, according to the independent Human
Rights Commission of Pakistan.  On Jan. 10,  Pope Benedict XVI  called on Pakistan to
abrogate the law.  Street Rallies  Islamic militants have protested, holding street rallies
and promising violence if the government tried to change the law,
and Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  has said it will not do so.  “This chapter is closed for us,” said Qamar Zaman Kaira,
spokesman for the ruling  Pakistan Peoples Party . “Still, there
are some elements in our society who want to spread anarchy by
using this issue. This is a long war within our society and I
think it will take a lot of sacrifices,” Kaira said.  Bhatti wasn’t using guards assigned to him by authorities
at the time of his attack, Wajid Durrani, Islamabad’s inspector
general of police, told reporters at the site of the
assassination. “He had instructed that these security officers
remain at his office and not accompany him home,” Durrani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  