-- 
Palladium Seen Rising 15% in 2011 as Russian Cargoes Drop: Freight Markets

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-02T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/palladium-rising-15-as-russian-cargoes-reach-15-year-low-freight-markets.html
  Russia , the world’s biggest
palladium producer, is shipping the smallest amount of metal to  Switzerland  in 15 years, a sign of declining state stockpiles
that may drive prices as much as 15 percent higher by December.  Cargoes to Switzerland, one of  Europe ’s two main hubs for
storing and trading precious metals, fell 12 percent to about
500,000 ounces last year and compare with the two-decade average
of 1.3 million ounces, Swiss customs data show. Fewer shipments
of the metal used in almost every catalytic converter may mean
shortages. The five analysts ranked by Bloomberg as the most
accurate over the past two years forecast prices as high as $940
an ounce in 2011, based on the median of their estimates.  While Russian stockpiles are a state secret, Johnson
Matthey Plc, the London-based trader, says they were the fourth-
largest source of supply in 2010. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the
biggest producer, said in December it expects “insignificant”
amounts from reserves and Standard Bank Group Ltd. forecasts
stocks will be depleted as early as this year.  “The palladium market, excluding any Russian stockpiles
coming in, is going into an ever-increasing deficit,” said  David Davis , a mining investment analyst at Standard Bank’s SBG
Securities (Pty) Ltd. in Sandton, near Johannesburg. “It’ll put
upward pressure on the price.”  The metal traded at $817.25 at about 7 p.m. yesterday in
London. Prices hit a record $1,125 in 2001 when shipments were
disrupted.  Mine Production  Mine output will fall 5.4 percent to 6.8 million ounces and
demand from carmakers will climb 6.7 percent to about 5.5
million ounces in 2011,  Barclays Capital  estimates. Demand rose
15 percent last year to the highest in a decade while supply,
excluding recycling, was steady, and without Russian reserve
sales there would have been a shortage, Johnson Matthey said.  Palladium accounts for 90 percent to 95 percent of precious
metals used in gasoline catalytic converters and about 25
percent in diesel devices, according to Johnson Matthey, which
has supplied one in three of the world’s autocatalysts.  Catalytic converters each use about 4 grams (0.13 troy
ounces) of precious metals, according to Mark Bedford, the
director of precious-metals marketing at Johnson Matthey. Four
grams of palladium cost about $105 and $237 for platinum.  Palladium jumped more than fourfold since the end of 2008,
reaching a 10-year high of $862.25 on Feb. 21. Platinum doubled
in that period. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of
24 commodities rose 34 percent, the  MSCI World  Index of equities
climbed 46 percent and Treasuries returned 1.9 percent, a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index shows.  Energy Prices  Prices have declined on concern that protests across North
Africa and the Middle East will drive energy prices higher and
weaken economic growth.  Russia mined 2.7 million ounces of palladium in 2010, worth
$1.4 billion at last year’s average price, Johnson Matthey data
show.  South Africa  produced 2.49 million ounces, for $1.3
billion, and mine output totaled about $3.2 billion. Recyclers
recovered 1.32 million ounces from spent autocatalysts.  Sales of Russian stockpiles dropped to 1.01 million ounces
in 2010 from as much as 1.49 million in 2007, the data show.
Inventories were built up from excess output in the 1970s and
1980s and may have declined to less than 1 million ounces last
year, SBG’s Davis said.  Customs Data  “We don’t know how many years it took to build them up and
how they big they were, but at some time they must empty out,”
said Thorsten Proettel, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wurttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany , and one of the members in the
Bloomberg survey. “At that time it might be a problem for the
market.”  Swiss customs data includes ingots, powder and half-
processed material, mostly brought in by air freight. Bars are
stacked on pallets, according to Afshin Nabavi, a senior vice
president in Geneva at bullion refiner MKS Finance SA, which
trades the metal. It is transported in plastic pots when in
powder form, said Johnson Matthey’s Bedford.  Any rise in car sales and palladium may be curbed by energy
prices after oil in  New York  jumped 27 percent from a year ago.
Protests across North Africa and the Middle East have disrupted
supply, sending gasoline prices to a record in the U.K.,
according to the Automobile Association, the nation’s largest
motoring organization.  “Everybody’s suddenly nervous about high  oil prices 
reducing the amount of distance that people are driving and
pushing back the likelihood of people buying cars, and therefore
it could impact on palladium consumption in the short term,”
said  David Wilson , an analyst at Societe Generale SA in  London 
and another participant in the Bloomberg survey.  Auto Sales  Investor demand may overcome a drop related to auto sales.
Palladium held in exchange-traded products reached a record
73.08 metric tons on Feb. 28, about 26 percent of annual gross
demand, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Norilsk Nickel, based in Moscow, will report earnings per
share rose 22 percent to $33.09 this year, based on the mean of
seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Palladium slumped 87 percent over two years after reaching
a record in 2001 as manufacturers switched to using more
platinum. Ford Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. carmaker,
wrote down the value of its precious metals by $1 billion that
year, contributing to the Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s
first annual loss since 1992.  An ounce of platinum bought 2.16 ounces of palladium on
Feb. 18. The ratio was last that low in 2002, after which
platinum climbed 29 percent and palladium fell 31 percent in the
following year. While sustained prices above $1,000 may spur
autocatalyst makers to use more platinum, the process “won’t
happen overnight,” SBG’s Davis said.  Vehicle Sales  Asia is leading the increase in auto demand, with personal
vehicle sales likely to increase 7.3 percent to 24 million this
year, according to Oxford, England-based J.D. Power Automotive
Forecasting.    China ’s economy will grow 9.5 percent this year, according
to the median in a Bloomberg survey of eight economists. While
that’s down from 10.3 percent in 2010, it’s almost three times
predicted growth in the U.S. and almost sixfold the forecast for
the euro region.  The U.S. in 1975 introduced legislation leading to vehicles
being fitted with catalysts to cut pollution, and about 95
percent of all new vehicles sold globally are fitted with the
devices, according to Johnson Matthey. Ceramic or metal is
formed into a honeycomb and coated with chemicals and metals,
and is installed in the exhaust line in vehicles.  Even after last week’s drop, “palladium is likely to be
the star performer of precious metals again in 2011,” said
Anne-Laure Tremblay, a London-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA
and another participant in the Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  