-- 
Palm Oil Gains as Crude’s Rally Increases Attraction of Biofuel

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-03-02T10:44:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/palm-oil-gains-as-crude-s-rally-increases-attraction-of-biofuel.html
  Palm oil  advanced for a second day
as higher crude prices increased the appeal of the tropical
commodity for biofuel even as analysts forecast a rebound in
supply and larger stockpiles.  The May-delivery contract climbed 1.2 percent to 3,590
ringgit ($1,182) per metric ton, the highest close in more than
a week. Palm oil has gained 37 percent in the past year, boosted
by demand and supply disruptions caused by rains.  Crude oil advanced for a second day in  New York , exceeding
$100 a barrel, amid speculation that turmoil in the Middle East
may spread from Libya to Iran, the second-largest producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  “Rising crude oil prices could make biodiesel production
viable again,” HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn. said in a report
today. “Additional demand from this energy segment would help
to absorb higher palm oil supplies.”  Palm oil fell 8.9 percent in February, the first drop since
June, amid speculation supplies may rebound from  Malaysia  and  Indonesia , the two biggest growers, as excessive rains ease.  The La Nina weather event, which brought heavier-than-usual
rainfall to parts of  Southeast Asia , continues to weaken and may
prompt a return to neutral conditions by the Southern Hemisphere
winter, the Australian Bureau of Meteorology reported today.  Malaysian inventories may be replenished by a recovery in
fresh-fruit bunch yields from April, HwangDBS said. Palm oil may
average between 2,500 and 3,000 ringgit per ton this year and
its discount to soybean oil will increase, the report said.
Soybean oil is a rival product and has similar uses to palm oil.  Soybeans Increase  Soybean futures advanced on concern that heavy rains in
some parts of  Brazil , the world’s second-largest producer, may
delay the harvest and cause flooding, hurting the quality of the
crop. May-delivery soybeans gained as much as 1.1 percent to
$13.905 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Malaysia’s palm oil reserves will be rebuilt by the second
half as yields improve, lowering prices, Yusof Basiron, chief
executive officer of the Malaysian Palm Oil Council, has said.  Output in Malaysia dropped 14.2 percent in January from a
month earlier to 1.06 million tons, the lowest level since
February 2007, the Malaysian Palm Oil Board said on Feb. 10.
Stockpiles fell to 1.4 million tons, the lowest level since July.  Crude oil futures have gained as Libyan rebels braced for
renewed clashes with forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi .
Iranian protesters also clashed with security forces in Tehran,
Al Arabiya television reported. Uprisings have already toppled
leaders in Tunisia and Egypt.  September-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange  climbed 1.6 percent to close at 9,578 yuan ($1,457) a
ton. Soybean oil for delivery in the same month rose 1.8 percent
to 10,380 yuan a ton at the close.  CME Group Inc.’s most-active June palm-oil contract, pegged
to the Malaysian benchmark price, gained 1.8 percent to
$1,176.50 a ton at 5:05 p.m. in  Singapore .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  