-- 
Parkinson’s Risk May Be Reduced by Ibuprofen Use, Harvard Study Suggests

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-03-02T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/parkinson-s-risk-may-be-reduced-by-ibuprofen-use-harvard-study-suggests.html
Parkinson’s disease  may be less
likely to develop in people who take ibuprofen, a
nonprescription painkiller, according to  Harvard University 
research.  In one study, men and women who used three or more tablets
of ibuprofen each week were about 38 percent less likely to
develop Parkinson’s, a brain disorder that can cause trembling
and stiffness, than patients who didn’t take the drug,
researchers said today in the journal Neurology.  The medicine was associated with 27 percent less risk of
getting the disease when earlier studies were also accounted
for, the scientists said. As many as 1 million Americans have
Parkinson’s, and each year about 60,000 new cases are diagnosed,
mostly in people ages 50 or older, according to the  Parkinson’s
Disease Foundation , based in New York.  “Ibuprofen could be a potential neuroprotective agent
against Parkinson’s disease,” said  Xiang Gao , the lead author
of the study, in a telephone interview on Feb. 25.  More studies are needed before doctors should recommend
taking ibuprofen to ward off the illness, said Gao, a Boston-
based scientist at Harvard School of  Public Health  and at the
Channing Laboratory, a unit of Brigham & Women’s Hospital and  Harvard Medical School . The two schools are part of Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Harvard University.  The Harvard study is one of the largest to examine possible
benefits of ibuprofen on Parkinson’s, according to the  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based  American Academy of Neurology , publisher of the
journal. The research was sponsored by the U.S.  National
Institutes of Health , in Bethesda,  Maryland . Parkinson’s is a
brain disorder marked by tremors and difficulty walking.  291 Cases  The scientists analyzed data from almost 99,000 women
enrolled in the  Nurses’ Health Study  and more than 37,000 men in
the  Health Professionals Follow-Up Study . After 6 years, 291
patients were diagnosed with Parkinson’s.  The researchers determined through questionnaires what pain
medicines people used. About 16 percent took ibuprofen, Gao
said. The medicine, a generic, is also sold as Advil by New
York-based  Pfizer Inc . and Motrin by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based  Johnson & Johnson .  The researchers combined the results with those of six
previously published studies to show whether ibuprofen protects
against Parkinson’s disease.  Gao said it is unclear how ibuprofen might work in the body
to reduce the risk of Parkinson’s. The medicine may lower
inflammation in the brain, which can contribute to the illness,
he said.  Alternative Theories  Other painkillers, including aspirin and acetaminophen,
weren’t associated with lower risk of getting Parkinson’s,
according to the study.  There may be explanations for the findings other than
attributing a protective effect to ibruprofen, according to the
report. Possibly, patients were taking ibuprofen for conditions
that themselves lower Parkinson’s risk. Also, people at higher
risk of the disease may “have a more stoic personality” and be
less likely to take painkillers in the first place, the
researchers wrote.  The Harvard researchers didn’t prove ibuprofen contributed
to the lower risk of  Parkinson’s disease  seen in the study, said
 James Bower , an associate professor of neurology at the Mayo
Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota .  “I haven’t discounted that it’s possibly protective, but
there’s also other explanations,” Bower, who coauthored an
editorial published along with the study, said in a telephone
interview on Feb. 25. “This study is exciting because it shows
a pretty convincing association.”  A clinical trial for ibuprofen in Parkinson’s patients may
be warranted to follow up on the epidemiological findings, Bower
said. Doctors in the meantime shouldn’t tell Parkinson’s
patients to start taking the medicine, he said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  