-- 
Parmalat Net Income Falls on Declining Settlements; Proposes Bonus Shares

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-03-02T18:34:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/parmalat-net-income-falls-on-declining-settlements-proposes-bonus-shares.html
(Corrects next-to-last paragraph to show report said
investors were in talks on sale of shares to Lactalis.)    Parmalat SpA ,  Italy ’s biggest dairy
food producer, said full-year profit dropped 46 percent as cash
from lawsuits declined and demand for branded foods fell. The
company said it would consider acquisitions.  Net income fell to 282 million euros ($391 million) from
519 million euros in 2009, the Collecchio, Italy-based company
said in a stock-exchange statement today. That beat the 242
million-euro average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. It also proposed an annual dividend of 3.6 cents a
share, down from 6.3 cents last year, and a bonus-share issue of
1 new share for every 20 held.  Parmalat, which makes Zymil low-lactose milk and Santal
juices, faces declining income from legal settlements dating to
a 2003 bankruptcy case and growing competition from private
labels. A group of Parmalat investors is preparing a list of
joint nominations to the board in a bid to pump up sales and
improve earnings growth.  “The Group can now look forward to a new phase of business
growth, both organically and through acquisitions,” and the
distribution of the bonus shares won’t weaken the company’s
financial position, it said.  2011 Forecasts  Parmalat said it targets an increase in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 385 million
euros in 2011 from 377 million euros last year. Last year’s
Ebitda exceeded the company’s 365 million-euro forecast from
November and compared with a 376 million-euro average estimate
of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The dairy company forecasts sales of 4.4 billion euros this
year after reporting an 8.5 percent increase in revenue last
year to 4.3 billion euros. Revenue in  Canada , the company’s
biggest market, rose 16 percent to 1.61 billion euros, while
sales in Italy, its second-biggest market, slipped 3 percent to
963 million euros.  “ We see substantial upside from a more aggressive
management of the business,” Andy Smith, an analyst at MF
Global with a “conviction buy” rating on the stock, said in a
note yesterday. Parmalat shares are among the cheapest stocks in
the “European staples” sector, he said.  Parmalat, led by Chief Executive Officer Enrico Bondi, has
recovered about 2 billion euros in so-called clawback legal
settlements from banks and auditors, who it accused of
sustaining the fraud that led to Italy’s biggest corporate
bankruptcy in 2003.  “Despite his well-documented success in securing material
litigation ‘wins,’ and simplifying Parmalat’s operations, Bondi
and the board have a poor track record of creating value for
shareholders,” Smith wrote. The replacement of some or all of
the board could “reinvigorate the growth prospects,” he said.  Rival Slate  Mackenzie Financial Corp., Skagen AS and Zenit Asset
Management AB, which together hold 15.3 percent of Parmalat,
signed a coordination agreement on Jan. 25 to nominate a slate
of candidates for the board.  A new board at Parmalat will be aimed at a “strengthening
of its present position in the Italian market, the continuous
improvement of industrial performance, additional growth driven
by focused international expansion, also through value,
accretive acquisitions,” the investors said.  Earlier the investors denied a report in Italian newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore  that they are in talks to sell their shares to
Groupe Lactalis, a French dairy-products producer.  Parmalat shares have risen 9.3 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 3.88 billion euros. That’s less
than the 15 percent gain for Dean Foods Co., the largest U.S.
dairy processor  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  