-- 
Pillsbury Hires 6 Howrey Partners for Construction Practice

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-02T19:05:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/pillsbury-hires-6-howrey-partners-for-construction-practice-1-.html
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP,
a San Francisco-based law firm, hired a construction litigation
team of six partners and seven associates from Howrey LLP, the
latest of several departures from the firm this year.  The attorneys, who are joining Pillsbury’s  New York , San
Francisco,  Los Angeles  and  Washington  offices, include John Heisse, former co-head of Washington-based Howrey’s construction
litigation group. Heisse will lead Pillsbury’s construction team
from  San Francisco .  “These attorneys are a dynamic fit for us given
Pillsbury’s industry focus in energy, real estate, and project
development,” Pillsbury Chairman Jim Rishwain said today in a
statement.  The group, totaling 15 in all, also includes two lawyers
who aren’t partners in Los Angeles. In addition to Heisse, the
partners are David Dekker, Jeffrey Gans, Melissa Lesmes and  Michael McNamara  in Washington and Robert Thum in Los Angeles.  More than 70 partners have left Howrey in the past year and
a half, the American Lawyer, a trade publication, reported last
month. Yesterday, Roger Klein, former chairman of Howrey’s
corporate and transactional practice, announced he had joined
Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP as a partner in the firm’s
corporate practice group.  Howrey Departures  Departures from Howrey in recent weeks include IP
litigation partner Duane Mathiowetz to Pillsbury, insurance
litigators Jill Berkeley and Seth Lamden to Chicago-based Neal
Gerber & Eisenberg LLP, and antitrust partners C. Scott Hataway
to Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP and Shaun Goodman to
Kirkland & Ellis International LLP. Counsel Sarah Jordan also
left for  Kirkland & Ellis .  Howrey ranked 58th by gross revenue on the American
Lawyer’s 2010 list of large U.S. firms, with $480 million in
2009. Pillsbury ranked 53rd. Gross revenue last year was little
changed at $533 million, Sandi Sonnenfeld, a spokeswoman for the
firm, said today in a phone interview.  Chris Till, a Howrey spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
a phone call seeking comment on the departures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  