-- 
Player Agent Condon Backs Decertification of NFL Union to Reach Labor Deal

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-02T17:21:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/player-agent-condon-backs-decertification-of-nfl-union-to-reach-labor-deal.html
Tom Condon, a former National
Football League Players Association president and now agent to
players such as  Peyton Manning , says he supports decertification
of the union if it helps reach a fair labor deal.  Condon, who played 12 seasons as an NFL guard and was
president of the  NFLPA  from 1984 to 1986, said today that he
would “absolutely” support decertification of the union, which
came out on the losing end of strikes in 1982 and 1987, and only
had success after decertifying in 1989.  “The only time that the players have ever made any really
substantial progress is when Gene Upshaw decertified his own
union, and they were able to access the courts and the antitrust
laws,” Condon said in an interview with Erik Schatzker and
Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.”
“That brought us free agency in the state of the game as it is
now.”  Condon, who was named by Sporting News in 2006 as the
“most powerful agent in any sport,” is co-head of the football
division for  Creative Artists Agency . He is the agent for
quarterbacks Manning of the  Indianapolis Colts , his brother  Eli Manning  of the  New York Giants  and  Drew Brees  of the  New Orleans
Saints . All are  Super Bowl  Most Valuable Players.  The union and the NFL were negotiating in  Washington  today
to try to reach agreement on a labor accord before the current
contract expires tomorrow at midnight. The sides are divided on
how to split $9 billion in league revenue, and are discussing
possible expansion of the regular season to 18 games from 16, a
cap on rookie pay and health care for players.  Decertification Vote  NFL players voted in September to allow DeMaurice Smith,
the union’s executive director, to decertify the union if
necessary as a tactic to reaching a fair deal.  Decertification would prevent the union from collectively
bargaining with the NFL team owners and allow players to sue the
league under antitrust laws if they are locked out. After last
decertifying in 1989, the union re-formed in 1993, and players
won an antitrust action challenging free-agency rules as an
unlawful restraint of trade.  Condon declined to comment on whether Peyton Manning will
reach a contract agreement with the Colts before tomorrow
night’s deadline on the collective bargaining agreement. The
Colts applied a franchise tag to Manning for the 2011 season,
which would guarantee him about $23 million and keep him from
negotiating with another team.  “The difficulty of the clubs even signing their own
players, which they’re allowed to do up until the time the
league year expires, is that they’re unsure as to what the rules
are going to be,” Condon said. “All the rules are up in the
air and it really makes it impossible for them to do anything
significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 