-- 
Playboy Photos of Bonds's Ex-Mistress Barred as Trial Evidence

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-02T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/playboy-photos-of-bonds-s-mistress-can-t-be-shown-at-trial.html
Baseball player  Barry Bonds  lost a
bid to show jurors nude photos of his former mistress in Playboy
at his March 21 perjury trial, while a judge said she will 
allow testimony from Bonds’s private doctor and other players
who took steroids.  U.S. District Court Susan Illston yesterday denied most of
Bonds’s requests to block testimony from Kimberly Bell, who
prosecutors say will testify about changes in Bonds’s physique
and temperament they claim are side effects of steroids use.
Illston also ruled that Bell, who appeared in Playboy in 2007,
could testify about how Bonds treated her and said the
accompanying Playboy article might be relevant while the photos
probably aren’t.  “I don’t really care to see these,” Illston said
yesterday at the final pretrial hearing in federal court in  San
Francisco . She said defense attorneys could make a request at a
later date if they want to make a case that the photos be shown.  Prosecutors had asked Illston to bar the photos and the
article from being used “to inflame the jury’s prejudice
against Bell, to portray her as unworthy of belief because of
her physical appearance and sexuality.”  Baseball’s home-run record holder faces four counts of
lying to a 2003 grand jury and one count of obstruction of
justice. He is accused of lying when he said he didn’t knowingly
take performance-enhancing drugs given to him by his former
personal trainer.  Pleaded Not Guilty  Bonds pleaded not guilty yesterday to revised charges in an
indictment issued last month. The former San Francisco Giants
outfielder was first charged in 2007.  Bell, Bonds’s private doctor, his former business partner,
his former assistant and other baseball players who took
steroids supplied by Bonds’s former trainer,  Greg Anderson , will
testify for prosecutors to prove their case that the home-run
king lied when he told a grand jury in 2003 that he never
knowingly took performance-enhancing drugs, according to a
government trial memorandum filed Feb. 24.  Anderson will refuse to testify at the trial, his attorney,
Mark Geragos, said at the hearing yesterday. Illston said she
will probably send Anderson to jail as a result of his refusal.  Bonds’s private doctor can testify about how Bonds treated
him, his conversations with Bonds and whether Bonds’s business
partner received drugs on the slugger’s behalf, Illston ruled,
over Bonds’s objections.  Denied Bonds’s Request  Bell can testify about whether Bonds threatened her with
violence, said Illston, who also denied Bonds’s request to bar
certain testimony by  Jeff Novitzky , the federal investigator who
led the government’s steroid probe in sports.  Illston denied prosecutors’ request to prohibit Bonds from
testifying that he was confused during his grand jury testimony.
She said she would rule later on whether prosecutors can
introduce evidence about Bonds allegedly testing positive for
amphetamines.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 