-- 
Poland Keeps Main Rate Unchanged as Inflation Pressure Eases; Zloty Drops

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-02T17:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/poland-keeps-main-rate-unchanged-as-inflation-pressure-eases-zloty-drops.html
  Poland ’s central bank left borrowing
costs unchanged as sluggish investment and rising unemployment
eased concerns that consumer demand will stoke inflation.  The Monetary Policy Council in Warsaw kept the benchmark
seven-day rate at 3.75 percent, matching the estimate of 20 of
30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Ten had forecast an
increase to 4 percent. The central bank didn’t hold a rate
meeting last month.  Policy makers raised the rate in January for the first time
since June 2008 to battle accelerating consumer-price increases.
Since then, the inflation rate exceeded the upper end of the
central bank’s targeted range in January, rising to 3.8 percent,
the highest in 20 months.  “I belong to the majority of the council’s members who are
of an opinion that the January rate increase shouldn’t be
treated as a one-time event,” the  Narodowy Bank Polski  Governor
Marek Belka said at a press conference today, adding that such
an opinion determines neither the timing, nor the potential
recurrence of future increases.  Three-month forward-rate agreements that investors use to
fix interest rate costs or wager on changes in borrowing costs
dropped 8 basis points to 4.50 percent. The zloty was little
changed at 3.9743 per euro.  ‘Uncomfortable’  While policy makers are “uncomfortable” with the prospect
of inflation exceeding an annual rate of 4 percent some time
this year, the central bank’s projections show improved longer-
term prospects, Belka said.  The bank today raised its inflation projection for this
year to as much as 3.7 percent from 3.5 percent and lowered the
forecast for the next year to between 2.2 percent and 3.4
percent from between 2.4 percent and 3.7 percent.  Gross domestic product may rise between 3.3 percent and 5.1
percent this year, rather than the previously estimated 3.3
percent to 5.5 percent pace. Economic expansion may be between
2.3 percent and 4.8 percent next year, compared with an earlier
forecast of 2.8 percent to 5.5 percent, Belka said.  Details of the projection will be published on March 7.  Bonds rose, pushing the yield on the January 2013 note down
5 basis points to 5.05 percent as of 5:10 p.m. in Warsaw, the
lowest level since Feb. 14.  Middle East Effect  The zloty reacted “very moderately” to the Polish central
bank’s decision to keep rates unchanged today,  Belka said,
adding he doesn’t see “any great danger” from a weaker
currency, which is driven more by events in the Middle East than
in Poland.  “The consensus started shifting toward a rate hike in
recent days and a lot of people probably jumped on the
bandwagon,” said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market
strategist at RBC Capital in  London . “Now they are squaring
those positions.”  Poland this year followed  Hungary  in restricting monetary
policy. Rate setters in Budapest raised borrowing costs three
times since November before pausing the tightening cycle last
month. The Czech central bank has kept its main rate unchanged
at a record low for the past year as it weighs inflation risks
against the danger of hampering economic recovery.  Weak investment growth may have kept the central bank from
increasing rates today, according to Maja Goettig, chief
economist at Bank BPH in Warsaw, who had predicted a quarter-
point tightening.  ‘Slow Investments’  Poland’s economy expanded at a 4.4 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter, the  Central Statistical Office  reported
today, driven by a 5.6 percent increase in domestic demand.
Fixed investments lagged behind the headline rate, rising 0.9
percent on the year.  “The key argument for keeping rates unchanged was probably
the slow pace of investment and high unemployment,” Goettig
said in a research note. “The decision also suggests that the
central bank’s new forecasts will show inflation slowing over
the medium term.”  The  unemployment rate  rose to 13 percent in January.
Retail-sales growth slowed more than economists expected, to an
annual 5.8 percent from 12 percent in December. The median
estimate of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 8.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   Monika Rozlal in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  