-- 
Polish Recovery Accelerates in Fourth Quarter on Demand, Matching Forecast

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-02T11:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/polish-recovery-accelerates-in-fourth-quarter-on-demand-matching-forecast.html
Polish economic growth accelerated
in the fourth quarter as domestic demand rose, increasing the
chance of interest-rate increases in the coming months.  Gross domestic product expanded an annual 4.4 percent,
compared with 4.2 percent in the previous quarter, the  Central
Statistical Office  said in Warsaw today. The result matched the
median estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg and was
the highest since the third quarter of 2008.  “The key driver of growth in the fourth quarter was
private consumption,” Anders Svendsen, Copenhagen-based chief
analyst at Nordea Bank AB, wrote in a note to clients after the
release. “This could be partly related to spending ahead of the
slight VAT hike, but the underlying strength in the momentum in
private consumption should not be underestimated. We expect
growth to be driven primarily by domestic demand this year.”  Poland, the largest of the European Union’s members from
the former communist east, was the only country in the 27-member
bloc to avoid a recession in 2009 as its internal market buoyed
consumption, offsetting dwindling external demand. Retail sales
climbed 12 percent in December as consumers rushed to buy cars
and goods ahead of a rise in value-added taxes from Jan. 1.  Investments Rise  Private consumption rose 4.1 percent in the fourth quarter,
quickening from 3.5 percent in the previous quarter and matching
the median forecast of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Domestic demand grew 5.6 percent after a 4.2 percent annual gain
in the third quarter.  “Investment grew in the fourth quarter and employment
rose, which allayed fears about job losses and boosted
consumption,” Piotr Bujak, an economist at Bank Zachodni WBK in
Warsaw, said before the release. “The inflationary pressure
these increases bring to various areas of the economy speaks in
favor of continuing the central bank’s tightening cycle.”  The Monetary Policy Council will announce a rate decision
later today.  Fixed investments rose 0.9 percent in the fourth quarter,
below than the median forecast of 1 percent growth in a
Bloomberg survey of 16 economists, after rising 0.4 percent in
the third. According to Maja Goettig, chief economist at Bank
BPH SA in Warsaw, while investment data in 2010 as a whole were
“disappointing,” a return to positive figures after a dip of
as much as 12.8 percent in the first quarter is promising.  ‘Lasting Recovery’  “Right now investment figures are a good indication of
whether the economic recovery is really on track to a lasting
recovery,” Goettig said. “And today’s data is a good prognosis
for 2011.”  The zloty strengthened to 3.9731 against the euro at 11:37
a.m. in Warsaw from 3.9904 yesterday.  Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  is depending on economic growth
and zloty appreciation to keep public debt from breaching a
legal limit of 55 percent of GDP that would trigger mandatory
austerity measures. The  budget deficit  will reach an estimated
6.6 percent this year, the sixth-widest in the EU, according to
 European Commission  estimates.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday the commission, the EU’s executive arm,
was expecting Poland “to substantiate measures that will bring
its fiscal deficit below 3 percent” of GDP next year, in line
with an EU deadline. Economists such as Leszek Balcerowicz, a
former finance minister and central bank governor, have
criticized the government for insufficient determination to cut
spending ahead of parliamentary elections in the fourth quarter.  The central bank moved to curb accelerating inflation in
January by raising  interest rates  for the first time since mid-
2008. Consumer price growth soared to 3.8 percent in the first
month of the year, pushing it above the bank’s target limit of
3.5 percent. The European Commission yesterday raised its 2011
growth forecast for  Poland  to 4.1 percent from the 3.9 percent
predicted in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Monika Rozlal in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  