-- 
Poles in Germany May Force Rates Higher at Home 22 Years After Berlin Wall

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-03T12:07:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/polish-exodus-to-germany-may-spark-rate-rise-22-years-after-berlin-wall.html
Grzegorz Bielajew, a 22-year-old
bricklayer, may help push the Polish  central bank  to raise
borrowing costs to the highest in more than two years before the
end of 2011.  Bielajew is one of 400,000 Poles gearing up for the opening
of the German labor market, which will give the workers
unlimited access to  Europe ’s largest economy almost a quarter of
a century after the fall of the Berlin wall, advancing Poland’s
economic integration into the European Union.  The risk for policy makers in Warsaw is that an exodus of
workers will make it harder for employers to find staff, pushing
up wages for those who stay behind, fueling inflation, according
to policy makers and economists.  “We are going to see the first impact on unit labor costs,
wages and inflation from the latter part of this year or the
beginning of next year,” said Michal Dybula, an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in Warsaw who expects the benchmark rate to rise
to 4.25 percent by the end of 2011 from 3.75 percent. “That is
essentially the moment when policy makers should be factoring
this into monetary policy.”  ‘Special Concern’  The Narodowy Bank Polski yesterday left borrowing costs
unchanged following an increase in January, the first since
2008. Investors expect the benchmark rate to rise 0.75 basis
points to 4.5 percent by the end of the year, forward-rate
agreements show. Labor-market developments are “an area of
special concern” for policy makers, central bank Governor Marek Belka told reporters after the rate decision.  Rising demand in  Germany , fueled by sales to faster-growing
economies including  China , boosts orders for Polish companies,
which supply components to German exporters. Employers increased
hiring by 3.8 percent in January from a year earlier, the
fastest annual growth since September 2008.  Germany and Austria open their labor markets for workers
from 10 eastern European countries on May 1, when their seven-
year permission to restrict jobseekers expires. German
unemployment fell to an 18-year low of 7.4 percent in January as
companies stepped up hiring to meet foreign demand for goods
including cars and machinery.  Shrinking Workforce  “We must anticipate some shrinking of the workforce when
Germany and Austria open their labor markets in May 2011,” rate
setter  Jerzy Hausner  said on Nov. 23, confirming the comment in
an Feb. 25 e-mail. “Capacity utilization in industry is already
high and we appear to be on the verge of an investment boom. All
these are threats that we must react to preemptively.”  Governor Belka said last week that there is no need for
immediate reaction to accelerating inflation as long as there
are no “clear signals” of wage pressure.  The average corporate wage in Poland, a country of 38
million people, has risen by 45 percent since its membership in
the EU to 3,391 zloty ($1,177), or about a third of Germany’s
average monthly salary. The government estimates 3.7 percent
wage growth this year.  The decision to refrain from raising borrowing costs
yesterday may signal a lack of concern in the central bank that
the labor-market opening will stoke inflation, said  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage about $2 billion in emerging-market
debt at Aviva Investors in  London .  “The central bank hasn’t been very proactive,” he said by
phone. “If they were going to be very proactive, they might
have raised rates” yesterday.  400,000 Poles  After 2004, when most EU countries opened their labor
markets for the citizens of the former communist countries that
joined the bloc, as many as 2 million Polish workers migrated
west according to the  Labor Ministry .  The number of Poles now seeking work west of the border may
reach 400,000 within three years, the Labor Ministry in Warsaw
estimates. The number may be as high as half a million by 2015,
according to BNP Paribas SA.  “The wave of migration from  Poland  will be weaker this
time but unfortunately the effects for the economy will be
worse,” said Krystyna Iglicka, a demographer at the
 International Relations Centre  in Warsaw. “Today, the  unemployment rate  is much lower than six years ago, so people
who are now working in Poland will simply leave their jobs.”  ‘20 Minutes’  Bielajew, who currently makes 20 zloty ($6.75) per hour in
the border town of Zgorzelec, decided to take advantage of the
opening labor market after he found out that the minimum wage
for identical job in eastern Germany is 9.25 euros ($12.75) in
adjoining Goerlitz.  “It takes me only 20 minutes to cross the border on foot
so I’m not going to waste this opportunity to finance Polish
costs of living with a German salary,” he said.  The actual outflow may be 200,000 mostly unqualified
workers over the next three years because the German labor
market “has already been opened to quite a large extent,”
Deputy Labor Minister Marek Bucior said in a letter today to
Polish lawmakers.  Three years ago, Germany relaxed entry requirements for
engineers and other skilled specialists, “which hasn’t led to
any negative trends on the Polish labor market,” Bucior said.  Companies in Germany plan to hire as many as 300,000
workers this year, according to a survey of 28,000 firms by the
DIHK industry and trade chambers group last month. Machine and
electrical companies may add 80,000 jobs, the DIHK said.  Hiring Problems  About 40 percent of Polish companies expect hiring to
become more difficult after May 1, when Germany and  Austria  lift
restrictions on immigrant employment, according to a survey by
online job center  Pracuj.pl .  “The opening of this job market and the absence of two
million Poles who left the country after 2004 may have
disastrous impact on economic growth,”  Association of Polish
Employers , which represents more than 7,000 companies employing
about 3 million workers, said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Balazs Penz at
   bpenz@bloomberg.net  