-- 
Portugal to Get EU Rescue This Month, Axa Investment Says

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-02T12:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/portugal-will-need-eu-bailout-this-month-as-borrowing-costs-rise-axa-says.html
  Portugal  will accept a financial
bailout “within the next few weeks” as the cost of issuing
debt becomes unsustainable, said Axa Investment Managers, which
oversees $714 billion in assets.  “The borrowing costs are just too high” for Portugal,
Christopher Iggo, London-based chief investment officer for
fixed income at Axa,  France ’s fourth-largest fund manager, said
in a telephone interview two days ago. “Ireland and Greece had
to go for a bailout once their borrowing costs got that high, so
I fully expect Portugal to go within the next few weeks.”  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield reached 7.64 percent on Feb.
10, the most since the inception of the euro in 1999, and was at
7.45 percent as of 12:01 p.m. in  London . It first climbed above
7 percent on Nov. 10 and has been above that level since Feb. 4.
Greece needed a rescue within 17 days of its 10-year yield
breaching 7 percent on April 6, while Ireland lasted less than a
month after it cracked that level in October.  Axa Investment Managers, a unit of France’s largest insurer
Axa SA, has avoided the bonds of the euro-region’s most-indebted
countries and has increased holdings of German, French,
Austrian, Dutch and Finnish government securities over the last
year, Iggo said.  Portugal is raising taxes and implementing the deepest
spending cuts in more than three decades to convince investors
it can narrow its budget gap and avoid a rescue.  Standard &
Poor’s  said today that the Iberian nation’s debt rating remains
at risk of being cut, citing the country’s “high external
financing need and limited funding sources.”  Merkel Meeting  Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  meets German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin today to discuss how the
European Financial Stability Facility, or the mechanism that
will succeed it, may be used to more effectively help countries
in difficulty.  European Union leaders have given themselves until a March
24-25 summit to craft what German Chancellor Angela Merkel has
called a “comprehensive” package to address the sovereign debt
crisis that has roiled the euro-region.  “The important thing is to put in place a robust mechanism
and, longer term, to provide a framework that prevents countries
getting into fiscal problems,” Iggo said. Offering Portugal a
similar aid deal to the ones given to  Greece  and Ireland would
be “quite neat,” because it would allow EU leaders to tie up
any loose ends by the end of March, he said.  Spain ‘Interesting’  Portugal’s economy will shrink by almost 1 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of six economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, after shrinking 2.5 percent in 2009 and
growing 1.4 percent last year. The country will report a 2010
deficit equivalent to 7.3 percent of gross domestic product,
according to a separate survey. The deficit amounted to 9.3
percent of gross domestic product in 2009, the fourth biggest in
the euro area after Ireland, Greece and Spain.  The response to the debt crisis must be on a European
scale, Socrates said on Feb. 28 at a conference in Lisbon
broadcast by Radio TSF. “The problem is systemic,” he said    Spain  has the highest borrowing costs in the European Union
after Greece, Ireland and Portugal with its 10-year yield at
5.35 percent today.  “Spain is the interesting one,” Iggo said. “We are
reasonably confident Spain will be able to pull through but we
need to see what the announcement at the end of March will be
like.”  Axa Investment Managers is the fourth-largest French asset
manager after Amundi Asset Management with 689.5 billion euros
($950 billion) under management, BNP Paribas Investment Partners
with 546 billion euros and Natixis Asset Management with 538
billion euros, as of the end of 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  