-- 
Portugal, Greece Ratings Kept on Negative Outlook by S&P on Debt Concerns

-- B y   M i k e   M i l l a r d   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-02T03:53:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/portugal-greece-ratings-kept-on-negative-outlook-by-s-p-on-debt-concerns.html
The debt ratings of  Portugal  and  Greece  remain at risk of being cut due to concern about how a
European Union rescue fund may affect holders of the two
nations’ sovereign bonds,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  The ratings company kept Portugal’s A- long-term, A2 short-
term and Greece’s BB+ long-term ratings on creditwatch negative,
according to statements released yesterday. It cited Portugal’s
“high external financing need and limited funding sources.”  Policymakers in both nations have cut wages and raised
taxes to convince investors they can rein in their budget gaps.
The efforts have failed to lower borrowing costs, with the extra
yield investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese debt over its
German equivalents nearing a euro-era record on concern Portugal
may need to follow Greece in seeking a bailout.  While the Portuguese government “has progressed its fiscal
stabilization and economic reforms in recent months,” the
nation “could find itself forced to approach” the European
Union’s rescue fund and the  International Monetary Fund , S&P
said in a statement. The ratings company in a separate report
yesterday said it’s closely monitoring Greece’s progress in
following through on its fiscal reforms.  S&P placed Portugal on CreditWatch negative on Nov. 30 and
Greece on Dec. 2.  Government Bond Holders  The main risk to the credit standing of the two nations is
the outcome of discussions surrounding the European Stability
Mechanism, according to the reports. S&P may downgrade both
ratings if  Europe ’s leaders in late March decide to require
borrowers to restructure their  government bonds  and make the ESM
a preferred creditor, “effectively subordinating government
bond holders,” the rating company said.  Neither country’s debt grade is likely to be lowered by
more than two notches, the reports said.  While avoiding a bailout, Portugal is already benefiting
from some bond purchases carried out by the  European Central
Bank . Traders with knowledge of the transactions have said the
purchases were focused on Greek, Irish and Portuguese bonds.    Fitch Ratings  cut its rating on Portugal on Dec. 23 to A+,
the fifth-highest level, from AA- and left its outlook at
negative. Moody’s Investors Service put Portugal’s A1 rating on
review for a possible two-notch cut because of sluggish economic
growth and “the deterioration in debt affordability.”  Greece is rated at Ba1 by Moody’s and BB+ by Fitch, both
the 11th-highest debt grades.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Millard at 
 mmillard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  