-- 
Pound Strengthens Against Dollar After Construction Growth Beats Estimates

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-03-02T16:47:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/pound-falls-versus-dollar-before-february-construction-report.html
The pound strengthened against the
dollar as an industry report showed U.K. construction grew at
the fastest pace in eight months in February, adding to signs
the economy may withstand a rise in the benchmark interest rate.  Sterling also advanced against the  New Zealand dollar  and
South Korean won. A gauge of construction activity measured by a
survey of purchasing managers rose to 56.5 from 53.7 in January,
Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply  said today in London. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey was for a reading of 52.8.  “The market is pricing in higher rates and certainly
today’s data will encourage those that believe monetary policy
needs to be tightened to control inflation -- that’s why
sterling is being bought,” said  Neil Jones , head of European
hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London.  The pound rose 0.4 percent to $1.6325 as of 4:45 p.m. in  London , and gained 0.1 percent to 133.33 yen. Britain’s currency
weakened 0.3 percent to 84.98 pence per euro.  Sterling has advanced 4.6 percent against the dollar this
year amid mounting speculation that the  Bank of England  will
raise  interest rates  from a record low 0.5 percent to quell
inflation. Consumer-price growth accelerated to an annual 4
percent in January, the 14th consecutive month above the
government’s 2 percent target.  MPC ‘Hawks’  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has led calls for the central
bank to raise its benchmark interest rate since June and last
month voted for a 50 basis-point increase. Minutes from the
bank’s Feb. 10 meeting showed policy maker Spencer Dale joined
Sentance and  Martin Weale  in voting for higher borrowing costs.  Dale and Weale favored a 25 basis point rise. The next rate
decision is scheduled for March 10.  “The hawks on the MPC will view today’s data as a sign
that the economy will be able to absorb higher rates,” said
Jones. Market expectations for higher interest rates are likely
to boost the pound to about $1.6750 and between 80 and 82 pence
per euro by June, Jones added.  Money markets signal policy makers will probably raise the
key rate by about 64 basis points by year-end, according to
sterling overnight index average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc
data show. So-called Sonia rates indicate an increase of about
20 basis points by May.  Increasing the benchmark interest rate as a gesture in the
fight against inflation would be “self-defeating,” Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  told lawmakers in London yesterday.
Still, King said he expects to have to write letters to
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  explaining why
inflation remains above the government’s 3 percent upper limit
“through the rest of this year.”  King was forced to write a fifth letter after the January
inflation data was released on Feb. 15.  Two-year yields, typically more responsive to short-term
rate expectations, were little changed at 1.39 percent. Ten-year
gilt yields rose two basis points to 3.64 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  