-- 
PPL Buys E.ON's U.K. Power Grid for $5.6 Billion Cash to Triple Customers

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-03-02T14:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ppl-to-buy-central-networks-business-from-e-on-for-5-6-billion.html
  PPL Corp ., owner of  Pennsylvania ’s
second-largest utility, agreed to buy  E.ON AG ’s power grid in
central England for 3.5 billion pounds ($5.6 billion) in cash to
triple its customers in the U.K.  The U.S. utility will assume 500 million pounds of debt in
its acquisition of Central Networks, the companies said. E.ON is
getting a 30 percent premium to the value of the assets assigned
by the regulator, said Mark Freshney, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG. That’s more than a premium of as much as 25
percent Electricite de France SA got when selling its U.K. grid
last year, he said.  PPL, which will own the largest U.K. distribution business
by asset value after the deal, beat an offer from billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd ., according
to two people familiar with the matter. Allentown, Pennsylvania
-based PPL’s second purchase of assets from  Germany ’s largest
utility in less than a year adds to the $224 billion of
acquisitions in the electricity industry in the past 12 months.  For E.ON, “the price is much better than expected,
especially when you consider that it also includes pension
obligations,” Bernhard Jeggle, an analyst with Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart who recommends investors hold
E.ON. “It’s a big step forwards in their 15 billion-euro ($21
billion) asset sale plan.”  E.ON Gain  Dusseldorf-based E.ON will realize a gain of about 200
million euros from the deal, Jeggle said. E.ON and PPL expect to
close the deal in early April.  PPL rose $1.10, or 4.4 percent, to $26 at 9:49 a.m. in
composite trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange. It’s the
largest increase in 21 months for the company, which before
today had been the worst performer on the Standard & Poor’s
electric utilities index.  E.ON fell 11.5 cents to 23.285 euros in Frankfurt trading
as of 3:29 p.m. local time today.  “It looks like the largest expansion we’ve seen of a U.S.
power company in the U.K. for some time,”  Paul Patterson , a
utility analyst at Glenrock Associates LLC, said by phone from
New York. “This is a unique situation where PPL clearly seems
to have a preference for regulated properties while having an
existing footprint in the U.K.”  The owners of U.K. power grids get guaranteed regulated
rates from customers.  PPL’s U.K. Unit  PPL already owns a  U.K. grid unit  with 83,000 kilometers
(50,000 miles) of power lines that serve 2.6 million customers
in south  Wales  and southwest England, according to its website.
E.ON’s U.K. grid has 133,000 kilometers of  power lines  that
serve more than 5 million customers in central  England .  E.ON’s U.K. grid had drawn interest from Cheung Kong
Infrastructure, MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. and PPL in a
sale that may fetch about $6 billion, people with knowledge of
the talks said last month.  The grid sold at a higher price than valued by Cheung Kong
Infrastructure, Victor Li, chairman of the Hong Kong-listed
utility, said at a media briefing today. Li didn’t say if Cheung
Kong Infrastructure had bid for the asset.  The Hong Kong-listed utility expanded its business in
England last year after leading a group to buy Electricite de
France SA’s U.K. network for 5.8 billion pounds.  After the transaction is completed, PPL will own the
largest distribution network in the U.K. in terms of regulated
asset value, the company said in its statement. The deal will
add about 10 cents to 15 cents a share to 2011 earnings,
according to PPL.  Risk Profile  “This transaction significantly improves PPL’s business
mix and our business risk profile,” Chief Executive Officer
James Miller said in the statement.  Miller has wanted to increase PPL’s earnings from regulated
assets. The company said on Feb. 4 it expects reduced profits at
its unregulated unit this year as slack demand and low natural
gas prices squeeze power margins.  PPL has committed financing of 3.6 billion pounds in place
from Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse, the
utility said. The financing plan includes a combination of
common equity, convertible equity units and debt. PPL expects to
complete the equity financing in the second quarter and the debt
financing by the year-end, the utility said.  E.ON Debt  Credit Suisse and Bank of America Merrill Lynch served as
financial advisers to PPL. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP served
as legal counsel to the utility with assistance from Allen &
Overy LLP and Ashurst LLP.  E.ON is selling assets as it seeks to raise 15 billion
euros by the end of 2013 to cut debt and fund international
expansion. The company agreed to sell its 3.5 percent stake in
Russian gas producer OAO Gazprom for 3.4 billion euros as well
as an Italian pipeline network in December.  PPL agreed last April to buy two U.S. utilities from E.ON
for $6.7 billion as part of an earlier asset sale plan by the
German energy company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net . 