-- 
Production Gain Signals Construction Pickup: Chart of the Day

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-02T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/production-gain-signals-construction-pickup-chart-of-the-day.html
The rebound in U.S. industrial
production from the depths of the recession signals commercial
construction is also about to pick up.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that changes in private
nonresidential building track shifts in output with a 12-month
lag. Since reaching an 11-year low in June 2009, the month the
recession ended, the  Federal Reserve ’s index measuring what
American factories, mines and utilities produce is up 11
percent. By contrast, business spending on nonresidential
projects, including factories, office buildings, and shopping
centers, reached an almost seven-year low in January, figures
from the Commerce Department showed yesterday.  Commercial builders’ fortunes may be about to turn, said
Ted Wieseman, an economist at Morgan Stanley in  New York .
Vacancy rates are starting to drop, factory capacity -- though
still ample -- is starting to be used up, and credit is becoming
easier to obtain, he said.  “Commercial real estate prices for trophy properties have
been moving sharply higher, and broader major metro-area trends
are also improving,” Wieseman said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Smaller properties and markets are still
struggling,” in what he termed a “bifurcated market.”  Morgan Stanley projects nonresidential construction will
begin contributing to gross domestic product in the second
quarter, according to Wieseman. Commercial construction added
0.1 percentage point to growth in last three months of 2010
after subtracting for nine consecutive quarters.  A net 12 percent of banks saw stronger demand for
commercial real estate loans in the last three months of 2010,
according to the Fed’s Senior Loan Officer survey, released Jan.
31. That compares with a net 66 percent reporting decreased
demand during the first quarter of 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  