-- 
Putin Aides Seek Club Owners for ‘I Want Prime Minister’ Party

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-03-02T10:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/putin-aides-seek-club-owners-for-i-want-prime-minister-party.html
  Vladimir Putin  isn’t happy with an
‘I Want the Prime Minister’ ad in downtown Moscow and his aides
are looking for the owners of the nightclub that put it there to
lure women to a  party , his spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  said.  The Rai, or Heaven, club on the Moscow River erected a
banner over Novy Arbat, a thoroughfare Putin uses to commute, to
promote its ‘Putin Party’ for International Women’s Day.  “Unfortunately we’ve so far been unable to contact the
club’s management to find out why this happened without our
knowledge,” Peskov said on state television late yesterday.
“The prime minister himself, back when he was still president,
often said he objected to the use of his name.”  Putin, described as an “alpha dog” in U.S. embassy cables
posted by the anti-secrecy website  WikiLeaks , handed over the
presidency to his protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , in 2008, because of
a constitutional ban on serving more than two consecutive terms.
Putin remains the country’s most popular politician and hasn’t
ruled out standing for election as president in 2012.  Putin last month, in an interview with model  Naomi Campbell 
for GQ magazine, praised as “courageous” the female students
who posed for an “erotic” calendar to honor his 58th birthday
last year.  Each month of the calendar, which sold at Groupe
Auchan SA supermarkets  for 259 rubles ($9.05) apiece, had a
student with her own personal message for Putin, including,
“You put out the forest fires, but I’m still burning,” and
“You only get better with the years.”  “I wouldn’t say that we are pleased or overjoyed about”
the party theme, Peskov said.  “I hope the surname Putin will
not be used commercially.”  Nobody answered the phone when Bloomberg called the number
listed on Rai’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  