-- 
Qaddafi's African Dream in Tatters as Net Tightens Around `King of Kings'

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-03-02T12:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/qaddafi-s-african-dream-in-tatters-as-net-closes-in-around-king-of-kings-.html
  Muammar Qaddafi  bought influence in
Africa in the past four decades with investments in everything
from chicken farms to rebel movements. That flow of funds to
some of the world’s poorest countries may be about to end.  The Libyan ruler’s bid to create a “United States of
Africa” is in tatters after the opposition seized half of his
country and members of his administration, including key members
of the diplomatic corps, deserted him. His efforts to crush a
two-week uprising were condemned yesterday by the 192-member  United Nations General Assembly .  “Assuming Qaddafi is finished you’re going to have a very
different role that Libya plays whoever is in charge vis-a-vis
the rest of sub-Saharan  Africa ,” David Shinn, a former U.S.
ambassador to  Burkina Faso  and Ethiopia, said in a phone
interview from  Washington . “Libya will become over the next
couple of years a very modest player in African affairs.”  After failing to win support for his dream of pan-Arab
unity in the 1990s, Qaddafi, 68, used his oil wealth to reinvent
himself as an African leader. He set up the $5 billion  Libya
Africa Investment Portfolio  in 2006, investing in countries as
far apart as Madagascar and  Rwanda , and adopted the title of
“King of Kings” two years later.  The funds helped him win the presidency of the African
Union in 2009, though his attempt to extend his tenure by
another year failed to win support. Neither did his call for a
continental political federation.  Funding Conflict  In 1998, the Libyan leader created the Community of Sahel-
Saharan States, a region that stretches across North Africa. It
now includes 28 nations and boasts its own investment bank,
policy council and plans for a regional Olympic-style  athletic
competition  to be hosted in Chad’s capital, N’djamena.  Creating the regional group “was his way of providing aid
and investment to member nations,” said Shinn. “They saw it as
a way of getting largesse out of  Libya . I would not be a bit
surprised if that organization collapses.”  Qaddafi’s push for African unity only started after Arab
nations complied with UN-sanctions against Libya in response to
its bombing of Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie,  Scotland  in 1988.  South African President Nelson Mandela  visited Libya while
it was under sanctions, greeting Qaddafi as “my brother
leader” and praising him for his help in the fight against
apartheid. Democratic Republic of Congo’s President Laurent Kabila also visited Qaddafi.  ‘King of Kings’  “It mattered to him politically that these African
countries were willing to act independently of those
sanctions,” said Nana Ampofo, an analyst with Songhai Advisors.  Qaddafi’s oil funds have left his name stamped across the
continent; from the  Gaddafi Mosque  in  Uganda  to the Khadafi
Square in Mauritius’ capital,  Port Louis . Zimbabwe’s President
Robert Mugabe has five camels given by Qaddafi on his farm.  Qaddafi’s pan-African ambitions were highlighted by his
coronation as ‘ ‘King of Kings”  of Africa during a 2008 ceremony
in the eastern city of Benghazi attended by a group of African
traditional leaders wearing gold crowns and colorful robes.  In a speech to the UN in September 2009, Qaddafi, bearing
the silhouette of the African continent on his tunic, demanded a
permanent seat for the  African Union  on the  Security Council .  Qaddafi also praised the election of U.S. President  Barack Obama  as an achievement for Africa envisaged in the Green Book,
his 1975 tome of revolutionary philosophy.  “Wherever you have blacks, they despise us,” Qaddafi said
in a speech to African Union leaders in 2009. “But the Green
Book says that black people will prevail over the world and
today the Kenyan son has imposed himself over the  United States
of America .”  Gasoline, Sawmills  Qaddafi was willing to back up his rhetoric on Africa with
money. The  Libya Africa Investment Portfolio  has stakes in
gasoline stations in Cameroon and Ethiopia, mobile-phone
networks in Rwanda and  Ivory Coast  and a 506,000-hectare logging
concession and sawmill in the Republic of Congo, according to
its website. It also has shares in mining companies in the
Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo,
and poultry farms in Togo and  Madagascar .  Of the investments, “most were made with an eye towards
Qaddafi’s international politics,” said Sebastian Spio-Garbrah,
a political analyst with New York-based DaMina Advisors, in an
e-mail. “Ironically, almost all of them are sound economic
investments.”  Years before his African unity drive, Qaddafi funded rebels
opposed to former Chadian President Hissene Habre in the 1980s,
according to the U.S. State Department, and his soldiers  helped 
Central African Republic President Ange-Felix Patasse thwart a
coup in 2001.  ‘Clown’  Sierra Leone rebel leader Foday Sankoh and former Liberian
President Charles Taylor also  trained  in Libya prior to civil
wars in those countries in the 1990s.  Violence is now returning to define Qaddafi. The only
political legacy of his investment campaign may be the alleged
African mercenaries helping to keep him in power in Tripoli.  “His vision for a unified Africa went nowhere,” said
Tibor Nagy, a former U.S. ambassador to Guinea and  Ethiopia , in
an e-mailed response to questions. “Most African leaders
consider Qaddafi a buffoon and a clown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 