-- 
Treasuries Head for Weekly Loss on Speculation U.S. Added Jobs Last Month

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-04T01:48:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/treasuries-snap-gain-on-speculation-manufacturing-to-drive-u-s-expansion.html
(Corrects note price in fourth paragraph.)  Treasuries headed for their
first weekly loss in a month before a government report that
economists said will show U.S. job gains increased in February.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.51
percentage points yesterday, the most since July 2008.  “The fundamentals are getting better and better,” said  Yusuke Tanaka , senior dealer in  Singapore  at Mitsubishi UFJ
Trust & Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s largest lender. “We
reduced exposure over the past two weeks.”  Ten-year notes yielded 3.57 percent as of 9:55 a.m. in
Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.625 percent
security maturing in February 2021 traded at a price of 100
15/32. The rate advanced 15 basis points this week.  U.S. employment increased by 196,000 last month, after a
36,000 gain in January, according to the median forecast of 84
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Labor
Department releases the data today. The report will also show
the jobless rate increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent, the
survey showed.  Treasuries declined yesterday after the Labor Department
said initial claims for  unemployment insurance  unexpectedly
dropped last week.  The Treasury announced plans to sell $32 billion of 3-year
notes, $21 billion of 10-year securities and $13 billion of 30-
year bonds next week.  ‘Incrementally Buying’  “If rates creep up over 4 percent, I would be
incrementally buying,” Laurence D. Fink, chief executive
officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager,
said in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television’s Erik Schatzker. “Inflation may be in the short run a problem, but in
the long run not.”  German two-year government notes slumped yesterday, pushing
the yield to the highest level in more than two years, as
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
interest rates may be increased at the next meeting.  Ten-year German yields also surged as Trichet told
reporters in  Frankfurt  that inflation risks have moved to the
“upside.” The ECB left its benchmark interest rate at a record
low of 1 percent.  -With assistance from Cordell Eddings in  New York . Editors:
Nicholas Reynolds, Rocky Swift  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 