-- 
U.S. Officials Fighting to Save Homeowner Aid as Lawmakers Fault Failures

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/treasury-lobbies-u-s-congress-to-preserve-foreclosure-prevention-programs.html
Obama administration officials
launched a campaign to preserve as much as they can of $50
billion in foreclosure-prevention aid for homeowners amid
growing criticism from both Republicans and Democrats.  “It’s very important to continue these programs given how
difficult the housing market is right now,” Timothy Massad, the
Treasury’s acting assistant secretary for financial stability,
said in a conference call with reporters yesterday. Tens of
thousands of borrowers are joining foreclosure-prevention
programs every month, each saving more than $500 on their
mortgage payments, Massad said.  The House Financial Services Committee is scheduled to
weigh the future of the administration’s Home Affordable
Modification Program, or HAMP, and three other aid programs at a
meeting today. Republicans want to eliminate funding for the
programs, which both they and some Democratic lawmakers say have
done more harm than good.  More than a dozen Democratic lawmakers unleashed their
frustration onto Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , Housing
and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan and a half dozen
other administration officials yesterday during a closed-door
meeting that lasted for more than an hour.  “This is an arbitrary, capricious system that kicks hard-
working people out on the street,” Representative  George Miller , a California Democrat, said in an interview after the
meeting. “This administration cannot allow this to continue.”  Initial Projections  About 1.5 million households have begun trial mortgage
modifications through HAMP, down from initial projections of 3
million to 4 million, the Obama administration said yesterday.  The effort is “clearly a failure,”  Neil Barofsky , special
inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, said at
a House Financial Services subcommittee hearing after the report
was released. HAMP’s successes “pale in comparison” to the
record 2.9 million foreclosure filings in 2010, Barofsky told
lawmakers.  Administration officials say that cutting the programs
would be a mistake, even as they acknowledge that they’ve failed
to meet expectations.  “Unspent funds don’t cost the taxpayer a penny,” Federal
Housing Administration Commissioner David Stevens told reporters
yesterday, noting that federal money is spent only when
homeowners win loan modifications. “If you eliminate these
programs, if you eliminate HAMP, the only people doing the
modifications are the institutions that caused the problem.”  The Treasury will spend only about a fourth of the $50
billion allocated for the program, according to a Congressional
Budget Office projection.  Canceled Modifications  In their monthly HAMP scorecard released yesterday, the
Treasury and HUD reported that almost 28,000 new borrowers
entered permanent loan modifications in January. Of the 1.5
million trial modifications begun since the program was started
in 2008, about 808,000 have been canceled.  Geithner has said that ending HAMP would cause “a huge
amount of damage” to a still-fragile housing market.  HAMP’s smaller numbers are largely attributable to the
Treasury’s decision to tighten eligibility standards so that
participants would be more likely to qualify for permanent
relief, Massad said.  “We overestimated how many people would be eligible,”
Massad said yesterday. The Treasury wants to continue improving
the program and accepting new borrowers through the end of 2012,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in  Washington  at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 Lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  