-- 
Regling's ECB Job Odds Improve as Draghi Stays Favorite, Paddy Power Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-02T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/regling-s-ecb-job-odds-improve-as-draghi-stays-favorite-paddy-power-says.html
Klaus Regling’s odds of becoming the
next president of the  European Central Bank  have improved after
Bundesbank chief  Axel Weber  withdrew from the running, Irish
bookmaker Paddy Power Plc said.  Germany’s Regling, who heads the European Financial
Stability Facility, is now joint second-favorite alongside
Finland’s Erkki Liikanen at odds of 7 to 2, Dublin-based Paddy
Power said yesterday. Two weeks ago, Regling was an outsider
with odds of 20 to 1. While  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi  remains the
favorite, his odds have lengthened.  “There’s been a betting move for Klaus Regling, whose odds
have come right in since Axel Weber ruled himself out,” said
Paddy Power, a spokesman for the company.  The race to succeed ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  in
November was thrown open on Feb. 11 when Weber, who economists
had named the frontrunner, unexpectedly announced he’ll step
down as chief of  Germany ’s central bank. Though Regling has no
central banking experience, he’s the only other German who’s
been connected with the job so far.  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development President
Thomas Mirow said this week there is no chance that he would
become a candidate. “It would be totally unrealistic,” Mirow, a
former German Finance Ministry official, said Feb. 28. “I know
for sure that the German government would never consider me.”  Liikanen’s Odds  Odds of 7 to 2 mean a gambler betting 2 euros would win 7
euros and their stake back. Draghi, who heads the Bank of Italy,
is the only declared candidate for Trichet’s job. His odds
changed to 4 to 6 from 4 to 9. Liikanen’s odds also lengthened
from 2 to 1 on Feb. 16.  While  Finland  hasn’t put Liikanen forward as a candidate,
“the situation could change,” Finnish Finance Minister Jyrki
Katainen told Helsinki-based broadcaster YLE1 on Feb. 19. “I’ve
discussed this with Liikanen and we’ve agreed to monitor the
situation and not get ahead of ourselves.”  Draghi is “an excellent candidate” Philippe Maystadt,
president of the  European Investment Bank , said in an interview
published Feb. 27 in El Pais.  Paddy Power said the odds on Dutch central bank governor
Nout Wellink and Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch are at 6 to 1 and 8 to
1 respectively. Wellink said on Feb. 22 that he would consider
taking the ECB position if asked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  