-- 
Republican Cuts to US Anti-Terror Funding Draw Committee Chairman’s Anger

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-02T14:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/republican-cuts-to-anti-terror-funding-anger-chairman-king-from-new-york.html
The Republican chairman of the House
Homeland Security Committee is denouncing his own party’s plans
to cut this year’s budget by $61 billion, saying it would reduce
vital spending to fight terrorism.  Representative  Peter King  of  New York  said a plan approved
by the House last month that slashes two-thirds of the grants to
protect ports and transit facilities may lead to an attack that
would cost lives and billions of dollars.  “We’re not talking about earmarks; we’re not talking about
sweetheart contracts,” King said in an interview. “We’re
talking about life and death.”  The measure the House passed on Feb. 19 faces opposition in
the Democratic-controlled Senate. The House yesterday approved a
two-week stopgap budget bill designed to avert a government
shutdown. The Senate is due to approve that measure and send it
to President  Barack Obama  this week.  The stopgap plan only postpones the battle over budget
cuts, including the reductions for protecting the homeland.
Representative John Culberson, a Texas Republican, said homeland
security shouldn’t be exempt from the new austerity aimed at
narrowing the deficit.  “Our kids are saddled with this criminal, monstrous
debt,” Culberson said in an interview. “Every dollar we spend
must be prioritized with the overriding knowledge that it’s all
borrowed money.”    Amy Kudwa , a  Department of Homeland Security  spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the effect of the potential reductions.  Transit Security  Some grants for port and transit security -- which pay for
cameras, tunnel fortification, training, patrols, canine teams
and fencing -- may survive because the money has been
appropriated and is yet to be spent, said Susan Monteverde, vice
president of government relations for the  American Association
of Port Authorities , an Alexandria, Virginia-based trade group.  The cuts approved by the House would slash spending for
port security and transit facilities to $200 million for the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30, compared with $600 million in 2010.  Grant supporters said the cuts don’t make sense given the
assessment by  Homeland Security  Secretary Janet Napolitano last
month that the terrorist threat to the U.S. is the highest since
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  Transit grants have helped fund bag checks and security
patrols in Boston subways, and camera, fences and lighting at
rail yards,  Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority  Chief
 Paul MacMillan  said. The struggles that states and cities are
having with their own budget gaps makes the federal money even
more important now, he said.  ‘A Difficult Time’  “This is a difficult time for public transit to absorb
these cuts,” MacMillan said in an interview.  The proposed cuts are based on the mistaken assumption that
much of the money is unused because it isn’t needed, supporters
said. Although not spent, the funding often is obligated to
multi-year projects, they said.  “All this money is accounted for,” King said.  The grant process has been plagued by a slow administrative
process that makes it difficult to get approval, according to
the Government Accountability Office, Congress’s auditor.  Only 3 percent of the transit money awarded between 2006
and 2008 had been spent as of February 2009, according to a June
2009 GAO  report . Monteverde said port grants suffer from the
same bureaucratic snafus.  ‘Most Effective Way’  Culberson said the  Federal Emergency Management Agency ,
which helps administer the grants, is “not capable of, nor are
they properly equipped to ensure that these dollars are being
spent in the most effective way.” And, he said, state and local
transit agencies “tend to be the most wasteful and
unaccountable local government entities.”  The grants duplicate other anti-terrorist programs, said
James Carafano, a senior fellow at the  Heritage Foundation , a
Washington-based research group.  “I don’t think these cuts are a real threat to homeland
security,” he said in an interview. “Most of this is checkbook
security, money that’s propping up states’ nice-to-have stuff.”  King said the argument over numbers would become moot the
moment a terrorist blows up a port or subway.  The U.S. would lose the $400 million in savings “in the
first five minutes if there’s an attack,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  