-- 
Richard Thomas Sprints From Riches to Rags in ‘Timon’: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-02T05:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/richard-thomas-sprints-from-riches-to-rags-in-timon-review.html
  Richard Thomas , filthy, wild-eyed
and feral in the title role of Shakespeare's “Timon of  Athens ,” 
is fatally upstaged in the second and much better half by an 
Athenean general on the lam.  In the first act, Timon awakens to the idea that a rich
man’s friends are apt to be deserters when the coffers have run
dry. His transformation from urbane spendthrift to nutty forest-
dweller comes faster than you can say “the party’s over.”  Alcibiades, the general, suffers a different but no less
transforming change of heart. When one of his soldiers is
sentenced to death for a murder of passion, Alcibiades’ pleas
for mercy before the Athenean senate fall on deaf ears. All his
sacrifices mean nothing to these bureaucrats, and so the
military man, exiled, vows to return and exact revenge.  When these two meet in the forest, Timon doesn’t stand a
chance in what becomes a duel of acid wit and nerves.  Thomas has had modest success as a stage actor despite a
near total lack of range. His voice is a slightly adenoidal fog
and any modulation merely emphasizes that quality. It’s
impossible to get into Timon’s sorrow and disappointment.  Reg E. Cathey’s Alcibiades overwhelms Timon with a baritone
musicality so rich you forgive the martinet his sullen hissy
fit. When Thomas challenges him verbally, you want to call
time out and ask him whether he’s gone as crazy as his character.  Director Barry Edelstein, who runs the  Public Theater ’s
Shakespeare programming, has cut the heck out of this problem
play while inserting modern dress and a reference to “It’s a
Wonderful Life,” to emphasize, I guess, the idea that money
ruins everything, especially friendship. Not exactly a new idea.  No Fool  The supporting cast is a mixed bag. Mark Nelson and Max
Casella are especially miscast as Timon’s faithful steward,
Flavius, and the truth-telling philosopher Apemantus. Neither
can convince us that Timon is anything but a fool. Speaking of
Fool, there is none, nor are there any prostitutes (the only
women in this play), though there was a brief flash of a stag
film following the “Wonderful Life” scene.  Through March 6 at 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-
967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org  Rating: *  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 