-- 
Rogoff Says Debt Restructuring in Greece, Ireland, Spain Is `Inescapable'

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/rogoff-says-debt-restructuring-inevitable-in-greece-ireland.html
Greece and Ireland will need to
restructure their debts and  Spain  and Portugal may also face
doing so to survive  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, Harvard
University professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said.  “I do think the eventual restructuring of two or three
countries -- Greece, Ireland, Portugal -- is inevitable,”
Rogoff said at an event at the German Finance Ministry in Berlin
late yesterday. It “may be called something else, for face-
saving reasons.”  European Union leaders are scheduled to meet this month to
discuss plans to stem the debt crisis as German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  rejects calls to lower  interest rates  on aid or
bolster the bloc’s rescue fund. Rogoff, a former International
Monetary Fund chief economist, has previously said that some
euro members may have to restructure debts and bondholders
should be forced to take losses of as much as 40 percent.  “It’s inescapable to have public and/or private debt
restructured in all four countries” of  Greece , Ireland,
Portugal and Spain, he said. “The risk of waiting too long is
that it gets bigger and it costs you more.”  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield reached 7.64 percent on Feb.
10, the most since the inception of the euro in 1999, and was at
7.47 percent late yesterday in  London . It first climbed above 7
percent on Nov. 10 and has been above that level since Feb. 4.
Greece needed a rescue within 17 days of its 10-year yield
breaching 7 percent on April 6, while Ireland lasted less than a
month after it cracked that level in October.  ‘Too Big’  “If Spain were to have a restructuring of central
government debt, I don’t think it would end there” and
countries including Belgium and others would be affected, Rogoff
said. “Spain is just too big.”  Portugal will accept a financial bailout “within the next
few weeks” as the cost of issuing debt becomes unsustainable,
according to Axa Investment Managers, which oversees $714
billion in assets. Rogoff said in an interview with  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  published Feb. 10 that countries such as
Greece and Portugal should be urged to leave the euro region for
10 to 15 years to help restore public finances.  Greece leaving the euro region “would be a sensible
solution but I don’t think it will happen,” Rogoff said late
yesterday. “It’s not on the table, but I think a default will
be difficult to avert.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  