-- 
Ronald McDonald Sidelined as Chain Touts Lattes

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-03-02T21:13:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ronald-mcdonald-sidelined-as-chain-touts-lattes-not-kids-meals.html
As  McDonald’s Corp . morphs into a
more upscale chain, there’s one person you won’t see munching
salads, sipping a cappuccino and surfing the Web: Ronald
McDonald, age 48.  While Ronald still plays an ambassador role, he isn’t tied
to the menu, says spokeswoman Danya Proud. Even as mascots like
Burger King’s King shill on TV and the Web, Ronald has ceded the
limelight to budding singers and dancers who sell mochas and
frappes -- not Happy Meals.  “We haven’t been seeing a lot of Ronald McDonald,” said
Tim Calkins, a marketing professor at  Northwestern University  in
Evanston,  Illinois . “They’re beginning to appeal to much more
sophisticated individuals.”  Amid intensifying concern over surging obesity rates, the
chain has distanced itself from its fast-food origins, adding
café-friendly items such as fruit smoothies and dolling up
restaurants with free WiFi and padded seats. While the shift
helped to revive sales growth last year -- McDonald’s has
credited McCafe coffee for revenue growth in six of the past
seven quarters -- the new adults-only ambiance leaves little
room for Ronald.  “He kind of represents the old McDonald’s, with the high-
fat content foods that are kind of falling out of favor,” said
Bob Dorfman, the executive creative director at Baker Street
Advertising in  San Francisco . “It’s clear that McDonald’s is
advertising coffee, they’re not advertising burgers.”  Coffee Indulgences  The company’s McCafe drinks, which rolled out nationally in
2009, have helped fuel specialty and iced coffee consumption in
the U.S., according to NPD Group Inc. Specialty coffee servings
rose 3.3 percent and cold and frozen coffee jumped 8.5 percent
last year, while all coffee rose 0.6 percent from the year
before, data from the Port  Washington , New York-based researcher
show.  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s has refurbished
stores to reflect the new McCafe stylings.  “They’re trying to get a Starbucks feel,” said Joel
Cohen, president of the Cohen Restaurant Marketing Group in
Raleigh,  North Carolina . “You’ll see the greens and the browns,
those nice earthy tones.”  The latest McCafe commercials feature lesser-known stars
such as Irish dancing pair Suzanne Cleary and Peter Harding
doing some serious hand clapping while sipping coffee. In
another, R&B singer Bryson “Cupid” Bernard does the McCafe
shuffle while crooning about “frappes so sweet and so creamy.”
They’re a far cry from 1980s TV spots showing Ronald picnicking
in the forest with Grimace and touting “Bambi” Happy Meal
toys.  Lawsuits  Some parents in  California  may be happy to kiss Ronald and
his Happy Meals goodbye for good. A Washington-based advocacy
group said McDonald’s baits, exploits, and harms children by
offering toys with its kid’s meals, according to a lawsuit filed
in the state courthouse in San Francisco last year. The Center
for Science in the Public Interest sought class-action status on
behalf of all of the state’s children under 8 years of age who
have seen Happy Meal marketing since December 2006.  While Ronald may no longer light up the small screen, he
still springs up around town to brighten kids’ birthdays and
school assemblies. Ronald also has some job security thanks to
his charity work at his 300 Ronald McDonald Houses, which lodge
families who need to be near their sick children.  “They haven’t given up on Ronald at all, they haven’t
given up on kids,” said Malcolm Knapp, a New-York based
restaurant consultant. “They just changed the marketing mix.”  Ronald’s Origins  The origins of Ronald are clouded by who gets credit for
his existence. Weatherman Willard Scott claimed in a memoir that
he came up with the character almost 50 years ago when he donned
a paper-cup nose for a McDonald’s store opening in Alexandria,
Virginia. McDonald’s says Washington-based franchisee Oscar
Goldstein invented the character, supported with local ads until
the first national television commercial aired in 1966.  Other chains have followed with their own mascots, like
Burger King Holdings Inc.’s King, a man garbed in a mask, crown
and Renaissance-period clothing who shows up at people’s houses
bearing menu items. The restaurant has lured college-aged diners
with Internet spots and viral marketing, playing up the
character’s bizarre persona and oversized head, created by the
advertising firm Crispin Porter + Bogusky. Lauren Kuzniar, a
spokeswoman for Miami-based Burger King, declined to comment for
this story.  Burger King has avoided some of McDonald’s legal spats with
nutrition-conscious parents because “the King” character
clearly isn’t targeting children, said Jim Hardison, the
creative director at Character LLC.  Embracing Creepy  “They embrace that creepiness on purpose,” said Hardison,
based in  Portland ,  Oregon . Burger King made “sure their
character couldn’t be confused with a children’s icon.”  Still, McDonald’s is by far the leading fast-food chain in
the world, with $24.07 billion in sales last year. Even with
Ronald’s limited participation, it’s also the most valuable
restaurant brand, worth $33.6 billion, compared with $5.84
billion for second-place KFC, according to consultant
 Interbrand .  McDonald’s fell 20 cents to $74.69 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have slumped 2.7
percent this year.  “They’re just headed in a different direction,” said  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , who
advises holding the stock. “A lot of people have grown tired of
fries and burgers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  