-- 
Roubini's Firm Sees $100 Billion of Muni-Bond Defaults, Less Than Whitney

-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-03-02T20:02:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/roubini-firm-sees-100-billion-of-municipal-bond-defaults-over-five-years.html
About $100 billion of U.S. municipal
bonds will default during the next five years, according to
Nouriel Roubini’s consulting firm, less than the “hundreds of
billions” predicted for 2011 by  Meredith Whitney .  “State and local debt problems are not systemic in nature,
and will not infect the financial system, though they will
dampen economic recovery,”  David Nowakowski , the credit-
strategy director at  Roubini Global Economics LLC  in  New York ,
and Prajakta Bhide, an analyst, said in a report this week.  Roubini, a New York University economist who in 2006
predicted the credit-market collapse, is co-founder and chairman
of Roubini Global. His firm’s study is less dire for the $2.86
trillion municipal market than Whitney’s forecast.  The bank analyst and head of Meredith Whitney Advisory
Group LLC in New York said in December that “hundreds of
billions” of dollars of defaults could occur this year as state
and local governments struggle with budget deficits and tax
collections that haven’t returned to pre-recession levels.  Municipal defaults can be triggered by declines in reserves
or other events including missed or late payments to investors.
There were $2.8 billion of defaults last year, less than half
the $7.4 billion in 2009, according to the Distressed Debt
Securities Newsletter in  Miami Lakes ,  Florida . The average for
the last five years is $4.1 billion, according to data compiled
by the newsletter’s publisher,  Richard Lehmann .  Limited Losses  The Roubini report said its $100 billion figure for the
next five years, equal to $20 billion annually, was a
“pessimistic calculation.” At that amount, investor losses
would be only about $35 billion because of the historically high
rate of principal repaid on distressed municipal bonds, it said.  The firm is the latest to cast doubt on Whitney’s forecast.
Public officials, investors and rival analysts have said her
view exaggerates the risk that the slow-growing economy poses to
the municipal-bond market.  Defaults will be restricted to unrated issues and junk-
rated revenue bonds, the firm said. That’s in line with market
conditions, Matt Fabian, managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, said at a
conference at Bloomberg headquarters in New York today.  “The defaults we’ve seen in the market have been high-
yield, non-rated area, smaller transactions, not the big
headlines,” he said.  Investment-Grade Strength    Standard & Poor’s  said in a report today that issuers of
municipal bonds it ranked as investment grade avoided defaults
last year even as they faced credit-ratings pressure from the
effects of the U.S. recession.  Public finance “remains significantly stable in nature and
of sound  credit quality ,” S&P wrote.  Boise County,  Idaho , with a population of about 7,450,
filed for bankruptcy today, the first U.S. municipality to seek
Chapter 9 protection from creditors this year. Six municipal
entities filed last year, most of them small utility or sewer
districts.  “Ultimately, municipal bankruptcies will be at a lower
level,”  Bill Gross , who manages the world’s biggest bond fund
at Pacific Investment Management Co., said on Bloomberg
Television’s “In Business” program in January. “I don’t
subscribe to the theory that there will be lots of them.”  Speculation about defaults prompted investors to pull money
from municipal-bond mutual funds for the past 15 weeks. Spending
cuts by state and local governments also contributed to a
revision lower of U.S. gross domestic product growth in the
fourth quarter.  The economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual pace in the
period, down from a 3.2 percent initial estimate, as state and
local expenditures fell at a 2.4 percent annual rate, the
Commerce Department said Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  