-- 
Ruble Moving to Free Float Shows Emerging Inflation Concern: Russia Credit

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 
2011-03-02T16:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/ruble-moving-to-free-float-shows-emerging-inflation-concern-russia-credit.html
Russia is loosening control of the
ruble, fueling gains for the best-performing currency in
emerging markets as the central bank tries to tackle inflation.  Non-deliverable forwards showing expectations for currency
movements and  interest rates  in three months are at 28.6060 per
dollar, the strongest level since October 2008, after Bank
Rossii said it widened its so-called “floating corridor” for
the ruble for the first time since October.  “The decision to widen the band proves the Russian central
bank’s willingness to address the inflation problem as a first
priority,” said Nikolay Podguzov, VTB Capital’s head of fixed-
income strategy in Moscow. “The central bank is ready to accept
further exchange rate volatility.”  The ruble rose 7.6 percent against the dollar since the
start of the year, compared with a 0.5 percent jump in China’s
yuan, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brazil ’s real climbed 0.1
percent, while the  Indian rupee  declined 0.6 percent. A stronger
local currency tends to help curb consumer prices by reducing
the cost of imported goods.  The trading band moved to 32.45-37.45 rubles versus the
dollar-euro basket, from 32.95-36.95 rubles on Feb. 28, Bank
Rossii First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  told reporters
after the close. The ruble strengthened 1 percent to 33.3140 to
the basket at the 5:00 p.m. close of trading in Moscow today,
the biggest advance since Jan. 11, Bloomberg data show.  A “medium term target” of 33.00 versus the basket is
possible, Podguzov said by e-mail yesterday. The ruble may reach
32.95 versus the basket in the short term, Alexander Morozov,
HSBC Holdings Plc’s Moscow-based chief  Russia  economist, said in
an e-mailed note today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended “going long the ruble
versus the basket,” in an e-mailed research note yesterday. The
currency rose 1.1 percent to 28.4000 per dollar, the strongest
level since Dec. 23, 2008.  Boost for Bonds  “They wish to use ruble appreciation as an anti-
inflationary tool,” Dmitry Dudkin, head of fixed-income
research at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by e-mail
yesterday. “This is positive for the  bond market .”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than  U.S. Treasuries  fell 8 basis points to 175,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ Indexes. That compares
with 133 for similarly rated  Mexico  and 171 for Brazil, which is
rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  The so-called yield spread on Russian bonds is 90 basis
points below the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-
month high of 105 in February 2010, according to JPMorgan
Indexes. Russia’s bonds due in 2020 rose, pushing the yield down
7 basis points to 4.930 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 0.5 basis points to
139, down from last year’s peak of 217, according to data
provider CMA. Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade
rating, cost 38 basis points less than contracts for  Turkey ,
which is rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps cost as
much as 40 basis points less on April 20.  Russia is similar to other emerging-market countries that
are battling with inflation, fueled by food costs and an oil
price above $100 a barrel for the first time since 2008.  Ulyukayev said inflation probably reached an annual 9.7
percent in February, the highest level since October 2009. “The
situation with inflation remains quite acute, quite difficult,”
Ulyukayev said. The central bank’s 7 percent inflation target
for the year is a “difficult, but achievable goal.”    South Africa ’s finance minister and Indonesia’s deputy
central bank governor said last month that stronger currencies
may help stifle rising prices. Peru,  China ,  Colombia ,  Indonesia 
and Russia raised interest rates in February.  Currency Basket  Bank Rossii buys and sells foreign currency to keep the
ruble within the band against its target basket to protect
producers from exchange-rate swings that can hurt
competitiveness. The basket rate is calculated by multiplying
the dollar-ruble rate by 0.55, the euro-ruble rate by 0.45, and
then adding them together.  The threat of a stronger ruble and speculative capital
inflow may be a “big headache” for Russia, Ulyukayev said in
January. Still, a strengthening ruble helps slow consumer price
inflation, he said yesterday.  Ulyukayev’s comments support “further ruble appreciation
in the short term, which has been reinforced by the continuing
increase of  oil prices ,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist
for Russia at  Barclays Capital  in Moscow, said yesterday.  Urals, Russia’s export blend of crude traded at $114 a
barrel yesterday, the highest level since Aug. 21, 2008.  Russia, like other governments, is “using currency
appreciation to fight inflation,”  Bhanu Baweja , global head of
emerging-market fixed-income and currency strategy at UBS AG,
said by phone yesterday. As for the ruble, “it seems to be the
right trade, but it’s a very crowded one right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  