-- 
Rupiah Weakens on Speculation Central Bank Won’t Raise Rates

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-03-02T09:43:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/rupiah-weakens-on-speculation-central-bank-won-t-raise-rates.html
Indonesia’s rupiah fell, snapping a
three day rally, on speculation  Bank Indonesia  will hold off
from adding to last month’s increase in  interest rates  after
inflation moderated in February. Bonds gained.  Consumer prices rose 6.84 percent from a year earlier after
a 7.02 percent gain in January that was the biggest since April
2009, data released yesterday showed. The central bank may
refrain from raising its benchmark lending rate as efforts to
tame inflation are sufficient, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono
said last week. The central bank next meets to review monetary
policy on March 4 and economists surveyed by Bloomberg are split
over whether or not borrowing costs will be raised.  “The risk of Bank Indonesia holding back from a rate hike
has increased in light of the slower inflation and dovish
comments from the deputy governor last week, but the need to
hike is definitely there,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-
based economist at  Barclays Capital . “From a credibility
standpoint, more rate hikes are needed to anchor inflation
expectations.”  The rupiah weakened 0.2 percent to 8,813 per dollar as of
4:20 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency has strengthened 1.9 percent this year, the best
performance among the 10 most-traded Asian currencies.  Monetary Policy  Bank Indonesia raised its  reference rate  to 6.75 percent
last month from a record-low 6.50 percent. Nine of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News expect Bank Indonesia to leave the
rate unchanged this week, while eight forecast an increase to 7
percent.  “The point is the market dislikes a wishy-washy approach
towards handling inflation,” said  Nizam Idris , a currency
strategist at UBS AG in an interview in Jakarta. “Market likes
to see some tightening in monetary policy.”  Ten-year  government bonds  rose for a third day. The yield
on the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 fell three basis points
to 8.65 percent, according to closing prices from the Inter-
Dealer Market Association. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  