-- 
Russia Holds Oil Output Near Post-Soviet Record in February

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-02T08:53:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/russian-oil-output-remains-near-post-soviet-record-in-february.html
  Russia , the world’s largest oil
producer, kept crude output near a post-Soviet record in
February, at 10.23 million barrels a day.  That was 0.2 percent higher than a month earlier and 1.5
percent higher than the same month last year, according to
statistics from the Energy Ministry’s CDU-TEK data unit.  Russian crude exports advanced to 5.28 million barrels a
day, rising 2 percent from the previous month and 1.1 percent
from February of last year, according to the statistics.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  pledged that Russia’s oil
production will remain above 10 million barrels a day for at
least a decade, after reaching a post-Soviet high of 10.27
million in October. Putin ordered the government to create tax
incentives so that companies will invest in new projects.  Russia’s Soviet-era crude output peaked at 11.48 million
barrels a day in 1987, according to BP Plc data.  Gains by OAO Gazprom, projects run under production sharing
agreements with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Exxon Mobil Corp . and  Total SA , and smaller producers offset monthly declines by
Russia’s two largest oil producers, OAO Rosneft and OAO Lukoil.  Lukoil’s production fell 0.6 percent from the previous
month and 5.3 percent from a year earlier. The Moscow-based
company said last year that its 2011 domestic oil output may
fall this year.  State-controlled Rosneft pumped 0.5 percent less oil than
in January, while boosting production 2.4 percent from February
of last year. Rosneft’s figures do not include its Tomskneft
venture with OAO Gazprom Neft.  Natural-gas output declined to 2.04 billion cubic meters a
day in February, 0.7 percent lower than the previous month and 1
percent down from a year earlier, according to the statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  