-- 
RWE, OMV, Nabucco Pipe Partners Must Each Give $2.3 Billion in Guarantees

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-03-02T10:52:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/rwe-omv-nabucco-pipe-partners-must-each-give-2-3-billion-in-guarantees.html
The six companies planning the
Nabucco pipeline to bring Caspian gas to  Europe  will each have
to arrange 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion) in guarantees for
the project, according to  RWE AG (RWE) , one of the project’s partners.  “The central issue is the so-called pre-completion
guarantee,” Stefan Judisch, head of the German utility’s supply
and trading unit, said yesterday in an interview in Vienna.
“That will be 1.7 billion euros for each partner, according to
current planning, because the shareholders will naturally have
to guarantee the risk of construction completion.”  Nabucco is designed to help cut western Europe’s dependence
on Russian gas by carrying fuel from Azerbaijan and Iraq more
than 3,300 kilometers (2,050 miles) across  Turkey  to Austria.
The OMV AG-led venture’s shareholders, which include energy
companies from Hungary,  Bulgaria , Turkey and Romania, also have
to each put up 400 million euros in equity, Judisch said.  “The question is whether some of them will need a state
guarantee or something like that” for the 1.7 billion-euro
commitments, the executive said.  Two of RWE’s five partners on Nabucco are “not the
strongest,” Chief Executive Officer Juergen Grossmann said last
week at a press conference in Essen,  Germany , where the utility
is based. Grossmann was “referring to the ability to finance,
not the quality” of the partners, according to Judisch.  Nabucco Gas Pipeline International GmbH’s shareholders must
show “they can stem the 1.7 billion-euro pre-completion
guarantee and those that can’t will have to say how they’ll work
to ensure they can still make their contribution of that size,”
he said.  ‘Open Season’  That will have to take place before Nabucco gauges interest
for gas volumes through the pipeline, Judisch said, without
specifying when the process known as an “open season” is
scheduled.  Bulgaria will borrow 1.2 billion euros from the  European
Investment Bank  for guarantees to the Nabucco natural-gas
pipeline project, Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  said Jan. 21.  Nabucco may revise its 7.9 billion-euro cost estimate for
the link if it has to build a connection from the Iraqi border,
Managing Director Reinhard Mitschek said Feb. 18. The company
expects to determine the cost this year after it finishes
examining the viability of using an existing Turkish pipeline to  Iraq , he said.  The companies planning Nabucco are RWE, Austria’s OMV,
Budapest-based Mol Nyrt., Bulgargaz EAD, Romania’s Transgaz SA
and Ankara-based Boru Hatlari ile Petrol Tasima AS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at    acullen8@bloomberg.net  