-- 
Twitter Boosts San Francisco Offices as Banks Give Up Space

-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-03-02T21:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/san-francisco-offices-rebound-as-twitter-helps-fill-banks-void.html
San Francisco’s office market is
rebounding after record space cuts by banks, buoyed by
technology companies including Twitter Inc. and  Salesforce.com
Inc. (CRM)  that may lease as much as 7 million square feet this year.  Internet, software and social-networking firms may help San
Francisco approach last year’s 7.5 million square feet (697,000
square meters) of leasing, the most since 2000, broker  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said. Twitter, the messaging service with 175
million members, and Salesforce, the biggest provider of Web
enterprise software, are both based in the city and seeking to
rent a combined 400,000 square feet of new space this year.  San Francisco’s vacancy rate will drop more than any other
U.S. city’s in 2011, declining to 14.8 percent from 15.6
percent, according to  Reis Inc. (REIS)  A $1.5 billion financing round
for Facebook Inc. led by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s new $1.1 billion venture fund show confidence in
tech firms and signal the city is poised for more leasing, said
Colin Dyer, chief executive officer of Jones Lang LaSalle.  “San Francisco has come out of rental and asset-price
decline faster than any other U.S. city, with the exception of  Washington ,” Dyer said in a telephone interview. “Wall
Street’s interest in social media, the funds put together by
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, only make the tech community more
influential.”  Occupancy grew by 600,000 square feet in the fourth
quarter, double the amount in the previous three months and the
first back-to-back quarterly gain since 2007, brokerage Cassidy
Turley/BT Commercial said. Twitter is looking at space in  San
Francisco , according to Jones Lang LaSalle, its broker.  Twitter Tax Breaks  San Francisco Mayor Edwin Lee offered tax breaks to Twitter
and other firms that relocate to an area near City Hall known as
Mid-Market, Christine Falvey, the mayor’s spokeswoman, wrote in
an e-mail.  “We think we have made a very good proposal to Twitter to
stay in San Francisco and expect a decision soon,” Lee said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “This can be a
transformative moment for our Mid-Market area and a definite
win-win.”  Kabam, a developer of games for websites including
Facebook, signed a lease for 25,000 square feet in a South of
Market office building that will accommodate 150 new employees,
Lee announced today.  South of Market  While large companies fill big buildings, startups also are
flocking to San Francisco from around the country to be near
like-minded firms. They desire  office space  in the South of
Market district, an area of warehouses and industrial buildings
that was home to the dot-com boom in the mid-1990s, said Shelby
Clark, founder of RelayRides Inc.  “The talent, access to capital, mentality and just the
entire ecosystem is really second to none,” said Clark, whose
company, backed by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s venture arm, is a rental-car
service that lets users lease their own vehicles for cash.  RelayRides, originally based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
is relocating this week to a 3,000-square-foot space on Bryant
Street near Current TV LLC. ModCloth Inc., which sells vintage
clothing online, moved from Pittsburgh, and Formspring.me Inc.,
which runs an online forum where users ask and answer queries,
came from Indianapolis.  Asking rents in South of Market rose 9.5 percent to an
average $31.92 a square foot per year, according to Jones Lang
LaSalle. That compares with a 6.2 percent increase to $38.37 in
the city’s financial district, a number that reflects landlords’
anticipation for technology-industry spillover, not current
demand, said Colin Yasukochi, the broker’s research director.  ‘Stimulating Other Growth’  “Tech will eventually demand services from law firms,
service firms, marketers and recruiters,” Yasukochi said.
“Their growth is stimulating other growth.”  The vacancy rate has to go below 10 percent before rent
growth accelerates, said Kenneth Rosen, chairman of Berkeley,
California-based Rosen Consulting Group and hedge fund Rosen
Real Estate Securities LLC. San Francisco has the advantage of
being the fastest-moving U.S. office market, he said.  “When things get good they get good rapidly,” Rosen said.  The real estate expansion isn’t limited to office leases.
Salesforce paid $278 million in November for 14 acres (5.7
hectares) of empty land in San Francisco’s Mission Bay area,
south of South of Market, where it intends to build a campus.  Facebook Site  Facebook, the biggest social-networking site, in January
bought a 22-acre site in  Menlo Park ,  California , adjacent to Sun
Microsystems Inc.’s former campus of 1 million square feet.
Facebook, with 500 million users, said it would move its
headquarters from  Palo Alto  to the campus, 30 miles south of San
Francisco, and lease it from Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF property
investment unit.  In San Francisco, last year’s growth was led by Zynga Inc.,
the biggest maker of games on Facebook. The company will move in
the next three to six months to its new 270,000-square-foot
headquarters, taking almost half a building originally
constructed as fashion showrooms. The 10-year lease was the
city’s biggest office deal of 2010.  “This is not ‘Son of Dot-Com,’” said Michael Covarrubias,
chief executive officer of San Francisco-based TMG Partners
Inc., Zynga’s landlord at 650 Townsend St. The building
stretches from Seventh to Eighth streets and is located across
from the San Francisco Design Center. “These are well-heeled
companies, with senior management, making real money.”  Zynga is valued at $6.2 billion and Twitter is worth $4.3
billion on SharesPost Inc., an exchange for shares of private
companies.  Seven-Story Atrium  Zynga will pay $23 a square foot in annual rent on a lease
expiring in 2020, Jones Lang LaSalle said. TMG is installing a
separate entrance and enlarging a seven-story atrium, among
other improvements.  Adam Isserlis, a Zynga spokesman, declined to comment on
the lease details. Carolyn Penner, a Twitter spokeswoman, didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Trulia Inc., the operator of a residential real estate
website, in January tripled its space by moving to 30,000 square
feet in a South of Market building near the San Francisco Museum
of Modern Art and Moscone convention center.  “There are numerous health clubs, tons of restaurants and
many, many more startups, which really facilitates the flow of
business,” said Rebecca Eisenberg, the company’s chief counsel.  Broad Street San Francisco LLC,  Trulia ’s new landlord, gave
it a tenant allowance that helped fund a roof deck and kitchens
on all three floors, said Ken Shuman, a spokesman for the
website. The annual rent is $27 a square foot, he said.  Dolby Looking    Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB) , whose audio technology is used in
movie theaters and home stereos, is seeking 300,000 square feet
in San Francisco, Jones Lang LaSalle said. Its current
headquarters is in the Potrero Hill neighborhood near Trulia’s
old home.  While tech grew, financial firms had nine of the 10 biggest
space cuts in 2010 and relinquished 2 million square feet in the
last three years, according to Jones Lang LaSalle. Banks slashed
enough positions since 2008 to fill San Francisco’s iconic
Transamerica Pyramid four times, said Frank Fudem, a partner at
Cassidy Turley/BT Commercial.  Lost financial jobs through December totaled 9,500, or 14
percent of the industry, said Ted Egan, chief economist in the
city controller’s office, citing California Employment
Development Department data for the San Francisco metropolitan
area. It was the biggest drop since an 18.5 percent decline from
2001 to 2005.  Last year alone, banks cut more than 1 million square feet,
led by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  vacating a 349,000-square-foot building
on Fifth Street.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  cut 113,000 square feet on
Fremont Street, and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  and Deloitte LLP each
gave up 100,000 square feet on Montgomery and Fremont streets,
respectively, according to Jones Lang LaSalle.  “San Francisco has industries that can surge, like
Internet, social media and biotech,” Rosen said. “I have every
expectation that will happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  