-- 
Scene Last Night: Peter Kraus, Wilbur Ross, Jeff Peek, Alexandra Lebenthal

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-02T16:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/scene-last-night-peter-kraus-wilbur-ross-jeff-peek-alexandra-lebenthal.html
A cabbage sold for several hundred
thousand dollars last night. The grocery shopping took place at
a preview of the Art Show, an annual fair organized by the  Art
Dealers Association of America .  To get into the market when it opened at 5:30 p.m.,
collectors had paid as much as $2,000. Later admissions were
sold for $150 and $275.  Early birds at the fair -- which runs through Sunday and
features 70 dealers -- included Donald B. Marron, chairman and
chief executive officer of Lightyear Capital LLC; Peter S. Kraus, chairman and CEO of AllianceBernstein LP/USA; Israel A.
Englander, chairman and CEO of Millenium Management LLC;
investor Stephen Robert; and Wilbur Ross, chairman and CEO of WL
Ross & Co.  Ross was one of the first to check out the cabbage,
formally known as “Choupatte” (2011). It is a copper and bronze
sculpture cast from nature by French artist Claude Lalanne, who
bought the vegetable, almost two feet in diameter and standing
on two bird’s feet, at a local market. It was featured at the
corner booth of  Paul Kasmin Gallery .  Up the aisle at the Park Avenue Armory, another collector
stocked up on some Andy Warhol Campbell Soup Cans, at the booth
of  Richard L. Feigen & Co .  “It’s a shopper’s paradise,” said Marc Glimcher, president
of  Pace Gallery . “I already bought two things,” he added as he
took a bite of a potato pancake with smoked salmon. Pace is
devoting its booth to paintings by Chinese artist Zhang Huan,
selling for as much as $100,000. They are all made with temple
ash -- burned incense used as paint.  Ticket proceeds and a $25,000 sponsorship deal paid by
jeweler David Yurman benefited the  Henry Street Settlement .
David Garza, the nonprofit’s executive director, said he was
also grateful for a $250,000 grant from Microsoft to expand the
settlement’s workforce development center.  Princeton Powwow  A  Princeton powwow over by the spring rolls included
Jeremy Diamond, managing director of Fixed Income Discount
Advisory Co.; Alexandra Lebenthal, president and CEO of
Alexandra & James Co.; Liz Peek, a financial writer; and Jeff Peek, vice chairman of  investment banking  at  Barclays Capital .  Diamond and Lebenthal, who met at Princeton, are
celebrating their 20th wedding anniversary today. As Lebenthal
is attending a CEO conference tonight, the couple celebrated
over the weekend.  Diamond serenaded the love of his life with  Bruce Springsteen ’s “Born to Run,” “Hey Hey What Can I Do” by Led
Zeppelin, Elvis Costello’s “Every Day I Write the Book,” and Van Morrison’s “Crazy Love.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 