-- 
SEC Weighs Replacing Credit Ratings in Money-Market Fund Rules

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-02T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/sec-weighs-replacing-credit-ratings-in-money-market-fund-rules.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may propose dropping credit-rating references from
money-market fund regulations and using a different method for
evaluating their portfolios.  SEC commissioners may seek comment on a proposed rule to
instead use internal assessments for money market funds,
according to a fact sheet released by the agency. The funds
themselves would be responsible for weighing the credit quality
of the securities in the proposal, which would be open for
public comment until April 25.  The Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul enacted in July
requires regulators including the SEC to eliminate references to
credit ratings in their rules by July 21, replacing them with an
“appropriate” new standard.  Commissioner Luis Aguilar said in remarks prepared for
today’s meeting that he’s concerned the proposal eliminates an
“objective standard” and relies on the existing requirement
that fund boards evaluate the strengths of their own portfolios.  “We have been told frankly and directly that serious harm
would flow from such an ill-advised action,” Aguilar said. He
said he still intends to vote that the proposal be open to
public comment.  In 2008, the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund -- having
invested in debt issued by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . --
became the biggest money market fund to “break the buck” when
share value fell below $1 and investors faced losses.  Repo Rule  Today’s proposal also would change a second rule within the
Investment Company Act of 1940, removing the use of credit
ratings to assess collateral in  repurchase agreements . Such
agreements entered the public spotlight when Lehman Brothers
allegedly used its so-called Repo 105 transactions to conceal
the nature of its holdings before the firm’s 2008 collapse.  The commissioners already started the effort to remove
credit ratings on Feb. 9, when they opened a comment period on
the replacement of ratings in short-form registrations for the
public sale of securities.  In another Dodd-Frank rule the commissioners will consider
today, broker-dealers and investment advisers with more than $1
billion in assets would have to report their incentive-based
compensation plans to the SEC annually. The regulator would
assess whether the plans encourage taking risks that could lead
to a “material financial loss” for the firm, according to
Dodd-Frank.  The rule is required to be jointly adopted by U.S.
financial regulators. On Feb. 7, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. proposed rule language that is similar to the SEC
proposal.  The SEC rule, which carries a 45-day comment period, would
compel larger firms with more than $50 billion in assets to
defer at least 50 percent of incentive-based pay over for three
years and subject packages to possible claw backs for company
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 