-- 
Serena Williams Says She's Hopeful of `Early Summer' Return After Clot

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-03-02T21:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/serena-williams-treated-for-blood-clot-people-reports.html
  Serena Williams  said she hopes
to return to tennis in “early summer” after treatment for
a blood clot in her lung, the latest medical setback
keeping the 13-time Grand Slam singles winner off the court
since July.  Such a timetable would knock Williams out of the  French Open , which starts May 22, and jeopardize her
defense of the championship at Wimbledon, which begins June
20.  Williams, 29, was treated for the clot last week,
Nicole Chabot, Williams’s publicist, said today in a
statement. The former No. 1-ranked player on the WTA
women’s tennis tour also recently sustained a bruise caused
by internal bleeding, which Chabot called an “unexpected
scare.”  “This has been extremely hard, scary and
disappointing,” Williams said in the statement. “I am
doing better, I’m at home now and working with my doctors
to keep everything under control. I know I will be OK, but
am praying and hoping this will all be behind me soon.
While I can’t make any promises now on my return, I hope to
be back by early summer.  That said, my main goal is to
make sure I get there safely.”  Chabot said “everything was caught in time,” and
that Williams was under “strict medical supervision.”  Six-Month Absence?  Williams, who hasn’t played a competitive match in
more than seven months, may miss up to six months as she
recovers from the condition, according to Jonathan Orens,
associate director and clinical chief of pulmonary care at  Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine .  Williams last played in July, when she won her fourth
Wimbledon title. She cut her foot on a shard of glass in  Germany  following the victory and had surgery that month.
Williams had a second operation in October after re-tearing
a tendon in her right foot.  Raed Dweik, director of the pulmonary vascular program
in the department of pulmonology and critical care medicine
at Cleveland Clinic, said Williams’s clot may be a result
of the foot injury.  “This commonly happens after surgery, or if you have
a cut or injury to the foot that’s immobilizing,” Dweik
said in a telephone interview. “A cast can be high risk,
since the blood in the vein doesn’t get pumped as
regularly.”  Chest Pain  A blood clot that starts elsewhere in the body can
easily get caught in the lungs, which act as a filter,
Dweik said. Symptoms, experienced by roughly half of those
with the condition, may include shortness of breath, chest
pain or coughing up blood, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  The goals of treatment are to keep the clot from
growing and new clots from forming, according to the
 National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute . Blood thinners,
which block the body’s ability to create clots, are usually
prescribed and the body will dissolve most clots with time,
according to the institute.  Blood-clot risks include long periods without movement,
such as during plane and car rides. According to People
magazine, Williams discovered the clot after returning to  California  on a flight from  New York , where she was meeting
with doctors about her foot.  ‘Risk Factor’  “Immobility is also a risk factor because that allows
the blood to pool instead of circulating,” Samuel
Goldhaber, director of the venous thromboembolism research
group at Brigham & Women’s Hospital in  Boston , said in a
telephone interview. “That’s why you read on travel
brochures to take precautions during long plane rides.”  Pulmonary embolism, the third-most common
cardiovascular disease after heart attack and stroke, can
also be a result of genetic traits, Goldhaber said.  Williams has 37 career WTA victories and has earned
more than $32 million in prize money. The American has won
12 Grand Slam doubles titles and two Olympic gold medals in
doubles, all with her sister  Venus Williams .  Williams may be advised to stay off the court for as
long as six months to allow the blood thinners to work,
according to Orens, of  Johns Hopkins  in Baltimore. Most
physicians would suggest bed rest for a few days, then to
avoid aggressive physical activities for four to six weeks
in a conservative recovery program, he added.  ‘Residual Clot’  “Most of these clots come from the leg, and there may
be a residual clot,” Orens said. “Aggressive activity
could break that clot off, allowing it to also move to the
lung, so that’s the concern.”  If Williams is sidelined for a full six months, she
would miss the  U.S. Open , which starts on Aug. 29, for the
second consecutive year. She has won the season’s final
Grand Slam event in New York three times, most recently in
2008. She also would fail to win at least one Grand Slam
title for the first year since 2006. Williams also pulled
out of the Australian Open in January.  Forbes Magazine  last year rated Williams the second
highest-paid female athlete in the world, after tennis
player  Maria Sharapova .  Williams made $20.2 million in 2009, including $6.5
million from prize money, the same year that she became a
minority owner of the NFL’s Miami Dolphins, according to
the magazine. The WTA’s all-time leader in prize money, her
sponsors include  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , and PepsiCo
Inc.’s Gatorade, according to her website.  Career Slam  Williams’s 13 career Grand Slam singles titles are
sixth on the all-time list, and her 27 combined Grand Slam
titles, including doubles and mixed doubles, are eighth-
most in the history of the sport. She is one of nine
players to have won all four of the major tennis events at
least once.  Williams’s success has been accompanied with
controversy. Her 6-4, 7-5 loss to  Kim Clijsters  in the
semifinals of the 2009 U.S. Open ended when Williams was
assessed a one-point penalty for verbally abusing a
lineswoman who had called a foot fault on the previous
point. In an expletive-laced tirade, Williams said that she
was going to take a tennis ball and shove it down the
lineswoman’s throat, ESPN reported.  Williams apologized two days later for what she called
“my inappropriate outburst.” The WTA fined her $175,000.  Williams lost her No. 1 ranking to  Denmark ’s  Caroline Wozniacki  on Oct. 11 and is now ranked No. 11. She was
scheduled to play in an exhibition next week with  Rafael Nadal ,  Roger Federer  and Sharapova in Eugene,  Oregon ,
according to the event’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 