-- 
Serena Williams Is Treated for Blood Clot, People Reports

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-03-02T19:08:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/serena-williams-is-treated-for-blood-clot-people-reports.html
  Serena Williams  was treated for a
blood clot in her lung, the latest setback after injuries that
have kept the 13-time Grand Slam singles winner off the court
since last July, People magazine said.  Williams, 29, was treated at  Cedars-Sinai Medical Center  in  Los Angeles  for the clot found last week, the magazine quoted
the player’s representative Nicole Chabot as saying. The former
No. 1-ranked player on the WTA women’s tennis tour also received
emergency care two days ago for a bruise sustained as a result
of “treatment for a more critical situation,” Chabot told the
magazine.  Williams, who hasn’t played a competitive match in more
than seven months, may miss up to six months as she recovers
from the condition, according to Jonathan Orens, associate
director and clinical chief of pulmonary care at  Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine .  Chabot didn’t immediately return voicemail messages seeking
comment.  Williams last played in July, when she won her fourth
Wimbledon title. She cut her foot on a shard of glass in  Germany 
following the victory and had surgery that month. Williams had a
second operation in October after re-tearing a tendon in her
right foot.  Raed Dweik, director of the pulmonary vascular program in
the department of pulmonology and critical care medicine at
Cleveland Clinic, said Williams’s clot may be a result of the
foot injury.  Common Causes  “This commonly happens after surgery, or if you have a cut
or injury to the foot, that’s immobilizing, so you’re not
moving,” Dweik said in a telephone interview. “A cast can be
high risk, since the blood in the vein doesn’t get pumped as
regularly.”  A blood clot that starts elsewhere in the body can easily
get caught in the lungs, which act as a filter, Dweik said.
Symptoms, experienced by roughly half of those with the
condition, may include shortness of breath, chest pain or
coughing up blood, according to the  National Institutes of
Health .  The goals of treatment are to keep the clot from growing and
new clots from forming, according to the  National Heart, Lung
and Blood Institute . Blood thinners, which block the body’s
ability to create clots, are usually prescribed and the body
will dissolve most clots with time, according to the institute.  Risk Factors  Blood-clot risks include long periods without movement, such
as during plane and car rides. According to People, Williams
discovered the clot after returning to  California  on a flight
from  New York , where she was meeting with doctors about her
foot.  “Immobility is also a risk factor because that allows the
blood to pool instead of circulating,” Samuel Goldhaber,
director of the venous thromboembolism research group at Brigham
& Women’s Hospital in  Boston , said in a telephone interview.
“That’s why you read on travel brochures to take precautions
during long plane rides.”  Pulmonary embolism, the third-most common cardiovascular
disease after heart attack and stroke, can also be a result of
genetic traits, Goldhaber said.  Williams has 37 career WTA victories and has earned more
than $32 million in prize money. The American has won 12 Grand
Slam doubles titles and two Olympic gold medals in doubles, all
with her sister  Venus Williams .  Treatment  Williams may be advised to stay off the court for as long
as six months to allow the blood thinners to work, according to
Orens, of  Johns Hopkins  in Baltimore. Most physicians would
suggest bed rest for a few days, then to avoid aggressive
physical activities for four to six weeks in a conservative
recovery program, he added.  “Most of these clots come from the leg, and there may be a
residual clot,” Orens said. “Aggressive activity could break
that clot off, allowing it to also move to the lung, so that’s
the concern.”  If Williams is sidelined for six months, she would miss the  U.S. Open , which starts on Aug. 29, for the second consecutive
year. She has won the season’s final Grand Slam event in New
York three times, most recently in 2008. She also would fail to
win at least one Grand Slam title for the first year since 2006.  Endorsements  Forbes Magazine  last year rated Williams the second
highest-paid female athlete in the world, tennis player Maria Sharapova. Williams made $20.2 million in 2009, including $6.5
million from prize money, the same year that she became a
minority owner of NFL’s Miami Dolphins, according to the
magazine. The WTA’s all-time leader in prize money, her sponsors
include  Nike Inc ., Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,  Hewlett-Packard
Co .,  Electronic Arts Inc ., and PepsiCo Inc.’s Gatorade,
according to her website.  Williams’s 13 career Grand Slam singles titles are sixth on
the all-time list, and her 27 combined Grand Slam titles,
including doubles and mixed doubles, are eighth-most in the
history of the sport. She is one of nine players to complete the
career Grand Slam, winning all four of the major tennis events
at least once.  Williams’s success has been accompanied with controversy.
Her 6-4, 7-5 loss to  Kim Clijsters  in the semifinals of the 2009
U.S. Open ended when Williams was assessed a one-point penalty
for verbally abusing a lineswoman who had called a foot fault on
the previous point. In an expletive-laced tirade, Williams said
that she was going to take a tennis ball and shove it down the
lineswoman’s throat, ESPN reported.  Williams apologized two days later for what she called “my
inappropriate outburst.” The WTA fined her $175,000.  Williams lost her No. 1 ranking to Denmark’s  Caroline Wozniacki  on Oct. 11 and is now ranked No. 11. She was scheduled
to play in an exhibition next week with  Rafael Nadal ,  Roger Federer  and  Maria Sharapova  in Eugene,  Oregon , according to the
event’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 