-- 
Severstal to Sell Three U.S. Steel Mills to Renco Group

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-03-02T17:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/severstal-to-sell-three-u-s-steel-mills-to-renco-correct-.html
OAO Severstal, the Russian
steelmaker controlled by billionaire Alexei Mordashov, agreed to
sell three U.S. plants to Renco Group Inc., less than three
years after acquiring them.  Renco will buy the Russian steelmaker’s plants at Sparrows
Point,  Maryland ; Warren,  Ohio ; and Wheeling,  West Virginia ,
Severstal said today in a statement. Severstal will receive $125
million in cash, a $100 million secured note and the repayment
of $317 million of third-party debt. Renco will also assume $650
million of employee- and environmental-related liabilities.  Severstal purchased the mills in May through August 2008
for a combined $2.2 billion to add capacity as U.S. steel prices
surged. The Cherepovets, Russia-based company idled capacity at
the three plants in 2009 and 2010 after demand and prices
plunged following the global financial crisis.  “We estimate that these three plants have the highest
production costs among the company’s U.S. units,” Dmitry Smolin, an analyst at Uralsib Capital in Moscow who rates the
shares “hold,” said in a note.  Severstal’s U.S. operations lost $302.5 million before tax
and financing in the first nine months of 2010, while its
Russian unit earned $1.02 billion, the company said in a
quarterly report.  Dismantling Unit  The company already had started dismantling its North
American unit. Severstal sold Northern Steel Group for $124
million in May 2010, the company said in a report. It also sold
some assets to Esmark Inc. and Aurora Capital Group, a Los
Angeles-based private equity firm, last year for undisclosed
sums.  Renco has formed a subsidiary called RG Steel LLC to buy
the mills, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
RG Steel will be the fourth-biggest U.S. flat-rolled steelmaker
after the purchase, Renco said.  The United Steelworkers union reached a labor accord with
Renco, the company said in its statement. The USW, which
represents workers at the three plants, said in a separate
release that it welcomes the Renco acquisition.  Severstal Warren, formerly known as WCI Steel Inc., was
founded by Renco in 1988 and declared bankruptcy in 2003. The
U.S. government sued Renco in February 2006 to force the company
to fund WCI’s pension plan. WCI sued Renco and its owner,
billionaire investor Ira Rennert, in March 2006 to recover $17
million of payments made to them before the bankruptcy filing.  Wheeling Acquisition  Wheeling was acquired by Severstal after it trumped a bid
from Essar Steel Holdings Ltd. and won union support in 2008.  The three plants have a combined annual capacity of 7.3
million tons, according to Severstal’s 2009 annual report. U.S.
Steel Corp., the country’s biggest steelmaker by volume,
produced 16.8 million tons that year.  Severstal said the Renco deal will close this month. It
retains operations at Dearborn, Michigan and Columbus,  Mississippi .  Evercore Partners and Raymond James Associates Inc. are
Severstal’s financial advisers and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
& Flom LLP served as legal counsel. UBS AG and Metal Strategies
Inc. are Renco’s financial advisers and Cadwalader Wickersham &
Taft LLP is its legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 