-- 
Siemens Eyes Saudi Arabia for Power Generation Projects, Growth

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-03-02T11:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/siemens-eyes-saudi-arabia-for-power-generation-projects-growth.html
  Siemens AG , which last week won
orders exceeding $1 billion in Saudi Arabia, is eyeing the
kingdom for power-generation projects as  population growth  spurs
electricity demand, an executive said.  “Saudi Arabia for power generation is the biggest market
and they have quite tremendous growth,” said Dietmar Siersdorfer, chief executive officer of Siemens Energy Middle
East, in an interview.  The nation’s power needs will triple from a current 40
gigawatts over the next 15 to 20 years, Siersdorfer said.  Siemens, like ABB Ltd. and Alstom SA, is pursuing growth in
emerging markets as governments add infrastructure. Orders from
developing nations surged 31 percent in Siemens’s fiscal first
quarter. Among contracts, the Munich, Germany-based company is
supplying parts for a combined-cycle power plant in  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter.  Saudi Arabia’s Ras Az Zawr industrial complex, scheduled to
start commercial operations in early 2014, will have 12 of
Siemens’s gas turbines, 10 heat-recovery steam generators and
five steam turbines.  The company also plans to invest “millions of dollars” in
a manufacturing plant that will produce gas turbines in the
kingdom, the first project of its kind in the region, said
Siersdorfer. The capacity will be additional output rather than
a replacement of production elsewhere, he said.  “We will create an industry in Saudi Arabia around this
heavy-duty manufacturing equipment,” said Siersdorfer, adding
the company aimed to create a total of 4,000 jobs with the
project, which is scheduled to be operational in about 18
months. While catering to the local market in the beginning, the
plant could export to other countries.  Siemens is also discussing the possibility of building
gasification plants in the kingdom that would use crude or waste
from refineries, said Siersdorfer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  