-- 
Sina to Buy $66 Million Mecox Lane Shares From Sequoia in E-Commerce Push

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-02T03:50:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/sina-to-buy-66-million-mecox-lane-shares-from-sequoia-in-e-commerce-push.html
Sina Corp., owner of China’s third-
most visited website, agreed to pay $66 million for a stake in  Mecox Lane Ltd ., a Shanghai-based online apparel retailer, to
expand in the electronic-commerce market.  The company will buy almost 11 million American Depositary
Shares, or a stake of about 19 percent, in Mecox at $6 apiece
from  Sequoia Capital , Sina said a statement issued after the
close of U.S. trading yesterday. Separately, Sequoia will sell
almost 5.8 million ADS of Mecox, or a 10 percent stake, to  China
Dongxiang Group Co . at the same price, the statement said.  The proposed investment in Mecox, which operates the
m18.com fashion website and a network of retail stores, will
help strengthen Sina in e-commerce, Chief Executive Officer
Charles Chao said. The purchase comes after Shanghai-based Sina
posted an unexpected fourth-quarter loss yesterday as an
investment writedown masked higher online advertising sales.  “E-commerce is growing very fast in  China ,” Chao said on
a conference call today. “We want to be a participant in this
industry.”  Sina joins other Internet companies and retailers in
expanding their online commerce services in China as consumers
increase spending over the Web. Groupon Inc., owner of the
biggest coupon website, said Feb. 28 it started an online group-
buying service in the country.  Online Spending  Online retail sales in China almost doubled last year to
513.1 billion yuan ($78 billion) and will probably double again
in the next two years, Xinhua News Agency reported Jan. 18.  Mecox rose 5.8 percent to $5.68 in Nasdaq trading yesterday
before the announcement. The stock has declined 23 percent this
year. Sina gained 0.4 percent to $82 yesterday.  Under the investment agreement, Sina and China Dongxiang
will receive options to buy additional shares in Mecox Lane,
according to the statement.  Sina had a net loss of $100 million in the fourth quarter
after the company wrote down $128.6 million to reflect the
falling value of its investment in China Real Estate Information
Corp., it said yesterday. That compared with the analysts’
average estimate of a $26.9 million profit. The company reported
a profit of $372.1 million in the same period a year earlier,
helped by a one-time gain.  Revenue rose 12 percent to $110 million, helped by a 30
percent increase in online advertising sales, Sina said. The
company forecast first-quarter sales of $93 million to $96
million, short of the average analyst projection of $96.7
million.  Advertising Sales  Growth in online advertising sales is expected to be
“strong” this year, Chao said.  Sina will increase spending on development and marketing
and step up hiring this year to lure users to its micro-blogging
service, Chao said. The company may start selling advertising
this year on the service, he said.  The micro-blogging service, similar to that of Twitter Inc.,
has more than 100 million users, Chao said. The company may
introduce an upgrade to the service, also known as Weibo, in the
first half, he said.  Sina’s website trails only Baidu Inc., China’s biggest
search-engine, and  Tencent Holdings Ltd .’s QQ.com in popularity
among Chinese  Internet users , according to  China Websites
Ranking , a site run by the Internet Society of China that
compiles Web traffic information.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  