-- 
Southern Sudan's Army Reports Clashes With Rebel Militia in Jonglei State

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-02T14:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/southern-sudan-s-army-reports-clashes-with-rebel-militia-in-jonglei-state.html
Clashes between  Southern Sudan ’s
army and a rebel militia in Jonglei state killed as many as 40
soldiers and civilians in renewed fighting against the forces of
renegade general George Athor, army spokesman Philip Aguer said.  “The wounded may be more than 50,” Aguer said by phone
today from Juba,  Southern Sudan ’s capital. He said he had no
details about casualties among Athor’s forces in the clashes on
Feb. 27.  Fighting on Feb. 9-10 between the army and Athor’s rebels
killed 197 people in Jonglei, according to Southern  Sudan ’s
ruling party. The region’s security forces have deployed troops
to prevent the militia from reaching villages in the area, Aguer
said.  The government of oil-rich Southern Sudan, which is due to
become independent in July, signed a cease-fire agreement with
Athor’s forces on Jan. 5. Paris-based  Total SA  owns 32.5 percent
of a 118,000 square-kilometer (46,000 square-mile) concession in
Jonglei and Lakes states.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had five billion barrels of proven oil
reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration .  Athor, a former chief of staff in Southern Sudan’s army,
took up arms against the government after losing a state
election in April.  Almost 99 percent of Southern Sudanese voters chose
independence last month in a referendum that was the centerpiece
of a peace agreement ending a two-decade civil war with the
north.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 