-- 
South Africa’s Manuel Says Government Spokesman Manyi Is Racist

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-02T11:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/south-africa-s-manuel-says-government-spokesman-manyi-is-racist.html
  Trevor Manuel , a minister in  South
Africa ’s presidency, labeled the government’s chief spokesman a
“racist” for saying there was an “over-concentration” of
mixed-race people in the Western Cape.  Jimmy Manyi was appointed chief executive officer of the
Government Communication and Information System on Feb. 2. His
comments, made in a televised interview in March last year when
he was head of the labor department, received widespread
publicity this year after being posted on Google Inc.’s YouTube.
Manyi is also president of the Black Management Forum, which
lobbies for greater black involvement in  Africa ’s largest
economy.  “You have the same mind that operated under apartheid,”
Manuel, who heads South Africa’s National Planning Commission,
wrote in an open  letter  to Manyi published by Independent
Newspapers today. “You clearly fail to appreciate the extent to
which your utterances are both unconstitutional and morally
reprehensible.”  In a Feb. 25 statement, Manyi acknowledged that “offence
was taken” at his comment and apologized unreservedly. Manyi
did not immediately answer calls to his mobile phone seeking
comment today.  Manuel, who is of mixed race, served as finance minister
for 13 years prior to being appointed to his current post in May
2009. He is a senior member of South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress.  The ANC’s youth league said it was disturbed by Manuel’s
letter since the party has accepted Manyi’s public apology.  Manuel’s “remarks fall squarely into the political agenda
of right-wing political forces opposed to the ANC,” the league
said in an e-mailed statement. “Such conduct is totally out of
order.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 