-- 
Srbijagas Wants to Expand to Banking, Insurance With Gazprom

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-02T08:39:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/srbijagas-wants-to-expand-to-banking-insurance-with-gazprom.html
  Serbia ’s gas monopoly, Srbijagas,
wants to expand into banking and insurance with Russia’s OAO
Gazprom, Chief Executive Officer Dusan Bajatovic said.  The plan will be discussed during a visit to Belgrade by
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  later this month.  “I expect to discuss the establishment of joint banks and
insurance companies between Srbijagas and Gazprom,” Bajatovic
told reporters late last night while attending the Kopaonik
Business Forum in Serbia.  Serbia’s central bank last granted a new banking license in
2008 to the Bank of Moscow, the first in years as Serbia tried
to sell as many banks as possible to foreign investors.
Bajatovic, the deputy chairman of the Socialist Party of Serbia,
a coalition partner, said he expects no problem getting the
required approvals.  Srbijagas indicated interest in the financial business in
2009, months after GazpromNeft acquired a 51 percent stake in
Serbian oil company Naftna Industrija Srbije AD. At the time,
the company was seeking a license to open a joint insurance
company with Russian insurer Sogaz.  Bajatovic also said he expects talks with Putin to focus on
bilateral energy agreements, including details to “fully
respect” the oil company purchase agreement, the part of the
South Stream  gas pipeline  that runs through Serbia, the Banatski
Dvor natural gas reservoir and investments in gas-based
electricity generation.  South Stream Project  The construction of the Serbian section of the South Stream
pipeline will cost around 1.3 billion euros ($1.8 billion),
Bajatovic said, with a local company managing the project,
providing 30 percent of the funds and raising the rest from
lenders.  Srbijagas has an accumulated loss of 300 million euros.
Bajatovic said a tariff system will cover part of the losses.  Part of the loss may be counted as public debt, some of
which stemmed from unrealistically low gas prices, weak debt
collection, interest payments on loans and exchange-rate
differentials, he said.  Bajatovic expects the government to discuss new gas prices
for Serbian consumers around mid-April, with higher prices
taking effect in May or maybe June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  