-- 
Standard Chartered Warns on Regulatory Change After Posting Record Profit

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-03-02T16:46:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/standard-chartered-reports-full-year-net-income-of-4-33-billion-for-2010.html
  Standard Chartered Plc , the U.K.
bank that gains most of its profit in Asia, posted its seventh
successive year of record profit while warning that the biggest
threat to future earnings is uncoordinated regulatory change.  Net income rose 28 percent to $4.33 billion in 2010 from
$3.38 billion in 2009, according to a statement today, and beat
the $4.21 billion median estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The London-based bank has posted record net income
every year since 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are multiple sources of regulatory and policy
change and they are not always joined up,” Chief Executive
Officer Peter Sands, 49, said on a call with reporters today.
“One of the critical risks, as far as we see it, is overlapping
or uncoordinated regulatory change leading to unintended
consequences.”  Britain’s Conservative-led government last year announced a
levy on the balance sheets of U.K.-based banks and last month
said the tax would be fully applied this year. In addition, last
year’s so-called Basel III agreement forced banks to increase
capital reserves, while the European Union tightened rules on
pay and bonuses in December. The bank raised more than $5
billion in a rights offering in October, partly to bolster
capital.  Bad-loan costs declined 56 percent and lending jumped 22
percent,  Standard Chartered  said today. The bank forecast
“double-digit” revenue growth for 2011 and beyond and kept its
“mid-teens” return-on-equity target.  ‘Like Watching  Brazil ’  The shares rose 4.3 percent to 1688 pence at the close in  London , the best performer in the 48-member Bloomberg Europe
Banks Index.  “It’s just like watching Brazil,” wrote  Ian Gordon , an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas SA, referring to the five times
winners of soccer’s  World Cup , who has an “outperform” rating
on the stock. “It is now our top pick among U.K. banks.”  The balance-sheet levy will cost Standard Chartered $180
million after tax in 2011, Sands said in the statement.  Overall costs rose 13 percent to $9.02 billion and will be
“broadly” in line with revenue in 2011, the CEO said. Revenue
increased 5.8 percent to $16.06 billion.  Standard Chartered is the last of the U.K.’s five biggest
banks to report full-year results.  HSBC Holdings Plc  posted
earnings that missed estimates and reduced its profitability
target, while government-owned Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
recorded a loss and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  said rising funding
costs would squeeze profit margins this year. Barclays Plc beat
estimates as investment banking profit doubled and writedowns
fell.  ‘Clear Winners’  “Barclays and Standard Chartered are the two clear
winners,” wrote Gordon. “RBS, Lloyds and HSBC all had
shockers.”  Standard Chartered’s expenses increased last year after the
bank added branches in  China  and hired 7,000 people. Staff costs
swelled 17 percent in 2010 while headcount climbed 9 percent,
the company said today. HSBC, the other London-based bank
dependent on Asia for a majority of profit, this week said it’s
also paying more for bankers in the region than in Britain,
forcing up expenses. Standard Chartered plans to hire about
1,000 additional employees this year, Finance Director Richard Meddings told analysts today.  Standard Chartered’s roots date back to British colonial
expansion in Africa and India in the 19th century. In May, it
raised $540 million from a sale of its shares in  India , which
last year became its largest market by profit. A month later, it
invested $500 million in  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd .’s
initial public offering and said it would create a joint venture
with the Chinese bank to lend to businesses.  ‘Balanced Growth’  The British bank gains more than three quarters of its
profit from the corporate banking division, led by Michael Rees.
The lender in November said it would hire 1,800 people for its
global trading and underwriting operations over the next three
years. Revenue at the Global Markets investment-banking unit
rose 7.4 percent to $9.98 billion, the bank said.  “The record profit is driven by balanced growth in  consumer banking  and wholesale banking, as well as an
improvement in asset quality,” said Sunil Garg, a banking
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong Kong . “There are cost
pressures across the entire banking industry in  Asia .”  Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd. yesterday agreed
to offer to repurchase HK$1.48 billion ($190 million) worth of
structured notes linked to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
according to a statement from Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures
Commission. The SFC and Hong Kong Monetary Authority said the
agreement will cover over 95 percent of the outstanding
transactions in the notes by the bank’s customers.  During the year to yesterday, Standard Chartered gained 10
percent in London trading, outpacing the 2.1 percent increase in
the FTSE 350 index of Britain’s five biggest banks. The bank
trades at 1.93 times its book value, compared with 1.42 times
for HSBC and 0.77 times for  Barclays Plc .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  