-- 
Starr Gets 7 1/2-Year Prison Sentence for Defrauding His Celebrity Clients

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/starr-fund-manager-to-celebrities-sentenced-to-7-years.html
  Kenneth I. Starr , the money manager
whose clients included actors Sylvester Stallone and  Wesley Snipes , was sentenced to 7 1/2 years in prison after pleading
guilty to defrauding nine celebrities out of $33.3 million.  The sentence issued yesterday by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan  fell between Starr’s request for 60
months and prosecutors’ recommendation that he be sentenced
within the non-binding federal guideline range of 121 months to
151 months. She also ordered Starr to pay forfeitures and
restitution of $29.1 million.  “I stand before you a contrite man and an ashamed man,”
Starr, 67, told Scheindlin. “I have no one to blame but
myself.”  Starr was originally accused of defrauding at least 11 of
his celebrity clients, including heiress Rachel “Bunny”
Mellon, out of $59 million. Starr’s lawyer, Flora Edwards, and
the government agreed yesterday that, for sentencing purposes,
the amount lost in the fraud was $33.3 million.  Edwards asked for a lenient sentence, telling Scheindlin
that all of the defrauded clients were “incredibly wealthy”
and that none of them were left financially destitute as a
result of the crime.  ‘Exploited Trust’  “They gave him their trust and he exploited it, not once,
but again and again,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Bosworth
told the judge.  Scheindlin said she gave Starr credit for his donations to
charity and work with nonprofit organizations. She said Starr’s
fraud may have been motivated, in part, by “infatuation with
his young, fourth wife,” Diane Passage, a former stripper.  Starr was arrested in May and charged with 23 criminal
counts. He pleaded guilty Sept. 10 to one count each of wire
fraud, investment-adviser fraud and  money laundering .  As part of a plea deal with the government, Starr agreed to
forfeit his $7.5 million apartment on Manhattan’s Upper East
Side.  In addition to the prison sentence, Scheindlin ordered that
Starr serve three years of supervised release.  The case is U.S. v. Starr, 1:10-cr-520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 