-- 
Obama Honors Meryl Streep, James Taylor, Harper Lee at Ceremony

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-02T19:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/streep-taylor-are-among-20-recipients-of-national-arts-humanities-medals.html
Oscar-winning actress Meryl Streep,
Grammy-award winner singer-songwriter James Taylor, and
Pulitzer-prize winning author Harper Lee were among the 20
recipients of the National Medal of Arts and the National
Humanities Medal from President Barack Obama.  “There are people here whose books, or poetry, or works of
history shaped me,” Obama said today before presenting the
medals in the White House East Room. “Works of art, literature,
works of history, they speak to our condition and they affirm
our desire for something more, something better.”  Also awarded medals were music producer  Quincy Jones , jazz
musician Sonny Rollins, poet Donald Hall, artist Mark di Suvero,
pianist Van Cliburn, and playwright and critic Robert Brustein
as today’s recipients of the 2010 National Medal of Arts. The
president will also present a medal to  Jacob’s Pillow Dance
festival,  an international dance festival.  The medals are the highest government award given to
artists and patrons of the arts. First lady  Michelle Obama  was
also at today’s ceremony. Streep and Lee didn’t attend.  The president awarded the 2010 National Humanities Medal to
Philip Roth, who has written 24 novels and won a Pulitzer Prize
in 1998 for “American Pastoral,” and Joyce Carol Oates, who
has penned more than 50 novels, short stories, poetry and
nonfiction.  Author and editor Gordon Wood, biographer and critic Arnold
Rampersad, president of the  American Council of Learned
Societies  Stanley Nider Katz, literary critic Roberto González
Echevarría, poet and author Wendell E. Berry, teacher Jacques
Barzun, author Bernard Bailyn, and founding president of the
 Library of America  Daniel Aaron were among today’s recipients of
the National Humanities Medal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  