-- 
Cargill Buys Almost 1 Million Tons of Sugar in Expiring Futures Contracts

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-03-02T23:51:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/sugar-deliveries-for-new-york-march-futures-surge-to-jpmorgan.html
Cargill Inc.  said that its sugar
business took delivery of almost 1 million metric tons of the
commodity as part of transactions involving expiring contracts
at ICE Futures U.S. and handled by a unit of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)   JPMorgan Futures accepted delivery on 18,748 ICE futures
contracts, or the equivalent of 952,398 tons, from  five
brokers, the New York exchange said yesterday on its  website .
The delivery was the biggest for ICE since 2009. The sweetener
was sent to the sugar unit of Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
Cargill, Pete Stoddart, the director of media relations, said
today in an e-mail.  Raw sugar doubled in 2010’s second half on concern that
global supplies would trail demand following crop damage in
Australia and  India . The sweetener touched a 30-year high of
36.08 cents a pound on Feb. 2.  Agricultural prices have a “lot of risks to the upside,”
Abah Ofon, an analyst at  Standard Chartered  Plc, said today by
phone in  Singapore . “When there’s a risk of supply disruptions,
a lot of users would rather take delivery now.”  Raw sugar for May delivery climbed 1.12 cents, or 3.8
percent, to settle at 30.38 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, the biggest gain since Feb. 2. In  London , refined sugar for May delivery gained $27.10, or 3.7
percent, to $760.50 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  The quantity of the sweetener received represents 9.2
percent of the current year’s U.S. consumption as estimated by
the government. Cargill, an agricultural processor and
distributor, is the largest closely held company in the U.S.  1.35 Million Tons  “JPMorgan’s futures business accepts and makes deliveries
on behalf of clients, as part of our normal business operations
that facilitate customer access to global commodities
exchanges,”  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, said today in
an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg questions. JPMorgan is the
second-largest U.S. bank by assets.  The delivery was the biggest since 1.35 million tons were
delivered to satisfy the July 2009 contract, exchange data show.
Each sugar contract is for 112,000 pounds (50.8 metric tons).
The U.S. will consume 11.41 million short tons (10.4 million
metric tons) in the year that began Oct. 1, the Department of
Agriculture estimated on Feb. 9.  “The delivery was above the 700,000 metric tons we were
expecting,” said Marcos Mine, head of sugar and ethanol trading
at ICAP Brasil.  More than two-thirds of the delivered sugar came from  Brazil , the world’s largest producer and exporter, according to
the ICE report. The rest came from Central America and  Thailand .
March 15 is the last day for delivery against the recently
expired contract.  ‘Strong Hands’  “The larger-than-expected delivery against March may have
weighed on sentiment initially, but as the sugar was received by
strong hands, attention shifted onto the implications for May
and May/July spreads,” Nick Penney, an analyst at Sucden
Financial in London, said in a report today.  World demand exceeded supply by about 8 million tons last
year, Ofon of Standard Chartered said. Improving supplies from
Brazil may move the market toward a balance, with either a
shortage or an excess of 1 million tons this year, he said.  “Inventories are very low, and users are rebuilding their
stockpiles,” Ofon said. “It’s a backdrop against a very tight
market.”  The global sugar market will be in deficit for a third year
in the 2010-11 marketing season, C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd.
said yesterday. The shortfall is 3.7 million tons now, it said.  Brazilian raw-sugar exports declined 6.5 percent from a
year earlier to 915,900 tons in February, data from the Trade
Ministry showed yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 