-- 
Sushi Yasuda, Minus Yasuda, Serves $130, 90-Minute Meal: Review

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/sushi-yasuda-minus-yasuda-serves-130-90-minute-meal-review.html
Unlike so many of his colleagues,
Naomichi Yasuda is a famous chef who personally prepared dinner
for his guests every night at Sushi Yasuda. He didn’t miss a
single service for the first seven years.  And then in January he left.  Relax. Yasuda returned to Tokyo, where he’s opening an
eight-seat sushi restaurant. Rest assured, however, that Sushi
Yasuda remains true to its owner.  You still will be offered hard-to-find fish, simply
prepared. Kohada, a shiny Japanese herring, gets a light slick
of shoyu; the clean oil lingers on the tongue. Coarse sea salt
adds crunch to custardy sea urchin.  How civilized it all is. Until precisely 90 minutes from
the beginning of your very good, very traditional feast, when
you and your date are politely given the boot along with the
$294 bill.  You’re informed of the time limit when booking, so don’t be
surprised when the majority of your final, green-tea course is
served, as was ours, at the host stand, which doubles as a
counter.  Longtime  Yasuda  proteges Mitsuru Tamura and Tatsuya
Sekiguchi were anointed to keep things conservative. The cost
is, if not exactly a bargain, slightly less than the competition
at this very high level: A chef’s selection of 19 or so pieces
cost me just over $100.  Sushi Rules  Chefs at other venues like to brandish their knife skills
with fans of sashimi folded across vegetables that look like ice
sculptures. Not at Yasuda, where sushi, not sashimi, rules.  Cool fish warmed by vinegared rice is king. Mitsuru even
raised an eyebrow when he saw I was flipping over the nigiri and
placing the seafood-side on my tongue, giving my taste buds
maximum contact not with the simple starch, but rather with a
complex, coral-colored slice of jack mackerel.  Wrong. “Rice is the number one part of sushi. Fish is
number two,” Mitsuru said. Lesson learned. No more flipping.
Think of it as the Japanese analogue to Italian pasta, where the
job of meat or sauce is to complement, not upstage, the noodles.  To prove this point, Mitsuru, like Yasuda before him, forms
smaller-than-usual mounds of rice and tops them with slices of
rock crab (insanely sweet), fluke fin (crunchy) or perhaps red
scallop guts (like a mild sea urchin), also cut to fit. The
result? There are rarely “rice-less” bites. These guys
wouldn’t like hot dogs longer than the bun.  Wasabi Variations  Wasabi is a whisper for mild fish like fatty yellowtail or
buttery orata. It’s applied with greater effect for strong
flavored mollusks. Orange clam, a pleasingly funky bivalve,
collapses in the mouth with a sinus-cleaning sting of the
Japanese horseradish.  Who needs mignonette when oysters get lemon, soy, sea salt
and rice? They pop with intense minerality.  If you must have a starter, there are crunchy blowfish
bites (like juicy chicken nuggets), fried fluke bone (sandy and
coarse, like potato chips) and flash-fried shrimp (with green
tea powder to keep the shellfish sweetness in check).  Fast Service  Ask for a seat at the blonde bar (tables are for
beginners) and let Mitsuru feed you ‘till you’re full. Sushi
sometimes comes fast, as many as a piece or two per minute,
which means diners with normal appetites shouldn’t have to worry
about the 90-minute rule.  But on busy nights the chefs can get bogged down making
rolls and platters for those who haven’t gotten with the
program, and service becomes more intense. We were asked to
order dessert before we finished our entrees; we were invited to
vacate our seats after a few minutes of tea drinking.  Perhaps Yasuda should take fewer diners under the new
regime. No matter how impeccable the grilled bluefin cheeks are,
a full stomach can become a painful stomach when rushed.  Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost: Omakase usually runs $100-$130 per person.  Sound Level: Moderate; 65-70 decibels.  Date Place: If you want to get your partner home fast.  Inside Tip: Lunch is less rushed but the raw fish sometimes
is too cold in the earlier hours, numbing the subtle flavors.  Special Feature: Hot sake costs $6. Cold sake (choice of
four) costs $10.  Will I be back: Yes, for the late seating.  Sushi Yasuda is at 204 E. 43rd St. Information: +1-212-972-
1001 or  http://www.sushiyasuda.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 