-- 
Swiss Franc Gains on Safety Demand; Euro Rises After PPI Climbs

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-02T13:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/swiss-franc-gains-on-safety-demand-euro-rises-after-producer-prices-climb.html
The Swiss franc strengthened against
higher-yielding currencies as  oil prices  rose above $100 a
barrel for a second day amid unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East, fueling demand for the currency as a haven.  The euro rose versus the dollar and yen after a report
showed European producer-price inflation accelerated more than
economists estimated in January. The dollar extended gains
versus the yen after companies hired more workers last month
than forecast. The franc also advanced against the yen and the
Australian dollar. Libyan rebels braced for renewed clashes with
forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and Al Arabiya television
reported Iranian protesters fought with security forces.  “The Swiss franc has been supported by demand for
safety,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency
research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd, in London. “If
there was any pronounced escalation in  risk aversion , you’d see
the dollar perform very well.”  The Swiss franc strengthened 0.3 percent to 92.61 centimes
per dollar at 8:27 a.m. in  New York , and 0.4 percent to 88.55
yen. The euro gained 0.3 percent to $1.3818 and appreciated 0.6
percent against the Japanese currency to 113.342 yen. The dollar
rose 0.2 percent to 82.03 yen, from 81.86 yen yesterday.  Kiwi Falls  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, fell to the
lowest level this year after Prime Minister John Key said he
expected a cut in the nation’s benchmark rate.  The kiwi slid 0.9 percent to 74.08 U.S. cents after earlier
touching 73.84 cents, the least since Dec. 20.  Factory-gate prices in the euro region jumped 6.1 percent
from a year earlier, after increasing 5.3 percent in December,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s the fastest since September 2008 and more than the 5.7
percent gain forecast by economists before the report.  European stocks dropped for a second day, with the Stoxx
600 Index retreating by 0.7 percent. The measure has declined
2.7 percent since Feb. 17, when it reached a 2 1/2-year high.
The  MSCI World  Index of shares declined 0.6 percent. Crude oil
climbed as much as 1 percent to $100.64 a barrel in New York.  The euro has risen against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this year as traders raise bets the ECB will
increase its key rates. European policy makers have kept the
benchmark at a record low of 1 percent since May 2009.  “The market is more interested in whether the ECB ends up
talking tough and raising rates like the market has priced in,”
said  Tony Allen , global head of  currency trading  in Sydney at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s third-
largest lender by market capitalization. The euro may find
buyers near the $1.3750 level and “drift back up,” he said.    Libya , Oman, Yemen  Qaddafi is attempting to regain control of major cities
after the U.S. and European nations began planning for a no-fly
zone over Libya. Oman deployed armored vehicles in the city of
Sohar after protests on Feb. 28 while Yemeni demonstrators again
took to the streets of Sana’a, the capital, to demand the ouster
of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  Companies in the U.S. added 217,000 workers in February,
according to figures today from ADP Employer Services.  The dollar benefits as the world’s principal reserve
currency. The yen typically strengthens in times of political,
financial and economic turmoil. Japan’s trade surplus makes the
currency attractive because it means the nation doesn’t have to
rely on overseas lenders.  “The dollar hasn’t lost its safe-haven status and that’s
what we’re seeing here,” said Elsa Lignos, a currency
strategist in London at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital
Markets . “If we move into a situation where unrest becomes a
bigger issue, we think risk becomes the dominant driver and that
should support the dollar.”  Cut ‘Priced In’  New Zealand’s currency depreciated against all of its 16
major counterparts as traders increased bets for rate reductions
by the  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand .  “The market has priced in a cut from the Reserve Bank,”
Key said in an interview today in Wellington. “That would
probably be my expectation, that the Reserve Bank would cut.”  The nation is grappling with the human and financial toll
of a 6.3-magnitude earthquake on Feb. 22 that struck the South
Island city of Christchurch. It was the city’s second major
temblor in six months and wrecked the central business district.
Both quakes may have caused as much as NZ$20 billion ($15
billion) worth of damage, Key said this week.  “There have been rumors and talk of a rate cut,” said  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at Credit Agricole SA, a unit of  France ’s second-
largest lender by total assets. The comments provided “a more
negative bias for the  New Zealand dollar ,” he said.  Swaps traders are certain New Zealand’s central bank will
cut its benchmark by 25 basis points at its meeting on March 10,
with some betting on a 50-basis point reduction, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  