-- 
U.A.E. Loan Rules May Push Banks to Alter Strategy, Nomura Says

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-02T15:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-a-e-loan-rules-may-push-banks-to-alter-strategy-nomura-says.html
The United Arab Emirates’s new
regulations on retail lending may hurt fee income at banks such
as  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC  and push them to reduce their
reliance on consumer loans, Nomura International Plc said.  Abu Dhabi Commercial, the U.A.E.’s third-biggest bank by
assets, and  First Gulf Bank PJSC , a lender controlled by Abu
Dhabi’s ruling family, will probably be the most affected among
banks Nomura covers by the rules announced on Feb. 23, it said
in a research note today.  The U.A.E. central bank capped personal loans at 20 times a
borrower’s monthly salary and said repayment periods can’t
exceed 48 months to help control lending and curb excessive
charges. Overall monthly installments for all loans, including
personal, car, housing loans and credit cards, must not exceed
50 percent of a customer’s gross salary and any regular income,
the central bank said.  Union National Bank PJSC, in which the governments of both  Abu Dhabi  and Dubai hold stakes, may also be concerned because
of its recent emphasis on retail lending, according to the
report.  “The timing for such regulation is inappropriate as banks
are already dealing with profitability pressure from weak
lending growth on the corporate side and from high
provisioning” for bad loans, Nomura analysts Tarik El Mejjad
and Manish Kumar Marodia said in the report, citing
conversations with management of several banks.  The new regulations will hurt fee income as well as net
interest margin, the difference between what the bank earns on
loans and the cost of funds, Nomura said. Retail loans,
including mortgages, make up 40 percent of First Gulf’s overall
loans, 30 percent at Abu Dhabi Commercial and 18 percent at both  Union National Bank  and National Bank of Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E.’s
second-biggest bank by assets, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  