-- 
U.K. Construction Expanded at Fastest Pace in Eight Months in February

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-02T09:52:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-k-construction-expanded-at-the-fastest-pace-in-eight-months-in-february.html
U.K. construction expanded at the
fastest pace in eight months in February, signalling the
industry has rebounded after cold weather dented the recovery in
the fourth quarter.  A gauge of building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers rose to 56.5 from 53.7 the previous month,
Markit Economics Ltd. and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply said today in an e-mailed report in  London . The
median forecast of 10 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a reading of 52.8. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.  “A weather-beaten U.K. construction sector is showing
signs of repair,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble  said
in the report. “The situation is still fragile, however,
considering the likely impact of government cuts.”  Bank of  England  Governor Mervyn King said yesterday the
recovery will be “choppy” as the government’s fiscal squeeze
takes hold. While a report yesterday showed the housing market
strengthened in February, the European Commission cut its
forecast for 2011 U.K. growth to reflect government cuts.  Residential construction showed a “marked” increase in
February from January, while civil engineering expanded the
fastest in three years, CIPS said. Commercial construction grew
for a 12th month.  The pound rose against the dollar after the report was
published and was up 0.1 percent to $1.6284 as of 9:41 a.m.  ‘Encouraged’    Persimmon Plc , the U.K.’s third-largest homebuilder by
volume, said yesterday 2010 profit rose 56 percent as the
company sold more homes at higher prices. CEO Mike Farley said
while the market remains “difficult,” he is “encouraged” by
the performance in the first eight weeks of 2011.    House prices  rose 0.3 percent in February from the previous
month, though are down 0.1 percent from a year earlier,  Nationwide Building Society  said yesterday. Central bank data
showed mortgage approvals rose in January to 45,723 from a 22-
month low in December.  The European Commission yesterday lowered its growth
forecast to 2 percent from 2.2 percent in November. The economy
contracted 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter during the coldest
December in a century.  The construction report showed that input costs rose in
February at the fastest pace since August 2008 as raw material
prices increased.  Bank of England  officials split four ways in
February on policy after consumer-price inflation quickened to 4
percent in January, double their target.  Policy makers held the benchmark interest rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent and their bond-purchase plan at 200 billion
pounds ($325 billion) on Feb. 10. Andrew Sentance voted for a 50
basis-point rate increase in the key rate, while Chief Economist
Spencer Dale and  Martin Weale  argued for a quarter-point rise.  Adam Posen  maintained a push for more bond purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  