-- 
U.K. Ready to Pay Power Users to Switch Off for ‘Negawatts’

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-02T17:21:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-k-ready-to-pay-power-users-to-switch-off-in-negawatt-plan.html
The U.K. is ready to step up
payments for factories, offices and supermarkets that switch off
electricity as rising demand drives up prices and the nation
turns to cleaner but less-reliable power.  The government, planning for a six-fold jump in wind
capacity in the next decade, is seeking comment from power
suppliers and consumers until March 10 on its so-called
 Electricity Market Reform . The unpredictable nature of wind
generation, combined with rising electricity consumption, is
likely to drive up U.K. power prices as plants that burn coal
are phased out to help reduce pollution.  “There’s huge revenue to be made, and no one is really
doing it,” said Ziko Abram, a former Credit Suisse Group AG
banker who co-founded Kiwi Power Ltd. in London to enroll power
consumers in the U.K. program. “You can reduce air-conditioning
or some non-essential lights. Most places don’t even realize
when demand response is taking place.”  Billionaire developers David and Simon Reuben signed up
through Kiwi Power this year for payments amounting to five
times the wholesale cost of electricity. Millbank Tower,  London 
headquarters for the U.K. Conservative party, is their latest
property to join, following Oxford Airport and nearby Eden
Shopping Centre last year.  “Energy-efficient change has to be to the economic
advantage of a business or an individual,” James Reuben,
director of the London Oxford Airport, said today by e-mail.  Depending on Wind  The U.K., scheduled to set new rules this year that may
include a market for “negawatts,” or power that users can do
without, has predicted power demand may rise as much as 30
percent in the next two decades as the nation turns to
electricity for heating and transportation.  Wind farms built off the coast may increase to 33,000
megawatts over the next decade. That compares with the 5,200
megawatts of U.K. wind capacity now.  Wind turbines generate only when the weather is favorable,
making it difficult to predict electricity supplies. The power
can’t be stored, and there’s no guaranteeing it will be
sufficiently windy at time of peak consumption, forcing National
Grid Plc to manage demand for electricity as well as supply.  Britain’s energy plan calls for strengthening the existing
program that lets National Grid ask companies to reduce demand.
It may also establish an auction whereby companies bid for
negawatts they can switch off, competing with companies that bid
to increase power supply. National Grid, which paid RWE AG as
much as 14 times market rates for emergency power during the
December 2010 cold snap, would be able to cut demand, whichever
is cheaper.  Challenge for the Grid  “In most of  Europe  there is ample supply, but the amount
of renewable coming online creates a lot of problems for grid
managers,” said David Brewster, founder of Boston-based
EnerNOC, an energy-management company that works with 8,000
facilities worldwide to manage consumption. “You don’t want to
have to build a megawatt of gas plant for every megawatt of
wind, and there is a growing demand for balancing reserves.”    GDF Suez (GDFZY)  SA said it has the biggest market share in
offering demand response in the U.K. and has helped manage
customers’ energy use over the last decade.  “We have witnessed a strong upsurge in customers looking to
take part in the scheme over the past six months, no doubt
encouraged by the income generation available to them as well as
the carbon reductions made,” said Andy Cooper, Leeds-based head
of sales at  GDF Suez (GSZ) ’s U.K. unit.  ‘No Brainer’  U.K. power consumers can earn an average 220 pounds for
every megawatt-hour they don’t use in response to a request.
National Grid said. That’s on top of an annual payment of about
50,000 pounds for a shopping centre just to sign up to the
system, according to information from Kiwi Power. Payments come
from charges to use the network and are ultimately passed
through to electricity bills.  Baseload power for delivery tomorrow was 48.75 pounds
($79.39) a megawatt-hour, as of 3 p.m. local time. Prices may
rise to nearly 70 pounds by 2020 and exceed 100 pounds a
megawatt-hour by 2030, according to Redpoint Energy, a London-
based research firm, based on government assumptions.  “We get a text message, a call and an e-mail asking if we
can be available within the next 20 minutes,” said Paul Hone, a
data-center support manager for InTechnology Plc, which has an
agreement with EnerNOC. “We can respond in about five,” he
said. Taking part in a demand-response program “was a bit of a
no brainer.”  ‘Huge Benefit’    RWE AG (RWE)  teamed up with Edinburgh-based Flextricity Ltd. last
month to bid for supplying negawatts.  “It’s a check for doing almost nothing,” David Cockshott,
RWE’s director of industrial and commercial markets, said in a
phone interview. “We will effectively be able to replace an
oil-burning unit by making this available. All the carbon-
dioxide emissions savings is a huge benefit.”  RWE,  Germany ’s biggest power producer, earned 700 pounds a
megawatt-hour last year to switch on its oil-fired power station
at Littlebrook, southeast  England , to help cover the tea-time
power surge when Britons get home from work, switch on lights,
and start cooking and watching television. The plant, built in
the 1980’s to operate around the clock, was otherwise idle for
all but four days last year.  “You’re never going to justify building another power
station just to sit there on standby, just to cover those
peaks,” Cockshott said.  Small Generators  National Grid said it currently oversees 2,600 megawatts of
contracts in its so-called  Short Term Operating Reserve , most is
switching on small generators, while 200 megawatts is power use
that can be switched off. National Grid said it had contracted
400 megawatts of demand reduction out till 2025 and predicts it
will need to increase its Short Term Operating Reserve to about
8,000 megawatts by 2020.  Demand-management programs may help deal cope with the
U.K.’s greater reliance on power from wind, said Richard Green,
a professor of energy economics at the University of Birmingham.  The swing in power demand and supply balance could reach as
high as 17,000 megawatts within an hour, according to Green’s
research. He modeled power balances in Britain using 13 years of
data. Such a high change would be brought about in exceptional
circumstances, when demand rose and wind supplies dropped
rapidly, he said.  “There’s no reason why a big shopping mall should be
running air-conditioning at 21 degrees all the time,” said
Abram of Kiwi Power. “If you changed it to 24 degrees for a
couple of hours you don’t feel the effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie at   cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  