-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance on Signs of Strengthening Labor Market

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-02T22:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-stock-futures-advance-texas-instruments-apple-rise-metlife-slides.html
U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from
yesterday’s tumble, as signs of a strengthening job market
bolstered optimism the economy can withstand a surge in oil.    Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  climbed 3.3 percent as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. named the company a “top pick” among chipmakers
and raised its recommendation on the industry. Yahoo! Inc. rose
3.3 percent after people familiar with the matter said it may
sell a stake in a Japanese venture.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  added 0.8 percent
as Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  introduced the iPad 2.
Energy shares had the biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index as oil climbed to a 29-month high of $102.23 a barrel.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.2 percent to 1,308.44 at 4 p.m. in
New York, the third gain in four days. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  increased 8.78 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,066.80. Oil
rallied 2.6 percent as forces loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  counterattacked against rebels.  “This is a fairly resilient market,” said Jeffrey Davis,
who oversees $5 billion as chief investment officer at Lee
Munder Capital Group in Boston. “We’re in a sustainable
economic recovery. Without any serious move in  oil prices ,
you’ll probably get a market that has a firm foundation to it.
In such a case, any pullback will be minor.”  The  S&P 500  tumbled 1.6 percent yesterday as concern rising
energy costs will hurt the economic recovery offset the fastest
manufacturing growth since 2004. Still, the S&P 500 has rallied
25 percent since the end of August as reports showed an
improving economy and earnings beat analysts’ estimates for the
eighth straight quarter.  More Workers  A private report released before exchanges opened showed
that companies in the U.S. added more workers in February than
forecast, indicating the labor market may be strengthening.
Employment increased by 217,000 last month after a revised
189,000 gain in January, according to figures from ADP Employer
Services. The median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey
called for a 180,000 gain last month.  Stocks retreated from their highs of the session as two
U.S. soldiers were killed in an attack at a Frankfurt airport.
“We don’t know the details yet,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters in Berlin. “We will do whatever is needed
to determine what happened. “It’s a terrible event.”  Equity futures erased gains before the open of exchanges
after Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President  Thomas Hoenig  said the central bank should raise the target federal
funds rate to 1 percent from near zero rather than ease during
the current economic recovery.  ‘Solid Growth’  Later, the Fed said the labor market improved throughout
the country early this year, driven by increasing retail sales
and “solid growth” in manufacturing. Overall, the economy
“continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace,” the
central bank said in  Washington .  “Labor market conditions continued to strengthen modestly,
with all Districts reporting some degree of improvement,” the
Fed said today in its Beige Book report, an anecdotal account of
the economy released two weeks before meetings of the Federal
Open Market Committee. Its last survey, released Jan. 12, said
the job market was “firming somewhat.”  A gauge of chipmakers rallied 1.3 percent, the most of 24
industries in the S&P 500. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index
of 30 stocks climbed 1.4 percent.  Xilinx Inc. (XLNX)  and  Altera Corp. (ALTR) 
rose at least 3 percent.  JPMorgan raised its rating on the industry to
“constructive” from “cautious,” citing a change in its
belief that an economic downturn will happen in the near future.  Texas Instruments Rallies  Texas Instruments climbed 3.3 percent to $36.14 after
JPMorgan raised its recommendation for the largest analog
chipmaker to “overweight” from “neutral.”  Yahoo gained 3.3 percent to $16.63. The  Internet company  is
in talks to dispose of its 35 percent stake in its Japanese
joint venture with  Softbank Corp. (9984) , according to two people
briefed on the matter. The talks focus on transferring its stake
in  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689)  to Softbank, said the people, confirming an
earlier Reuters  report  and asking not to be identified because
the discussions are private and may not result in an agreement.  Softbank, Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone operator, said
it isn’t holding discussions to buy Yahoo Japan shares. Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo,
declined to comment. Chizu Sasaki, a spokeswoman for Yahoo
Japan, declined to comment.  IPad 2  Apple rose 0.8 percent to $352.12. Steve Jobs introduced
the iPad 2 in his first public appearance since taking medical
leave in January. The device, a follow-up to a tablet released
last April, has a faster chip, and front and rear cameras, Jobs
said. It’s also 33 percent thinner than its predecessor. The
iPad 2 will ship in the U.S. on March 11 and internationally on
March 25, at the same $499 starting price as the previous model.  A gauge of energy shares in the S&P 500 rallied 0.5
percent, the biggest gain within 10 industries.  Noble Corp. (NE) ,
owner of the world’s second-largest fleet of offshore drilling
rigs, advanced 3 percent to $44.92.  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  rose 2.5
percent to $62.93.    MetLife Inc. (MET)  fell 5.7 percent to $43.41. The largest U.S.
life insurer said 146.8 million of its shares will be sold in
public offerings as the firm raises funds to redeem securities
given to American International Group Inc. in the purchase of a
non-U.S. life insurer.
       Joy Global Inc. (JOYG)  slid 2.8 percent to $94.32. The maker of
P&H and Joy mining equipment had fiscal first-quarter profit of
96 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated
profit of $1.07 on average.  The proportion of investment publications that are bullish
fell to an almost four-month low of 50.6 percent between Feb. 23
and yesterday, according to New Rochelle, New York-based
 Investors Intelligence , which has examined forecasts in
newsletters since 1963. Newsletter writers who anticipate a
correction, or 10 percent decline in the market, rose to 29.9
percent, the highest since Oct. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  