-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK
The Second District’s economy appears to have expanded at a
modest pace since the previous report.  Business contacts in most
industries report stable to improving conditions and express
widespread optimism about the near-term outlook.  Labor market
conditions have been mixed but generally steady, on balance: T
here has been little or no net hiring in the financial and
manufacturing sectors, but a slight pickup in some other sectors.
Retail sales are characterized as relatively strong in early 2011,
despite inclement weather, and consumer confidence has continued
to improve.  However, tourism activity has shown signs of slowing
by more than the seasonal norm in early 2011.  Commercial real
estate markets remain fairly slack: The market for  office space 
has been generally stable, while the market for industrial space
has softened somewhat.  Housing markets have been mostly stable,
with scattered signs of improvement.  Finally, bankers report
strengthening demand for commercial loans and mortgages but
weaker demand for home mortgage loans; they also indicate little
change in credit standards and steady to lower delinquency rates.  Consumer Spending  Retailers generally report continued strength in sales in early
2011.    One major retail chain notes that sales were ahead of
plan in January and on plan in February but that New York City
underperformed the rest of the region--possibly due, in part, to
the heavy snowfall during January, which is estimated to have
reduced sales by about 1 percent.  Retail contacts in upstate  New
York  also report that sales have been brisk since the beginning
of the year, despite a brief lull in early January, with one
Buffalo-area contact indicating that sales continue to be buoyed
by a steady flow of Canadian shoppers.  Inventories are generally
reported to be at desired levels, and the pricing environment
continues to be characterized as highly promotional.  Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales of new
vehicles continued to trend upwards in early 2011, as lean
inventories of used cars have nudged up prices and spurred demand
for new models.  Dealers in the Rochester and Buffalo areas
report that sales of new autos were up
10-20 percent from a year ago in January, with reports of
particular strength for domestic brands.  Both retail and
wholesale credit conditions continued to improve.  Service
departments also report fairly brisk business, aside from a brief
slow patch in early January.  One industry contact notes that a
recent auto show in western New York State drew strong traffic.
Dealers are generally optimistic about the sales outlook for 2011.  Confidence surveys suggest that consumers are in somewhat better
spirits.  Siena College’s survey of New York State residents
shows confidence surging to its highest level since 2007, with
good gains both upstate and downstate.  The Conference Board
reports that  consumer confidence  among residents of the Middle
Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) edged down from a 3-year high in
January but remains near the upper end of its recent range.  On a less positive note, tourism activity in New York City
registered more than a normal seasonal slowdown since the
beginning of the year, though the overall level of activity
remains fairly high.  Occupancy rates at  Manhattan  hotels in
January were somewhat lower than a year earlier, while revenues
held steady, reflecting moderate increases in room rates.  In the
first half of February, however, revenues have been running a bit
lower than comparable 2010 levels--if this persists for the full
month, it would be the first 12-month decline in revenues since
2009.  Broadway theaters report that, after a brisk December and
early January, both attendance and total revenues tapered off
noticeably around mid January and have been running roughly 10
percent lower than a year earlier over the past few weeks--in
part because a number of shows have closed.  Construction and Real
Estate  Housing markets across the District have been generally stable
since the previous report, with pockets of mild improvement.  An
authority on New Jersey’s housing industry reports that the
market has been performing slightly better in early 2011, as the
negative aftermath of last year’s homebuyer tax credit appears to
have worn off.  While there is still a sizable supply of existing
homes on the market--including a large number of distressed
properties--the inventory of available
new homes in northern  New Jersey  is reported to be very low.  The
residential real estate market in metropolitan Buffalo also
appears to have recovered to more normal levels of activity after
several months of sluggish performance.  There are signs of
gradual improvement in Manhattan’s apartment rental market: Rents
continued to rise at a moderate pace, the inventory of available
units is described as tight, and fewer landlords are reported to
be offering concessions than last year.  Conditions in
Manhattan’s co-op and condo market, on the other hand, appear to
be holding steady: A major appraisal firm reports that prices are
holding steady across the board and notes that, while contract
activity fell noticeably in January, harsh weather is seen as the
culprit, and transaction activity appears to be rebounding in
February.  Commercial real estate markets generally remain slack--the market
for office space has been mixed but mostly stable in recent weeks,
while the industrial market has shown further signs of softening.
In  New York City , office leasing activity has remained fairly
brisk, but this has been more than offset by additional space
coming onto the market; as a result, vacancy rates edged up in
January.  Asking rents on Class A properties did edge up in
January but were still down nearly 10 percent from a year earlier.
Elsewhere across the region, office vacancy rates edged down in
northern New Jersey and across much of upstate New York but rose
modestly in Long Island and in Westchester and Fairfield Counties.
Industrial markets showed further signs of softening across much
of the District.   Long Island ’s industrial vacancy rate rose to
its highest level in more than a decade, and rents drifted down.
In northern New Jersey, industrial vacancy rates held steady, but
rents slipped to multi-year lows.  Across upstate New York and in
Fairfield County, vacancy rates and rents were little changed.  Other Business
Activity  Reports from business contacts generally suggest that firms tend
to be adding workers, on net, and plan to increase staffing
levels in the months ahead.  A major New York City employment
agency reports that labor market conditions are improving
gradually and that hiring activity has
picked up somewhat since the previous report.  Financial sector
hiring is reported to be up marginally--largely in the areas of
trusts and estates--and legal hiring has picked up a bit from
very low levels.  A securities industry contact reports that
layoffs continue but at a subdued pace; still, there is said to
be little or no net hiring in this industry.  Cash bonuses are
reported to be down somewhat from a year ago, though overall
compensation is seen as little changed.  Most manufacturing
contacts, however, indicate that they are currently keeping
employment levels steady, though some net hiring is anticipated
in the months ahead.  Financial Developments  Bankers report a decrease in the demand for residential mortgages,
but increased demand for commercial and industrial loans and
especially commercial mortgages; demand for consumer loans is
reported to be little changed.  Bankers indicate no change in the
demand for refinancing.  Respondents note some tightening of
credit standards for commercial and industrial loans, on net, but
no change in standards for the other loan categories.  Bankers
report no change in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds
across all loan categories; spreads had been narrowing towards
the end of 2010, based on the prior few surveys.  Respondents
indicate that average deposit rates have been steady to declining.
Finally, bankers report a decrease in delinquency rates for
commercial mortgages but no change in delinquencies for the other
loan categories. 