-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  The economy of the Eighth District has expanded modestly since
our previous report.  Manufacturing activity decreased, while
activity in the services sector continued to increase.  Retail
and auto sales in January and early February increased over year-
earlier levels.  Home sales continued to decline across the
District, and commercial real estate conditions remained slow.
Overall lending at a sample of large District banks saw little
change during the fourth quarter of 2010.  Consumer Spending
Contacts reported that retail sales in January and early February
were up, on average, over year-earlier levels.  Half of the
retailers saw increases in sales, while 25 percent saw decreases
and 25 percent saw no changes.  About half of the respondents
noted that sales levels met their expectations, 33 percent
reported that sales were below expectations, and 17 percent
reported that sales were above expectations.  About 38 percent of
the contacts noted that their inventories were too high, while 21
percent reported that their inventories were too low.  The sales
outlook among the retailers for March and April was mostly
optimistic.  About 58 percent of the retailers expect sales to
increase over 2010 levels, while 12 percent expect sales to
decrease and 30 percent expect sales to remain unchanged.
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in January and
early February were up, on average, compared with last year’s
sales.  About 71 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw
increases in sales, while 12 percent saw decreases and 17 percent
saw no changes.  One-third of the car dealers noted that used car
sales had increased relative to new car sales, while 5 percent
reported the opposite.  Also, about 30 percent of contacts
reported an increase in sales of low-end vehicles relative to
high-end vehicles, while less than 5 percent reported the
opposite.  About 46 percent of the car dealers surveyed reported
that their inventories were at desired levels, while 25 percent
reported that their inventories were too high.  The sales outlook
among the car dealers for March and April was generally
optimistic.  Almost 92 percent of the car dealers expect sales to
increase over 2010 levels.  Manufacturing and Other Business
Activity
Manufacturing activity has decreased since our previous report.
Several manufacturers reported plans to close plants and reduce
operations in the near future, while a smaller number of contacts
reported plans to open plants or expand operations.  Firms in the
wood products, automobile parts, aircraft, and primary metal
manufacturing industries reported plans to decrease operations
and lay off workers.  Additionally, a major firm in tire
manufacturing announced plans to close a plant in the District
and lay off workers.  In contrast, firms in the medical equipment,
automobile parts, and primary metal manufacturing industries
announced plans to expand existing operations and hire new
employees.
The District’s services sector continued to improve since our
previous report.  Contacts in the legal services, commercial
printing, entertainment, support activities for air
transportation, and business support services industries reported
plans to expand existing operations in the District and hire new
employees.  In contrast, contacts in government services and
religious organizations announced plans to decrease operations
and lay off workers.  Real Estate and
Construction
Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth
District.  Compared with the same period in 2010, January 2011
home sales were down 6 percent in Louisville and Little Rock, 1
percent in St. Louis, and 8 percent Memphis.  However, 2010
single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the
District metro areas compared with 2009.  Permits increased 3
percent in Little Rock, 4 percent in St. Louis, and 2 percent in
Memphis but decreased 9 percent in Louisville.
Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions
throughout the District remained soft.  Compared with the third
quarter of 2010, fourth-quarter 2010 industrial vacancy rates
decreased in Little Rock and St. Louis, increased in Memphis, and
remained unchanged in Louisville.  During the same period,
suburban office vacancy rates increased in Louisville, Memphis,
and Little Rock, while they remained constant in St. Louis.  The
downtown office vacancy rates increased in Louisville,  Little
Rock , and Memphis but decreased in St. Louis.  Commercial and
industrial construction activity continues to be slow throughout
most of the District.  Contacts in Louisville reported that
demand for commercial
properties remains low.  Contacts in northwest  Arkansas  reported
that banks are very cautious in considering new development
projects.  Contacts in Louisville noted no new suburban
construction completions, while contacts in St. Louis reported
limited commercial construction.  Contacts in  Memphis , St. Louis,
and Louisville expect speculative construction activity to remain
weak.  Nevertheless, contacts in south-central Kentucky reported
that a few plant expansions are in progress, and a contact in
western  Kentucky  noted some commercial regional projects are
under way.  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District
banks showed little change in overall lending activity during the
fourth quarter of 2010.  During this period, credit standards for
commercial and industrial loans remained unchanged, while demand
for these loans ranged from unchanged to moderately weaker.
Credit standards for commercial real estate loans tightened
somewhat, while demand for these loans was moderately weaker.
Meanwhile, credit standards for consumer loans remained unchanged,
while demand for these loans ranged from about the same to
moderately stronger.  Credit standards for residential  mortgage
loans  ranged from unchanged to tightened somewhat, while demand
for these loans was moderately weaker.  Agriculture and Natural
Resources
Annual figures for 2010 in the District’s agricultural sector
showed a shortfall of 2 percent or more in corn, soybean, rice,
hay, and tobacco yields, compared with 2009.  Cotton and winter
wheat yields, however, rose by 2 percent or more from 2009 to
2010.  Meanwhile, total production of corn, soybeans, sorghum,
winter wheat, hay, and tobacco for 2010 was at least 4 percent
lower than in 2009.  In contrast, total production of rice
increased by 18 percent and total production of cotton increased
by 50 percent.  Coal production for the District states at the
end of January 2011 was 7 percent higher than a year ago. 