-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  Summary.  Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to
increase in January and February, though at a pace not quite as
strong as during the previous reporting period. Nonetheless,
contacts’ expectations for growth in 2011 improved.  Consumer
spending  increased at a slower pace, while the pace of business
spending was steady. Manufacturing production expanded at a more
moderate pace, and construction was again subdued. Credit
conditions continued to improve. There was some pass-through of
higher commodity prices to downstream prices, and District
farmers continued to benefit from higher prices for agricultural
commodities.  Consumer spending.  Consumer spending increased in January and
early February, but at a slower pace than during the previous
reporting period. Promotions and sales continued to drive
spending, but retailers also noted signs of improving consumer
demand, including an increase in sales of  luxury goods  such as
jewelry. Sales of some big-ticket items like electronics and
appliances also improved after weaker than expected holiday
sales. The pace of auto sales held steady at a relatively high
level. Dealers remained optimistic pointing to pent-up demand in
some market segments, improvement in the availability of auto
financing even for lower quality borrowers, and increases in
demand for new and luxury vehicles.  Business spending.  Business spending continued at a steady pace.
Contacts reported some additional strength in demand for
equipment coming from agriculture and the  energy industry .
Spending on structures was more limited, but contacts also
expected it to increase slightly over the course of the year.
Inventories were little changed, although some manufacturers and
agribusinesses were increasing stocks in anticipation of higher
commodity prices. Retailers indicated that inventories remain in
a comfortable range given the current pace of sales. Hiring
picked up some. Manufacturers continued to add to payrolls, but
again cited difficulty in filling certain skilled positions.
Retailers also noted plans to increase hiring. A large staffing
firm reported solid growth in billable hours for both industrial
and office and clerical positions. They also noted that both
temporary-to-permanent job transitions and direct hiring of
permanent employees inched up further.
Construction/real estate.  Construction activity was again
subdued. However, contacts anticipated an uptick in residential
construction in 2011, particularly for multi-family properties
where apartment builders were receiving financing and
development contracts for new construction. In addition, single-
family home construction, especially in uncompleted existing
subdivisions, was also expected to begin to slowly increase.
Activity in the residential real estate market was up slightly,
and the pace of foreclosures slowed.  Home prices  were little
changed, while residential rents were reported to be rising.
Private nonresidential construction was flat, but builders noted
a slight pick-up in activity for both office and industrial
properties. Commercial real estate conditions continued to slowly
improve. Contacts indicated that vacancy rates were flattening
out, but some downward pressure on commercial rents remained.  Manufacturing.  Manufacturing production expanded at a more
moderate pace in January and early February. Orders, however,
continued to be strong, and backlogs were noted to be rising.
Several contacts also indicated that suppliers were facing
challenges in keeping up with demand, particularly for industrial
metals and heavy machinery. The steel, automotive, and heavy
equipment industries continued to be sources of strength. A
contact reported that active capacity in the  steel industry  was
nearly fully utilized, but steelmakers remained cautious about
bringing back on line currently idle capacity. Manufacturers of
fabricated metals also reported strength in production and new
orders. An automaker noted that sales had been better than
expected in January, and an increase in production plans for the
first half of the year may be needed as inventories remain lean.
Demand for heavy machinery and trucks increased, with rental
companies adding to fleets and end-user demand also on the rise.
A building supplies manufacturer indicated that shipments
currently were down, but that they expected an increase in
shipments this year for the first time since 2005. A contact in
the home appliance industry also reported lower shipments in
January, but expected a bounce back in February.  Banking/finance.  Credit conditions continued to improve in
January and early February. With market interest rates rising,
financing costs increased, but corporate credit spreads for a
number of large firms in the District were slightly improved.
Competition for commercial and industrial loans continued to be
fierce, and contacts noted an increased presence of large banks
in small business lending. Demand for business and consumer
credit increased. Much of this continued to be refinancing of
existing debt, but core loan demand was noted to be slowly rising.
Credit line utilization also picked up, as working capital needs
increased. While delinquencies remained elevated, loan quality
continued to improve, albeit at a slower pace than during the
previous reporting period. Several contacts noted that the
banking sector seems to be on its way toward balance sheet repair
with earnings improving, and may be starting to turn the corner
on lending. Credit availability is beginning to improve for most
loan types, although the bulk of lending is still going to the
most high quality borrowers.  Prices/costs.  Cost pressures increased in January and early
February. Manufacturing contacts noted that increases in prices
for industrial metals, such as copper and steel, and other raw
materials were beginning to be passed on to customers. Prices for
agricultural commodities like corn, wheat, dairy, hogs and cattle
also moved higher, as did most energy costs, although ample
supply continued to hold the price of natural gas at historically
low levels. Contacts cited a combination of strong global demand,
particularly from Asian markets, and tight supplies as factors
behind the recent rise in commodity prices. Retailers reported
higher wholesale prices, and expected that some pass-through
would be necessary this year to avoid further squeezing margins.
The  construction industry , however, continued to experience
downward pressure on prices despite higher raw material costs.
Contacts also noted higher costs from increases in state
corporate taxes and unemployment insurance, while wage pressures
remained moderate.  Agriculture.  Last fall’s harvest ended up being smaller than
previously estimated. Moreover, stocks of corn were lower than
predicted. Input costs for crop production moved up over the
winter. District crop farmers were, however, in a strong
financial position, as most of the fall harvest had been sold at
high prices. Corn and wheat prices increased during the reporting
period, while soybean prices changed little. More acres of corn
are expected to be planted this year than last. Farmers
reportedly also planned to expand acres under tillage a bit by
clearing fence rows and wooded acres. Margins for dairy and
livestock producers strengthened as dairy, hog, and cattle prices
rose more than feed costs did. 