-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Feb. 25 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-02T15:41:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-feb-25-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged nearly 13.8 million
barrels per day during the week ending February 25, 263 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 80.9 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production increased last week, averaging 9.2 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging 4.1 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 8.0 million barrels per day last
week, down by 96 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
8.3 million barrels per day, 480 thousand barrels per day below
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) remained unchanged last week averaging 808 thousand
barrels per day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 170 thousand
barrels per day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 0.4 million barrels
from the previous week. At 346.4 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
3.6 million barrels last week and are above the upper limit of
the average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 0.8 million barrels and are above
the upper limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 1.0 million barrels
last week and are below the lower limit of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 6.5 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period has
averaged about 19.6 million barrels per day, up by 1.4 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged 8.9 million
barrels per day, up by 1.0 percent from the same period last
year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged about 3.8
million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 0.3
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 8.3 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  