-- 
U.S. Teachers Are Failing, So Are The Critics: Chris Farrell

-- B y   C h r i s   F a r r e l l
-- 
2011-03-02T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-teachers-are-failing-so-are-the-critics-commentary-by-chris-farrell.html
What’s wrong with this picture? Talk
to any chief executive about the workforce of the future and
they’ll passionately argue for the need to boost America’s K-12
educational performance. They’ll point out that the U.S. has
lagged behind for years in global assessments of student
achievement, especially in math and science.  Yet governors in hard-pressed states are cutting back on
primary and secondary education spending, with some state
leaders proposing draconian reductions.  Many governors and state legislators are convinced that the
public education system is badly broken. Education reformers
pushed an agenda of testing and accountability for more than two
decades, including the George W. Bush administration’s No Child
Left Behind legislation and the Barack Obama administration’s
Race to the Top initiative.  Expenditures per student almost doubled in real terms
between 1981 and 2007, to $10,041 from $5,639. Yet the measured
results have been largely mediocre. From the attacks on teacher
unions in the documentary film  “Waiting for Superman”  to the
charter school movement bankrolled by private philanthropists, a
narrative has emerged that teachers and their unions are to
blame for the education shortfall.  Problem is, the demonizing of public school teachers and
their unions is mostly misplaced and definitely destructive.
Ever since  “A Nation at Risk” , the landmark 1983 call to
education alarm, enthusiasm has waxed and waned for various
reforms, ranging from national standards to smaller class size
to charter schools.  No Easy Fixes  Yet the lesson of the past three decades is that there is
no silver reform bullet or any single culprit to blame when it
comes to the condition of K-12 education. No, the big risk that
governors are courting with their policies is that teaching will
become an even less attractive profession than it is already.  To prevent that dire outcome, the onus falls on teacher-
union leadership to act boldly and embrace the sort of radical
work rule changes that will boost the teacher talent pool and
the retention of good teachers. “There are alternative futures
for the  U.S. economy  and if we don’t deal with the quality of
our schools we end up with a much worse future,” says Eric Hanushek, a veteran education economist at the Hoover
Institution.  Making a Difference  The quality of the teacher workforce matters. Think back to
the good teachers you had in elementary, middle and high school.
Maybe it was a first grade teacher that sparked a lifelong love
affair with reading. Perhaps a high school science instructor
inspired the dream to become a doctor. And, of course, bad
teachers do enormous damage, from crushing creativity to turning
students away from classroom learning.  Scholarly research confirms the critical role played by
teachers, even though measuring and identifying quality remains
controversial. For instance, Hanushek estimates that really good
teachers --- defined as those with large measured gains in
student test scores --- are worth $400,000 more annually in
student lifetime earnings for a class of 20 than an average
teacher.  Similarly, a team of scholars led by Harvard University
economist  Raj Chetty  looked at the earnings of some 12,000
adults that had participated in a kindergarten education
experiment in  Tennessee  in the early 1980s. Their results imply
that quality teachers from that one year alone generated
earnings gains of $214,000 for a classroom of 20 students.  Global Winners  A look at how  Singapore ,  Finland , and South Korea recruit
teachers is suggestive, too. These countries are currently among
the world’s highest ranked systems and they draw 100 percent of
their teachers from the top third of their university graduates,
according to McKinsey & Co.  In sharp contrast, 23 percent of teachers come from the top
third of the academy in the U.S., with only 14 percent of top
talent teaching in America’s high-poverty schools. Almost all
the 900 students the consulting firm interviewed at top-tier
colleges saw teaching as unattractive for professional growth
and compensation.  And the U.S. is slipping even further behind. The list of
job ills is long. In recent years many major metropolitan school
districts uncertain about their budgets couldn’t tell its
teachers -- especially the younger ones -- whether they even
would be employed until at least August. Union rules in many
parts of the country don’t allow administrators to take into
account teacher quality when making layoffs. Teachers often end
up dipping into their own funds for classroom supplies.  Under Attack  Now teachers find their pay and benefits under assault as a
growing number of governors square off against state and local
government workers. “The teachers with the strongest
credentials find something else to do,” says Richard Murnane,
economist at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. “The
people left aren’t the best, on average.”  A examination of 31 initial state budget proposals shows
that at least 13 states are eying extremely steep cuts in pre-
kindergarten and K-12 spending. According to the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities , among the biggest cuts is the
proposal in  Texas  to eliminate funding for pre-K programs that
serve almost 100,000 mostly at-risk children, more than 40
percent of its pre-kindergarten students. The Lone Star State
could also reduce K-12 funding to 23 percent below the minimum
amount required by the state’s education finance law.  Miserable Conditions  Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour ’s budget fails to meet
the state’s statutory obligation to support K-12 schools, for
the fourth year in a row. It would underfund school districts by
11 percent, or $231 million. These numbers translate into
miserable working conditions.  The economic cost of education mediocrity is high. The
 Program for International Student Assessment  assesses the
knowledge of 15 year olds from the 34 Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development nations, as well as 31 other
countries and education systems (such as  Shanghai ,  China ).  The U.S. numbers released in December 2010 were average,
with students from nine other places doing better than their
U.S. peers in reading literacy. In science and math, two crucial
subjects in an era of rapid technological advances, 18 places
did better in science and 23 in math.  Consultants at McKinsey figure that if the U.S. had closed
the achievement gap with the best-performing nations from 1983
to 1998, America’s gross domestic product could have been $1.3
trillion to $2.3 trillion higher than it actually was in 2008.
To put that in perspective, during the recent recession the U.S.
economy fell about $1 trillion short of its output potential.  Human Capital  What’s to be done in an era of tight budgets and sharp
ideological divisions? Learn from leading edge businesses and
for now focus on human capital. Just as companies that compete
in knowledge industries can’t grow without a talented workforce,
the value added by an education in a knowledge economy can’t
exceed the quality of its teachers.  “Schools should be more like highly successful businesses,
focusing on the long-term and creating value, while many
businesses should be more like highly successful schools,
thinking about the long-term and creating value,” says  Michael
O’Keefe , former president of Minneapolis College of Art and
Design and since 1987 co-chair of the Program on Education at
the  Aspen Institute .  Since quality is an elusive concept, it’s more effective
for unions and education administrators to focus on getting rid
of poor performing teachers -- fast. Hanushek figures replacing
the bottom 5 percent to 8 percent of teachers with average
teachers would move the U.S. toward the top of international
science and math rankings.  Protecting Tenured Teachers    Randi Weingarten , president of the  American Federation of
Teachers , on Feb. 24 proposed that tenured teachers with an
unsatisfactory performance get a year to improve or they could
be fired in 100 days. It’s her fast-track proposal, but it isn’t
fast and it’s far too little. It’s progress to be able to fire a
teacher with a poor evaluation after 465 days? That’s
unacceptable.  Like it or not, teacher unions are facing their  General
Motors Co . moment. They can emulate the  United Auto Workers  and
fall into the trap of continuous small changes that don’t shift
the underlying workforce dynamic, a strategy that badly
backfired for the once proud auto maker. Or the unions can seize
the initiative and take the lead in overhauling moribund
workforce rules that alienate too many parents, political
leaders, and, worst of all, deter talented recruits.  Recruit Better Teachers  The goal of the profession should be to recruit even
better-educated teachers. For instance,  Teach for America ,
founded in 1990, successfully recruits top talent from major
universities and directs them to high-poverty schools. The
program could be expanded. (And Congress should reverse its
recent move to eliminate the program’s annual federal
appropriation of about $21 million because technically it’s an
“earmark.”) Unions should embrace rather than fight
alternative licensing programs for attracting future teachers.  Of course, changes along these lines would be wrenching and
would eventually cost more money. “It would require both
severance packages for those deselected and higher pay for those
who would then have a riskier job,” says Hanushek. But it would
be money well spent.  Here’s the thing: Improving the quality of the current
teacher workforce and recruiting top talent to teaching isn’t an
education panacea. It’s simply a piece of a complicated reform
puzzle. It also offers a way to break through the current
political logjam. Without nurturing policies that attract,
develop, reward and retain talent, the goal of boosting student
achievement will remain elusive. And everyone will lose.  (Chris Farrell is a Businessweek.com columnist. A version
of this column appears on Businessweek.com. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Chris Farrell at   cfarrell@mpr.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Daniel Beucke at   dbeucke@bloomberg.net  