-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   Economic activity in the Twelfth District posted further gains
during the reporting period of mid-January through mid-February.
Despite notable price increases for assorted raw materials and
commodities, overall price pressures for final goods and
services remained modest, as did wage gains.  Sales of retail
items and services expanded relative to seasonal norms.
District manufacturing activity continued to grow at a solid
pace overall.  Agricultural producers reported robust sales, and
providers of energy resources continued to expand on net.
Activity in District housing markets remained very subdued, and
demand for commercial real estate stayed weak overall.  Reports
from District banking contacts indicated modest increases in
loan demand and increased interest in lending to smaller
businesses.  Wages and Prices   Price increases for final goods and services remained modest
overall during the reporting period.  Further increases were
noted for an assortment of raw materials and commodities, such as
oil, grains, cotton, lumber, and various metals, along with
finished apparel and other products sourced from overseas.
However, stiff competition among domestic firms, combined with
continued low levels of demand, generally precluded pass-through
of cost increases to final prices for retail goods and services,
with the notable exceptions of gasoline and groceries.  Looking
ahead, contacts in most sectors expect that prices for their
products will increase modestly over the next six months, with
larger gains expected for food.
 Upward wage pressures generally were quite modest, held down
by high unemployment and limited demand for new employees in
most sectors.  Scattered reports pointed to continued downward
wage pressures, but contacts more generally reported modest
planned wage increases for 2011, in the aftermath of widespread
wage freezes over the past few years.  Wage gains remained most
pronounced for workers with specialized technical skills,
especially in information technology fields.  Retail Trade and
Services   Retail sales continued to improve relative to seasonal norms.
Although consumers remained oriented toward spending on
necessities and lower-priced options, the reports pointed to a
gradual shift back toward discretionary spending.   Discount
retail chains and traditional department stores alike reported
modest increases in sales, with inventories that were close to
desired levels.  By contrast, conditions remained challenging for
sellers of furniture and major
appliances, and grocers reported that their pace of sales
slowed somewhat.   Demand for new automobiles continued to
strengthen, although higher-than-expected sales in December
left some dealers with depleted inventories and an inability to
fully meet demand in January.  Sales of used vehicles remained
robust.
 Demand for consumer and business services improved further
overall.  Sales rose significantly for providers of technology
services, spurred in part by rising demand for digital media
services used for mobile communication devices.  Demand for
transportation services continued to expand, and suppliers of
energy services reported additional growth in deliveries to
households and businesses.  Customer traffic rose further for
restaurants and other food-service providers.  Contacts noted
ongoing improvements in business travel and tourism activity.  By
contrast, demand remained largely flat for providers of health-
care services and also professional services, such as law and
accounting.  Manufacturing   Manufacturing activity in the District showed further solid
growth during the reporting period of mid-January through mid-
February.  Demand continued to expand for manufacturers of
semiconductors and other technology products, with reports
pointing to robust sales, high levels of capacity utilization,
and inventories near targeted levels given the pace of sales.
For makers of commercial aircraft and parts, modest increases in
new orders combined with an existing order backlog to keep
production rates high.  Demand grew further for metal
fabricators, with ongoing order backlogs and extended lead times
noted.  Utilization rates at petroleum refineries were above
their levels from twelve months earlier, despite elevated
gasoline inventories.  Demand remained weak for manufacturers of
wood products.  Agriculture and Resource-related
Industries   Demand was robust for agricultural products and improved on
balance for natural resources used for energy production.  Sales
and orders continued to grow for assorted crops and livestock
products, although revenue growth has been partly offset by
rising input costs, particularly for fertilizer and livestock
feed.  Rising export sales boosted activity somewhat for timber
companies.  Strong global demand continued to support an
increase in oil extraction activity during the reporting period,
and extraction activity for natural gas remained largely stable.  Real Estate and
Construction   Demand for housing in the District appeared to be little
changed from the previous reporting period, and demand for
commercial real estate remained at very low levels.  The pace of
home sales continued to be feeble throughout the District.  In
response to sluggish sales, new  home construction  has
remained at depressed levels, although a few reports pointed to
tentative signs of a pickup in the planning phases for new
construction.  Demand for rental space continued to expand in
some areas, eliminating prior downward pressure on rents in some
cases.  Conditions in commercial real estate markets generally
remained weak, as vacancy rates stayed at elevated levels in
many parts of the District.  However, further improvements in
leasing activity, with tenants increasingly committing to
longer-term leases, were noted for some of the District’s major
markets.  Financial
Institutions   Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan
demand was up somewhat compared with prior reporting periods.
Although businesses reportedly remained cautious in regard to
their capital spending plans, demand for commercial and
industrial loans rose a bit.  Demand for  consumer credit  grew
modestly as well.  A few reports indicated that lenders’
willingness to extend credit to small and medium-sized
businesses improved in recent weeks, which respondents
attributed primarily to perceived improvements in the outlook
for existing business plans.  Nonetheless, lending standards for
consumer and business lending remained relatively restrictive.
Venture capital financing showed further signs of improvement,
with contacts noting ongoing increases in investor interest and
IPO activity. 