-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  Business contacts in the First District report improving
economic conditions. Most responding retailers, manufacturers,
staffing firms, and software and information technology services
companies cite increases in sales or revenue compared with a
year ago, and in some cases, strong increases. Commercial real
estate markets across New England are stable to improving, while
residential markets remain weak. Both retailers and
manufacturers mention price pressures from specific commodities,
including copper and oil, with some pass-through to customers.
Firms in several sectors are doing or planning some hiring,
generally at a modest pace. Outlooks are positive, with firms in
most sectors expecting either steady or improved growth in
demand for their products and services.  Retail  First District retailers report positive sales results for the
months of December through early February, with comparable same-
store sales increases ranging from low single-digit percentages
to low double digits. Respondents are generally pleased with
holiday shopping results; however, while a hardware contact
benefited greatly from repeated snowstorms, others speculate that
the inclement weather had a negative impact on their stores’
sales.  Retailers say they are tightly managing inventory levels.
Contacts note cost increases for commodities, including cotton,
copper, and plastics, and they expect vendor price pressure to
continue or increase in the future. Reflecting those pressures,
most respondents report they are implementing more increases in
selling price than three or six months ago. They continue to
raise headcounts in line with new store openings and report that
capital spending plans are in line with expectations for the year.
Outlooks are generally cautiously optimistic, with most contacts
continuing to forecast slow and steady improvement in 2011.  Manufacturing and Related
Services  The vast majority of responding manufacturers finished 2010
with strong sales and have a positive outlook about current
business conditions. A manufacturer that sells automobile and
other components reports that sales in 2010 were its ―best
ever‖ and that sales growth has returned to its pre-recession
pace partly because of strong demand from  Asia . In addition, a
number of firms in the semiconductor and pharmaceutical
industries report better than expected growth in Q4; one
semiconductor firm, in particular, indicates that sales were
well above their pre-recession levels.  Most contacted firms note that business has stabilized and
appears to be continuing on a favorable trend in early 2011. This
includes a few manufacturers whose outlooks were more negative
three or four months ago. In contrast, a business equipment
supplier’s report was more subdued, as its clients continue
to extend leases on existing products rather than upgrade to
newer ones. Firms that produce products for the housing market
also report some continued weakness, as does a manufacturer of
retail goods catering to lower income consumers. This firm notes
that the weakness in demand has continued into the first part of
2011, but it does not anticipate a prolonged slowdown.
Many manufacturers report concerns over the rising cost of raw
materials such as steel, copper, and rare earth metals, as well
as oil and plastic resins. A defense contractor contact says he
is much more concerned about rising raw material costs now than
three months ago, especially since most of the firm’s selling
prices are fixed by long term contracts. Other manufacturers
report raising their selling prices 3 percent to 6 percent in
early 2011 in response to higher costs, although one is unsure
whether the increases will stick. A number of contacts worry
that raw material prices are headed back to their early 2008
levels. Firms with limited raw material exposure, however,
continue to report stable prices.  Some manufacturers report higher inventories than a year ago or
plan to increase their current inventory levels somewhat. Some of
this restocking is in response to higher demand, while other
firms are hedging against supply chain disruptions and/or higher
expected input costs. The pickup in demand has resulted in plans
for additional hiring at some firms; other firms also plan to add
workers as part of ongoing hiring plans or to better position
themselves for expected future demand. Hiring rates remain
relatively low, however, and two contacted companies plan modest
layoffs as part of ongoing restructuring. In addition, most
responding firms plan to increase wages 2 percent to 3 percent in
2011--a lower rate of increase than in the pre-recession years; a
few firms, however, plan slightly higher wage increases for more
skilled workers to address increasing recruitment and retention
difficulties.  Capital spending plans are reportedly on par or somewhat higher
this year than last year. In general, firms that plan to increase
investment said that they need to upgrade or expand existing
structures and systems; some of this increased investment will be
directed toward production facilities overseas. Overall,
contacted manufacturers seem more upbeat now about current and
future economic conditions than in recent months.  Software and  Information Technology 
Services  New England software and information technology firms report
increased activity through the end of Q4 2010 and into Q1 2011.
Year-over-year revenue increases range from 3 percent to 25
percent in the most recent quarter, with most in the double
digits. Contacts report increased demand for software and IT
services from the industrial, medical, and education sectors,
although some corporate clients remain unwilling to finalize
deals. Increased activity has led most respondents to increase
their headcounts; indeed, two plan to grow their staff by 10
percent in 2011. Wages continue to trend upward, with most
respondents awarding annual increases in the 3 percent to 5
percent range. Selling prices are steady, and two contacts
observe less discounting pressure than a year ago. Capital and
technology spending at contacted firms is relatively unchanged.
The outlook among software and IT services respondents is
generally positive, with most expecting steady or faster revenue
growth in 2011.  Staffing
Services    New England  staffing contacts report that the upward trends of
2010 are continuing. Revenues are flat to increasing year-over-
year, with increases in the range of 5 percent to 20 percent.
Labor demand has generally increased, with notable improvements
in the manufacturing, information technology, and medical
sectors. Higher activity is also reported in the legal sector,
with increased demand for paralegals and business support
personnel. Conversions from temporary to permanent hires
continue to strengthen, and a few contacts report an uptick in
permanent placements. Labor supply is tightening somewhat in the
region, especially at the high end, with most contacts reporting
increasing difficulty finding qualified candidates for high-
skill jobs. The downward pressure on bill rates seen throughout
the first half of 2010 has lessened and pay rates are holding
steady. Looking forward, First District staffing contacts are
generally optimistic, predicting that the rest of 2011 will
bring continued growth.  Commercial Real
Estate  The latest reports indicate that commercial real estate
fundamentals in New England are either stable or moderately
improving, depending on the location. In Hartford, vacancy rates
and rents are roughly unchanged since the last report; job
growth and associated office demand are currently sluggish, but
are expected to improve by summer 2011. In greater Boston,
vacancy rates were little changed, leasing volume held steady,
and office rents edged up slightly, bouncing back from the
trough of the recent downturn. Loan terms for greater Boston
properties loosened slightly amid increased competition by
lenders. The outlook among Boston contacts is for modest, if not
rapid, growth and improvement in office and retail fundamentals
in the coming months. In Providence and  Portland , limited
leasing activity in January was attributed to bad weather and
contacts expect slow yet positive absorption of commercial space
in 2011. Construction activity is limited across the region,
with the exception of the multifamily sector and various small-
scale rehab projects in the Boston area.  Residential Real
Estate  Residential real estate results were mixed across New England in
December, with some states experiencing year-over-year sales
declines while others saw modest increases. Home sales continued
to decline significantly in  Rhode Island ,  Connecticut , and  Maine ,
while Massachusetts and New Hampshire posted modest increases in
sales volume compared with a year ago. Contacts in Massachusetts
and  New Hampshire  note that part of the increase in year-over-
year sales stems from especially weak sales in  December 2009, attributable to the (initial) expiration of the
homebuyer tax credit in November 2009. Nonetheless, contacts
throughout the region note an increase in activity in the past
month and express cautious optimism about 2011.  Compared with a year earlier, the median price of homes moved
upward in December throughout the region except in Massachusetts,
where the median price decline was the first in over a year.
Contacts anticipate sales declines for the early months of 2011
as a result of recent snowstorms. Pending sales of homes and
condos in  Massachusetts  fell in January compared with a year ago.
Contacts throughout the region expect modest increases or flat
sales in 2011. However, some note that 2011 comparisons with
sales in the first six months of 2010 may be misleading, as home
sales in that period were boosted by the homebuyer tax credit. 