-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  Summary.  According to reports from Sixth District business
contacts, economic conditions continued to improve at a modest
pace in January and early February.  Most retailers contacted
stated that adverse weather had affected the positive sales
trend seen at the end of last year.  The hospitality industry
experienced moderate growth as hotel occupancy and bookings
increased, most notably in  Florida .  Weakness persisted
throughout the District in both residential and commercial real
estate.  Manufacturers cited growth in new orders along with
plans to increase production in the near term.  Transportation
firms remarked that freight shipments remained stable.  Credit
conditions improved for segments not related to residential
construction and real estate.  Labor markets continued to
recover at a slow rate, with most businesses maintaining a
preference for hiring temporary rather than permanent employees.
Some businesses indicated limited plans to pass costs through to
consumers in an effort to increase their margins from unusually
low levels, recognizing that they may have to reverse course if
there is significant buyer push-back.    Consumer Spending  and Tourism.  Most District merchants reported
that retail activity moderated in January and early February
following better than expected holiday sales at the end of 2010.
In addition, many cited bad weather conditions as having
contributed to the reduction in traffic and sales.  Retailers
mentioned that they would not be adjusting inventories in
response to the higher than expected sales at the end of last
year.  The majority expressed that they will continue using lean
inventory management. The outlook among retail contacts for the
next few months remained optimistic.  District vehicle sales
improved from low volumes witnessed a year earlier.
Overall, leisure and business travel increased moderately
compared with the previous year. Hotel occupancy and convention
bookings were up slightly in many locations despite adverse
weather conditions. The strongest gains were reported in
Florida, where international visitors increased noticeably.
Cruise activity remained healthy as well. Restaurants also
noted a modest increase in business as the economy and  consumer
confidence  improved. The outlook among District hospitality
contacts for the upcoming months continued to be positive.  Real Estate and Construction.  District homebuilders reported
slow growth in new home sales for January and early February,
while buyer traffic weakened compared with late last year.  The
majority of homebuilders stated that construction activity was
below the year-ago level.  Some homebuilders noted rising
material costs which they have been unable to pass
through because of continued downward pressure on home prices.
The outlook for sales growth over the next several months
improved slightly from our last report, but the overall level of
sales are expected to remain very low.
Residential brokers in the District indicated that existing home
sales remained at low levels in January and early February.
However, brokers noted that sales exceeded the year earlier level,
largely driven by gains in Florida.  Outside of Florida, some
contacts suggested that adverse weather had dampened sales.
Brokers continued to notice downward pressure on  home prices  from
short-sales, REO’s, and pending foreclosures.  The outlook for
sales growth over the next several months improved from previous
reports, but total sales are expected to remain low.
Nonresidential construction activity remained at low levels
during January and early February. Most commercial contractors
said that the environment was little changed since the end of
last year.   The majority of contacts expect construction
activity to remain at low levels this year.  Manufacturing and Transportation.  Since December, District
manufacturers experienced strong growth in new orders, while
production levels increased moderately. Reports showed that the
majority of respondents plan to increase production levels in the
short term even as many manufacturing firms are experiencing
higher input prices.  District trucking firms noted both stronger
demand and a firming of shipment prices; however, they also
indicated that they have been facing increasing fuel costs and
extremely adverse weather conditions, which have slightly
affected overall activity. Trucking firms also anticipate
capacity to remain tight as seasonal demand for shipments
increase. District railroad companies reported that volumes
remain solid for coal, automotive parts, and container imports.
Many railroad contacts noted that higher fuel costs were
successfully being passed through as surcharges.   Banking and Finance.  District banking contacts reported an
increase in mortgage applications in January and early February;
most of those attributed the increase in number of applications
to refinance activity and lower  interest rates . The majority of
bankers stated that mortgage lending standards have increased in
recent months; while a few bankers reported elevated standards
remained unchanged.  Small businesses related to construction and
real estate in particular, described worsening credit conditions,
with many indicating that they either did not receive the amount
of credit requested or that they refused the offered credit
because of unfavorable terms. Small businesses outside of
construction and real estate reported improving credit conditions
at community and regional banks.  Employment and Prices.  Labor markets across the District
continued to recover slowly.  Many businesses stated that their
hiring plans favor leaving employment levels unchanged or to
increase them slightly.  Among those firms who plan to increase
employment, the major factors driving their decisions are
expectations of higher sales growth and right-sizing staff levels
that were excessively decreased. District contacts maintained a
preference for hiring temporary staff.
Some firms reported plans to pass more of input cost increases
through to their consumers as they try to restore margins from
unusually low levels.  However, most indicated that markups
remained below what they considered to be normal.  A majority
of businesses anticipate rising materials and benefits costs
over the next year.  A number of contacts, particularly those
in manufacturing, noted some concern about the impact of rising
commodity prices.  Natural Resources and Agriculture.  Contacts along the  Gulf
Coast  continued to express concern that the lower pace of
drilling permit issuance and additional rig inspections would
stifle future energy production and investment.  Regional crude
oil inventories have declined from unseasonably high levels in
November as cooler weather and holiday travel boosted fuel
consumption.  Although drilling activity remains well below pre-
oil spill levels, the number of rigs operating in the  Gulf of
Mexico  has gradually crept up since October 2010.
Most areas of the District continued to be affected by varying
degrees of drought.  Cold temperatures negatively affected many
vegetable crops in Florida. The outlook for the region’s key
agricultural commodities - including poultry, cotton, and
soybeans - has been brightened by higher prices driven by strong
global demand and tight supplies. 