-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Board's March Beige Book Summary of Commentary: Text

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-board-s-march-beige-book-summary-of-commentary-text.html
The following is the summary
text of the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that
overall economic activity continued to expand at a modest to
moderate pace in January and early February. Both Kansas City
and  San Francisco  noted that their economies expanded further.  Boston  and Philadelphia cited conditions as improving. New York,
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, and St. Louis described activity
as modestly improving, while Minneapolis and  Dallas  experienced
moderate growth.   Chicago  reported that although there was an
increase in activity, it was at a pace not quite as strong as
during the previous reporting period.  Retail sales increased in all Districts, except Richmond and
Atlanta, although Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and
Kansas City noted that severe snowstorms had a negative impact
on merchant activity.  Retail inventory levels were described as
desirable in New York, Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco.
Tourism improved in Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, while  New York  and Kansas City noted a slowdown in activity as hotel
occupancy rates declined.  Some Districts reported a slight
increase in the level of residential real estate activity,
although all Districts maintained that the overall level of home
sales and construction remained low. Several Districts indicated
improvements in commercial real estate sales and leasing
activity, including Boston, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco. Most reports characterized
nonresidential construction as weak.  All Districts, except St. Louis, experienced solid growth in
manufacturing production, and new orders improved for
Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco.
Most regions observed an increase in nonfinancial services.
Boston, Philadelphia, and San Francisco reported that sales
advanced for services related to  information technology , while  Kansas City  noted softer sales of IT services.  Changes in loan demand were mixed across Districts, with
Richmond, Dallas, and San Francisco experiencing increased loan
demand and Kansas City noting a decrease.  Lending standards
remained tight across most Districts.  Labor markets modestly
improved across the country.  Boston, Richmond, and Chicago
reported more permanent job placements occurring in the market,
while Atlanta businesses reported a continued preference for
hiring temporary workers rather than permanent workers.  Several
Districts described an increase in demand for staffing services,
especially for high-skilled IT positions.  Adverse weather
conditions continued to hamper agricultural production in many
Districts, but strong prices helped producers of cotton, corn,
soybeans, wheat, poultry, hogs and cattle. Energy production
expanded or remained stable, according to reporting Districts.  Non-wage input costs increased for manufacturers and retailers
in most Districts.  Manufacturers, in a number of Districts
reported having greater ability to pass through higher input
costs to customers.  Retailers in some Districts mentioned they
had implemented price increases or were anticipating such action
in the next few months. Homebuilders in  Cleveland  and Atlanta
had limited ability to pass through cost increases to buyers.
Most reporting Districts noted continued strong agricultural
commodity prices. Wage pressures remained minimal across all
Districts; although Philadelphia, Dallas, and San Francisco
noted that most wage increases were for workers with specialized
skills.    Consumer Spending  and Tourism  Retail spending strengthened compared with a year ago across all
Districts except Richmond and Atlanta, where sales were reported
to have softened modestly. Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas commented that severe winter
weather in January had a negative impact on retail activity. New
York, Chicago, and San Francisco observed that consumers are
still responding to promotions and discounting.  Meanwhile,
Cleveland noted that some of their low- to mid-market segments
are still struggling.  Some Districts observed an increase in
discretionary spending; luxury and big-ticket item sales
increased in Cleveland, Chicago, and San Francisco.
Inventories were at desired
levels in New York, Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco, while
contacts in  St. Louis  had mixed views about their inventory
levels.  Boston and Atlanta reported tight inventory management.
The outlook among all Districts was for a modest increase in
retail activity.  Automobile sales increased compared with a year earlier in most
Districts.  Chicago and Dallas observed that auto sales held
steady, while Kansas City’s contacts said sales softened because
of inclement weather but expected them to rebound in the near
future.  Cleveland and Chicago noted increased availability of
auto financing, and Cleveland reported an increase in leasing
activity. Philadelphia, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas
indicated that vehicle inventories were at appropriate levels
for the current sales rate, while inventories were mixed in
Cleveland and lean in New York and San Francisco.  All Districts
conveyed optimistic outlooks among their auto contacts.
Tourism reports improved in the Richmond, Atlanta, and San
Francisco Districts.  Atlanta observed a strong increase in
international visitors. Kansas City noted a slowdown in tourism
amid severe weather but added that ski resorts benefited from
the snowfall.  New York reported a larger-than-usual seasonal
slowdown in tourism with decreases in hotel occupancy rates and
Broadway theater attendance, although the level of activity
remained fairly high.  Real Estate and Construction  Recent activity in residential real estate varied, but overall
sales and construction remained at low levels across all
Districts.  The Richmond, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts
reported a slight improvement in the level of recent activity,
while Boston noted that activity was mixed across  New England .
New York described the housing market as stable with some
pockets of improvement.  Demand was unchanged according to
reports from the San Francisco District. Philadelphia, Kansas
City, and Dallas described recent activity as sluggish, and St.
Louis noted sales continued to decline.  Construction activity
was described as flat or down by Cleveland, Atlanta,  Minneapolis ,
and Kansas City.  Philadelphia and Atlanta contacts attributed
weaker buyer traffic in January to inclement weather, and
Philadelphia noted a pickup in early February.  Richmond, Kansas
City, and Dallas also indicated an increase in buyer traffic.
Reports on home prices were mixed.  Atlanta and Kansas City
observed persistent downward price pressure.  Home prices 
continued to fall according to Philadelphia reports, but mainly
at the high-end of the market. Cleveland and Chicago contacts
described prices as little changed. The outlook for residential
sales and construction improved marginally, although activity is
expected to remain at low levels.  Kansas City contacts
anticipate a seasonal surge in sales activity this spring.
Atlanta, Dallas and San Francisco also expect modest improvement,
while little to no sales growth is expected among Philadelphia
contacts.  A slight uptick is expected in Chicago and San
Francisco construction.  Commercial real estate activity showed signs of gaining traction
according to a number of District reports.  Boston, Chicago and
Dallas reported that commercial real estate activity improved
overall, while Richmond, Kansas City, and San Francisco noted
increases in leasing activity. Kansas City described the market
as stabilizing, while Philadelphia and Minneapolis reported that
markets were flat overall, and New York described conditions as
―slack‖ and St. Louis as ―soft.‖  Nonresidential construction
remained weak according to most accounts. The Boston,
Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts
reported weak levels of construction activity, while Chicago
noted a slight pickup.  Cleveland District contractors cited
increasing inquiries, and unexpected growth in commercial
construction was noted in the Minneapolis District. Overall,
contacts anticipate a slow recovery in commercial real estate
markets.  Manufacturing  Reports from eleven of the twelve Reserve Banks indicated that
manufacturing activity improved since the previous report, while
St. Louis attributed a decline in manufacturing activity to
several factory closings.  Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and
Kansas City noted solid expansion in production, but Chicago
observed a more moderate rise in output than in its last report.
Cleveland, Atlanta, and Minneapolis indicated that adverse
weather conditions temporarily disrupted production.
Philadelphia and Atlanta noticed that a higher percentage of
contacts indicated that production levels would increase in the
near term. Boston, Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas also
described the manufacturing outlook as optimistic.  Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco
reported more rapid improvement in factory orders. Chicago cited
steel, automotive, and heavy equipment manufacturing as sources
for significant new orders growth, while Dallas noted that
orders for high-tech goods had accelerated. Philadelphia and
Atlanta suggested that increases in orders were more broad-based.
Cleveland and Richmond observed that orders were increasing at
the same pace as in their previous report. Demand from abroad,
particularly  Asia , was cited by several Districts as a driving
force in new orders.  Nonfinancial Services  Districts reporting on nonfinancial services noted increased
activity.  Philadelphia, Richmond, Minneapolis, and Dallas
observed rising demand for general professional business
services, with several reports singling out accounting firms.
Dallas noted that much of this rise in demand for accounting
services was related to consulting and transactional work.
Several Districts also cited increased demand for healthcare,
insurance, and legal services.  The New York District, while
reporting that legal hiring had picked up a bit, observed that
it was from very low levels. St. Louis reported overall strength
in business services, although contacts in government services
and religious organizations announced plans to decrease
operations and lay off workers.  San Francisco also saw improved
demand for consumer and business services, but countered that
providers of healthcare, legal, and accounting services reported
that demand remained largely flat. Information technology and
telecommunication providers experienced increases in sales,
according to the Boston, Philadelphia, and San Francisco
Districts. Kansas City observed softer sales by IT firms,
especially those tied to federal stimulus spending, but noted
that activity generated by data centers and e-commerce were
characterized as strong.
Transportation services firms in the Cleveland, Atlanta, and
Kansas City Districts reported an increase in shipments.
Cleveland contacts hinted at the possibility of hiring more
drivers but also expressed concern over the tightening of the
labor pool. Transportation firms in several Districts expressed
concerns over rising fuel costs.  Banking and Financial Services  Loan demand varied across District and loan category.  Richmond,
Dallas, and San Francisco noted improvements in overall loan
demand, while Kansas City observed a decrease. Demand for
residential real estate loans increased in Philadelphia, Atlanta,
and Dallas but was weaker in New York, Cleveland, St. Louis, and
Kansas City.  The New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, and
San Francisco Districts reported improvements in commercial loan
applications. The Dallas District experienced mixed commercial
loan demand, while St. Louis noted that demand was unchanged to
weaker.  Cleveland reported business loan applications were
beginning to pickup but demand for consumer loans remained soft.
The Philadelphia District expected little change in loan volume
as consumers remained reluctant to borrow.  Most Districts reported that credit standards were unchanged to
tighter.  Kansas City reported standards were unchanged for all
types of loans.  New York noted some tightening of commercial
loan standards but little change in the standards for
residential mortgages or consumer loans. The Atlanta District
reported increased standards for residential  mortgage loans . St.
Louis indicated standards had tightened somewhat for commercial
mortgages, but were unchanged for C&I loans, and were unchanged
to somewhat tighter for residential mortgages.  San Francisco
noted relatively restrictive standards for both consumer and
commercial loans.
Community bankers in the Chicago and Dallas Districts cited
increased competition for C&I lending from large banks.  Atlanta
noted improvements in credit conditions for all loan segments
except those related to residential construction and real estate.
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and
Dallas indicated steady to improving  credit quality , and New
York reported steady to lower delinquency rates.  San Francisco
reported that venture capital financing was improving with
increased investor interest and IPO activity.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Adverse weather conditions continued to hamper agricultural
production in many areas.  Extremely cold and/or dry conditions
negatively affected crops or livestock in the Richmond, Atlanta,
and Dallas Districts.  Kansas City also reported poor growing
conditions. St. Louis described mixed results for production in
many crops, but large increases in rice and cotton production
were noted.  Most reporting Districts noted continued strong
commodity prices were benefitting producers of cotton, corn,
soybeans, wheat, poultry, hogs and cattle while there are also
some reports of rising input prices, particularly in fertilizer
and feed prices.  San Francisco observed some boost in export
sales for timber companies.  Energy activity expanded or remained stable since the last
report.  Kansas City and Dallas noted strong drilling activity,
while Cleveland and Atlanta reported a decline in permit
issuance.  In the Atlanta District, drilling activity remained
below pre-Gulf of Mexico oil spill levels, although up slightly
since October 2010.  Coal production remained above year-ago
levels in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts and held
steady according to Cleveland. Kansas City reported that oil and
gas production increased, while Cleveland noted that production
held steady.  San Francisco reported that global demand
supported oil extraction, while Minneapolis experienced stable
oil exploration.  Prices and Labor Markets  Manufacturing and retail contacts across Districts reported
rising input costs. Manufacturers in many Districts conveyed
that they were passing through higher input costs to customers
or planned to do so in the near future. Homebuilders in the
Cleveland and Atlanta Districts noted rising material costs, but
acknowledged little ability to pass through the costs to buyers.
Retailers in some Districts mentioned they had implemented price
increases or were anticipating such action in the next few
months. There is little evidence of wage pressures across
Districts.  Wages remained steady in the Boston, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, while moderate
wage pressures were reported in the Chicago, Minneapolis and San
Francisco Districts.  Philadelphia, Dallas, and San Francisco
noted that most wage increases were for workers with specialized
skills.  Labor market conditions continued to strengthen modestly, with
all Districts reporting some degree of improvement.  The Boston,
Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts cited noticeable
improvements in the manufacturing sector, and the Boston and
Cleveland Districts also observed increased labor demand in the
healthcare and medical sectors. New York reported little or no
hiring in the manufacturing sector, although their factory
contacts planned on increasing hiring in the coming months. The
Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and
Dallas Districts received optimistic reports from staffing
agencies. Dallas said that staffing firms experienced continued
strong demand, particularly for high-skilled IT positions. The
Cleveland District staffing contacts noted some growth in the
number of new job openings, with vacancies concentrated in
healthcare, manufacturing, and professional business services.
Chicago reported that a large staffing firm reported solid
growth in billable hours for both industrial and for office and
clerical positions, as well as increases in both temporary-to-
permanent job transitions and direct hiring of permanent
employees. Boston, Richmond, and Chicago noted increases in the
conversion of temporary to permanent hires and permanent job
placements, while contacts in the Atlanta District reported a
preference for hiring temporary staff. Employers in the Boston
District reported difficulty in finding qualified candidates for
high-skilled jobs.  Despite the improvement in most labor
markets, some Districts such as New York, St. Louis, Minneapolis
and Dallas also noted layoffs in the region. 