-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  Overview. The Fifth District continued to experience modest
improvement across most sectors since our last report.
Manufacturing activity picked up some momentum, bolstered by
solid shipments and orders. Our non-retail services indexes
improved, albeit at a slightly slower pace than earlier. The
tourist industry enjoyed increased bookings. Bankers reported
rising loan demand along with improved  credit quality . Both
residential and commercial real estate contacts noted some gains
from still-weak levels. In contrast to these positive reports,
the agricultural sector was held back by adverse weather and the
retail sector experienced softer sales. District employment
improved somewhat. Prices were up only moderately from our last
report. Commodity prices, however, moved significantly higher.
While most sellers were not passing through cost increases yet,
many expected to begin raising prices later this year.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity continued to
advance at a healthy pace in January and February. An aluminum
extrusion manufacturer reported broad strength in demand for semi-
finished metals, which are often an early indicator of increasing
manufacturing activity. An auto-parts supplier said that new orders
at his plant remained high and had increased to the point where
finished goods inventories were below desired levels. He mentioned
that raw material and component suppliers had started to have
availability issues due to worldwide demand (especially from  China 
and  India ). A custom fabricator reported that his company was seeing
acceleration in business and was also experiencing very competitive
pricing in the market place. Several textile manufacturers to whom we
spoke indicated that, while orders had strengthened considerably, raw
materials prices were rising markedly, with no way for them to pass
along the increase to their customers due to competitive pressures.
Our latest manufacturing survey also indicated that prices of raw
materials increased notably over the last month, while prices of
finished goods were up more moderately.  Retail. Retail sales generally softened since our last report,
although a few businesses noted flat sales or an uptick toward
the end of February. Sales fell at apparel stores, auto dealers,
appliance stores, and retail computer stores. In central
Virginia, an executive from a hardware chain reported that sales
were down, matching reports that we received from
retail/wholesale building suppliers in  Maryland  and  South
Carolina . Contacts at department stores reported flat sales. In
contrast, an auto dealer in the Tidewater area of Virginia said
sales were ―on the upswing.‖ A West Virginia dealer told us that
new car sales grew more rapidly in recent weeks. He noted that
his service shop was also gearing up to meet increased demand
for repair and maintenance of older cars. Finally, a few food
and pharmaceutical wholesalers that we polled also reported
faster growth in revenues. Retail prices grew somewhat more
quickly in recent weeks, according to surveyed merchants, but
many retailers anticipated a jump in price growth in the six
months ahead. Retail wages rose, as more companies reported
giving raises. A few executives and managers were apprehensive
about their exposure to higher costs of healthcare benefits.
Services. Revenues rose moderately at most services-providing
firms, according to most District contacts. Executives at
healthcare organizations cited normal seasonal demand for medical
attention related to the flu, except in  North Carolina , where
some providers reported that demand for healthcare related to the
flu was up notably from seasonal norms. Financial services
businesses also reported somewhat stronger demand; a Richmond, VA
contact remarked that the stock market is ―giving folks courage,‖
but he noted rising food and energy costs held down activity.
Accounting and other business-to-business firms also reported an
uptick. Average wages were flat at services firms and current
price growth was mild, according to survey responses, but price
growth was expected to accelerate over the next six months. An
executive at a payroll service in West Virginia indicated that
his prices will go up slightly in 2011, but noted that ―times are
still a little rough out there.‖  Finance. Loan demand in the District continued to improve in
recent weeks. Several contacts reported that small business
lending in particular had increased, with much of the demand
coming from capital improvement needs. Demand from medium and
large firms was mixed, with some bankers stating that both were
requesting more loans, while other lenders’ gains were limited to
medium-sized businesses. Much of the demand from large businesses
was for mergers and acquisitions. A banker in North Carolina
noted a marked pick-up in consumer borrowing, mostly with respect
to credit card usage, but added that many consumers were paying
down debt. A loan officer in Richmond noted a sharp increase in
home repair loans. However, several lenders around the District
commented on the limited amount of mortgage activity--both for
new homes and refinancing.  West Virginia  continued to lag, with
one area banker reporting that loan demand was weak, and the high
rate of repayments made sustaining loan volumes difficult. Most
bankers were encouraged by recent improvements in credit quality,
with several noting that the number of problem loans had declined.
Another lender stated that healthy businesses in his area were
starting to have more confidence in the recovery and had come
back for loans.  Real Estate. Real estate activity improved slightly from low
levels since our last report. Most realtors indicated that sales
were about the same or up slightly, although an agent in the D.C.
area said that the number of home sales had dropped during the
last six weeks. Realtors across the District noted an increase in
foot traffic, but reports of sales price changes were mixed. A
real estate agent in Northern Virginia stated that prices
continued to slip in February albeit less than a month ago. In
contrast, an agent in the D.C. area reported that the median
price was up moderately at the end of 2010. One contact said that
the slight increase in  mortgage rates  had caused some buyers to
act before rates rose higher. Sales activity varied by price
range around the District, with most contacts indicating that
sales were concentrated at the low end of the price range
(although a contact stated that sales at the upper end of the
price range were doing much better in his area). While several
Realtors indicated that they had not seen any change in the
proportion of distressed sales, contacts in Richmond and
Greensboro noticed an
increase in short sales and foreclosures during the past six
weeks. Realtors generally were optimistic that housing sales
would gradually strengthen over the next few quarters and prices
would trend up slightly.
Commercial real estate experienced broad-based, but moderate
improvement across the District over the last six weeks. Many
contacts cited an uptick in activity leading to the closing of
office, industrial, and retail deals. A Realtor in central
Virginia stated that the increase in demand for suburban  office
space  had real depth for the first time in years, although
downtown demand remained weak. Several real estate management
firms reported a growing demand for warehouse space. A Realtor on
the Atlantic Coast noted that national retailers were expressing
renewed interest in expanding space (and even hiring). And, a
developer in West  Virginia  noted that further weakening of the
local economy was holding back the local market, but conditions
had not deteriorated in recent months. Prices of properties and
leasing rates generally remained unchanged, according to contacts,
due to continuing high vacancy rates.  Labor Markets. Temporary employment agencies gave generally
optimistic reports on recent demand for workers and were upbeat
about future demand. A Richmond agent noted that more of her
company’s clients were finding permanent jobs, and she was
optimistic about strengthening demand for workers in the near
future. Similarly, the branch manager of a temp agency in Raleigh
reported that several manufacturing customers had hired his
clients for full-time positions. Moreover, a Hagerstown agent
mentioned that his firm was hearing more optimism from their
customers than in the recent past. He said that, ―The recovery
does not have a full head of steam yet, but it is clear that
there is certainly more demand in many sectors of the economy.‖
Nonetheless, several agents continued to report weak demand over
the past six weeks, but they expected demand to improve over the
next six months.  Tourism. Contacts reported generally strong bookings during
recent weeks, wrapping up the winter season on a high note. A
Baltimore hotel general manager indicated that leisure group
bookings were up and guests were returning to the lounge and
restaurant; previously, visitors were cutting costs by eating at
the coffee shop. In Virginia, the manager of a resort and
conference center reported that sales of season ski passes
nearly doubled compared to last year, and he noted that his
organization was able to raise rates this year ―with no
resistance.‖ A western North Carolina hotelier reported solid
bookings for the weekend just before Valentine’s Day, drawn in
part by a widely attended event nearby. This is the off season
for Mid-Atlantic beach rentals; however, a contact there
reported that advance rentals rose since our last report, pushed
by ―value-added‖ incentives, such as price guarantees. The
contact indicated that tourists were still dining out, but were
more likely to use coupons, and that some high-end restaurants
were ―feeling the pinch.‖ However, a West Virginia contact
reported flat growth compared with a year ago, and he noted that
customers waited to book until the last minute, as they
monitored weather reports--thus, forfeiting any advance booking
discounts. Looking ahead, most contacts expected a slowdown
during the early spring ―shoulder season.‖  Agriculture. Colder-than-normal temperatures coupled with dry
weather conditions throughout much of the region limited field
work, hindered crop development, and caused farm income to
decrease since our last report. In North Carolina, continued
cold weather slowed field work, and freezing conditions and cold
temperatures challenged livestock producers in Virginia and West
Virginia. In many instances, livestock producers secured water
sources by breaking ice in order to water their cattle. In
addition, below normal temperatures in Virginia slowed
development of winter wheat, although small grain crops in West
Virginia were reported as looking better. Results of our recent
agricultural credit survey indicated that income projections
weakened somewhat as a result of the volatility in commodity
prices and input costs, and that farmland values were below the
previous quarter and year-ago levels. 