-- 
U.S. Isn't Seeking to Oust North Korea's Kim, Obama Envoy Bosworth Says

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-03-02T01:58:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-isn-t-seeking-to-oust-north-korea-s-kim-obama-s-envoy-says.html
The U.S. government isn’t seeking to
oust North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il , who has threatened war
over South Korean military drills, the Obama administration’s
top envoy on the communist nation said.  U.S. special envoy for  North Korea  policy  Stephen Bosworth 
told counterparts during his last visit to Pyongyang in December
2009 that they should not “be operating under the fear that we
are dedicated to and determined to undermine the regime,” he said
before Congress today.  Bosworth told the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee  that
the U.S. won’t hold direct talks with North Korea until it
changes its belligerent behavior toward South Korea and lives up
to past agreements to abandon nuclear weapons. Committee
chairman Senator John F. Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, said
direct talks should be considered as a way to break the two-year
hiatus in six-nation disarmament negotiations.  “We do not regard regime change as the outcome of our
policy, but we do regard a change in regime behavior as
necessary to any fundamental improvement in the overall
relationship,” Bosworth said.  Bilateral Korean talks last month collapsed after North
Korean officials refused to accept any involvement in the
sinking of a  South Korea  warship last March. The South responded
by dropping leaflets over the North that detail pro-democracy
revolts in the Middle East and argue that “a dictatorial regime
is destined to collapse.”  Nuclear Talks  North Korea abandoned the six-party talks with the U.S.,
South Korea, Japan, China and  Russia  in April 2009, and the
following month staged their second nuclear test. Kim’s
government last year revealed its uranium-enrichment program
and, in addition to the sinking of the warship that killed 46
sailors, shelled a South Korea island, killing four.  Navy Admiral Robert Willard, the top U.S. commander in the
Pacific, last month warned the North may stage another attack
“in months, not years.”  In response, the U.S. will boost its military cooperation
with its treaty allies Japan and South Korea, Assistant
Secretary of State for East Asia and Pacific Kurt Campbell told
the committee.  “Trilateral engagement demonstrates to North Korea that
its reckless actions will be met with collective resolve,”
Campbell testified. In addition, “we are continually working to
enhance cooperation with  China  and Russia.”  Campbell said the U.S. would consider resuming food aid to
the impoverished North, though no decision has been taken.  While some critics of U.S. aid to North Korea suggest that
denying humanitarian assistance would force the government in
Pyongyang to redirect funds from its nuclear and missile
programs to food, Campbell said there is no evidence to
substantiate that.  “They have demonstrated historically that they are
prepared to allow enormous suffering,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  