-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  Business activity in the Third District has improved overall
since the last Beige Book. Manufacturers reported strong
increases in shipments and new orders in February. Retailers
achieved modest year-over-year increases in sales in January and
February. Motor vehicle dealers also reported year-over-year
sales increases in February. Third District banks reported little
overall change in loan volume outstanding since the last Beige
Book, although business loan and residential mortgage volumes
edged up, while consumer loan volume eased. Residential real
estate agents and homebuilders indicated that activity, which was
already at a seasonal low along a low part of the business cycle,
was dampened further by poor weather. Contacts in the commercial
real estate sector said that leasing and construction activity
have remained at low levels since the last Beige Book. Service-
sector firms reported that activity has increased modestly.
Business contacts reported still more instances of price
increases for inputs than they did in the previous  Beige Book ,
and output price increases emerged in February as reported by
contacts in several sectors.
 The outlook among Third District business contacts is positive
but not strong. Manufacturers forecast a rise in shipments and
orders during the next six months. Retailers expect sales to
increase moderately on a year-over-year basis. Bankers expect
only slight growth in lending over the next two quarters.
Contacts in residential real estate expect little or no increase
in activity for the year as a whole. Contacts in commercial real
estate expect market conditions to improve slowly during the
year. Service-sector companies expect continued slow growth
through the first half of 2011.  Manufacturing
Third District manufacturers reported strong increases in
shipments and new orders from January to February. Producers
across a broad spectrum of 11 manufacturing sectors reported
increased demand. Declines in orders were predominant only among
producers of apparel and of testing and measuring instruments.
Producers within the furniture, petroleum, and fabricated metals
sectors reported no overall change in demand. Some manufacturers
credited global markets and energy markets as drivers of new
demand, and one specifically cited  China ’s rising
costs as allowing them to reclaim work previously lost
overseas. Several manufacturers mentioned ―tough winter
conditions‖ as affecting shipments and lowering demand.
Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to
improve during the next six months, on balance. Among the firms
surveyed in February, about half expect increases in new orders
and shipments, and less than one-tenth expect decreases.
Executives from several sectors that supply the  construction
industry  cited very low levels of highway construction in  Pennsylvania  and the Mid-Atlantic region and expressed concern
over future federal and state highway funding. Capital spending
plans among area manufacturers remain positive, but lessened
somewhat over the past two months, mostly from January to
February.  Retail
Third District retailers generally reported modest year-over-
year increases in sales in January and February. Snowstorms
deterred shopping and limited the advance in sales in January,
retailers said, but most of those contacted for this report
indicated that sales rebounded in February. However, revenue
increases have been adversely affected by clearance sales of
winter merchandise. The consensus among merchants in the region
is that sales will continue to grow as the spring selling season
gets underway. Most of the merchants who gave forecasts expect
sales to increase moderately. The general opinion was expressed
by one store executive who said, ―We are cautiously optimistic,
although we do not think the consumer will step up buying
strongly until employment picks up.‖
Third District auto dealers contacted in February reported that
sales were above the year-ago level and rising gradually from
the January level. Dealers generally considered their
inventories to be in line with near-term sales expectations.
Dealers anticipate sales this year to exceed sales last year,
although some remained concerned that further increases in
gasoline prices could limit the improvement in sales.  Finance
At most of the Third District banks contacted for this report,
total outstanding loan volume has been roughly level since the
previous Beige Book. Overall, business loan and residential
mortgage volumes outstanding have edged up at commercial banks in
the District, but consumer loan volume outstanding has eased. The
outlook among Third District bankers
interviewed in February is that total loan volume will expand
only slightly over the next two quarters. Bankers said that
consumers will remain reluctant to borrow until employment begins
to improve more steadily and that business firms are still
focused on strengthening balance sheets rather than taking on
more debt. One banker expressed a view shared by many when he
said, ―Creditworthy businesses are not looking to borrow.‖  Real Estate and
Construction
Residential real estate activity remains ―in the doldrums,‖
according to builders and brokers throughout most parts of the
Third District. A builder described traffic as ―anemic‖ through
January, as the typical winter lull was depressed further still
by harsh weather across the District.  While some builders noted
a pickup in traffic in early February, the ―slower-than-normal
January means we won’t know for awhile‖ whether overall trends
are improving. While  home prices  continue to fall in most parts
of the District, the softness is primarily in higher-end homes.
The greater than usual prevalence of distressed property sales
creates some additional competition for new homebuilders. While
market participants ―want to be positive,‖ most seem to have
grown weary and wary of anticipating any near-term improvement
in the housing sector. They are positioned for a year of little
or no growth.
There has been little change in commercial and industrial markets
in the Third District since the previous Beige Book, according to
area nonresidential real estate firms. Contacts said that vacancy
rates and rents have been nearly steady for most property types,
although vacancy rates for apartment buildings have been moving
down. Contacts in some parts of the District also reported some
slight gains in occupancy of industrial buildings. Construction
activity has been roughly steady at a slow pace. Looking ahead,
commercial real estate contacts expect market conditions to
improve slowly during the rest of the year, with increases in
construction and occupied space held back by restrained financing
and slow employment growth in the region. One contact said, ―It
will probably take some office markets several years to recover
the loss of occupancy caused by the recession.‖  Services
Service-sector firms generally reported modest increases in
activity since the previous Beige Book. Business-service firms
generally have been posting slight gains as their customers see
gradual improvement in their own activity. However, as one
business-service firm noted, ―Customers are keeping within their
budgets, and we have to be responsive to that.‖  Moderate
improvement was also noted by firms in the telecommunications,
professional services, and health care sectors. Most of the
services sector firms contacted for this report expect slow
growth in the months ahead.  Prices and Wages
Reports from manufacturers since the previous Beige Book
indicated still more pervasive increases in input costs. While
much less prevalent, output price increases are becoming more
widespread throughout the manufacturing sectors. Retailers
generally indicated that selling prices have been steady or
declining as they clear out winter merchandise. However, a
growing number of retailers mentioned that wholesale costs are
rising for goods they are purchasing for sale during the second
half of the year.
Business firms in the region reported mostly steady wages
since the last Beige Book, although some said they have raised
wages and salaries for certain skilled occupations. Employment
agencies said there has been some growth in demand for workers
recently, and some colleges in the region reported that more
companies plan to recruit on campus this year than last year. 