-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  On balance, economic activity in the Fourth District continued
to expand at a modest pace.  Manufacturers reported some
improvement in new orders and production.  Information
received from retailers and auto dealers on the post-holiday
shopping season was generally positive.  Energy production and
freight transport volume were stable.  Residential and
nonresidential construction remained sluggish.  And while
demand for business loans showed some signs of a pickup,
consumer borrowing was weak.
Rising payrolls were limited to the manufacturing and retailing
sectors.  Staffing-firm representatives noted some growth in the
number of new job openings, with vacancies concentrated in health
care, manufacturing, and professional business services.  Wage
pressures continue to be contained.  Reports of increasing prices
for commodities and steel were widespread.  As a result,
manufacturers and retailers felt mounting pressure to pass
through some of their rising input costs to their customers.
Manufacturing.  Reports from District factories indicate
continued improvement in new orders and production during the
past six weeks.  Any declines were attributed to seasonal factors.
Compared with year-ago levels, production was generally higher,
with many of our contacts experiencing low double-digit increases.
Manufacturers are fairly optimistic and expect at least modest
growth during 2011.  Steel producers and service centers reported
that shipping volume rose, with shipments being driven by energy-
related, auto, and heavy equipment industries.  Looking forward,
expectations call for continued growth through at least the first
half of 2011.  District auto production showed a moderate
increase during January on a month-over-month basis.  Compared
with a year ago, domestic auto makers showed a substantial rise
in production, while foreign nameplates posted a slight decline.
A majority of our contacts indicated that capacity utilization
rates continue to trend higher.  Inventories remain close to
targeted levels.  The number of manufacturers who expect to
increase capital spending during 2011 has increased
significantly since our last report.  Reasons for the increase
include stronger cash flows and a willingness to go ahead with
projects that had been postponed during 2010.  Prices for metal
and agricultural commodities and steel increased, while the cost
of most other raw materials has been relatively stable.  Many of
our contacts reported passing rising input prices through to
their customers.  Most manufacturers said that they have
expanded their payrolls slightly since our last survey, and they
expect to continue hiring at the same pace in the near term.
Wage pressures are contained.  Companies continue to reverse
wage/salary cuts and restore payments to 401K plans.
Real Estate.  New  home construction  was generally flat at a low
level during the past six weeks, with purchases mainly in the
move-up buyer categories.  A few builders noted that most of
their revenues now come from remodeling work.  On a year-over-
year basis, sales were
mainly lower.  Contractors expect construction to remain sluggish
through at least the first half of 2011.  List prices of new
homes and discounting have shown little change, while some upward
pressure on the cost of building materials was reported.  Little
movement was seen in land positions or spec inventories.  We
heard many reports of subcontractors struggling to stay in
business due to very thin margins.  General contractors continue
to work with lean crews, and no hiring is expected in the near
term.
Discussions with nonresidential builders drew mixed responses,
with a majority of our contacts reporting weaker activity than a
year ago.  However, the number of inquiries has picked up
modestly since our last report.  Backlogs remain reasonably
healthy, though two builders noted that their backlogs are being
depleted at a rapid pace.  Half of our contacts do not expect any
near term improvement in business conditions, while others are
much more positive.  One builder noted that he is beginning to
notice a sense of urgency to expand on the part of some of his
industrial customers.  We heard widespread reports of increased
prices for building materials, with most contractors expecting
continued upward pressure.  These price increases are eroding
already narrow margins.  Two general contractors noted that they
reduced payrolls and may lay off additional employees if business
does not improve.  Subcontractors continue to cope with very
difficult industry conditions.  Consumer Spending .  Reports from retailers indicate that post-
holiday sales were on or ahead of plan and were generally higher
than year-ago levels.  Cold-weather apparel is selling
particularly well, and purchases of select high-ticket items were
better than expected.  A few of our contacts reported that the
low- to mid-market segments still face considerable stress.
Looking forward to the second quarter of 2011, retailers expect
transactions to rise on a year-over-year basis, with several
anticipating low to mid-single digit gains.  We heard several
reports about increasing prices from vendors, which were
attributed to a rise in the cost of agricultural commodities and
labor issues in  Asia .  Accordingly, some retailers are
considering raising their prices, especially for apparel and food
products.  Inventories are in line with demand.  Some of our
contacts plan to increase  capital spending  during 2011 for new
stores, distribution centers, and e-business expansion, with a
corresponding rise in payrolls.
Most auto dealers reported that new vehicle purchases dropped
slightly in January when compared with December levels, while on
a year-over-year basis, vehicle purchases rose moderately.
Looking forward, dealers expect 2011 sales trends to improve over
those seen last year.  A few of our contacts noted an increase in
leasing activity.  Reports on new car inventories were mixed.
Used vehicle inventories are somewhat lean, with upward pressure
on prices.  We heard two reports about banks beginning to loosen
credit requirements for vehicle purchases.  Dealers are waiting
for more details from automakers before committing to capital
investments in their facilities, with some dealers reporting that
they are better prepared financially to make
these investments.  Little change in staffing levels is expected
during the next few months.
Banking.  In general, bankers reported that commercial loan
demand was stable or showed modest growth since our last survey.
Some bankers commented that demand is strongest from health care
providers, small manufacturers, and energy companies.  On the
consumer side, conventional loan demand remains soft, although a
few of our contacts told us that they are seeing a modest pickup.
Direct and indirect auto lending continues to show strength,
while reports on the use of home equity lines of credit were
mixed.  Interest rates for business and consumer credit were
generally stable.  Most of our contacts said that activity in the
residential mortgage market has slowed (refinancings and new-
purchase originations) due to rising  interest rates  and seasonal
factors.  Core deposits continue to grow, with most of the growth
occurring in nonmaturing products.  The credit quality of
businesses and consumer applicants was characterized as stable to
improving, while delinquency rates were trending down across most
portfolios.  Staffing levels have shown little change during the
past few weeks.  Selective hiring is expected during 2011.
Energy.  Reports indicate that oil and gas output from
conventional wells was fairly steady during the past six weeks,
with little change expected in the near term.  Leasing activity
for Marcellus and Utica shale in eastern  Ohio  continues to
expand, but few drilling permits have been issued.  Spot prices
for natural gas were flat, while wellhead prices paid to
independent oil producers showed a modest increase.  Coal
production has been fairly steady since our last report, with
little change anticipated in the near term.  Prices for steam
and metallurgical coal rose slightly.  We heard several reports
of a small rise in equipment and material costs, which was
attributed to increasing commodity prices.  Payrolls are
expected to remain at current levels during the next few months.
Transportation.  Reports on freight transport volume were mixed.
Several contacts said that January’s seasonal volume decline was
greater than expected due to unusually severe winter weather.
Looking ahead, carriers expect that markets will continue to
recover and that sales growth in 2011 will be somewhat stronger
than year-ago levels.  Almost all of our contacts reported
rising prices for  diesel fuel , some of which were passed through
to customers via a surcharge.  Nonetheless, rising fuel prices
continue to erode margins.  Capital outlays are expected to rise
during 2011 to replace aging equipment.  However, the amount
spent will be dependent on the availability of financing.
Hiring thus far has been for replacement only, but two of our
contacts noted that they are considering hiring additional
drivers to add capacity.  Slight wage pressures are emerging due
to a growing problem with driver turnover and a tightening of
the driver pool. 