-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District-- Minneapolis.  The Ninth District economy continued to grow moderately since the
last report. Increases were noted in  consumer spending , services,
manufacturing and agriculture, while energy and mining were stable
at high levels. Commercial construction showed a slight but
surprising increase in activity. Tourism and commercial real estate
were level, and residential construction and real estate decreased.
Labor markets continued to strengthen moderately, and wage
increases were modest. While increases in prices for final goods
and services remained relatively subdued, a number of input price
increases were noted.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending increased. A major Minneapolis-based retailer
reported that same-store sales in January were up almost 2 percent
compared with a year earlier. A Minnesota-based restaurant chain
noted that January sales were up about 5 percent compared with a
year ago. A domestic auto dealer in Minnesota reported that sales
of new and used cars were strong. However, a  Minneapolis  area mall
noted that traffic in January was down somewhat from a year ago.
Overall winter tourism activity was on par with last year. A
Minnesota travel company noted that leisure travel to warm weather
destinations was up substantially from a year ago; however, another
Minnesota travel company reported only modest gains in winter
activity. Winter tourism was about the same as last year in western
South Dakota. A tourism official in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan
described activity there as soft.  Construction and Real
Estate  Commercial construction showed unexpected signs of growth.
January commercial building permits increased from the same
month a year earlier in Fargo, N.D., and Sioux Falls, S.D. A
large  software company  recently announced plans to open a
technology center in suburban Minneapolis. Residential
construction activity decreased. The value of permitted units
fell 7 percent in Minneapolis-St. Paul in January from a year
earlier, largely driven by reductions in multifamily
construction; single-family home building remained stable.
Residential permits fell in value in  Sioux Falls  and increased
slightly in Fargo during the same period.
 Commercial real estate markets were flat overall. In
Minneapolis-St. Paul, office vacancy remained high, but the
market saw slight positive absorption in the second half of 2010.
Retail vacancy declined, and the medical market was flat, while
industrial space saw its highest vacancy rates in more than 10
years. Contacts in Fargo, N.D., and Billings, Mont., reported
that
commercial real estate markets there were stable. Residential
real estate activity decreased. January closed sales increased
10 percent in Minneapolis-St. Paul from a year earlier, but the
median sales price fell 10 percent.  Home prices  increased in
parts of eastern  Montana  last year, but luxury- and tourism-
driven markets in the western part of the state remained very
weak.  Services  Professional business services firms reported increased demand
for their services since the start of 2011. About half of the
professional service firms responding to a mid-February  Minneapolis Fed  ad hoc survey saw increased demand since the
start of the year, while only 9 percent saw declines in demand. A
contact from a large accounting firm reported higher than normal
activity.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing output was up since the last report. A January
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha,
Neb.) showed increases in manufacturing activity in Minnesota,
South Dakota and North Dakota. Forty-six percent of the
manufacturers responding to the Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc survey
saw increased demand since the start of the year, while 23
percent saw declines in demand. Several Minnesota metal
fabricators noted a solid increase in orders since the last
report. A Minnesota manufacturer of drill bits said production
increased. A semiconductor chip facility in  Minnesota  plans to
triple production this year. A steel component plant in  North
Dakota  recently expanded production due to increased capital
investment. However, a steel fabricator shut down in western  Wisconsin , and a manufacturer in the Upper Peninsula reported
that severe weather delayed a construction expansion.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors remained stable at high
levels since the last report. Mid-February oil exploration
activity was nearly flat since early January. Wind-energy
development projects continued since the last report. District
mining commodity prices remained robust, and District mines were
operating at near capacity. A company increased exploratory metal
drilling activity in western Montana.
Agriculture
Agricultural conditions continued to strengthen. Prices for most
District agricultural commodities increased since the last report,
including wheat, corn, soybeans, cattle, hogs and poultry; however,
dairy product prices decreased recently. The Minneapolis Fed’s
fourth-quarter (January) survey of agricultural credit conditions
indicated farm incomes increased over the previous three months,
and almost two-thirds of respondents predicted increases in the
next quarter. A decision by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  to allow planting of genetically modified
sugar beets came as a relief to District beet producers who had
already purchased large quantities of the seeds. Heavy snowfall
this winter combined with a warm snap in February led to concerns
about potential flooding in parts of North Dakota and Minnesota.  Employment, Wages and Prices
Labor market conditions continued to strengthen moderately. In
the Upper Peninsula of  Michigan , an energy plant project at a
paper mill will create about 170 new jobs. Demand for temporary
manufacturing workers was well above year-ago levels at a
Minnesota employment services company; strong candidates for
permanent positions were recently getting job offers more quickly
than a few months ago. Minnesota initial claims for  unemployment
benefits  decreased 5 percent in January compared with a year
earlier. In contrast, a telecommunications company recently
announced plans to lay off 250 employees, and a defense
contractor laid off about 250 employees in Minnesota. In North
Dakota, a wind power manufacturer announced 150 layoffs.
 Wage increases were modest. Bank directors noted just a few
examples of wage increases across a number of industries. However,
some manufacturers in  South Dakota  noted recent increases in wage
pressures.
While increases in prices for final goods and services remained
relatively subdued, a number of input price increases were noted.
According to the Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc survey, 30 percent of
respondents indicated that they raised prices for final goods
and services since the start of the year, while 47 percent noted
that nonlabor input prices increased. A bank director reported
that farmers and ranchers were facing higher costs for
fertilizer, feed, fuel and chemicals compared with a year ago.
Prices for copper, aluminum and some steel products increased
since the last report. Food commodity prices also recently rose;
however, some food companies in the District reported difficulty
passing these increases through to retail prices. 