-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-  Dallas .  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over
the past six weeks. Activity in the energy sector remained
strong, and staffing firms reported continued high demand for
their services. Reports from the manufacturing and non-financial
service sectors were mostly positive. Loan demand increased
slightly. Conditions improved somewhat in the commercial real
estate sector, while activity in the housing market remained
sluggish. Severe winter weather stressed crops and ranching
conditions and dampened retail sales.   Prices   Price pressures increased somewhat since the last
report. Many contacts reported higher input prices for fuel,
metals, and other commodities, and some shipping and
manufacturing firms said they had increased selling prices in
response. Retailers reported increases in the price of food and
sundry items, while cement producers noted that they had
announced selling price increases for spring 2011. Some service-
providing firms noted continued downward pressure on bill rates,
while staffing firms said they were successful in raising fees
for direct hire placements.
 The price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil fell from
$90 per barrel in January to about $86 in early February. Despite
severe winter weather across much of the country, natural  gas
prices  remained weak. Most petrochemical prices held steady
during the reporting period, with the exception of increases in
polypropylene and polystyrene prices.  Labor Market   There were increased reports of hiring activity
compared with the previous reporting period. Staffing firms
reported continued strong demand for their services. Some primary
metals, fabricated metals, transportation, lumber, food, and
high-tech manufacturers reported moderate employment increases.
Accounting firms noted audit and tax work had prompted seasonal
hiring. A few contacts in auto sales, legal, accounting and
energy services expect to expand payrolls this year. In addition,
retailers reported offering full-time positions to some workers
that had been hired for the holidays, while others were laid off.
Wage pressures remained minimal. There were, however, reports of
higher wages at some firms in the accounting, airline and
aviation industries, and high-tech manufacturers reported slight
increases in wage pressures for high-skilled positions.  Manufacturing   Overall demand for construction-related
products was flat over the past six weeks, although there were
a few reports of an uptick in demand related to remodeling,
commercial construction and multifamily housing activity.
Contacts expect conditions to remain unchanged or improve
slightly this year.  High-tech manufacturers reported that growth in orders and sales
picked up slightly. Demand was particularly strong from  Asia  and
for products such as smart phones and other hand-held devices.
Inventories were at or near desired levels. Most respondents
expect demand to continue to increase at the current rate or at a
slightly faster pace over the next six months.   Overall conditions in the paper products sector were largely
unchanged since the last report. Aviation and aircraft parts
manufacturers reported continued solid demand, and outlooks are
for moderate growth over the next few months. Sales of emergency
vehicles picked up and demand is stronger than year-ago levels,
according to contacts. Demand for food products improved over the
past month, and the three-month outlook for sales was optimistic.  Domestic demand for petrochemicals was stable or rose moderately,
and margins were robust during the reporting period. Growth in
exports of polyethylene and polypropylene slowed, while exports
of caustic soda stayed strong. Domestic orders for PVC used in
residential and commercial construction remained weak, but
exports were solid according to contacts.
Consumers have scaled back consumption of gasoline and diesel
due to high prices. Refinery utilization rates have declined
from 88 to 85 percent and margins are weak.  Retail Sales   Severe winter weather adversely affected sales
activity. Excluding the week of inclement weather, sales were
flat to slightly higher compared with the previous reporting
period. Discount retailers have seen year-over-year sales growth
in the mid- to high-single digits, although about half of the
increase in sales is due to higher gasoline prices. Contacts at
discount retail firms noted sales of apparel and domestic goods
strengthened recently. Overall inventories were at desired levels.
The environment remains competitive but the outlook is for
continued moderate growth in sales.  Demand for automobiles held steady, apart from severe winter
weather that significantly reduced sales in early February.
Demand is gradually picking up as business and consumer
confidence improves.  One contact noted that most of the
improvement has been at the retail level and fleet sales have
lagged. Dealer inventories are being kept in line with the pace
of sales. Contacts remain modestly optimistic and expect sales
to rise moderately this year.  Services   Staffing firms reported continued strong demand,
particularly for high-skilled IT positions. Other areas of
strength were transportation services, insurance, healthcare,
and banking. Direct hiring activity picked up pace, and outlooks
remained optimistic.
Demand for accounting services has improved since the last
report. One large firm noted that activity is strengthening
across all service lines, particularly for consulting and
transactional work. Despite the recent improvement in business,
pricing remains competitive. Demand for legal services has
picked up, and contacts expect reasonable growth in activity
this year.
Reports from transportation services contacts were mixed, but
mostly positive. Intermodal transportation firms noted cargo
volumes declined due to weaker demand from international clients.
Growth in small parcel shipments improved during the reporting
period, and volumes were above year-ago levels. Railroad
shipments and container trade volumes increased moderately since
the last report. Airline traffic was steady over the past six
weeks. Contacts noted that demand has improved from a year ago,
particularly for business travel, and the outlook is for modest
growth in sales in the near term.  Construction and Real Estate   Eleventh District housing activity
remains sluggish, but contacts were slightly more optimistic in
their outlooks. While comparisons with year-earlier levels are
difficult because of the 2010 homebuyer tax credit, some contacts
said traffic had picked up recently and that buyers were becoming
more serious. Respondents noted tighter credit standards
continued to hinder first-time homebuyer sales, although some
realtors and builders noted sales in the higher-priced, move-up
market had improved.
 Commercial real estate activity improved slightly since the last
report. Contacts said that while the sector remains fragile,
there are signs that a recovery is beginning to take place.
Office and industrial leasing rental demand edged up and contacts
noted several deals in the works in  Texas , with high-tech and
energy-related firms leading the expansion. Commercial property
sales remained at low levels, but some contacts noted a pickup in
investor interest. Nonresidential construction remained subdued
since the last report, and contacts do not expect a significant
turnaround in the near term.  Financial Services   Financial firms report a slight uptick in
overall loan demand. Commercial and industrial loan activity
remains mixed, but demand for residential real estate loans has
picked up from very low levels. Loan pricing is highly
competitive, and contacts at community banks report increased
competition from larger banks moving ―down market‖ in order to
attract new business. Credit quality appears to have stabilized
and in some cases is improving. Increased cost of regulatory
compliance is restraining lending activity, especially for
community banks. Outlooks have improved slightly due to improving  credit quality , some deposit run-off, and increased optimism
regarding the overall direction of economic activity.  Energy   Drilling activity remains strong. Growth in the rig
count has slowed as the disparity between oil and natural gas
prices continues to shift activity away from natural gas and
toward oil-directed drilling. Unconventional shale is the
dominant factor driving U.S. drilling activity. Expectations are
for the rig count to flatten out or decline slightly but margins
are expected to remain strong through most of 2011. The rig
count in the Gulf edged up during the reporting period, and
there is little optimism about the short-term revival of
activity in the Gulf as permitting remains slow for shallow and
deepwater drilling.  Agriculture   Exceptionally dry conditions along with extended
periods of below-freezing temperatures adversely affected the
vegetable crop in Texas, greatly stressed livestock and
necessitated increased supplemental feeding. Demand for
agricultural commodities was strong. In particular, the
relatively high price of oil spurred demand for corn for
ethanol production. Prices of agricultural commodities remained
high, and rose further for corn, cotton, soybeans and wheat.
High costs for corn and feedstock has led to a slight decline
in feedlot profitability. 