-- 
Treasuries Fall as Jobs Data, Economic Growth Damp Fixed-Income Demand

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-02T22:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-treasuries-snap-earlier-advance-before-adp-u-s-employment-reports.html
Treasuries fell after report showed
the pace of U.S. employment growth is picking up, fueling
speculation that economic growth is accelerating and curbing
demand for the safety of fixed-income assets.  Yields on the benchmark 10-year note climbed from a one-
month low before the Labor Department issues February jobs data
March 4. U.S. securities firmed earlier as crude  oil prices  rose
amid turmoil in North Africa and the Mideast, fueling concern
about choking economic growth. The Federal Reserve’s Beige Book
report said labor markets improved throughout the country early
this year, driven by increasing retail sales and “solid
growth” in manufacturing.  “There is an increasing conviction that the economy is
gaining its sea legs so the  bond market  is taking a much more
defensive posture,” said Edward Lashinski, macro investment
strategist at ABN Amro Clearing LLC in  Chicago . “This
reinforces, particularly combined with the ADP data this
morning, that we should see decent employment gains on Friday.
This is helping push Treasury yields higher.”  Ten-year note yields rose eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3.47 percent at 5:05 p.m. in  New York ,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.625 percent security
maturing in February 2021 dropped 21/32, or $6.56 per $1,000
face value, to 101 9/32. The yield also touched 3.38 percent,
the least since Feb. 1.  Crude Prices  Oil in New York traded above $100 a barrel for a second day
on concern that the unrest curbing exports from  Libya  will
spread to other countries in the region. Crude oil futures for
April delivery rose 2.8 percent to $102.37 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  after trading as high as $102.50 a
barrel.    Saudi Arabia ’s benchmark stock index plunged the most in
two years yesterday on concern disturbances may extend to the
kingdom, the biggest supplier in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Libyan rebels braced for renewed clashes
with forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Companies in the U.S. added 217,000 workers in February,
according to figures from ADP Employer Services.  The median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey called for
a 180,000 gain last month. Projections of 34 economists ranged
from increases of 90,000 to 210,000.  Jobs Numbers  A Labor Department report on March 4 will show employers
added 190,000 jobs in February, up from 36,000 in January. The
figure compares with 35,000 job losses in February 2010. The ISM
factory index increased to 61.4 in February, the highest level
since May 2004, a report showed yesterday.  “This morning’s economic numbers were positive and the
spike in oil has the market thinking about the potential for
inflation pressures to build,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages
about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “The economy is gradually getting better, but it
remains to be seen if the oil shock will manifest itself in
slower growth or more inflation.”    Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
yields on Treasuries may be too low to sustain demand for  U.S.
government debt  as the  Federal Reserve  ends its debt-buying plan  Gross, co-chief investment officer at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said
Treasury yields are about 150 basis points too low when viewed
on a historical context and when compared with expected nominal
gross domestic product growth of 5 percent, Gross wrote in a
monthly investment outlook posted today on the Newport Beach,
California-based company’s website.  Credit Handoff  “A successful handoff from public to private credit
creation has yet to be accomplished,” Gross said. “That
handoff will ultimately will determine the outlook for real
growth and the potential reversal in our astronomical deficits
and escalating debt levels.”  The difference in yield between 10-year Treasury notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations
for inflation, rose to the highest level in more than 10 months
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled yesterday that he
may keep  interest rates  on hold even as unrest in North Africa
and the Middle East boosts oil prices.  The so-called breakeven rate rose to 245 basis points, or
2.44 percentage points, the most since April 30.  Beige Conditions  “Labor market conditions continued to strengthen modestly,
with all Districts reporting some degree of improvement,” the
Fed said today in its Beige Book report, an anecdotal account of
the economy released two weeks before meetings of the  Federal
Open Market Committee . Its last survey, released Jan. 12, said
the job market was “firming somewhat.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke didn’t rule out expanding the
central bank’s asset purchases aimed at stimulating the economy,
saying he doesn’t want to see the economy relapse into
recession.  Asked at a House Financial Services Committee hearing today
what conditions would warrant a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, Bernanke said that “what we’d like to see
is a sustainable recovery. We don’t want to see the economy
falling back into a double dip or to a stall-out.”  The Fed bought $6.7 billion of Treasuries maturing from
April 2015 through February 2016 as part of its $600 billion
buying plan to support the economic recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  