-- 
U.S. Senator Durbin Vows to Fight Republican Funding Cuts for Regulators

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-03-02T18:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-senator-durbin-vows-to-fight-republican-funding-cuts-for-regulators.html
U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , the
deputy majority leader, said he would “do my best” to fight
Republican efforts to cut funding for regulatory agencies
including the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  “I’m going to work to ensure that the  Federal Reserve 
funds this agency as Congress intended,” Durbin, an Illinois
Democrat, said today in a conference call with reporters.  Durbin also said he would try to protect budgets for the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, which have received additional oversight
tasks under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul.  Republican proposals would make “dramatic cuts in the
agencies that have the greatest responsibility for Dodd-Frank,”
he said.  Under Dodd-Frank, which President  Barack Obama  signed into
law in July, the consumer bureau gets a percentage of the
Federal Reserve’s operating budget, as much as $500 million per
year. The agency’s director decides how much is needed.  The bureau would need $134 million for 2011, according to
the Obama administration’s budget.  House Republicans  want to
limit the Fed from giving it more than $80 million, a 40 percent
cut.  Americans for Financial Reform, an umbrella group of labor
unions, civil rights organizations and consumer advocates,
arranged the conference call with Durbin, who also is chairman
of the financial services subcommittee of the Senate
Appropriations Committee.  Durbin Amendment  Durbin also said there is “no way to guarantee” that the
Senate will not vote on a repeal of the Durbin Amendment, the
part of Dodd-Frank that requires the Fed to regulate the “swipe
fees” that merchants pay to debit-card issuers. Banks are
currently lobbying hard to revisit the issue.  “Every day, members of the Senate offer amendments,” one
of which could be a repeal of the swipe-fee rule, Durbin said.  Durbin also declined to throw his weight behind a CFTC
proposal for user fees to help finance the work of the agency,
which has responsibility for derivatives regulation. He said the
“competition in these markets is now global” and that user
fees risk driving business out of the  United States .  “I’m not jumping on this bandwagon until we look at that
issue seriously,” Durbin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 