-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  The Tenth District economy expanded further in January and early
February, though inclement weather dampened consumer spending.
Retailers reported that severe winter storms contributed to
limited sales but they expected a rebound in coming months.
District manufacturers reported solid growth since the previous
survey period and anticipated strong future activity. Little
improvement was noted in residential real estate; however,
commercial real estate showed further signs of stabilization.
District banks reported a decrease in overall loan demand,
increased deposits, and stable loan quality. In agriculture, poor
growing conditions and tight supplies raised commodity prices.
Hiring and production expanded in the energy sector along with
drilling activity in key oil and gas liquids fields in the
District. Retailers and manufacturers noted added pressure on
profit margins from increased materials costs. There was little
evidence of wage pressures across District labor markets.    Consumer Spending .  Many District retailers reported that
unusually severe winter storms limited sales activity in January
and early February. Several retail contacts noted temporary
layoffs and reduced hours for workers in response to the
inclement weather. Overall, sales generally remained at or above
year-ago levels and most retailers remained optimistic that
sales would increase in coming months. While auto sales softened
due to severe winter storms, dealers were satisfied with
inventory levels and expected a sharp rebound in sales in the
near future. Most tourism contacts reported decreased visitor
counts compared with month- and year-ago levels, and respondents
indicated severe winter weather as a possible deterrent. However,
mountain ski resorts reported strong results due to the heavy
winter snowfall. Hotel operators reported that occupancy rates
remained flat during the reporting period while room rates
continued to decline. Most lodging respondents expected no
change in occupancy rates and continued declines in room rates
in the coming months.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.  District
manufacturing activity continued to expand, while high-tech
services and transportation activity slowed somewhat. Factory
production and orders expanded solidly, and backlogs rose
moderately. Inventories of both raw and finished goods increased
slightly. Many manufacturers hired additional workers and
anticipated hiring gains will remain solid in the coming six
months. Concerns persisted about rising input costs, but an
increasing number of factory operators reported an ability to
raise
finished goods prices. Planned capital expenditures at factories
were up, although most contacts reported adequate capacity.
Sales at high-tech firms softened in the latest reporting period,
especially those related to federal stimulus spending. High-tech
contacts nonetheless noted strength in sales related to data
centers and e-commerce. Transportation firms reported weak
activity in the current reporting period but remained optimistic
that conditions would improve in the coming three months.
Several transportation contacts cited rising fuel costs and
difficulty finding qualified drivers as possible constraints on
future growth.  Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activity
remained sluggish in January and early February, while the
commercial real estate sector showed further signs of
stabilization. The residential real estate sector remained
hampered by falling transaction volumes and increased inventories
of unsold homes. Weak sales of both new and existing homes put
further downward pressure on  home prices , but real estate agents
anticipated a surge in home sales this spring due to seasonal
buying patterns. Although housing starts were flat, residential
builders remained upbeat and reported a rebound in traffic.
Commercial real estate activity stabilized with increased sales
and leasing activity, reduced vacancy rates, and increased
absorption. Nonetheless, further declines were reported in rents
and selling prices and developers’ access to credit remained
constrained. Mortgage lenders noted a continued decline in
mortgage loan demand and refinance activity due to rising
mortgage  interest rates . In addition, mortgage lenders noted a
decrease in average loan size and higher average down payments.  Banking.  Bankers reported weaker loan demand, increased deposits,
and an improved outlook for loan quality in the recent reporting
period. Overall loan demand decreased slightly as demand for
commercial and industrial loans, residential real estate loans,
and consumer installment loans decreased while commercial real
estate loan demand edged up. For the fourth straight survey,
credit standards remained unchanged in all major loan categories.
Loan quality was mostly unchanged from the previous period, while
the outlook for loan quality over the next six months improved.
Bankers reported increased deposits with gains in transaction and
money market accounts.  Energy.  The energy sector expanded further in January and
February as oil and gas firms reported increased hiring and
production. Natural gas production remained strong despite high
inventory levels and only modest seasonal gains in natural gas
prices. Exploration in the District shifted further toward crude
oil and natural gas liquids, particularly in  New Mexico  and the
Niobrara oil shale formation in Colorado and Wyoming. Producers
anticipated continued soft
natural  gas prices  and steady crude  oil prices  in the next three
months, despite concerns over international instability. A number
of energy contacts cited continued competitive pressures for
drilling equipment and workers as constraints on future drilling
activity, but access to capital was viewed as adequate.  Wyoming 
coal production remained well above year-ago levels. Higher corn
prices trimmed ethanol profits in recent weeks.  Agriculture.  Poor growing conditions and tight supplies lifted
commodity prices and farm incomes since the previous survey
period. While winter wheat crop conditions deteriorated due to
dry, cold weather, recent snowfall eased drought conditions in
the southern Plains. Heavy snowfall also limited grazing and
prompted some supplemental cattle feeding. Tight global supplies
supported high crop prices, boosting farm income. Cattle and hog
prices strengthened with higher demand, but rising feed costs
limited profits. Operating loan demand weakened as farmers used
cash to pre-pay for crop inputs.  Capital spending  rose briskly.
District contacts reported collateral requirements held steady
and ample funds were available for farm loans at historically
low interest rates. Farmland prices surged with rising farm
income and robust demand for farmland, with the strongest gains
reported in Nebraska and  Kansas .  Wages and Prices.  Input prices continued to increase in many
industries, but selling prices and wages generally remained
steady. Contacts expected sustained increases in input prices,
and most expected higher selling prices in coming months.
Manufacturers reported persistent increases in raw materials
prices and anticipated the upward trend to continue. Increasing
commodity prices put upward pressure on food costs, particularly
livestock products. Restaurants reported tighter margins as menu
prices remained flat in the face of rising food costs; an uptick
in fuel costs contributed to rising building materials prices.
Firms reported little evidence of wage pressures across the
District and anticipated little to no wage pressure in the near
future. A limited number of firms expected to hire seasonal
workers in the next three months, but few have considered wage
increases to attract qualified candidates. 