-- 
Mugabe Says Zimbabwe Should Seize U.K Companies, Boycott Their Products

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-03-02T18:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/mugabe-says-zimbabwe-must-seize-u-k-companies-in-country-1-.html
President Robert Mugabe said  Zimbabwe  should move quickly to take over British companies
operating in the southern African nation and called on people to
boycott their products.  Mugabe was speaking at a rally to demand the European Union
and U.S. lift sanctions against him and senior members of his
 Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front  party. Mugabe
says the sanctions were responsible for a decade-long recession
that ended last year.  “It is not enough to speak against sanctions,” Mugabe
told the rally in the capital, Harare, today. “We can’t keep
hosting more than 400 British firms here, including mines.” It
is “now time to take measures against them.”    Barclays Plc  and  Standard Chartered Plc  are among the
British companies operating in Zimbabwe, alongside miners  Anglo
American Plc  and  Rio Tinto Plc . A new Indigenization and
Empowerment Act, which has been approved by lawmakers, will
compel foreign and white-owned businesses to cede 51 percent of
their shares to black Zimbabweans.  “I have said the indigenization and empowerment process
should start with those firms,” Mugabe said, referring to
British companies. “We must take them over. We can also boycott
their products.”  The U.K.’s Foreign Office described the move as
“irresponsible,” and said in an e-mailed statement that it
will “deter much needed foreign investment.” The comments were
echoed by Prime Minister David Cameron.  “We have made clear to the Zimbabwean authorities on a
number of occasions that they shouldn’t do anything to undermine
investor confidence or Zimbabwe’s fragile economic recovery,”
Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field said today. “The biggest losers
would be the Zimbabwean people themselves.”  Mugabe’s Zanu-PF has shared power with Prime Minister
Morgan Tsvangirai’s  Movement for Democratic Change  since Feb.
2009 after violence-marred elections failed to give either
leader an outright victory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gordon Bell at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net . 