-- 
Mukherjee Signals Higher Oil Costs May Boost India Subsidy Bill

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-03-03T03:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/mukherjee-signals-higher-oil-costs-may-boost-india-subsidy-bill.html
  India ’s Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said higher oil prices are a concern, underscoring the
risk to the nation’s fuel subsidy bill and efforts to curb the
budget deficit.  “Uncertainty in the oil price is a serious issue which we
shall have to address,” Mukherjee, 75, said in an interview
with Bloomberg UTV in New Delhi yesterday, two days after
unveiling the budget for the fiscal year starting April 1.
Adjustments to the subsidy bill remain “a conjecture at this
point,” he said.  The surge in oil prices past $100 a barrel following unrest
in the Middle East and  Libya  is putting pressure on central
banks around to world to fight inflation while trying to sustain
a recovery from the 2009 global recession. U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week persistent increases in
oil and commodity costs would be a “threat” to economic growth
and price stability.  India meets about three-quarters of its annual energy needs
from imports, and Mukherjee estimated a 38 percent drop in fuel
subsidy costs next year to help lower  government borrowing .  “Given what’s happened to global commodity prices, both
food and now increasingly on oil, it is going to be difficult to
hit those expenditure numbers,”  Michael Buchanan , chief Asia-
Pacific economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in New Delhi
yesterday. “I am assuming oil prices will remain fairly high”
compared with the average for the current fiscal year.  Yields Fall  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index rose 3.5
percent on March 1, the most in 21 months, and bonds also
advanced after Mukherjee’s Feb. 28 budget announcement. He plans
to reduce the budget shortfall to 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product in the 12 months through March 2012 from 5.1 percent in
the current period.  The yield on the 8.13 percent bond due September 2022 fell
one basis point to 8.08 percent in Mumbai. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. India’s financial markets were closed
yesterday on account of a Hindu festival.  “The concern is really on crude,”  Kaushik Basu , chief
economic adviser in the  finance ministry , yesterday told a
conference organized by the  Institute of International Finance 
in  New Delhi . If oil prices surge “there are simply two choices
- either we allow our fiscal-deficit target to go, or we decide
to pass on some of this additional price to the users,” he
said.  Budget Deficit  Crude oil for April delivery climbed 72 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $100.35 a barrel at 11 a.m. yesterday on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  as Libyan rebels braced for renewed
clashes with forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Prices are
up 26 percent from a year ago.  Fighting in Libya may have shut off as much as 850,000 to 1
million barrels a day of the North African country’s output,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  India may “struggle” to meet its  budget-deficit  goal for
the next fiscal year as spending on food and fuel subsidies will
probably rise, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said in a
March 1 statement.  Mukherjee has provided an outlay of 236.4 billion rupees
($5.3 billion) for fuel subsidies in the next fiscal year, less
than an estimated 383.86 billion rupees for the current fiscal
year, according to the budget. The government plans debt sales
of 4.17 trillion rupees beginning in April compared with a
projected 4.47 trillion rupees of sales in the current fiscal
year, budget documents showed.  Unexpected Expenditure  Mukherjee said the budget estimates have taken into account
the potential for “unexpected expenditures” in areas including
defense, though he added that oil prices are “uncertain.”  Mukherjee forecasts India’s GDP may grow as much as 9.25
percent in the year starting April 1, helping to boost  tax
revenue . He is also aiming to raise 400 billion rupees from the
sale of stakes in state-run companies.  Proposed sales of shares in Indian Oil Corp., the country’s
biggest refiner, and  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) , its second-
largest producer of the alloy, may help raise about 104 billion
rupees next fiscal year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Service Tax  The minister has included more services under the tax net
to lift revenue. Taxes would now be collected from air-
conditioned restaurants, hotels, airlines and hospitals.  “Underlying GDP growth momentum, minor modifications in
excise and service tax, and the continuing strength in external
trade should ensure that the government achieves its target,”
Moody’s sovereign analyst Aninda Mitra said in an e-mail
yesterday.  The view was echoed by  Gerard Lyons , London-based chief
economist at Standard Chartered Plc.  “Some of the points that have not been really touched upon
is the potential for future privatization and the potential of
the growth dividend to continue to bear out in future,” Lyons
told the conference in New Delhi yesterday. “The headline
fiscal number is not a concern for me.”  India’s spending plan may be strained by enhanced food
subsidies, S&P said in its March 1 statement. A plan to link
wages in the government’s rural jobs program to the consumer-  price index  will result in a doubling of the payments to
workers, the rating company said.  S&P said India doesn’t have any “one-off” revenue to fall
back on next year, such as the 677.2 billion rupees it raised
from phone-license sales in the current year, almost double the
budgeted amount.  “The extent to which the government can achieve its
deficit targets depends on the pace of economic growth and the
movement in global and domestic fuel, fertilizer and food
prices,” according to the S&P statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  