-- 
Hungary Can’t Fix Swiss Franc Rate on Loans, Bank Group Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-03-02T10:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/hungary-can-t-fix-swiss-franc-rate-on-loans-bank-group-says.html
An unconfirmed plan for  Hungary ’s
government to freeze the forint’s exchange rate against the
Swiss franc on foreign-currency loans is unrealistic, Hungarian
Bank Association President Tamas Erdei said.  “The last time I heard something like this was in the
1970s,” Erdei, who is chief executive officer of MKB Bank Zrt.,  Bayerische Landesbank ’s Hungarian unit, said in an  MR1 Kossuth
Radio  interview today. “This is completely baseless, you can’t
do something like this.”  Hungary’s moratorium on foreclosures expires in April,
threatening those unable to make payments on mortgages with the
loss of their homes. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has pledged to
set up a fund to help borrowers, many of whom took out Swiss-
franc loans because of the lower interest rate on them. The
forint’s weakening boosted monthly payments. The cost of the
fund should be split among borrowers, banks and the budget,
Orban said in a Feb. 25 Facebook post.  The Cabinet may help borrowers by fixing the  exchange rate 
near 190 forint per Swiss franc,  Hirszerzo  news website reported
yesterday, citing unidentified bankers. Borrowers would take out
a new loan with a “relatively low” interest rate from a
commercial bank to fund the difference between the current rate
and the fixed rate until payment is due in 2014 or possibly, at
the end of the loan’s maturity, Hirszerzo said.  The Economy Ministry hasn’t replied to e-mailed questions
seeking comment.  As part of the plan, the government may also seek to fix
the euro-Swiss franc rate in the period through currency-market
operations to help commercial banks avoid losses, Hirszerzo
said. Lenders may agree with the  Swiss National Bank  to buy
francs at a fixed rate within the 3.5 year duration of the plan,
with the government financing the cost of the transaction from
budget funds, Hirszerzo said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  