-- 
Hungary Stocks Fall Second Day on Budget Plan, Tax Cut Delays

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-03-02T16:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/hungary-shares-fall-second-day-on-credibility-of-budget-plan.html
Hungarian stocks fell for a second
day on concern that the government will rely on taxes rather
than spending cuts to achieve debt reduction targets and may fix
exchange rates on foreign-currency loans.  The benchmark BUX Index of shares sank as much as 1.6
percent and closed 0.5 percent lower at 22,626.71. OTP Bank
Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, lost 0.8 percent to 5,632
forint.  The European Union’s most indebted eastern member yesterday
unveiled a program to save as much as 900 billion forint ($4.5
billion) by 2013, aiming to reduce debt to below 60 percent of
GDP by 2016 in what Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  called an
“attack” on debt. As part of the measures, the Cabinet delayed
plans to cut corporate and scrap bank taxes.  “We question the credibility of the fiscal package and
don’t expect it to be supportive of Hungarian bank equity,”
analysts at Citigroup Inc. including Stefan Nedialkov in London
wrote in a research report today.  A potential move to fix the forint’s exchange rate against
the Swiss franc on foreign-currency loans to protect borrowers
is “worthy of consideration” for the government, Janos Lazar,
the head of the ruling Fidesz party’s parliamentary group, told
reporters in Budapest today.  The discussion of fixing exchange rates is “a bad omen for
Hungarian assets, especially bank stocks,” Ilan Solot, emerging
markets strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in  London  wrote in
a research report today.  Hungary’s moratorium on evictions expires in April,
threatening those unable to make payments on mortgages with the
loss of their homes. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has pledged to
set up a fund to help borrowers, many of whom borrowed in Swiss
francs to take advantage of cheaper loans.  Forint Gains  The forint strengthened 0.7 percent to 270.76 per euro as
of 5:12 p.m., rebounding from a 0.6 percent decline yesterday.  Hungary’s deficit-reduction plan will be enough to
stabilize the country’s debt and investors should buy the forint
on “any dip,” Pasquale Diana and Chuan Lim, London-based
analysts at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report dated today.
“Even a 60 percent implementation of these measures will be
sufficient to stabilize debt to GDP,” they said.  Hungary will probably cut state debt as a percentage of
gross domestic product by as much as 5.5 percentage points by
the end of June by taking over privately managed pension assets,
Laszlo Andras Borbely, deputy chief executive officer of the
state Debt Management Agency, told state-run M1 television in an
interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  