-- 
Hungarian Deficit Plan Is ‘Sufficient,’ Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-02T15:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/hungary-debt-cutting-plan-is-sufficient-morgan-stanley-says.html
Hungary’s deficit-reduction plan
will be enough to stabilize the country’s debt and investors
should buy the forint on “any dip,” Morgan Stanley said.  The European Union’s most indebted eastern member yesterday
unveiled a program to save as much as 900 billion forint ($4.6
billion) by 2013 and reduce debt to below 60 percent of gross
domestic product by 2016. The government also delayed plans to
cut corporate taxes.  “Even a 60 percent implementation of these measures will
be sufficient to stabilize debt to GDP,” Pasquale Diana and
Chuan Lim, London-based analysts at Morgan, wrote in a report
dated today. “Strong growth is not necessary to stabilize the
debt-to-GDP trajectory in the coming years.”  Hungarian stocks fell for a second day on speculation the
government will rely on taxes rather than spending cuts to meet
its debt targets. The plan is “vague on the expenditure side”
and the timing of the measures is not clear,  Gaelle Blanchard , a
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , said yesterday.  “The lack of clear detail on implementation is certainly a
concern, but perhaps to expect the government to sketch out full
targets and detailed breakdown on every single expenditure item
was never realistic,” according to the Morgan Stanley analysts.  The New York-based bank recommends buying the forint “on
the back of any dip” as the fiscal plan will likely support
“modest medium-term gains” for the currency, according to the
report. Investors should also bet on a decline in the cost of
protection against nonpayment on Hungarian debt.  The forint strengthened 0.7 percent today to 270.69 per
euro by 4:15 p.m. in Budapest, erasing a decline of 0.6 percent
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  