-- 
Versailles Invaded by Thrones -- Where’s Seating Plan? Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-03-02T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/versailles-invaded-by-thrones-where-s-seating-plan-jorg-von-uthmann.html
The  Chateau de Versailles  is
rediscovering its grand tradition. Instead of hyping
contemporary art, as it did in recent years, the museum’s new
exhibition explores a truly royal subject -- thrones.  Some 40 specimens, scattered over the State Apartments,
illustrate how different civilizations emphasized the majesty of
their rulers. It’s a magnificent show.  One of the oldest pieces is the so-called Throne of
Dagobert from the basilica of St. Denis, the burial place of
French kings. The bronze chair dating from the 7th century
survived the looting by the revolutionaries because it had been
hidden at the  National Library , where it still is.  Louis XVI, whom the “sans culottes” guillotined, and
other crowned heads are represented by sumptuous thrones on
which they never sat. They were sent abroad to symbolize the
absent monarch at their embassies.  In the Salle du Sacre, named after a copy of David’s
painting of Napoleon’s coronation, there’s the mobile chair on
which Pius VII officiated at the ceremony. Two thrones for the
emperor, on display in the same room, are splendid examples of
the Empire style at its most ostentatious.  Pontiffs are all over the place. Some may know Innocent X
from Velazquez’s portrait. Others will remember him as  Francis Bacon ’s screaming pope. His throne is here, designed by the
great Bernini.  Portable Models  The popes were the only sovereigns in the Western world to
use portable thrones. In the Hall of Mirrors, there’s the sedia
gestatoria on which Pius VII was carried by 12 sediari,
symbolizing the 12 apostles, into St. Peter’s basilica.  I had high hopes -- alas, in vain -- to also find the
legendary sedia stercoraria, the pierced chair that reputedly
was used to examine the sex of a newly elected pope.  In contrast to Europe, portable thrones were widespread in  Asia . The show displays various types, including a howdah, a
sort of carriage placed on an elephant’s back. Another version,
the palanquin, a sedan chair carried on two horizontal poles by
four or six bearers, was a gift from the king of Siam to
Napoleon III.  Many of the thrones in the exhibition are decorated with
animals -- lions and eagles in  Europe , dragons in  China , pumas
and other wild cats in pre-Columbian America.  In the Salon de Mercure, the organizers have brought
together a couple of sitting deities -- Buddha, Christ, the
Egyptian god Somtus. Beautiful though the sculptures are, they
are out of place here.  Bishop’s Seat  In the catalog, Jacques Charles-Gaffiot, the curator,
deplores the decline of thrones as a symptom of a society that
holds authority in low esteem.  One of the culprits, he says, long before the rebellious
1960s, was the Protestant service which pushed the bishop from
his episcopal see. Presidents now stand in front of a camera
speaking to their subjects who are disrespectfully slouched in
armchairs.  Whatever you think of this lament, the last item in the
show, the humble seat from which the French president watches
the military parade on the Champs-Elysees once a year, leaves no
doubt that the heyday of the throne is over.  “Trones en Majeste” runs through June 19. Information:
 http://www.chateauversailles.fr  or +33-1-3083-7800.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 