-- 
Wigan Auditor Says Soccer Club Would Be at Risk Without Owner's Millions

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-02T16:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/wigan-auditor-says-soccer-club-would-be-at-risk-without-owner-s-millions.html
Wigan Athletic’s auditor said
there’s “material uncertainty” about the soccer team’s future
as a going concern without infusions from its millionaire owner.
The club forecasts losses for the next two years.  Wigan, playing its sixth season in  England ’s Premier
League, is sustained by funding from its owner Dave Whelan. He’s
converting into equity 48 million pounds ($78 million) of loans
to the team from his family’s companies.  The team has the league’s second-lowest attendance and
posted a loss of 4 million pounds for the year ended May 31
2010, 31 percent narrower than a year earlier, according to a
filing at  Companies House . Sales declined 7 percent to 43
million pounds, less than half the amount league leader  Manchester United  makes from its sponsorship activities alone.  Wigan’s statement that it will continue to post losses, its
reliance on Whelan’s funding and ongoing talks with  Barclays Plc 
about the future of a 20 million-pound loan led its auditor
Fairhurst to say in the accounts that there’s “material
uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the company’s
ability to continue as a going concern.”  ‘Sustainable Legacy’  In the accounts statement, Whelan said he aimed to
strengthen Wigan by “reducing the debt and creating a lasting
and sustainable legacy for future generations of Wigan fans.”
The conversion of the loans into equity is part of that plan, he
said.  “The figures don’t look very good but we are the most
stable club there is because of Mr. Whelan,” Ed Jones, a
spokesman for the team, said in an interview. “He must have put
in 100 million pounds of his own money, we are indebted to him
and remain indebted to him.”  Whelan, 74, who made his fortune in sports goods retailing,
took the team from the fourth tier of English soccer to the
Premier League within 10 years of his 1995 purchase. The club’s
run of never being relegated from the top flight is at risk this
season with the Latics bottom after 28 matches.  “The past 17 years Mr. Whelan’s been in charge, he’s
transformed the club from a bottom of the fourth division team
to a Premier League club and has sustained us through that
period,” Jones said. “He’s as committed to the club today as
he was then.”  The team, which has never won a major trophy, frequently
plays against a backdrop of empty seats even though it has the
cheapest tickets in the league. It has an average attendance of
16,335 at its 25,000-seat DW Stadium, more only than newly
promoted Blackpool, whose capacity is restricted to 16,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  