-- 
Williams F1 Drops in Frankfurt Trading After $83 Million Public Offering

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-03-02T16:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/williams-f1-drops-in-frankfurt-trading-after-83-million-public-offering.html
Williams Grand Prix Holding Plc
retreated in  Frankfurt  after its 60 million-euro ($83 million)
initial public offering, the first time a Formula One motor
sport team has sold shares to the public.  The stock declined 2.5 percent to 24.38 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt electronic trading, compared with the
IPO price of 25 euros. That valued the Grove, England-based
company at about 244 million euros.  Co-founders Frank Williams, 68, and Patrick Head, 65, said
they took the decision to sell some of their shares to help
shore up the company’s future. Williams reduced his stake in the
nine-time champion team to just over 50 percent while Head, who
will leave after this year, has sold most of his 23.5 percent
stake, according to the share-sale prospectus. Austrian investor
Toto Wolff, who acquired a holding in 2009, also sold some of
his shares after the sale was fully subscribed.  “It’s always brave to come to the market but being brave
is what we do,” Chairman Adam Parr said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. The retreat in the first hour of trading
isn’t “overly” concerning, Parr said in the morning.  The IPO is the third in  Germany  this year. Derby Cycle AG,
a bicycle maker, and  RIB Software AG (RSTA) , a software solutions
provider, both listed on the Frankfurt electronic trading
platform last month.  Senna, Prost  Frank Williams founded the company, whose former champion
drivers include Ayrton Senna and Alain Prost, in 1977 and won
the last of its constructors’ championships in 1997. The team
finished sixth in last year’s 12-team standings, which were won
by energy-drink maker Red Bull GmbH’s squad.  Williams had net income of 3.9 million pounds ($6.3
million) from sales of 74.2 million pounds in the 10 months to
Oct. 31 2010, the IPO prospectus said.  The Formula One company relies on sponsorship and prize
money for most of its revenue, although it has explored making
hybrid technology for road cars with partners including Porsche
SE and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover.  Cyrte Investments BV, an investment fund controlled by
Aviva Plc’s Dutch Delta Lloyd unit, said it bought 5 percent of
Williams after the listing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  