-- 
Yahoo Said to Be in Discussions to Dispose of Japan Venture With Softbank

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-03-02T07:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/yahoo-said-to-be-in-talks-to-dispose-of-japan-joint-venture.html
Yahoo! Inc. is in talks to dispose
of its 35 percent stake in its Japanese joint venture with  Softbank Corp ., according to two people briefed on the matter.  The talks focus on transferring its stake in  Yahoo Japan
Corp . to Softbank, said the people, confirming an earlier
Reuters  report  and asking not to be identified because the
discussions are private and may not result in an agreement.
Softbank, Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone operator, said it
isn’t holding discussions to buy Yahoo Japan shares.  Yahoo Japan, the nation’s most-visited web-portal, rose the
most in more than four months in Tokyo trading, while Softbank
fell. Unwinding the Yahoo Japan stake, which has a market value
of more than $7.5 billion, would help Yahoo Chief Executive
Officer  Carol Bartz  generate funds as she eliminates jobs and
sheds unsuccessful businesses to drive a turnaround and compete
with Facebook Inc. and  Google Inc .  “As for Softbank, I doubt if it’s worth paying a big
premium on Yahoo Japan shares as Softbank already has the
revenue source of mobile phone business and is investing in
China businesses,” said Shinji Moriyuki, an analyst at Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  The disposal may not be structured as an outright sale to
help Yahoo avoid taxes on the proceeds, said the people.
Different options include an asset swap or possibly a tracking
stock, with an agreement possibly coming within weeks, according
to Reuters. A deal hasn’t yet been reached and could fall apart,
according to the report.  Denying Talks  “We’re not having discussions on an acquisition of  Yahoo
Japan  shares,” said Takeaki Nukii, a spokesman at the Tokyo-
based mobile-phone operator.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, declined to comment. Chizu Sasaki, a spokeswoman
for Yahoo Japan, declined to comment.  Yahoo Japan rose 3.7 percent to close at 32,300 yen in
Tokyo trading, the biggest gain since Oct. 14. Softbank fell 3.6
to 3,255 yen.  Yahoo, the most-visited U.S. Web portal, held 35 percent of
the Japanese venture as its second-largest shareholder,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Softbank has a 42
percent stake.  Big Deal  Based on Yahoo Japan’s market value, a deal would result in
the biggest sale of a Japanese Internet asset ever, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In November, Softbank, Japan’s only
carrier offering  Apple Inc .’s iPhone, announced a 412.5 billion
yen ($5 billion) repurchase of securities from  Vodafone Group
Plc .  Bartz is aiming to make Yahoo more efficient as it competes
with Facebook and Google. In January, Yahoo said it was
eliminating about 1 percent of its workforce. The company also
is pulling back on the amount of services it offers users.  In the U.S., Yahoo plans to shut down some features,
including Yahoo! Buzz, a news ranking tool, the company said
last year. Bartz has also reduced spending through the 10-year
agreement that lets Microsoft Corp. handle search-related
technology and the platform that sells search-based ads, called
AdCenter.  Softbank’s relation with Yahoo started in 1995 when the
Japanese company bought about a 5 percent stake in Yahoo. The
following year, the two companies started Yahoo Japan with a
joint investment totaling 200 million yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  