-- 
Yunus Remains at Grameen After Chairman Says He Was Removed

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 
2011-03-02T15:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/yunus-remains-at-grameen-after-chairman-says-he-was-removed.html
  Muhammad Yunus  remains managing
director of Grameen Bank after the microfinance lender’s
chairman said Bangladesh’s central bank had removed the Nobel
Prize winner from the post, Grameen’s spokeswoman said.  Yunus is still with the bank he founded, Jannat-E Quanine
said in an e-mailed statement today. Grameen’s Chairman Muzammel
Huq told reporters in Dhaka that the central bank had removed
Yunus from the position, according to the statement, which
didn’t give a reason.  Yunus was named managing director in 2000 without prior
approval from Bangladesh Bank,  Agence France-Presse  reported,
citing Huq, who was appointed by the government.  The latest development highlights differences between the
Grameen Bank founder and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed’s
government, which surfaced in December when Norwegian television
reported misuse of aid to the lender. Early last month, Finance
Minister A.M.A. Muhith asked Yunus to step down,  Bangladesh ’s
Daily Star newspaper reported yesterday, without elaborating.  “We have written to Grameen Bank that Muhammad Yunus can
no longer continue to be the managing director,” K.M. Abdul Wadood, general manager at the banking regulation and policy
department of Bangladesh Bank, said by telephone today.
“Grameen Bank is bound to follow our instructions.”  Yunus breached retirement norms in Bangladesh by continuing
to head Grameen Bank, Wadood said yesterday. No one is allowed
to serve if they are above the age of 60, Wadood said.  Norwegian Aid  “This is a legal issue,” Jannat-E Quanine said in the
statement. “Grameen Bank has been duly complying with all
applicable laws. It has also complied with the law in respect of
appointment of the managing director.”  This isn’t the first instance of problems between the
government and Yunus, 70. In December, a documentary shown on
Norwegian national television reported that aid money to  Grameen
Bank  was diverted for purposes other than lending. Sheikh Hasina
called for the allegations to be investigated.  Yunus said he would welcome any probe, The Telegraph
newspaper of  India  reported Dec. 6. Norway’s Minister of
Environment and International Development, Erik Solheim, said in
a statement the same month that there was “no indication” the
Norwegian funds were misused.  The Bangladesh government owned 5 percent of Grameen Bank
in January, according to the bank’s website. The bank to the
poor now covers 95 percent of the country’s villages, with 8.35
million borrowers, most of whom are women, as of January,
according to its website.  Bangladesh is  Asia ’s poorest nation, trailing Afghanistan
and Nepal, according to the  World Bank . It has population of
about 156 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yunus and Grameen Bank shared the  2006 Nobel Peace Prize .
He founded the lender in 1983 to extend unsecured loans to the
poor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  