-- 
Zloty Weakens, Bond Yields Drop After Poland Leaves Rates Steady

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-03-02T13:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-02/zloty-weakens-bond-yields-drop-after-poland-leaves-rates-steady.html
The zloty weakened and Polish bonds
gained as investors pared bets on rate increases after the
central bank left borrowing costs unchanged.  The zloty slid 0.2 percent to 3.9843 against the euro as of
2:03 p.m. in Warsaw. Bonds rose, pushing the yield on the
January 2013 note down 3 basis points to 5.07 percent. Three-
month forward rate agreements that investors use to fix
interest-rate costs or wager on changes in borrowing costs
dropped 7 basis points to 4.51 percent.  Policy makers left their main seven-day rate unchanged at
3.75 percent today as rising unemployment and slowing retail
sales eased concern that consumer demand will stoke inflation.
The decision matched predictions from 20 of the 30 economists in
a Bloomberg survey, while the remainder forecast an increase to
4 percent.  “The consensus started shifting towards a rate hike in
recent days and a lot of people probably jumped on the
bandwagon,” said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market
strategist at RBC Capital in  London . “Now they are squaring
those positions.”  Policy makers in January lifted the main rate for the first
time since June 2008 to battle accelerating consumer-price
growth. The central bank, which didn’t hold a rate meeting last
month, will comment on the decision at a 4 p.m. press conference
in Warsaw.  “If on top of leaving  interest rates  on hold, the council
retains its soft rhetoric, markets may well think that the MPC
has fallen behind the curve,” Michal Dybula, an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in Warsaw, wrote in a note to customers. “In
consequence the zloty would suffer more.”  Inflation exceeded the upper end of the central bank’s
targeted range in January, rising to 3.8 percent, according to
data from the statistics office on Feb. 15. The zloty has
retreated 1.6 percent against the euro since central bank
Governor Marek Belka said on Feb. 21 that the 10-member rate
panel’s response to inflation will be “moderate” as long as
wage pressure is contained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  