-- Asian Stocks Fall on G-20 Europe Warning, Slowing U.S. Recovery
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-04-21T00:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/asian-stocks-fall-on-g-20-europe-warning-slowing-u-s-recovery.html
Asian stocks fell this week, just
the fourth weekly retreat this year for the regional benchmark,
as the Group of 20 nations warned  Europe ’s debt crisis still
threatens global growth and as U.S. economic data showed the
recovery in the world’s largest economy is slowing.  Technology exporters led declines in Asia this week as
companies from  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the
world’s biggest computer-services provider, to SanDisk Corp.,
reported disappointing results. TPK Holding Co Ltd., a Taiwanese
supplier for Apple Inc., led declines, falling 16 percent this
week. Seoul, Korea-based  LG Chem Ltd. (051910) , announced a lower-than-
expected profit and fell 15 percent on the week.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.7 percent to 124.21,
erasing last week’s 0.1 percent gain. The gauge fell four out of
five days this week. It has alternated between weekly gains and
losses since March 2, when it finished a record 11-week winning
streak. It has risen about 9 percent this year.  “I still think Europe overall is just buying time for its
problem, which cannot be resolved in the short term,” said  Alex Au , Hong Kong-based managing director of Richland Capital
Management Ltd., which oversees $300 million. “From time to
time in the next few years I think we will see panic situations.
The market is very thin and liquidity is low, so if someone
wants to push the market down it won’t be too difficult.
Investors are holding a lot of cash.”  South Korea Slump  Asia’s benchmark equity gauge has retreated 3.7 percent
from the start of March on speculation stock gains have outpaced
the prospects for earnings growth after the index climbed 13
percent in the first two months of the year. Shares on the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  are valued at an average of 12.7 times
 estimated earnings , compared with 13.1 on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 10.8 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slipped 1.7 percent, led by
petrochemical companies after LG Chem Ltd. missed earnings
estimates.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  dropped 0.8 percent this
week, even as exports grew at the fastest pace in a year in
March and the yen fell against most of its major counterparts.
The yen rose 0.7 percent against the dollar this week, its first
weekly depreciation this month.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced 1.5 percent this week
amid speculation  China ’s policy makers will lower lending curbs
to boost growth in the world’s second-largest economy. The
 Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2 percent this
week.  Australia Gains  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 added 1 percent as UBS AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded Australian mining stocks amid
signs of improving economic growth in China. The lagging
performance of the shares boosted views from strategists at the
Swiss and U.S. brokerages.  The Asian stock benchmark saw its biggest single day
increase this month on April 18, gaining 1.1 percent, after the
 International Monetary Fund  raised global economic forecasts and
Spain sold more debt than targeted. The rally was short-lived as
bad loans held by Spanish banks surged ahead of European bond
sales the next day.  The G-20 cited “the situation in Europe” first in a list
of drags on the world economy, according to a draft statement
obtained by Bloomberg News. Finance ministers meeting in
Washington urged Europe’s leaders to do more to fix their debt-
wracked region.  Technology exporters  led declines  in Asia with the MSCI AC
Asia Pacific Information Technology Index, a gauge of technology
companies, retreating 1.9 percent.  TPK Holding Co Ltd. (3673) 
manufactures touch screens for computers and hand-held devices
and for companies including Apple Inc., dropped the most,
falling 16 percent this week to NT$388.  HTC Corp. Falls  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , a supplier for Nokia
OYJ fell 15 percent to HK$4.36 in Hong Kong. HTC Corp., Asia’s
second-largest smart phone maker slid 13 percent to NT$462. It
named Chang Chia-lin chief financial officer and spokesman this
week after reporting its biggest drop in profit since listing a
decade ago earlier this month.  LG Chem Ltd., South Korea’s biggest chemicals maker,
tumbled 15 percent to 315,500 won, its biggest weekly drop since
October 3, 2009. The company  reported  a worse-than-estimated 42
percent decline in first-quarter profit as demand in China waned
for materials used to make plastic and synthetic rubber.  Other Korean chemical stocks also retreated, with  Honam
Petrochemical Corp. (011170)  falling 12 percent to 294,500 won and Kumho
Petro Chemical Co. losing 14 percent to 118,500 won.  Among stocks that gained this week,  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  rose
8.4 percent to HK$23.85, its highest level since September 16.
Macaubusiness.com said the owner of the Wynn and Encore casinos
may sign a land contract for a proposed resort in Cotai, Macau,
this month. The shares have risen 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  