-- Utah’s Hatch Forced Into Republican Primary in June
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-04-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/hatch-is-forced-into-republican-primary-with-utah-state-senator.html
Utah Senator  Orrin Hatch  failed to
win the required majority of votes at the state Republican
convention yesterday, forcing him into a June 26 primary
election against state Senator Dan Liljenquist.  Hatch won 59.2 percent of the 3,902 delegate votes cast at
the state Republican convention in Sandy, Utah, less than the 60
percent needed to win the nomination outright, according to the
state  Republican Party . Liljenquist, who appealed to  Tea Party 
activists resolved to retire Hatch, got 40.8 percent of the
convention vote.  “This is a Republican civil war and the Democrats are on
the sidelines,”  Nathan Gonzales , political editor at the
Rothenberg Political Report said in a telephone interview.
Whoever wins the Utah primary is sure to be elected to the
Senate, Gonzales said. President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, got
34 percent of Utah’s vote in the 2008 election.  Conservative groups may mount a larger campaign against
Hatch, including television advertising because “it’s going to
be a much larger electorate in the primary than the 4,000
delegates at the convention,” Gonzales said.  Six-Term Senator  The 78-year-old Hatch, a six-term senator, was targeted by
the group FreedomWorks, which favors smaller government and has
helped foster the Tea Party movement. FreedomWorks opposes Hatch
because he supported the 2008 bank bailout and a pathway to
citizenship for some children of illegal immigrants. Hatch also
is opposed because of his work with the late Democratic Senator
 Ted Kennedy  of Massachusetts to create a children’s health
program that expanded Medicaid.  FreedomWorks has spent more than $691,000 on  television
advertising , grassroots outreach and glossy brochures seeking to
defeat Hatch. Founded by former Republican House Majority Leader
Richard Armey of Texas, FreedomWorks operates a super-PAC, which
raises unlimited amounts for federal elections, and has taken in
$3.5 million for this year’s elections.  Former Utah Senator Robert Bennett was toppled at the 2010
state convention because he didn’t win enough votes to make the
ballot for a two-candidate primary race. Republican  Mike Lee ,
backed by the Tea Party, later won Bennett’s seat.  Courting Tea Party  Hatch has met with Utah Tea Party activists at picnics and
town hall meetings, and in private discussions. In the weeks
before the convention, Hatch attended most of 29 planned
Republican county meetings and spoke with the vast majority of
the delegates, said Evelyn Call, his campaign spokeswoman. His
campaign has spent $264,030 on TV ads on  Utah  network broadcast
stations by April 16, according to Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks advertising.  First elected in 1976, Hatch is in line to be chairman of
the Senate Finance Committee if his party wins control of that
chamber of Congress in the November elections. He has said he’ll
try to dismantle and reshape Obama’s 2010 health care overhaul
and to rewrite the  tax code .  Republicans now control 47 of the chamber’s 100 seats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  