-- Barclays, Lehman Brokerage to Resume Fight Over 2008 Deal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-21T00:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/barclays-lehman-brokerage-to-resume-fight-over-2008-deal.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  resumed its 3 1/2-year
fight with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s defunct brokerage
over $3 billion in assets tied to the bank’s purchase of
Lehman’s North American business.  The U.K.’s second-largest bank and the brokerage made
arguments today in a hearing before U.S. District Judge
Katherine Forrest in  Manhattan . Forrest didn’t say when she will
rule in the case.  Forrest had asked the two sides whether she should treat
the final sale document as a binding contract, which both read
and understood before signing, and whether Barclays should have
gotten any cash, according to a court order this week telling
lawyers what to focus on at the hearing.  Both sides are appealing a  bankruptcy court  ruling that
followed a 2010 trial.  In that decision, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck told
Barclays to return $2 billion in margin assets to Lehman
brokerage trustee James Giddens. At the same time, Peck ordered
Giddens, who is also handling the MF Global Inc. brokerage
liquidation, to give Barclays at least $1.1 billion, and
possibly another $769 million.  ‘Real Money’  “Three billion dollars is real money, even for a financial
institution,” said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor
at  Seton Hall University  in  Newark ,  New Jersey , who writes
articles on the Lehman case. “I tend to think Judge Peck’s
original ruling will be upheld on this.”  The fight comes as Barclays Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond forgoes about 11 percent of his compensation until the
bank improves profitability, and  hedge funds  that had Lehman
brokerage accounts wait to be paid. The brokerage is being
liquidated separately from its parent, which officially exited
bankruptcy last month, and has been gathering money to pay the
hedge funds and other remaining customers.  The final sale document Forrest mentioned, called a
clarification letter, allocated the margin to Barclays in a
single bracketed phrase that Giddens, of Hughes Hubbard & Reed
LLP, claimed not to have seen. Giddens’s lawyers signed the
document and testified in court on his behalf.  Bankruptcy Court Approval  William Maguire, a lawyer representing Giddens, told
Forrest today that the trustee couldn’t bind Lehman to an
agreement that would have an adverse effect on the firm without
review by the bankruptcy judge.  “Any material adverse change requires further approval by
the bankruptcy court,” Maguire said.  “It was absolutely clear that this was far and away the
best deal, to the trustee and to all the people the trustee
served,” said  David Boies , who represents Barclays. “Nobody
wanted to unscramble these eggs back then.”  It was only after the markets recovered that the trustee
wanted to change terms of the arrangement, Boies told Forrest.  Barclays, the sole bidder for New York-based Lehman’s
business in the 2008 financial crisis, emerged from the trial
facing far less of a payout than sought by the trustee, who
demanded about $7 billion from the bank.  The Lehman brokerage’s parent separately tried to recover
an $11 billion “windfall” it alleged Barclays made on the 2008
purchase. The parent got nothing and dropped an appeal of Peck’s
ruling on the windfall claim, saying it wanted to move ahead
with its liquidation plan, which may pay the average creditor
less than 18 cents on the dollar in the next few years.  Lehman Brothers Holdings filed the biggest bankruptcy in
U.S. history in 2008, listing assets of $639 billion.  The district court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital
Inc., 11-cv-06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  