-- Best Buy’s Dunn May Be Able to Get $3.35 Million Package
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-04-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/best-buy-s-dunn-may-be-able-to-get-3-35-million-package.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) ’s former Chief
Executive Officer  Brian Dunn , who resigned last week amid a
probe into his personal conduct, may be eligible for a severance
package of as much as $3.35 million.  Dunn, 52, is entitled to as much as $1.15 million in  stock
options  if his departure is determined to be voluntary,
according to a proxy filing last year. He would get an
additional $2.2 million in cash if his departure were deemed
involuntary. If the board decided he was fired for cause, he
could get nothing. The company said Dunn’s departure was part of
a “mutual agreement” last week.  Best Buy’s board must weigh the options of providing
compensation to the departed CEO or risking legal action if it
chooses to pay nothing. Companies typically opt to pay something
given the high costs of litigation, said  Charles Elson , director
of the John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the
 University of Delaware .  “It is time-consuming and costly for a company to fight in
court,” Elson said in a telephone interview. “The legal fees
climb quickly and eat into the savings of avoiding a severance
package. It is rare that a CEO gets nothing.”  Greg Hitt, a spokesman for Best Buy’s board, declined to
comment beyond saying that the severance agreement will be
disclosed when it is completed. Ron Hutcheson, also a spokesman
for Best Buy’s board, said the company won’t discuss possible
scenarios and that the investigation is continuing. Dunn didn’t
respond to two e-mail requests for an interview.  Law Firm Hired  Best Buy’s board has hired  Washington  law firm WilmerHale
for the probe of Dunn’s conduct, with former U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission Director of Enforcement William R. McLucas
and former U.S. Attorney for Colorado Thomas Strickland assigned
to the case. That probe centers on the possible misuse of
company resources while having an inappropriate relationship
with a 29-year-old female subordinate, two people familiar with
the matter have said.  Companies in such situations may negotiate a deal and
deviate from the severance agreement that is stated in public
documents, Elson said.  Some severance packages have even been large enough to come
under scrutiny in recent years, said  Alan Johnson , managing
director of New York-based compensation consulting firm Johnson
Associates.  Severance Packages  Former  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  Chairman and CEO  Robert Nardelli 
received about $98.5 million in severance payments as part of
his 2006 compensation. Former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  CEO  Mark Hurd ’s severance package has been estimated at as much as $40
million in court documents in a shareholder lawsuit. The
severance package for former HP CEO Carly Fiorina was valued at
about $42 million in a 2006 lawsuit.  “If they give him an outsize package, employees will be
livid,” Johnson said of Dunn.  Director G. Mike Mikan is serving as Best Buy’s CEO while
the board seeks a permanent replacement. The company has said
that search may take as long as nine months.  Best Buy’s board last year boosted Dunn’s base salary 10
percent to $1.06 million, citing his initiative to spur revenue
growth from connecting mobile phones, tablet computers and other
gadgets to one another. The board also praised Dunn for “living
and teaching company values” and his “maturity” in the role
of CEO, according to the filing.  For the year, Dunn’s total compensation fell 51 percent to
$5.03 million after he received less in option awards and
incentive compensation.  ‘Negative Publicity’  The former CEO has “some operating room” because he can
drag out negotiations over severance, according to Mark Borges,
a principal for San Francisco-based Compensia Inc.  “The question for the company is how much bad or negative
publicity is this going to create for them,” said Borges, who’s
based in Washington. “They’re asking, ‘At what cost do we
prefer to have this settled and behind us?’”  Even if Dunn has some leverage, the board will be under
pressure to avoid paying a big settlement because Best Buy’s
performance languished in recent years, said David Schmidt, a
senior consultant with James F. Reda & Associates, a New York-
based executive compensation consulting firm.  Best Buy posted a $1.23 billion loss in its most recent
fiscal year, its first since the company’s fiscal 1991, amid
competition from Internet retailers such as Amazon.com Inc. The
shares have declined 29 percent in the past 12 months, compared
with a 16 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing
Index. The company said last month it plans to close 50 U.S.
big-box stores this year.  “Here is someone who ran a company that hasn’t done very
well,” said Schmidt, whose firm is a unit of  Arthur J.
Gallagher & Co. (AJG)  of Itasca,  Illinois . “For him to have done
these things and then get paid on top of it, it doesn’t look
good for the board.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  