-- Canada Dollar Rises Most in 7 Weeks on Carney Statement
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-21T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/canada-dollar-rises-most-in-7-weeks-on-carney-statement.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated by the
most since March against its U.S. counterpart as the prospects
for higher  interest rates  attracted buyers.  The Canadian currency had its largest gains versus the yen
and  Brazil ’s real after  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  said
the removal of economic stimulus may be “appropriate,” given
stronger growth and inflation. The central bank has kept its
policy rate at 1 percent since 2010. Retail sales slowed in
February, according to a survey of economists before the
Statistics Canada report on April 24.  “The Bank of Canada announcement was the main driver of
the Canadian dollar’s strong performance,” Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, said in a
phone interview from Toronto. “That’s caused a shift in
investors’ view towards higher rates sooner in Canada and as a
result, a higher floor for the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, ended yesterday at 99.24 cents per  U.S. dollar  in
Toronto, up 0.7 percent for the week, the most since the five
days through March 2. It touched 98.65 cents on April 27, the
strongest level since March 20. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0077.  Government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the benchmark
 10-year note  higher by seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 2.06 percent. The 3.25 percent securities maturing in
June 2021 declined 65 cents to C$109.86.  Federal bonds have lost 0.7 percent this year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Futures Positions  Futures traders increased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
38,028 on April 17, compared with net longs of 27,967 a week
earlier.  Futures data also signal Canada will be the first Group of
Seven nation to boost interest rates within six months. The
probability of higher borrowing costs by the central bank’s
October meeting rose to 64 percent yesterday, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on index swaps. Odds were 19
percent on April 16, the day before policy makers suggested
rates would rise sooner than economists expected as slack in the
economy evaporates. The odds were about 18 percent on March 30.  “I don’t think expectations are overdone,” said  Greg Anderson , the North American head of Group-of-10 currency
strategy in  New York  at Citigroup Inc. The Bank of Canada’s
higher inflation forecast is a “noteworthy shift,” he said,
“and the data doesn’t change anything so far as that goes.”  Economic Growth  Canada, the world’s 10th largest economy, will grow at a
2.5 percent annualized pace this quarter, up from a January
estimate of 1.8 percent, the Bank of Canada said in a quarterly
policy report this week. Inflation will average 2 percent
through June, higher than a previous estimate of 1.5 percent.  “In light of the reduced slack in the economy and firmer
underlying inflation, some modest withdrawal of the present
considerable monetary policy stimulus may become appropriate,”
policy makers led by Carney said in a statement from Ottawa
April 17. “The timing and degree of any such withdrawal will be
weighed carefully against domestic and global economic
developments.”  Statistics Canada  said yesterday from Ottawa March consumer
prices rose 1.9 percent from a year earlier, following a 2.6
percent rise in February. That compared with a median forecast
for a 2 percent increase.  ‘Quite Comfortable’  “The domestic market and even the trading market are quite
comfortable with the economics of Canada,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada 
in Toronto, in a telephone interview. “People are also selling
dollar-Canada on the back of improved global sentiment.”  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, increased
0.2 percent this week to $103.05 barrel. Copper futures climbed
1.8 percent to $3.7065 a pound in New York.  Raw materials 
account for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  The Canadian dollar rose 0.7 percent during the past three
months in the fifth-best performance among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The biggest gainers were the Norwegian krone,
up 2.5 percent and the pound, up 2.2 percent.  The loonie traded as low as C$1.0319 in January before
rallying to 98.42 cents per U.S. dollar last month. It will
weaken to parity with its U.S. counterpart by the end of June
before strengthening to 98 cents at year-end, according to the
median of 38 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “You’ve got to play the range until it breaks,” said  John Curran , senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd.,
an online foreign-exchange dealer, in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  