-- Charles Colson, Watergate Figure Who Turned to God, Dies at 80
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-04-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/charles-colson-watergate-figure-who-turned-to-god-dies-at-80.html
Charles Colson, an influential aide
to President  Richard Nixon  who became a minister to prisoners
after spending seven months behind bars for his role in the
Watergate scandal, has died. He was 80.  Prison Fellowship, a Leesburg, Virginia-based  organization 
Colson founded, confirmed he died yesterday. He underwent
surgery on March 31 to remove a pool of clotted blood on the
surface of his brain.  Colson was known for hardball political tactics even before
the Watergate scandal. The list of more than 200 Nixon
“enemies” was drafted in his office, and he declared in a
memorandum that he “would walk over my grandmother if
necessary” to get Nixon re-elected in 1972, according to a 1974
New York Times profile.  “I came to regard Colson as an evil genius,” Jeb Stuart
Magruder, Nixon’s deputy campaign manager, who also went to
prison for Watergate, wrote in a 1974 memoir.  “His brilliance was undeniable,” Magruder wrote, “but it
was too often applied to encouraging Nixon’s darker side, his
desire to lash out at his enemies, his instinct for the jugular.
I would have to say that -- granting always Nixon’s central
responsibility for what happened in his administration -- Colson
was one of the men among his advisers most responsible for
creating the climate that made Watergate possible, perhaps
inevitable.”  Plea Agreement  On June 3, 1974, in a deal with the special Watergate
prosecutor, Leon Jaworski, Colson pleaded guilty to a felony
count of obstructing justice by disseminating negative
information about  Daniel Ellsberg , the Defense Department
analyst who had leaked the Pentagon Papers, the military’s
classified history of the  Vietnam War .  In exchange, prosecutors agreed to dismiss criminal
conspiracy charges stemming from Colson’s alleged role in the
1971 burglary of the office of Ellsberg’s psychiatrist.  In court, while being sentenced to one to three years in
prison, Colson said Nixon “on numerous occasions urged me to
disseminate damaging information about Daniel Ellsberg.” He
said he was convinced that Nixon “believed he was acting in the
national interest. I know I did.”  By the time of his sentencing -- two months before Nixon’s
resignation as president -- Colson had converted to evangelical
Christianity.  “I can work for the Lord in prison or out of prison, and
that’s how I want to spend my life,” he told reporters outside
court.  ‘Born Again’  He followed through on that plan. Released from prison
early, his sentence shortened by a judge following the death of
his father, Colson got to work on his first book, “Born
Again,” describing his spiritual conversion and his hopes to
inspire others.  “I’d botched it, was one of those who helped bring on
Watergate and was in prison to prove it,” he wrote. “Yet maybe
that very fact, plus some unusual things which had happened to
me, could give me some insights that would help others. Could
there be a purpose to all that had happened to me?”  In 1976, Colson founded Prison Fellowship, which aims “to
seek the transformation of prisoners and their reconciliation to
God, family and community through the power and truth of  Jesus
Christ .” He spread his message through books and a syndicated
radio show and as a  panelist  for the Washington Post’s “On
Faith” section.  Help From Bush  In 2000, Florida Governor  Jeb Bush  restored the civil
rights, including the ability to vote and practice law, which
Colson had lost with his criminal conviction.  Charles Wendell Colson was born on Oct. 16, 1931, in
 Boston , an only child whose father, Wendell, worked as a lawyer
in the Boston office of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
according to the Times profile.  He was active in student government at  Brown University ,
graduating with honors in 1953. Following peacetime service in
the U.S. Marine Corps, he joined the staff of Republican Senator
Leverett Saltonstall of  Massachusetts . While working on  Capitol
Hill  he earned his law degree through night classes at George
Washington University.  He practiced law at Gadsby Hannah LLP in Boston -- part of
McCarter & English LLP since 2006 -- before becoming counsel and
special assistant to Nixon, in charge of relationships with
labor and other interest groups. After more than four years
working for the president, he returned to practicing law in
March 1973. A year later he was one of seven Nixon aides
indicted by the Watergate grand jury.  He had two sons and one daughter with his first wife, the
former Nancy Billings, a marriage that ended in divorce in 1964.
Later that year he married the former Patricia Hughes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  