-- Disney CEO’s Franchise Film Push Takes Toll as Ross Exits
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-21T04:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/disney-ceo-s-franchise-film-push-takes-toll-as-ross-exits.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Iger ’s franchise-focused movie strategy will
survive the downfall of the company’s movie chief even after
“John Carter” lost $200 million, analysts said.  The world’s biggest entertainment company, Burbank,
California-based Disney has cut its film releases in half to 12
this year and targeted spending on large-budget pictures that
have the potential to be long-lived, consumer franchises.  The perils of betting big were underscored with the
science-fiction flop “John Carter,” which led to possibly the
largest loss ever on a single film. Iger spent $7 billion on
Pixar in 2006 and $4.2 billion on Marvel in 2009 to acquire
intellectual property for films, theme-park rides, toys and
other merchandise.  The strategy was “set by Iger himself,” Matt Harrigan, an
analyst with Wunderlich Securities in Denver, said in an e-mail.
He has a hold rating on Disney stock.  Rich Ross, who resigned as studio chairman yesterday and
presided over the release of “ John Carter ,” wasn’t a good fit
for the role, according to analysts as well as Ross’s memo to
staff, which cited a lack of passion for the job.  Ross faced a difficult transition to the movie business
from the Disney Channel cable network after Iger moved him to
the studio in October 2009, Harrigan said.  Hollywood Newbies  Ross and executives under him with little film experience
mishandled the marketing of “John Carter,” said Peter Sealey,
a former executive at  Columbia Pictures .  MT Carney, the New York advertising executive who Ross
recruited to run film-studio marketing, quit in January after 20
months, ahead of the “John Carter” release. She directed
campaigns for hits including “The Help,” “Cars 2” and
“Pirates of the Caribbean,” and also disappointments like
“Secretariat” and “Mars Needs Moms.”  The company hasn’t named a replacement for Ross. Those
mentioned as possible candidates by outsiders include DreamWorks
Studios co-Chairman and CEO Stacey Snider, Marvel Studios’
president of production, Kevin Feige, and Mary Parent, the
former studio head at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc.  “It’ll be someone in the industry, someone with gravitas
and credentials,” Sealey said.  Lagging Sales  Elizabeth Kaltman, a spokeswoman for Disney’s film unit,
declined to comment on succession plans. Feige didn’t respond to
a message left at his office. Chip Sullivan, a spokesman for
DreamWorks Studios, declined to comment. Parent didn’t respond
to an e-mailed request for comment.  Disney ranks seventh among studios this year, with domestic
ticket sales of $186.7 million as of April 15, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo. That’s last among the major studios
and also behind  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , which has 2012’s
biggest hit so far in “The Hunger Games.”  “Marvel’s The Avengers” makes its debut on May 4 for
Disney, and is expected to be among the year’s top-grossing
pictures with an estimated $370 million in domestic ticket
sales, according to Phil Contrino, editor of film researcher
BoxOffice.com. The company’s next major release, Pixar’s
“Brave,” may take in $200 million domestically after its June
22 debut, Contrino said.  Franchise Strength  Disney added 0.6 percent to $42.35 yesterday in New York
trading. The shares have risen 13 percent this year.  Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo explained the company’s
strategy at an analyst event last year. Sequels such as Pixar’s
“Toy Story 3” can generate $9 billion in retail sales, mostly
from consumer products such as games and books, far more than a
stand-alone, non-franchise picture, he said.  Some 80 percent of film-unit production spending went
toward franchises last year, up from 40 percent in 2010, he
said.  “I don’t see this changing the studio strategy of focusing
on Disney and Marvel-branded stories,”  Alan Gould , an analyst
with New York-based Evercore Partners, said in an e-mail. He has
an overweight or buy rating on the stock.  As a result of “John Carter,” the studio will report an
operating loss of as much as $120 million for the quarter that
ended March 31, the company has said.  Profit Struggle  Disney releases fiscal second-quarter earnings on May 8 and
is projected to report profit of 57 cents a share, up from 49
cents in the same period last year, according to an average of
28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Iger’s franchise-focused movie strategy has yet to
translate into enhanced profitability for the studio, said
 Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst at  Wedge Partners  in  Greenwood
Village ,  Colorado , who doesn’t rate the stock.  “The film biz has really been their Achilles’ heel,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  