-- Dutch Leader Rutte May Seek Budget Deal Before Early Elections
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-04-21T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/dutch-leader-rutte-may-seek-budget-deal-before-early-elections.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  is
likely to try to strike a budget deal with opposition parties
that meets European Union fiscal targets before holding early
elections after Geert Wilders’ Freedom party withdrew support
for his minority government.  Negotiations among Rutte’s coalition members to find 9.5
billion euros ($12.6 billion) of additional cuts in the 2013
budget collapsed yesterday when Wilders objected to proposed
social security reductions. General elections should take place
“the sooner the better”, Wilders said, as his party no longer
supports the government.  The political and budgetary uncertainty may push yields on
Netherlands bonds higher and are likely to complicate Dutch
efforts to maintain the AAA credit rating that France and
Austria lost in January. The situation emerges at the same time
as concerns with  Spain ’s fiscal position and banks have
reignited  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “There is the potential that this will lead to higher
spreads and higher interest rates,” Sweder van Wijnbergen,
professor of economics at the University of Amsterdam, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We’re not like Italy yet but we
need a clear and long-term vision on how to deal with our
government finances and that will take some time,” Van
Wijnbergen said.  Premium to Bunds  The  risk premium  demanded by investors on Dutch government
debt has been creeping back to the highest level ever since the
budget talks started March 5. The risk premium to own Dutch 10-
year bonds relative to German bunds expanded to 60.3 basis
points April 20, up from 44.9 basis points March 5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread reached it highest in
five months -- 60.7 -- on April 10, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The yield on Dutch 10-year bonds was 2.31 percent on
Friday, April 20, compared with 1.71 percent for Germany,
 Italy ’s 5.64 percent and Spain’s 5.91 percent.  To resolve the current situation, the government plans to
propose measures for bringing the  budget deficit  within European
rules before April 30, Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told
Dutch news agency ANP yesterday. “For the implementation of
those measures we will seek a majority in parliament,” ANP
cited De Jager as saying.  The opposition  Labor Party  is willing to cooperate with the
government on preparing a complete 2013 budget only if elections
are held in September, party leader Diederik Samsom told NOS
television yesterday. “The budget for 2013 will be very complex
and only can be done with a government that has a caretaker
status,” Samsom said.  The nation last held a general election in June 2010 and
the next one wasn’t due to be held until 2015.  Budget Deficit  The Dutch 2013 budget shortfall is currently forecast at
4.6 percent of gross domestic product. Rutte aims to pare it to
a European Union limit of 3 percent in that year.  Rutte said he will meet with both his cabinet and  Queen
Beatrix  to discuss the political situation tomorrow.  Dutch debt has underperformed  Germany ’s and Finland’s for
the year and for the month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Dutch economy entered its second recession in
three years during the second half of 2011 and unemployment
increased from 5 percent to almost 6 percent in 12 months.  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan. 13 changed the outlook for the
Netherlands to negative as it sees at least a one-in-three
chance that the rating will be lowered in 2012 or 2013 if the
economy further deteriorates.  Credit Rating  “Until this year its AAA rating was one of the more secure
European AAA ratings,”  Chris Pryce , a director at  Fitch Ratings ,
said April 19. Fitch has a stable outlook on the  Netherlands 
which it will review in the next months. “If the Netherlands’s
policy doesn’t change, it could be argued, I’m not saying it
will happen, it could be argued that this would involve a
negative outlook.”  The costs for the Netherlands of losing its top credit
rating would be high, European Central Bank Governing Council
Member Klaas Knot, who also heads the Dutch Central bank, said
April 13 at the University of Amsterdam. “If we would lose our
AAA rating, it could lead to 100 basis points extra  interest
rate  on our government debt and to 4 billion euros of extra
interest costs annually,” Knot said.  “This is surely putting in danger the credit rating but
that is not our fault,” Labor’s Samsom said in a televised
interview yesterday. “We can blame Rutte for this because he
wasted his time with those negotiations,” Samsom said.  The  Liberal Party , led by Rutte, would win 37 of the 150
parliamentary seats if general elections were held now,
according to an April 19 Ipsos Synovate poll. That’s up 6 seats
from the number the party currently holds. Seats held by the
 Freedom Party  would drop to 18 from 24, while the second
governing party, the  Christian Democrats , would lose 9 seats to
12.  “I don’t think the financial markets will get really
worried but reforms and budget cuts are essential,” Arnoud Boot, professor corporate finance and financial markets at the
University of Amsterdam, told NOS television in an interview
yesterday. “The Netherlands eventually will come with an
austerity package,” Boot said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  