-- Dutch Early Elections Likely After Wilders Opposes Budget
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-04-21T15:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/dutch-cabinet-fails-to-agree-with-freedom-party-on-cuts.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte 
said new elections “are an obvious scenario” after his
minority government lost the support of the opposition party
that had propped it up.  Rutte failed to come to an agreement with  Freedom Party 
leader  Geert Wilders  on austerity measures to meet European
Union budget rules. As a result, Wilders said today that his
party no longer supports the government and that new elections
should take place, “the sooner the better.”  Wilders “walked away at the very last moment,” Rutte told
reporters in The Hague. The prime minister said he’ll meet with
both his cabinet and  Queen Beatrix  to discuss the situation on
April 23.  The negotiations on additional austerity measures started
March 5 and foundered on Wilders’s objection to proposed social
security cuts. His party had supported the minority coalition of
Liberals and  Christian Democrats  since it took office in October
2010, allowing it to pass legislation in parliament.  “The measures would harm economic growth in the coming
years and would hurt the purchasing power of many people,
increase unemployment,” Wilders said.  The Dutch government has to find at least 9 billion euros
($12 billion) in additional budget cuts -- equivalent to 1.5
percent of gross domestic product -- to meet EU deficit rules by
2013 and protect the top  credit rating  that France and Austria
lost in January. The budget shortfall is forecast to reach 4.6
percent of GDP in 2013, exceeding the 3 percent limit laid down
by the EU for a fifth year.  The Dutch government has until April 30 to submit its
annual stability program to the European Commission, the EU’s
executive arm, in which it will outline how it plans to cut the
deficit, Rutte wrote in a March 28 letter to parliament. The
government vowed in 2010 to cut spending by 18 billion euros by
2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  