-- French Bonds Drop Before Election as Italian Debt Slides
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-04-21T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/french-bonds-drop-before-election-as-italian-debt-slides.html
French bonds declined, sending 10-
year yields to the highest in almost three months, as investors
braced for tomorrow’s election amid concern that European policy
makers are failing to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Italian 10-year bond  yields  rose for a sixth week, the
longest run since November, as Prime Minister  Mario Monti  pushed
back his balanced-budget goal.  France  will hold the first of two
rounds of votes to choose a president, with Socialist Francois
Hollande seeking to replace  Nicolas Sarkozy . The rise in
France’s yields reflects investor concern that Hollande may
relax the nation’s deficit-tackling policy if he takes office,
according to  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds
Banking Group Plc.  “The French election is going to keep people nervous,
particularly with comments Hollande is making,” London-based
Diebel said. “With a number of risk events ahead of us, the
market is going to re-challenge policy makers.”  French 10-year yields advanced 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, from last week to 3.08 percent at 4:06 p.m.
London time yesterday. That’s the biggest increase since the
five days ended Jan. 6. The extra  yield  investors get for
holding the securities instead of German bunds rose to as much
as 149 basis points, the most since January. The price of the 3
percent securities due in April 2022 fell to 99.33 from 100.43.  Italian 10-year bond  yields  rose 13 basis points to 5.65
percent. The rate on benchmark 10-year German bunds slipped two
basis points to 1.72 percent.  Credit Rating  French debt also declined after Citigroup Inc. said it
expected the nation’s credit rating to be cut over the next two-
to-three years. Barclays Plc advised clients to bet French 10-
year bonds will underperform their Finnish and Austrian
counterparts because any new policies introduced after the vote
are unlikely to be “bold” enough to boost the securities.  German securities may fall next week before the country
sells 3 billion euros ($4 billion) of bonds maturing in July
2044 on April 25. Italy and the Netherlands will also hold
auctions for their securities next week.  German debt is the best performer among euro-region
securities this month, handing investors a 0.95 percent gain
compared with a 1.17 percent loss from French securities,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds
underperformed all their counterparts with a 2.67 percent
decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  