-- Geithner Says Europe Must Be Creative, Aggressive in Crisis
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-04-21T15:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/geithner-says-europe-must-be-creative-aggressive-in-crisis.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the global economic recovery is fragile and
Europe’s effort to prevent the spread of its debt crisis depends
on the willingness and ability of the region’s leaders to act
aggressively and creatively.  “The recovery remains fragile, with continued risks from
the euro area and higher  oil prices ,” Geithner said in a
statement today in  Washington  to the International Monetary
Fund’s policy steering committee. The  U.S. economy  “continues
to gather strength,” he said.  “The success of the next phase of the crisis response will
hinge on Europe’s willingness and ability, together with the
 European Central Bank , to apply its tools and processes
creatively, flexibly and aggressively to support countries as
they implement reforms and stay ahead of markets,” Geithner
said.  While cautioning  Europe  to stay vigilant, Geithner was less
pessimistic than when he warned the IMF in September to
intensify its efforts to avoid the “threat of cascading
default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.”  ‘Remains Fragile’  The global recovery “remains fragile, with continued risks
from the euro area and higher oil prices,” Geithner said in
today’s statement.  Higher oil prices “strain household budgets and weigh
against private-sector demand growth,” he said. Global efforts
to assure an adequate supply of oil “are beginning to show some
positive effects -- over the past few weeks crude oil prices
have fallen and global oil inventories are rising. It is
important that we remain vigilant to the risks of supply
disruptions and their effect on economic growth.”  Global oil prices have fallen more than 6 percent in the
past seven weeks as U.S. oil inventories climbed to a 10-month
high.  Geithner said he welcomed  China ’s actions toward making its
currency more flexible, though “the process of correcting the
misalignment of China’s exchange rate remains incomplete and
further appreciation is necessary, and in China’s interest.”  China said April 14 it will increase the yuan’s trading
band to 1 percent from 0.5 percent, the first widening since
2007. Regulators had raised the quotas for foreigners to buy
stocks and bonds to $80 billion from $30 billion on April 3.  The Treasury secretary said he also welcomed the more than
$430 billion in fresh money pledged to the IMF to help prevent
the spread of Europe’s crisis.  “The IMF can and should play a complementary role in a
comprehensive and well-designed European response,” he said. It
has “substantial capacity to play its systemic role in the
global economy.”  In a separate statement today, Geithner called the  World
Bank  an “indispensable partner” for the U.S. and said the
Washington-based lender is “the most effective tool we have for
combating global development challenges.”  Geithner also praised the work of the Financial Action Task
Force, an inter-governmental group that pushes nations to fight
terrorism and money laundering. He made those comments in a
third statement released today by the Treasury Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  