-- Icelandic Leader Discusses Human Rights With China’s Wen
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-04-21T14:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/icelandic-leader-discusses-human-rights-with-china-s-wen.html
Iceland President Olafur R. Grimsson and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  discussed cooperation in
human rights during an hour-long meeting on the first day of
Wen’s two-day visit to the north Atlantic island.  “I didn’t discuss the matter of Bo Xilai in particular
with him as I didn’t want to discuss specific individuals,”
Grimsson said in an interview outside his residence at
Bessastadir. “We did have in-depth discussions about human
rights and the possibility of cooperation between China and
Iceland in that field, where China could utilize Iceland’s
experience and knowledge in the field of human rights.”  Bo Xilai, the disgraced leader of the central Chinese city
Chongqing, was dismissed from top Communist Party positions on
suspicion of a “serious discipline violation,” according to an
April 10 report by the official Xinhua News Agency. Bo’s wife
and an aide remain in custody on suspicion of murdering British
businessman Neil Heywood.  The Chinese leader “expressed interest in building up a
dialogue between the two countries on human rights,” Grimsson
said. “It’s important to bring about such cooperation, where
Icelandic specialists in social rights and the representatives
of human rights organizations and other humanitarian
organizations can participate in our cooperation with  China . The
premier said that China would applaud such cooperation with
Iceland and with the Icelandic academic society.”  Wen’s bodyguards pushed and blocked a Bloomberg News
reporter yesterday when questions related to Bo’s detainment
were asked following the meeting with Grimsson.  Geothermal Visit  Wen’s tour will include a visit to Hellisheidi, Iceland’s
largest geothermal power plant, and a meeting with Prime
Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir. It’s the first visit by a
Chinese premier to the island since diplomatic relations were
established 41 years ago, the Foreign Ministry in Beijing said.  For Iceland, the visit is a chance to deepen ties with
China and speed efforts to emerge from its 2008 economic
collapse when its three largest banks defaulted. Iceland is
seeking to revive its $13 billion economy by returning to the
industries it once relied on including tourism and clean energy.  The volcanic island gets about 25 percent of its power from
geothermal sources and the rest from hydropower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 