-- JAL 787s May Fly to Madrid, Berlin After Boston Debut
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-04-23T05:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/japan-air-may-add-new-spain-germany-flights-with-787.html
Japan Airlines Co., which began
 Boston  services yesterday with its new  Boeing Co. (BA)   787 , may also
use the fuel-efficient plane on routes to Spain and Germany as
it bolster services to smaller cities.  The airline is considering flights to Madrid, Berlin and
Dusseldorf, which are hubs for partners  Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA  and  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Kiyoto Morioka, vice president,
network planning, said in an April 20 interview at the company’s
Tokyo headquarters. The planes may also be used to boost
services to  New York  and  London , he said.  Japan Air received its first two 787s last month and two
more will arrive “very soon,” Morioka said. The carrier, the
second operator of the plane after  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , has
ordered a total of 45 Dreamliners to help increase international
capacity by 25 percent over the next five years.  “The 787 is very suitable and the right-sized aircraft for
these medium-sized destinations,” Morioka said. “We expect
much more traffic, not only from Tokyo, but from Asia via Tokyo
to the U.S., and vice versa.”  The 787, with 186 seats, departed Narita airport at 11:46
a.m. yesterday for the nearly 13-hour flight to Boston’s Logan
International Airport, according to the carrier.  The first flight to Boston was fully booked, while the
carrier has reservations for about 98 percent of seats this
month and about 90 percent for May, Morioka said. The airline
will also add flights beginning in December to  San Diego . Until
now, there’s been no direct service to either city from Asia,
Morioka said.  Time Savings  Japan Air, which started a venture for Pacific flights with
 AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines last year, is adding the U.S.
flights to complement American Airlines’ hubs in Dallas and
Chicago, Morioka said. The Tokyo-Boston service will cut round-
trip travel time by as much as six hours, according to JAL.  The carrier, which expects to get 29 Dreamliners by the end
of March 2017, also plans to use the planes for a new service to
Helsinki. The aircraft will also replace 777s and 767s on
flights to Moscow, New Delhi and Singapore.  The airline applied to form a partnership on Japan-Europe
routes with British Airways in February that would allow them to
share revenue, coordinate schedules and potentially add new
services.  British Airways may consider taking a stake in Japan Air,
which is planning an initial public offering as early as
September,  Willie Walsh , chief executive officer of parent
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , said last month.  Osaka Routes  The Asian carrier is also considering using the 787 for
routes from Nagoya and Osaka’s Kansai airports that weren’t
profitable with larger Boeing 777 planes, Morioka said. Osaka-
London and Nagoya-Paris services were halted a couple of years
ago because of low passenger loads and losses, he said. A
777-300 carries 368 passengers in a typical three-class  layout ,
according to Boeing’s website.  Japan Air is also “seriously considering” ordering
regional jets from Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp., which could be
used for short-haul flights from Osaka’s Itami airport, Morioka
said. He didn’t comment on the timeframe for a decision or which
other regional jets the carrier was considering.  ANA has ordered 15 Mitsubishi Regional Jets, and taken 10
options. Deliveries of the aircraft, which will be fitted with
70 or 90 seats, are due to start in 2014 at the earliest.  The 787, the first composite-plastic  passenger jet , will
help Japan Air achieve a goal of saving 50 billion yen ($615
million) in costs in the next five years, the airline said in
February. Morioka declined to say how much the new aircraft
would save in fuel costs for the company.  All Nippon predicts fuel savings of 10 billion yen a year
when it gets all 55 of the 787s it has on order.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in  Tokyo  at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  