-- Jeb Bush Puts to Rest Talk of Being Romney Running Mate
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2012-04-21T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/jeb-bush-puts-to-rest-talk-of-being-romney-running-mate.html
Former  Florida  governor Jeb Bush,
the son of one U.S. president and the brother of another, said
he wants to put to rest any talk of him becoming the running
mate of presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney .  “I am not going to be the veep nominee,” Bush said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “Lay that to rest.”  The question arose after an earlier interview with the
Newsmax.TV website in which Bush didn’t rule out the idea. In
the interview, he touted the qualifications of U.S. Senator
Marco Rubio of Florida for the second spot on the ticket.  Bush was questioned about his own chances for being asked
by the former Massachusetts governor to be his running mate.  “Well I’d consider it,” Bush told Newsmax, “but I doubt
I’ll get a call, and I don’t know if it’s the right thing for me
to do. I didn’t run for president for a similar kind of reason,
so I’m all in to try to help him get elected.”  Bush had refrained from endorsing any candidate for
president before Florida’s Republican presidential primary on
Jan. 31. Romney led the runner-up in that contest, former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , by more than 14 percentage
points. More recently, Bush endorsed Romney, and has repeatedly
said he is ready to campaign for the party’s 2012 nominee.  Bush served two terms as Florida’s governor, leaving office
in January 2007. His older brother,  George W. Bush , a former
governor of  Texas , served two terms as president. Their father,
 George H.W. Bush , served one term as president.  Jeb Bush, who has returned to private business, has
declined entreaties from some within his party to seek higher
office -- including a U.S. Senate seat that opened in Florida
and his party’s nomination for president this year.  Asked yesterday about his comments in the Newsmax
interview, Bush said he won’t be a candidate for vice president
either.  “I guess I wasn’t clear enough,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  