-- Newcastle Beats Stoke to Move to Fourth in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-21T19:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/newcastle-beats-stoke-3-0-to-move-to-fourth-in-premier-league.html
Newcastle defeated Stoke 3-0 to
continue a late-season move up the standings in English soccer’s
Premier League, as Queens Park Rangers beat Tottenham 1-0 to
improve its chance of staying in the top division.  Johan Cabaye scored two goals as Newcastle won its sixth
straight league game. The victory lifts the Magpies into fourth
place, the final qualifying place for European soccer’s
 Champions League .  Adel Taarabt scored the only goal and was later sent off as
QPR held on to beat Tottenham and move three points above of the
relegation places at the bottom of the standings.  Third-place Arsenal tied 0-0 with Chelsea, Blackburn beat
Norwich 2-1, Bolton and Swansea tied 1-1, Fulham rallied to beat
Wigan 2-1 and  Aston Villa  drew 0-0 with Sunderland.  Newcastle has 62 points, three less than Arsenal, which has
played one more game, and three more than fifth-place Tottenham.
The top four teams in the league qualify for Champions League.  Cabaye opened the scoring in the 14th minute when he headed
in the rebound after Pappis Cisse hit the crossbar. Cisse made
it 2-0 just four minutes later and Cabaye closed the scoring in
the 57th minute with a low, curling shot from outside the area.  QPR’s fourth straight home win boosted its Premier League
hopes and damaged Tottenham’s Champions League chances.  Taarabt scored with a free kick in the 24th minute. He was
then sent off after receiving his second yellow card in the 78th
minute, forcing Rangers to hang on for the victory.  16th Place  The win lifts QPR to 16th in the 20-team league, where the
bottom three teams are relegated to the second-tier
Championship, with three games left. Tottenham would have moved
into fourth ahead of Newcastle on goal difference with a
victory.  Arsenal and Chelsea, which is now just one point back of
Tottenham in sixth place, both lost ground in the Champions
League race with their draw.  Arsenal’s Laurent Koscielny hit the crossbar with a header
in the first half and top scorer  Robin van Persie  missed several
chances. Chelsea’s best scoring opportunity came when  John Terry 
sent a first-half header over the goal.  Chelsea was playing its third game of the week after
beating Tottenham 5-1 in an F.A. Cup semifinal on April 15 and
defeating Barcelona 1-0 in their Champions League semifinal
opener three days later. The Blues play the return match with
Barcelona on April 24.  Relegation Zone  Mauro Formica and David Hoilett scored as Blackburn ended
a five-match winless run but remained in the relegation zone.
Rovers have 31 points, three fewer than Wigan and QPR directly
above it in the standings.  Bolton’s home tie with Swansea dropped it to 19th, one
point behind Blackburn.  Chris Eagles  scored for Bolton in the
14th minute, erasing a goal from  Scott Sinclair  eight minutes
earlier.  Wigan remained in the relegation fight after its loss at
Fulham. Emerson Boyce scored for the Latics, before Pavel
Pogrebnyak and Philippe Senderos answered for Fulham.  Aston Villa improved its chances of staying up with a home
draw against Sunderland, which had a Nicklas Bendtner goal
disallowed for offside. Villa, which one win in its past 12
matches, moved five points clear of relegation.  League leader Manchester United hosts Everton, West
Bromwich visits Liverpool and  Manchester City  is at
Wolverhampton in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 