-- Newmont’s Peruvian Gold Project Subject to New Conditions
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-04-21T23:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/newmont-s-peruvian-gold-project-subject-to-new-conditions.html
Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ’s suspended
$4.8 billion gold mine in Peru will be subject to “new
conditions” that include the creation of 10,000 local jobs and
a fourfold increase in reservoir capacity at the site to gain
approval, Peruvian President  Ollanta Humala  said.  The company must pledge not to dry up highland lakes and
invest in schools, irrigation canals and drinking water
infrastructure in Cajamarca, a farming region in the northern
Andes, Humala said in a speech broadcast yesterday on national
television and radio.  Peru suspended the project and commissioned a review after
Andean farmers, concerned that the project would dry up water
supplies, blocked roads and destroyed Newmont installations in
November. The project, which has cost $800 million to date, will
cost more to build because of the recommendations of the review,
Environment Minister Manuel Pulgar said April 18.  “The people want to see that these projects benefit them
directly,” Humala said. “We need to establish a new
relationship between companies and the people to achieve
understanding, mutual respect and social peace.”  The government published the 248-page report on official
 websites  this week and began discussing its findings in public
hearings yesterday, Cabinet Chief Oscar Valdes said in an e-
mailed statement. Cajamarca regional government official
Gregorio Santos, who led protests against the project, refused
to meet with government officials and pledged further protests.  Newmont said in an e-mailed statement today that a review
of a 2010 environmental impact study approved by the Peruvian
government showed that it met all relevant national and
international standards, yet added that “we recognize that any
such study could be improved upon.”  “The company is committed to once again evaluating
technical and economic options,” Newmont said.  Newmont, based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , fell for a
fourth session in five yesterday, losing 1.2 percent to $47.25
at the close in  New York . The stock has dropped 21 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  