-- Nigeria Terminates Auditor Services in Fuel Subsidy Payments
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-04-21T22:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/nigeria-terminates-auditor-services-in-fuel-subsidy-payments.html
Nigeria ended audit services for
gasoline subsidy payments by accounting firms Akintola Williams
Deloitte and Adekanola and Co. and appointed a group headed by
 Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) ’s Chief Executive Officer Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede
to examine claims by fuel importers, the  Finance Ministry  said.  The government has been “concerned about the management of
the subsidy regime” and is “finalizing a new and more
effective system to replace the current arrangement,” Paul
Nwabuikwu, a ministry spokesman said today in an e-mailed
statement from the capital, Abuja.  Africa’s biggest oil producer relies on imports to meet
more than 70 percent of domestic fuel needs because of a lack of
refining capacity, according to the Petroleum Ministry. Since
2006 the government has regulated fuel prices by paying
importers the difference between the cost of imported fuel and
pump prices.  A parliamentary committee on April 19 recommended that
gasoline importers including the state oil company Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. refund 1 trillion naira ($6.3 billion)
they received in fuel subsidy payments it considers illegal.
Payments totaling 2.5 trillion naira in fuel subsidies were made
in 2011 through a process “fraught with endemic corruption and
entrenched inefficiency,” a  House of Representatives  committee
that investigated the subsidies said in a report submitted in
Abuja.  President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s attempt to end the subsidies
on Jan. 1, citing escalating costs, sparked a weeklong national
strike. In response, the House of Representatives started a
probe of subsidy payments between 2009 and 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  