-- PBOC’s Yi Says Market Has Bigger Role Deciding Yuan Value
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-04-22T00:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/pboc-s-yi-says-market-should-help-decide-yuan-s-value.html
China ’s decision to widen the
yuan’s trading band against the dollar means investors can play
a bigger role in determining the value of the currency, People’s
Bank of China deputy Governor  Yi Gang  said.  “It’s time to let the market more or less decide the
 exchange rate  while reducing the intervention on the market,”
Yi said yesterday at an event in Washington, where he’s
attending the spring meetings of the  International Monetary
Fund . He said market forces have already played an “important
role” in determining the currency’s value, which has been a
“persistent two-way bet” for some time.  China this month doubled the yuan’s trading band to 1
percent from 0.5 percent, the first widening since 2007. The
yuan has weakened 0.2 percent against the dollar this year after
rising 31 percent since July 2005 when the government abandoned
a peg to the U.S. currency.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 14 the yuan may be near an
“equilibrium” as export growth slows and the government
promotes policies to boost imports and consumption. The nation
in February posted the biggest monthly trade deficit since at
least 1989. The 12-month non-deliverable forwards showed traders
are betting the yuan to be little changed from 6.3086 per dollar
on April 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Current Account Surplus  China’s surplus in the current account, the broadest
measure of trade and services, has dropped to 2.8 percent of
gross domestic product last year from 10.1 percent in 2007, a
reversal that was “sharper and more persistent than expected,”
IMF staff wrote in a working paper this month.  Two thirds of the decline in the surplus was “structural”
as rising labor costs and a stronger currency erode exports’
competitiveness, according to Yi. The rest of the decline was
due to the “cyclical” drop in demand from  Europe  and the U.S.,
he said.  A more balanced trade portfolio reduces the needs for the
central bank to intervene in the  currency market  to offset
dollar inflows, according to Yi, who is also head of China’s
State Administration of Foreign Exchange. China has amassed $3.3
trillion in foreign reserves, which is the world’s largest and
equivalent to the size of the German economy.  “It doesn’t make sense to continue to accumulate
reserves,” as imports surge, said Yi. China’s imports may
double to $4 trillion by 2020 from an estimated $2 trillion by
year-end, he said.  Largest Creditor  Yi said China is a “long-term, responsible investor” in
the U.S. Treasury market. China is the largest creditor to the
U.S., holding $1.2 trillion in Treasuries as of February.  Since the U.S. is the largest fixed income market, “it’s
very natural to invest quite a large proportion” of China’s
reserves in Treasuries, he said. “That’s completely a market
decision.”  At the same meetings, central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan
said China supports boosting the IMF’s lending resources even as
it pushes the Washington-based lender to continue implementing a
promised overhaul of the quota system that determine members’
power and voting rights.  Zhou said China’s growth outlook “remains positive” after
the world’s second-biggest economy expanded 8.1 percent in the
first quarter.  While “near-term” inflation pressure have “moderated,”
policy makers remain “vigilant” amid “ample global
liquidity,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  Washington  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  