-- Predators Reach Round 2, Penguins Avoid Elimination
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-21T11:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/predators-advance-to-round-2-penguins-avoid-playoff-elimination.html
(Corrects to Devils in eighth paragraph.)  David Legwand scored in the final
period as the Nashville Predators recorded a 2-1 win over the
 Detroit Red Wings  to advance to the Western Conference
semifinals in the National Hockey League’s Stanley Cup playoffs.  In the other game last night, the Pittsburgh Penguins
defeated the  Philadelphia Flyers  3-2 to force Game 6 in their
best-of-seven series.  At Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Alexander Radulov scored
his first goal of the playoffs with four minutes left in the
first period to give the Predators a 1-0 lead. Jiri Hudler
evened the score at 1-1 in the second period before Legwand
sealed the victory 13 seconds into the final period.  The Predators won their series 4-1.  At Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, Tyler Kennedy gave
the Penguins the go-ahead goal midway through the second period.
Pittsburgh, which trailed the series 3-0, have won the past two
games to avoid elimination by the Flyers.  Matt Carle  gave the Flyers a 1-0 lead, while Steve Sullivan
tied the game at 1-1. Scott Hartnell ended the first-period
scoring with a goal at 17 minutes, 35 seconds as the Flyers
claimed a 2-1 advantage.  Jordan Staal tallied his sixth playoff goal and Kennedy
cemented the victory in the second period for the Penguins who
travel to Philadelphia for Game 6 tomorrow.  In today’s games, the Washington Capitals are at the Boston
Bruins, the  New Jersey Devils  visit the  Florida Panthers  and the
New York Rangers host the Ottawa Senators. Those series are tied
at 2-2.  The St. Louis Blues can advance to the second round with a
victory at home over the  San Jose Sharks  today, while the
Chicago Blackhawks will try to avoid elimination on the Phoenix
Coyotes’ home ice.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nancy Kercheval at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net  