-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Drops for 5th Week on Europe, Data
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/treasury-10-year-yield-drops-for-5th-week-on-europe-data.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell
for a fifth week, the longest stretch since June, as concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis isn’t resolved and weaker-than-forecast
U.S. economic data spurred demand for the safest assets.  The benchmark security yielded below 2 percent for sixth
consecutive days as finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations
meeting in Washington reported the commitment of $430 billion in
fresh money yesterday to stem European turmoil. U.S. filings for
jobless benefits rose and sales of previously owned homes
dropped earlier in the week, renewing concern the economic
recovery is slowing before Federal Reserve policy makers meet
April 24-25 to set monetary policy.  “The market has been able to kick the can down the road
again regarding Europe, but concerns are brewing about the
domestic economic picture in the U.S,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in New York of government- and agency-debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “That has kept a bid in
Treasuries.”  The 10-year  yield  fell on the week two basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, to 1.96 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent note due February 2022 rose 6/32,
or $1.88 per $1,000 face value, to 100 12/32. The yield has
stayed between 1.94 percent to 2.07 percent since April 7.  The U.S.  10-year note  has stayed within seven basis points
of 2 percent for almost two weeks in the longest stretch below
the level since February.  TIPS Auction  The U.S. sold $16 billion in five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities at a record low  yield  of negative 1.08
percent April 19 as investors sought insurance against rising
prices. TIPS of all maturities have returned 2.2 percent this
year, while conventional Treasuries are little changed,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  The U.S. is scheduled to sell $35 billion of two-year notes
on April 24, the same amount of five-year debt the following day
and $29 billion of seven-year debt on April 26.  “It’s the demand for the safest assets,” said Eric Van Nostrand, an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Credit
Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers required to trade
Treasuries with the Fed. “The universe of safe assets that the
market perceives as nearly risk-free is dwindling.”  Governments nearly doubled the International Monetary
Fund’s firepower yesterday to aid Europe in quelling its two-
year crisis. The move failed to placate investors as Spanish
bond yields rose, extending the longest run of weekly declines
in five years.  ‘Nervousness’ in Market  Spain  auctioned 2.54 billion euros ($3.36 billion) of two-
and 10-year debt on April 19, compared with a maximum target of
2.5 billion euros. The nation sold its 10-year benchmark bonds
at an average yield of 5.74 percent, compared with 5.40 percent
when it last sold them in January.  “Europe is scaring a lot of people again,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at primary dealer  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS)  in New York. “Things seem to be deteriorating and
that brings nervousness into the U.S. Treasury market.”  Valuation measures yesterday show Treasuries are near the
most expensive level in six weeks. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.62 percent
on an intraday basis. It reached negative 0.67 on April 19, the
most expensive since March 7. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
Treasury price swings based on options, dropped yesterday to
71.4 basis points, below this year’s average of 79 basis points.
It reached 93.3 basis points on March 20, the highest level this
year.  ‘Downside Risks’  Trading  volume  was below averaged this week, with about
$130 billion of Treasuries changing hands through ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest interdealer broker. The average in 2012 is $251
billion. Volume reached $439 billion on March 14, the highest
since August.  There is not much “conviction or commitment” in the
market, said Michael Franzese, managing director and head of
Treasury trading in New York at Wunderlich Securities Inc.  Yields dropped as the FOMC prepares for its third meeting
this year. The Fed raised the assessment of the economy and
refrained from new actions to lower borrowing costs in a
statement at the conclusion of its meeting on March 13. It said
“strains in global financial markets have eased, though they
continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic
outlook.”  Jobs, Housing  Jobless claims rose last week to 386,000, a Labor
Department report showed April 19. The median forecast of 47
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a drop in jobless
claims to 370,000 in the week ending April 14 from a revised
388,000 the previous week.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes in March unexpectedly
fell for the third time in the last four months, with purchases
dropping 2.6 percent to a 4.48 million annual rate from 4.6
million in February, the National Association of Realtors
reported the same day in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for an increase to
4.61 million. In January, sales at a 4.63 million rate were the
strongest since May 2010.  Home starts slowed to a five-month low in March, the
Commerce Department said April 17.  “Fixed-income investors are not ignoring the fact that,
over the last three weeks, economic data has been worsening,”
said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at the broker-dealer
BTIG LLC in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  