-- Pro-Romney Committee Corrects Reporting on Major Donor
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-04-22T02:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/romney-bid-backed-by-disgraced-former-fidelity-trader.html
Restore Our Future, a super-
political action committee backing Republican presidential
front-runner  Mitt Romney , listed an incorrect address for a
$400,000 donor on Federal Election Commission reports filed
April 20, according to the organization’s spokeswoman.  The error led to an inaccurate Bloomberg News report about
who was behind the donation.  Because of a “clerical” error, the super-PAC’s public
report included the wrong address for contributor SeaSpray
Partners LLC, said Brittany Gross, Restore Our Future’s
spokeswoman, in an e-mail. “We will be filing an amended
report” to the FEC “in the coming days to reflect the correct
address for the company,” she said.  Gross declined to give more information about the real
SeaSpray donor while saying it “has nothing to do with” Scott DeSano, the business owner who was identified in a Bloomberg
April 20 article. DeSano didn’t return a reporter’s calls before
publication. After the article was published, he told Bloomberg
he didn’t make the contribution.  Restore Our Future’s monthly receipts and expenditures
became public on the FEC website on April 20, and the sixth-
largest contribution in March came from SeaSpray Partners,
according to the documents.  The FEC  documents  filed by the super-PAC included a
specific street address in Palm Beach,  Florida , for SeaSpray.  Florida Corporate Filings  Using that address and business name, Bloomberg researched
Florida corporate filings and other public records, which listed
DeSano as the owner of the limited-liability company. Through an
online resume posted at Linkedin.com and other public documents
on the Internet, Bloomberg identified DeSano as the owner and a
former head trader for  Fidelity Investments .  Bloomberg found that DeSano, while a trader at Fidelity and
living in  Boston , had given Romney a $500 contribution in
December 2003, after he was elected Massachusetts governor,
according to disclosure records filed with the state Office of
Campaign & Political Finance.  Bloomberg called and e-mailed Gross at Restore Our Future
seeking comment on DeSano and the $400,000 SeaSpray
contribution. Gross replied by e-mail saying that super-PAC
officials “aren’t going to comment on specific donors.”  Based on the public documents, Bloomberg published a story
linking the $400,000 Restore Our Future contribution to DeSano’s
SeaSpray.  DeSano Denies Donation  DeSano, using the mobile phone number left by a reporter
before publication, called to object to the story. He confirmed
being the sole owner of SeaSpray Partners LLC at the  Palm Beach 
address listed on Restore Our Future’s report. He said he didn’t
give a donation to the super-PAC.  A reporter then sought comment from Gross via e-mail and
calls to her mobile phone leaving voice-mails explaining that
DeSano was disputing the Restore Our Future’s FEC report of the
SeaSpray donation.  This afternoon, Gross replied to Bloomberg’s e-mails,
saying that the super-PAC had made an error regarding the LLC’s
address. In a follow-up e-mail, Gross wrote that the SeaSpray
Partners LLC that had given the money isn’t associated with
DeSano.  Won’t Reveal Donor  In another e-mail, Gross said the super-PAC won’t disclose
to Bloomberg the owner behind the real SeaSpray contribution.  “The address will be provided when we file the
amendment,” she wrote. “In regards to ownership, we provide
the information required by FEC, which is only the LLC
information.”  Several other LLCs are included in Restore Our Future’s
March contributions. Topping the list was $1,000,000 from Huron
Carbon LLC, which has the same West Palm Beach address as
 William Koch ’s Oxbow Carbon & Minerals, the world’s biggest
marketer of petroleum coke.  Another $250,000 came from Fair Oaks Finance LLC of
Hamilton,  Montana .  Top individual contributors last month included Dallas
investor Harold Simmons, the owner of a nuclear-waste disposal
facility. He gave $600,000, while Avista Capital Partners’ co-
chief executive officer, Steven Webster, wrote a $500,000 check.
The super-PAC also received $850,000 from  Kenneth Griffin , chief
executive officer of Citadel LLC, a Chicago-based hedge fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  