-- Schaeuble Sees ‘No Room for Adventure’ for Sound Countries
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-04-21T17:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/schaeuble-sees-no-room-for-adventure-for-sound-countries-1-.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said there’s “no room for adventure” in boosting
growth through public spending even for countries that are close
to achieving sound public finances as they must remain “anchors
of stability.”  While substantial progress has been made in reducing budget
deficits in Europe, it’s important for governments to pursue
credible fiscal adjustment, Schaeuble said in a speech prepared
for delivery today at the plenary session of the International
Monetary Fund’s steering committee in  Washington .  “We are facing a huge fiscal challenge,” Schaeuble said.
“Many advanced economies have not built up sufficient fiscal
buffers in ’good times’ before the crisis -- including in
Germany.”  Schaeuble’s comments underline Germany’s position that
deficit spending and monetary stimulus can’t solve the euro
region’s sovereign debt crisis. They contrast with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s comments today that European
governments and the  European Central Bank  should proceed
“creatively, flexibly and aggressively” to support troubled
euro countries.  Merkel’s Cabinet  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Cabinet on April 18 approved
budget projections prepared for the European Commission that
show Germany will effectively eliminate its deficit in 2014, two
years ahead of a deadline set in the constitution.  Since 2011, Germany’s three levels of government --
federal, the 16 states and communities -- are bound by the
constitutional “debt brake” to reduce their combined
structural deficit in steps to a maximum 0.35 percent of gross
domestic product by 2016.  Members from the 20 biggest economies should redouble their
efforts to adhere to commitments made at a leaders’ meeting in
Toronto in 2010 to halve their budget deficits by 2013 and
stabilize debt, Schaeuble said.  “Not only  Europe  is facing major fiscal challenges,”
Schaeuble said. “The United States and  Japan  in particular need
to tackle their public deficits and debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  