-- Spain Won’t Create ‘Bad Bank’ for Real Estate: De Guindos
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-21T19:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/spain-won-t-create-bad-bank-for-real-estate-de-guindos-says.html
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de
Guindos rejected the creation of a state-sponsored “bad bank”
to unload real-estate assets from the nation’s cash-strapped
lenders.  Instead, de Guindos said lenders should move real estate
assets into separate “entities” or create “securitized
assets” for which they have already set aside provisions so
that distressed properties can be more easily valued and sold.  “The government won’t create anything, neither a good bank
nor a bad bank and there won’t even be the smallest bit of
public money available,” de Guindos told reporters in
 Washington  today. “What we have is a process of adjustment in
the valuation of the assets, and that in turn should help their
sale.”  Spain  is trying to restore investor confidence in its
banking system amid concern the nation’s real-estate collapse
will overburden public finances. The European Union said April
19 that Spain doesn’t need to seek help in re-capitalizing its
banks and that the country doesn’t plan to tap rescue funds.  In a presentation to analysts in  London , Jose Maria Roldan,
head of banking regulation at the Bank of Spain, raised the
possibility of lenders separating bad assets into different
vehicles once losses have been recognized and written down.  De Guindos said in February that banks would have until the
end of May to present merger plans that would give them two
years instead of one to make additional provisions for real
estate losses on their balance sheets.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , in power since December,
pledged a “true restructuring” of the industry at no cost to
the taxpayer four years after the decade-long property boom
collapsed.  In November, Rajoy asked for at least two papers from
academics on how to create a bad bank, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter who declined be named because the
process isn’t public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  