-- UN Security Council Approves Sending Observers to Syria
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-04-21T21:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/un-approves-sending-300-unarmed-cease-fire-observers-to-syria.html
The United Nations  Security Council 
today unanimously backed sending 300 unarmed observers to Syria
to monitor a cease-fire agreement between Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s forces and rebel groups fighting to oust him
as violence continued.  The resolution 2043, sponsored by  Russia  and  China , nations
that objected to tougher U.S. backed measures against Syria,
will allow monitors to be deployed for an initial period of 90
days, according to a text of the resolution.  The resolution urges Syria to “implement visibly” the
cease-fire commitment, to stop troop movements and the use of
heavy weapons in population centers, and to return troops to
their barracks. The observers also will oversee the release
of political detainees, the start of political talks, and ensure
access to humanitarian agencies. The resolution contains no
sanctions or other penalties for Syria if it violates the
cease-fire.  “No one should assume the U.S. will agree to renew this
mission at the end of the 90 days,”  Susan Rice , the U.S.
ambassador to the UN said today. If there’s no “meaningful
progress” and Syria prevents the work of the monitors “then we
must conclude that this mission has run its course,” Rice said.
U.S. patience toward Syria is “exhausted,” and the U.S. won’t
wait three months to pursue other courses of action, she said.  The observers will begin their mission only after UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon makes an assessment that the
situation in Syria is “right” and the deployment will begin
“over the course of the next few days and weeks,” Mark Lyall
Grant, the U.K.’s envoy to UN, said today.  NATO Possibility  The U.S. has raised the possibility of getting the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization involved in the Syrian conflict.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has said NATO-member Turkey
may invoke the alliance’s charter provision seeking such an
intervention because Syrian refugees are pouring across the
border into Turkey.  Russia opposes military intervention in Syria, saying NATO
misused a UN mandate, intended to protect civilians, to bring
about regime change in  Libya  last year that resulted in the
killing of leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  “Any deviation from the provisions is unacceptable,”
 Vitaly Churkin , Russia’s envoy to the UN, said after today’s
Security Council vote on Syria. “The Libyan model should always
be something that remains in the past,” Churkin said.  9,000 People Killed  As the U.S. and Gulf states demand that Syria’s Assad step
down, Russia has shielded his regime, its biggest Middle
East ally and buyer of 8 percent of the country’s arms exports.  Russia lost $4 billion in weapons contracts with Qaddafi’s
overthrow, according to Sergey Chemezov, head of state-run
Russian Technologies Corp. OAO Russian Railways had to suspend
building a $1.5 billion railroad linking Sirte and Benghazi.  The conflict in  Syria  has killed more than 9,000 people
since March last year, according to UN estimates. Syria’s state
forces killed 21 people in the country today,  al Jazeera 
television reported, citing activists. An explosion was heard
inside the Mazzeh military airport in Damascus, the Observatory
for Human Rights in Syria said in an e-mailed statement. Gunfire
followed the airport blast, and security forces sealed off the
main road leading to Damascus, Al Jazeera reported.  Observers’ Mission  The unarmed UN mission is “fraught with risk and will fail
in its task” if Assad’s government “continues to violate its
commitments and obstruct the work of the mission,” U.K. envoy
Grant said. Syria’s continued failure and hindrance must “be
met with robust sanctions by this council,” he said.  The resolution calls on Syria to ensure the safety of the
observers and also provide “appropriate air transportation
assets” for them to travel in the country. Syria may provide
the airplanes in the first stage of the mission and UN aircraft
may be deployed later, Grant said. The UN and Syria have yet to
agree on the use of airplanes, he said.  More than 61,000 Syrian refugees and their hosts --  Turkey ,
Lebanon, Jordan and  Iraq  -- “are beginning to show signs of
strain,” the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. Children are the worst affected and
show “signs of trauma and grave distress,” the agency said.  The international community hasn’t fulfilled its month-old,
$84 million humanitarian-aid pledge, delivering less than 20
percent of the funds to help respond to the Syrian crisis, UNHCR
said. The agency was able to fund eight of the 34 organizations
that sought aid.  The U.S., which along with European and Arab allies is
backing the Syrian rebels, is considering working with Turkey to
set up an “assistance hub” on the Turkish-Syrian border to
coordinate aid for opposition groups, Clinton said in Paris
April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  