-- UN Syria Vote Reflects More Assertive Russia Under Putin
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-04-21T22:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/un-syria-vote-reflects-more-assertive-russia-under-putin.html
The new United Nations  Security
Council  resolution on Syria is the latest evidence that Russia
is adopting a more assertive and sometimes combative foreign
policy, according to U.S. officials and UN diplomats.  The Security Council yesterday unanimously backed sending
300 unarmed UN observers to Syria to monitor a cease-fire
agreement between Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces and
rebel groups fighting to oust him, even as violence continued.
The resolution was crafted by Russia with support from  China ,
nations that had objected to tougher U.S.-backed measures
against the Assad regime.  “The Russians will be hoping fervently that this leads to
some kind of peaceful resolution between Assad and the
opposition in Syria,” said Tony Brenton, U.K. ambassador to
 Russia  from 2004 to 2008. “If you think that not so long ago,
after the collapse of communism, Russia became a completely
negligible international factor, to be back out there at the
table brokering international policy is a big thing for them.”  Russia, which has a naval resupply base in the Syrian port
of Tartus, is seeking to keep its influence in the country after
Assad’s expected departure, said Lilit Gevorgyan, a Russia
analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London .  “Russia’s opposition to regime change in Syria is not so
much driven out of loyalty to Assad’s regime, but more out of
Moscow’s efforts to force the U.S. to give it a say on the
matter,” Gevorgyan said by e-mail. “Instead of having the U.S.
as an adversary, Russia would rather like to have a pragmatic
partnership with the U.S.. It would prefer being a member of the
same club.”  Drafting Over Vetoing  Russia’s shift from simply vetoing Security Council
measures it opposes to drafting ones that serve its interests,
coincides with  Vladimir Putin ’s return to power as president,
with rising oil prices that are benefiting Russia’s economy, and
with what Russian and other officials perceive to be America’s
waning global hegemony, according to two American officials and
two UN diplomats. They spoke on condition of anonymity about
diplomatic negotiations held in private.  The two U.S. officials said the Russian shift, which they
said isn’t a return to the Cold War hostility between Moscow and
the West, also is reflected by public criticism -- though no
action -- against  North Korea ’s attempted long-range missile
test and Iran’s suspected effort to develop nuclear weapons.
North Korea has said the April 13 missile launch, which failed,
was intended to put a weather satellite into orbit, and  Iran 
says its nuclear program is exclusively for medical and civilian
energy purposes.  The U.S. officials said Russia’s veto in the Security
Council has made it difficult for the U.S. and its European
allies to counter Moscow’s opposition to tougher UN sanctions
against Syria and Iran.  Russian Leverage  They also said friction between the U.S. and  Pakistan  has
forced American and allied troops in  Afghanistan  to rely more on
northern supply routes over which Russia has considerable
influence. That, they said, has constrained the Obama
administration’s ability to confront Russia on issues such as
Iran, Syria, and North Korea while also seeking to withdraw U.S.
forces and equipment from Afghanistan and soliciting foreign aid
for the regime of Afghan President  Hamid Karzai .  Putin, who spent the past 12 years seeking to restore
Russian prestige after the collapse of communism in 1991,
ratcheted up his rhetoric in the run-up to his March 4 election
to a new six-year term. The U.S. “wants to control everything”
and makes decisions unilaterally on issues vital to the
international community, he said.  ‘Diplomatic Victory’  Brokering a solution in  Syria  “would be the first major
diplomatic victory since the collapse of the  Soviet Union ” and
would transform Russia’s international standing,  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the Council on Foreign and Defense
Policy in Moscow, said in a telephone interview.  While the Russia-backed Security Council Resolution 2043
lets unarmed monitors be deployed for an initial 90 days, it
contains no sanctions or other penalties for Syria if it
violates the cease-fire.  “Any deviation from the provisions is unacceptable,”
 Vitaly Churkin , Russia’s envoy to the UN, said after yesterday’s
Security Council vote. “Powerful forces” already are planning
for the observers’ mission to fail, Churkin told reporters after
the vote. “They already have other plans, which they
entertain.”  Churkin’s remarks were an apparent reference to the
possibility raised by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  of
getting the North Atlantic Treaty Organization involved in the
Syrian conflict, one of the U.S. officials said.  Avoiding ‘Libya Model’  The UN diplomats said Putin’s determination to restore
Russia’s global influence appears to be sparked in part by his
perception that Russia was tricked into supporting NATO backing
for opponents of the late Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , which
was a longtime Russian arms customer as is Syria’s Assad regime.  “The Libyan model should always be something that remains
in the past,” Churkin said yesterday, referring to the NATO
military campaign last year that ended with Qaddafi’s ouster and
killing.  Russia lost $4 billion in weapons contracts with  Libya 
after Qaddafi’s overthrow, according to Sergey Chemezov, head of
state-run Russian Technologies Corp. OAO Russian Railways had to
suspend building a $1.5 billion railroad linking Sirte and
Benghazi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  