-- Syria Violence Kills 17 After UN Approves Observers
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-04-22T15:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/un-security-council-approves-sending-observers-to-syria.html
At least 17 people were killed in
violence in Syria, a day after the United Nations  Security
Council  unanimously backed sending observers to monitor a cease-
fire agreement between President Bashar al-Assad’s forces and
rebel groups fighting to oust him.  Resolution 2043, sponsored by Russia and  China , nations
that objected to tougher U.S.-backed measures against Syria,
will allow 300 unarmed monitors to be deployed for an initial
period of 90 days.  “The government in particular must desist from the use of
heavy weapons and, as it has committed, withdraw such weapons
and armed units from population centers,”  Ahmad Fawzi , an aide
to UN envoy  Kofi Annan , said today in an e-mailed statement.
“The work on the mission should help create the conditions
conductive to launching the much-needed political process.”  The UN urges  Syria  to “implement visibly” the cease-fire
commitment, to stop troop movements and the use of heavy weapons
in population centers, and to return troops to their barracks,
according to a text of the resolution. The observers will also
oversee the release of political detainees, the start of
political talks, and ensure access to humanitarian agencies. The
resolution contains no sanctions or other penalties for Syria if
it violates the cease-fire.  Rising Toll  Seventeen Syrians were killed in violence across the
country today, in areas including Homs, Daraa and the suburbs of
Damascus, the Local Coordination Committees in Syria, an
opposition group, said in a e-mailed statement today. Several
injuries were also reported from the neighborhood of al-Arbaeen
in Hama after security forces opened fire to disperse a
demonstration there, it said.  The observers will begin their mission only after UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon makes an assessment that the
situation in Syria is “right” and the deployment will begin
“over the course of the next few days and weeks,” said Mark Lyall Grant, the U.K.’s envoy to the UN.  The U.S. has raised the possibility of getting the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization involved in the Syrian conflict.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has said NATO member Turkey
may invoke the alliance’s charter provision seeking such an
intervention because Syrian refugees are pouring across the
border into Turkey.  Russian Opposition  Russia opposes military intervention in Syria, saying NATO
misused a UN mandate, intended to protect civilians, to bring
about regime change in  Libya  last year, resulting in the killing
of leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  “Any deviation from the provisions is unacceptable,”
 Vitaly Churkin , Russia’s envoy to the UN, said after yesterday’s
Security Council vote on Syria. “The Libyan model should always
be something that remains in the past.”  As the U.S. and Gulf states demand that Assad step down,
Russia has shielded his regime, its main Middle East ally and
buyer of 8 percent of the country’s arms exports.  Russia  lost $4 billion in weapons contracts due to
Qaddafi’s overthrow, according to Sergey Chemezov, head of
state-run Russian Technologies Corp. OAO Russian Railways had to
suspend building a $1.5 billion railroad linking Sirte and
Benghazi.  ‘Fraught With Risk’  The conflict in Syria has killed more than 9,000 people
since March last year, according to UN estimates. Syria’s state
forces killed 21 people in the country yesterday, Al Jazeera
television reported, citing activists. An explosion was heard
inside the Mazzeh military airport in Damascus, the Observatory
for Human Rights in Syria said in an e-mailed statement. Gunfire
followed the airport blast, and security forces sealed off the
main road leading to the capital,  Al Jazeera  reported.  The unarmed UN mission is “fraught with risk and will fail
in its task” if Assad’s government “continues to violate its
commitments and obstruct the work of the mission,” U.K. envoy
Grant said. Syria’s continued failure and hindrance must “be
met with robust sanctions by this council,” he said.  The resolution calls on Syria to ensure the safety of the
observers and also provide “appropriate air transportation”
for them to travel in the country. Syria may provide the
airplanes in the first stage of the mission and UN aircraft may
be deployed later, Grant said. The UN and Syria have yet to
agree on the use of aircraft, he said.  Refugee Warning  More than 61,000 Syrian refugees and their hosts --  Turkey ,
Lebanon, Jordan and  Iraq  -- “are beginning to show signs of
strain,” the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. Children are the worst affected and
show “signs of trauma and grave distress,” the agency said.  The international community hasn’t fulfilled its month-old,
$84 million humanitarian-aid pledge, delivering less than 20
percent of the funds to help respond to the Syrian crisis, UNHCR
said. The agency was able to fund eight of the 34 organizations
that sought aid.  The U.S., which along with European and Arab allies is
backing the Syrian rebels, is considering working with Turkey to
set up an “assistance hub” on the Turkish-Syrian border to
coordinate aid for opposition groups, Clinton said in Paris
April 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 