-- Wal-Mart ‘Hushed’ Mexican Bribery Allegation, NYT Reports
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-04-21T22:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/wal-mart-hushed-mexican-bribery-allegation-n-y-times-says.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  curtailed an
internal investigation into allegations of bribery by executives
at the retailer’s Mexican subsidiary instead of broadening the
probe, the New York Times reported.  The newspaper detailed the company’s 2005 investigation by
examining hundreds of internal company documents, as well as
more than 15 hours of interviews with former Wal-Mart de  Mexico 
executive Sergio Cicero Zapata, who recounted years of payoffs
to government officials.  The Times said it looked at thousands of government
documents related to store permit requests throughout Mexico and
found many instances of permits being granted within weeks or
days of Wal-Mart de Mexico’s payments to two outside lawyers who
gave cash to the officials.  Wal-Mart decided in February 2006 to turn the investigation
over to the then general counsel of the Mexican subsidiary, Jose Luis Rodriguezmacedo Rivera, the newspaper said. Rodriguezmacedo
finished the probe within weeks, concluding there was no
evidence of bribes paid to Mexican government officials, the
Times said. Rodriguezmacedo declined to comment to the
newspaper.  In December, Wal-Mart said it began an internal probe into
whether some of its actions violated U.S. anti-corruption laws
after learning of the Times investigation, the Times said. The
company is investigating permitting, licensing and inspections
of stores, according to a regulatory filing, and disclosed the
probe to the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Wal-Mart spokesman  David Tovar  told the newspaper that the
Mexican unit and the handling of the 2005 allegations are a
major focus of its investigation. He said the company is taking
steps to ensure compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.  Wal-Mart de Mexico, in a statement today, said it’s
committed to complying with the laws in the countries where it
operates and the story’s allegations, “if true, do not
accurately reflect Walmart de Mexico y Centroamerica’s
culture.”  In another statement issued after the Times story was
published online this afternoon, the Arkansas-based company
said, “We will not tolerate noncompliance with FCPA anywhere or
at any level of the company.” The company said it has taken
steps to insure stronger FCPA compliance, including training and
enhanced auditing procedures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  