-- Welspun, Sunborne Win Indian Solar Project Contracts
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-21T07:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/welspun-sunborne-win-indian-solar-project-contracts.html
 Welspun Group,  India ’s largest
solar photovoltaic developer, and Sunborne Energy Holdings LLC,
backed by billionaire  Vinod Khosla , won contracts to build sun-
powered plants in the nation’s Karnataka state.  The lowest bid in the auction for 10 contracts by the
Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd. came from Helena
Power Pvt., which committed to sell photovoltaic-based
electricity to the state-run utility at 7,940 rupees ($152) per
megawatt-hour. That’s about double the  wholesale price  of coal-
based power.  “We may tender another 120 megawatts of capacity in the
next financial year,” N.S. Prasanna Kumar, managing director of
state-run KREDL, said in an interview in Gandhinagar, India
today.  India is using auctions to push down average solar power
rates, which have fallen 38 percent since December 2010, as it
seeks to avoid the surging renewable-energy subsidies seen in
 Europe . Global solar power prices are also plunging as equipment
costs decline after the spot price of solar panels dropped 47
percent in the past year, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  Global solar power prices are plunging because of declining
equipment costs after the spot price of solar panels dropped in
the past year as manufacturers ramped up production, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Welspun, which is backed by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
co-founder  Leon Black , won a 7-megawatt photovoltaic project and
Sunborne won a 10-megawatt solar-thermal project, which
harnesses sunlight to heat liquids that produce steam for
generators; photovoltaic plants use panels to turn sunlight
directly into power.  Technology Splits  KREDL awarded 60 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity and 20
megawatts of solar-thermal capacity. The next auction may cover
70 megawatts of photovoltaic and 50 megawatts of solar-thermal
capacity, Kumar said.  Other winners included Jindal Aluminium Ltd., Essel
Infrastructure Ltd., GKC Project Ltd., United Telecoms Ltd., Sai
Sudhi Energy Ltd. and Atria Power Corp., according to a list
from KREDL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  