-- White Sox’s Humber Throws 21st Perfect Game in MLB History
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-22T04:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/white-sox-pitcher-humber-throws-21st-perfect-game-in-mlb-history.html
Chicago White Sox righthander
Philip Humber retired 27 consecutive batters to pitch the 21st
perfect game in  Major League Baseball  in a 4-0 win against the
Seattle Mariners.  “I can’t even put it in words,” Humber said in a
televised interview at Safeco Field in Seattle. “I’m so happy,
so many good things are happening right now.”  There have been eight perfect games in National League
history and 13 in the  American League . The last White Sox
pitcher to throw a perfect game was Mark Buerhle in a 5-0 win
against Tampa Bay on July 23, 2009, his second no-hitter.
Charlie Robertson was the first, winning 2-0 against the Detroit
Tigers on April 30, 1922.  Roy Halladay pitched the last perfect game in the NL, in a
1-0 win for the  Philadelphia Phillies  against the  Florida
Marlins  on May 29. Dallas Braden achieved the feat in the AL 20
days before Halladay in a 4-0 win for the  Oakland Athletics 
against the Tampa Bay Rays.  Humber, 29, (1-0) started the ninth inning with a 3-0 count
against  Michael Saunders  before striking him out. Pinch-hitters
John Jaso flied out to right and Brendan Ryan struck out
swinging on a 3-2 count.  “With a four-run lead, you don’t want to walk the lead-off
batter,” Humber said. “I felt myself overthrowing.”  Ryan Questions Call  Ryan objected to the final strike call, saying he checked
his swing. The ball got away from catcher A.J. Pierzynski, who
retrieved it and threw to first to complete the play.  “I don’t really want to talk about it,” Ryan told
reporters. “I will say it was a pretty outstanding game he
threw. Had his slider working, obviously in and out of the zone,
kept his pitch count down. Pretty outstanding stuff from him
today.”  Humber delivered 96 pitches, including 67 strikes as he
struck out nine  Seattle  batters to improve his career record to
12-10.  Paul Konerko hit a home run in the second inning and added
a one-run single in the third to give the White Sox (8-6) a 2-0
lead. A.J. Pierzynski drove in Brent Morel on a single in the
third and Alejandro De Aza hit a run-scoring single in the ninth.  Blake Beavan (1-2) allowed three runs on seven hits while
striking out one in six innings for the Mariners (7-9).  “It was one of them freak days in baseball, you come to
the ballpark and you never know what is going to happen,”
Seattle leadoff hitter Chone Figgins said.  Humber was drafted third overall by the  New York Mets  in
the 2004 amateur draft. He had so-called Tommy John surgery to
repair an elbow ligament after his first Double-A appearance,
returning for the second half of the 2006 season. He was traded
to the  Minnesota Twins  in 2008, joined the  Kansas City Royals  in
2009 and went to the White Sox last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 