-- Thein Sein Wins Japan Backing for Myanmar Infrastructure Efforts
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-04-22T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-21/myanmar-wins-japan-debt-forgiveness-as-thein-sein-visits-tokyo.html
Myanmar’s President  Thein Sein 
returns home with the support needed to resume financing ports,
bridges and roads after winning a debt forgiveness deal from
 Japan , the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest creditor  Japan will forgive 303.5 billion yen ($3.7 billion) in
loans and interest to Myanmar, according to a statement
distributed to reporters before Thein Sein met Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  on April 21. Japan will also roll over 198.9
billion yen of debt, and vowed to resume aid.  Thein Sein, on his first visit as head of state, is
courting investment from Japan amid a shift toward democracy
over the past year that’s encouraged re-engagement with
developed nations after five decades of military dictatorship.
Honda Motor Co. is among companies expressing interest in
Myanmar, a nation of 64 million people between  India  and  China .  Japan will extend economic cooperation to “support
Myanmar’s efforts for reforms in various areas towards its
democratization, national reconciliation and sustainable
development,” Noda said in the statement.  Japan agreed to complete a feasibility study by year’s end
to develop a port and industrial estate at Thilawa, 25
kilometers south of Yangon, Myanmar’s biggest city, according to
a statement. The industrial zone would promote Japanese
investment and help grow Myanmar’s economy, the statement said.  Continuing Changes  The world’s third-largest economy pledged 403 billion yen
in loans to Myanmar between 1967 and 1987, foreign ministry data
show. Japan attached conditions to parts of the debt deal, such
as canceling 176.1 billion of overdue charges after “monitoring
the continuation of Myanmar’s reform efforts in a one-year
period,” according to the statement.  As part of the agreement with Japan, Myanmar agreed to
discuss settling arrears with the  World Bank  and the  Asian
Development Bank , it said.  Cheap wages, natural resources, historical ties and concern
over China’s influence in Myanmar make the nation important for
Japan, said Kei Nemoto, a professor specializing in Myanmar at
Sophia University in  Tokyo . Policy makers “are now thinking
that the time is right to deepen engagement with Myanmar,
otherwise Japan may lose in the competition with other
countries,” he said, noting that China, India and  South Korea 
have increased ties with the Southeast Asian nation.  Reassess Sanctions  European Union envoys on April 23 will reassess sanctions
on Myanmar following by-elections this month that included
dissident Aung San Suu Kyi. EU governments will probably suspend
most sanctions against Myanmar to reward the country for
progressing from military rule toward democracy, an EU official
told reporters in Brussels on Friday on condition of anonymity.  The U.S. has announced that it will ease trade and
financial restrictions on certain sectors, without providing
details.  Thein Sein met Noda after a regional summit involving
leaders from Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand and Laos. Thein Sein
also planned to visit  power plants  run by  Tokyo Electric Power
Co. (9501)  and Electric Power Development Co., also known as J-Power,
according to Japan’s foreign ministry.  Yangon had the cheapest wages among 31 cities in Asia,
according to a Jetro survey last year. Workers in the former
capital earned less than $2 per day on average, compared with $4
in Cambodia, $5 in Vietnam and $14 in Thailand, the report
showed.  Italian-Thai Development Pcl (ITD) , Thailand’s biggest
construction company, is pushing Japan to provide financing for
an $8.6 billion deep-sea port and industrial estate in Dawei, a
Myanmar coastal town less than 300 kilometers (186 miles) from
Bangkok. The company has named Mitsubishi Corp. and Mitsui & Co.
as potential investors.  Honda is interested in building a motorcycle plant in
Myanmar, Hiroshi Kobayashi, president and chief executive
officer of Asian  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , told reporters in Thailand on
March 31. NTT Data Corp., the Tokyo-based provider of network-
system services, said on April 19 it plans to form a subsidiary
in September that will have as many as 500 employees by 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  