-- 21st Century Fox’s Cable Channels Lead to Profit Gains
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-06T22:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/21st-century-fox-s-operating-profit-gains-in-inaugural-quarter.html
21st Century  Fox (FOXA)  Inc., Rupert Murdoch’s film and television business, reported a fourth-quarter gain in operating profit in the company’s first report
since spinning off News Corp.’s publishing operation.  Income from continuing operations rose to $977 million, or
42 cents a share, from $596 million, or 25 cents, a year
earlier, New York-based Fox said in a  statement . Sales climbed
to $7.21 billion, beating the $7.12 billion average of 16
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  F/X, Fox News and other cable channels contributed to the
growth, though lower broadcast-network ratings held profit in
check for the TV unit. Earnings fell at the film division, which
produced the box-office disappointment “The Internship,” as
well as at its satellite-TV business in  Italy , a markets with
economic headwinds. Still, the results were rosier than
expected, said Jaison Blair, a Telsey Advisory Group analyst.  “Management commentary heading into the spinoff may have
been conservative,” said Blair, citing “strong results” in
cable and satellite operations and lower-than-projected costs.  Fox’s Class A shares climbed as much as 5.7 percent to
$33.02 in extended trading after the results were released. The
stock had closed at $31.23 in New York.  June Spinoff  “The company not only delivered strong earnings and
revenue growth led by our channels businesses, we also
positioned ourselves for future success with strategic
investments in our global channels businesses,” Murdoch, Fox’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Fox expects segment earnings excluding some items to grow
in the high-single-digit to low-double-digit percentage range in
fiscal 2014, Chief Financial Officer John Nallen said on a
conference call.  The 82-year-old Murdoch, who also serves as chairman of
both Fox and  News Corp. (NWSA) , split off the slower-growing publishing
business from his film and TV operations on June 28, the end of
the company’s fiscal year. The print-media business includes
such papers as the Wall Street Journal and the New York Post.  Profit at the company’s cable division climbed 25 percent
to $1.08 billion, while sales grew 16 percent. Fees from pay-TV
systems rose 9 percent in the period, and advertising increased
4 percent, the company said.  Fox Sports 1  In a bid to boost growth, Fox is converting some specialty
cable channels into networks with potentially wider appeal. Its
Speed channel will become  Fox Sports 1  on Aug. 17, while Fox
Soccer on Sept. 2 changes to  FXX , an entertainment channel
targeted at younger audiences. The company also acquired an Ohio
regional sports network and a minority stake in the YES Network,
a New York cable channel that carries Yankees baseball games.  “Fox’s domestic channels, Fox cable and the Fox Broadcast
Network have the scale, audience and content mix that should
continue to support industry leading revenue and profit
growth,” Michael Morris, an analyst at Davenport & Co. in
Richmond,  Virginia , wrote in a report.  Television profit fell to $213 million from $235 million a
year earlier. Sales in the division were little changed at $1.1
billion, according to the company. TV results were dragged down
by a 7 percent decline in advertising related to lower ratings
for “X-Factor” and “American Idol,” Fox said.  Profit at filmed entertainment declined to $117 million
from $140 million a year ago, even as the segment’s revenue in
the period increased 2.9 percent to $2.04 billion.  Satellite Profit  The company’s satellite-TV systems saw profit fall 7.1
percent to $156 million, while sales gained 45 percent to $1.38
billion.  In the current fiscal year, growth at the cable division
will be affected by $200 million in costs from starting Fox
Sports 1, FXX and a sports network in Asia, as well as $100
million offset due to currency declines in  India  and Latin
America, Nallen said.  Due to retransmission fees from pay-TV systems, the
broadcast TV segment will grow, even after absorbing $150
million in increased programming and marketing costs, he said.
The film studio will be down “a touch’” and satellite-TV will
benefit from growth at Sky Deutschland, he said.  Murdoch and Nallen, along with Chief Operating Officer
Chase Carey and Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch,
will give more details on Fox’s strategy, priorities and
operational plans to investors on Aug. 8 in Los Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  