-- AIG Says Its Bond Portfolio Drops by $9 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-08-06T14:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/aig-says-its-bond-portfolio-drops-by-9-billion.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that repaid a U.S. bailout last year, said the surge
in interest rates in the second quarter fueled a $9 billion
reduction in its bond portfolio as corporate debt slumped.  The available-for-sale bond holdings stood at about $261
billion as of June 30, down from $270 billion three months
earlier, as net unrealized gains fell, New York-based AIG said
yesterday in a filing. That contributed to a 2.1 percent decline
in  book value  to $66.02 per share as of June 30 from three
months earlier.  The bond decline was caused by rising  interest rates , as
investors weighed signs that the  Federal Reserve , led by
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , might scale back its stimulus efforts.
The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield
Index lost 4.61 percent in May and June.  “With the recent rise in interest rates, we saw the
unrealized gain position in our general account partially
erode,” Jay Wintrob, chief executive officer of AIG’s  life-insurance  unit, said on an Aug. 2 conference call with analysts.  Net unrealized gains on AIG’s available for sale bonds fell
to $12.5 billion on June 30 from $22.7 billion three months
earlier. On AIG’s corporate bond holdings, the measure dropped
to $6.8 billion as of June 30, from $14 billion at the end of
March. The insurer held about $144 billion of company debt as of
June 30 in its main portfolio.  The decline in per-share book value was 7.3 percent in the
second quarter at  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer.
At  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly traded seller of
property-casualty coverage, the measure of assets minus
liabilities dropped by 4.2 percent a share.  Buffett’s Maneuver  Warren Buffett  built shareholder equity at his  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  in the second quarter by sidestepping the bond
slump. Buffett typically invests in stocks and buys companies,
while holding a large  cash stockpile .  AIG’s investments, which also include Treasuries,
structured securities and equities, stood at $358.2 billion on
June 30. Jon Diat, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment on the
insurer’s portfolio. U.S. corporate debt recovered 0.9 percent
since the end of June through Aug. 2, according to index data
from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The unrealized gains don’t count toward earnings. Insurers
often hold bonds to maturity, meaning they may not realize gains
or losses tied to interest-rate fluctuations. That contrasts
with the treatment of bonds that are written down when a
borrower’s creditworthiness deteriorates.  Utilities, Communication  AIG’s largest corporate debt holding in its main portfolio
was in utilities. Measured at fair value, those holdings
declined to $23.7 billion on June 30 from $24.7 billion at the
end of March. Investments in bonds of communications companies
fell to $11.2 billion from $11.7 billion.  Higher yields may increase AIG’s profits on some products
that are sensitive to interest rates, particularly in life
insurance, CEO  Robert Benmosche  said on the call.  “We see rising interest rates, at least for the first
couple hundred basis points, as a big positive,” said
Benmosche, 69. “That will be very helpful for AIG.”  AIG said it recorded gross realized gains of $1.33 billion
from selling available-for-sale fixed-maturity securities, and
gross losses of $56 million. The company said it sold $12.2
billion of bonds and equities from that portfolio. AIG has been
selling some assets to realize gains, so that it can use tax
benefits tied to financial-crisis losses.  Tax Benefits  “We will not be paying any U.S. income taxes for some
time,” Chief Financial Officer David Herzog said on the call.  Rising  interest rates  may threaten AIG’s ability to realize
investment gains and make use of its past losses to offset
taxes, the company said in yesterday’s regulatory filing.  AIG said in the filing that it hasn’t completed the sale of
its plane-leasing unit, and reiterated that it may pursue other
bids or an initial public offering after a buyer group missed
three deadlines to close the transaction. Caixin today reported
that a Chinese investor group was withdrawing from the $4.2
billion deal, citing New China Trust Co. Chairman Weng Xianding,
who had been identified in an AIG statement as leading the deal.  The insurer remains in talks to sell International Lease
Finance Corp. to the Chinese investor group, according to a
person close to the insurer, who asked not to be identified
because there was no public announcement. The report about the
withdrawn offer is “completely not true,” said Wing-Fai Ng,
who heads P3 Investments Ltd., which was also identified in the
AIG statement as a member of the Chinese group.  AIG slipped 8 cents to $48.49 at 10:05 a.m. in  New York .
The insurer has rallied about 37 percent this year, beating the
19 percent advance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  