-- AIG Said to Continue Talks With China Investors on ILFC
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-08-06T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/aig-said-to-continue-talks-with-china-investors-for-ilfc-sale.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
remains in talks to sell its plane-leasing unit to a Chinese
investor group, a person close to the insurer said yesterday,
after Caixin reported that the would-be buyers withdrew.  AIG retains an option to terminate the deal, after the
investors missed three deadlines to complete the transaction,
including one last week, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because there was no public announcement.  “We don’t comment on rumors or speculation, and refer to
our 10-Q disclosure” Jon Diat, a spokesman for New York-based
AIG said in an e-mail, citing the company’s quarterly filing on
Aug. 5 to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. AIG said
in the Aug. 5 filing that the deal hadn’t been completed and
reiterated that it may pursue other bids or an initial public
offering. Paul Thibeau, a spokesman for AIG’s Los Angeles-based
 International Lease Finance Corp. (ILFC) , also declined to comment.  The Caixin  website  reported yesterday that the Chinese
investors were backing out of the agreement, citing New China
Trust Co. Chairman Weng Xianding, who was identified by AIG in a
December statement as leading the deal. The group agreed in
December to pay about $4.2 billion for 80 percent of ILFC.  The report about the withdrawn offer is “completely not
true,” said Wing-Fai Ng, who heads P3 Investments Ltd., which
was also identified in the AIG statement as a member of the
Chinese group. An outside spokesman for the buyer group couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  