-- Taiwan Defense Minister Yang Resigns After 6 Days in Office
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-08-07T07:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/taiwan-defense-minister-yang-resigns-after-6-days-in-office.html
Taiwan’s defense minister resigned
six days into the job after acknowledging plagiarism in a 2007
book, adding to complications for President Ma Ying-jeou as his
government deals with anger over the death of a conscript.  Ma accepted Andrew Yang’s resignation after discussions
with Premier Jiang Yi-huah, according to an e-mailed statement
from the president’s office late yesterday. Chief of General
Staff Yen Ming will replace Yang, Ma’s administration said.
Acting minister Kao Kuang-chi will take Yen’s post, the United
Daily News reported today.  Yang apologized for a “personal mistake” and stepped down
after acknowledging that parts of a 2007 book produced by a
ghostwriter were plagiarized from a magazine story first
published in  China , the  Central News Agency   reported  yesterday,
citing comments Yang made to reporters. Defense Ministry
spokesman David Lo didn’t return two calls seeking comment.  Yang’s departure deals a blow to President Ma as he battles
low popularity ratings and seeks to restructure a military that
has long relied on conscription to maintain its ranks. Ma’s
approval rating fell again to a record low of 13 percent in a
poll conducted July 29 by TVBS, from 14 percent in May.  Yang, the Ma administration’s first civilian defense
minister, succeeded Kao Hua-chu, who resigned last month after
weeks of media criticism and public demonstrations over the
military investigation of the death of army conscript Hung
Chung-chiu while in solitary confinement. Prosecutors indicted
18 officers on July 31 and legislators yesterday passed a law
requiring civilian trials for military offenses committed during
peacetime, CNA reported.  Military Reforms  “The protests calling for an investigation into the death
of Hung and resignation of two defense ministers point to the
challenges to Ma’s military reforms,” said Liao Da-chi, a
director at the Institute of Political Science at the National
Sun Yat-sen University.  Tens of thousands protested against the government last
weekend, the  Associated Press  reported, over the death of 24-year-old Hung while he was being punished for bringing an
illicit mobile phone into his barracks.  A lawmaker first asked Yang about his published works at an
Aug. 1 meeting, followed by a media inquiry yesterday about the
allegation, the Taipei-based Liberty Times reported. Yang’s
article, two-thirds of which was lifted from an article by U.S.-
based researcher  Richard Fisher , Jr., appeared in an anthology
edited by Yang entitled “Ready for the D-Day” about a
potential conflict between the  People’s Liberation Army  and
Taiwan’s military, according to the newspaper.  All Volunteers  The government plans to restructure the military and
convert its conscripted armed forces into an all-volunteer
military by the end of next year, while coming up with new
funding sources, retired general Herman Shuai said in an
interview in late July.  Yang’s brief tenure shows “Taiwan is not ready for a
civilian defense minister,” Lawrence Gao, a lawmaker with the
opposition  Democratic Progressive Party , said by phone. “During
Ma’s term we may not have another civilian defense minister.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  