-- Alex Rodriguez Jeered in Yankees’ Return After Appealing MLB Ban
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-06T04:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/alex-rodriguez-jeered-in-yankees-return-after-appealing-mlb-ban.html
Alex Rodriguez  made his season debut
for the  New York Yankees  on the same day he received the longest
drug-related suspension in Major League Baseball history and was
jeered by fans in  Chicago  every time he came up to bat or
fielded a ball at third base.  Rodriguez, who can keep playing as he appeals the ban
through next season, went 1-for-4 with a single in the Yankees’
8-1 loss to the White Sox last night at U.S. Cellular Field.  Rodriguez started at third base and hit cleanup for the
Yankees hours after baseball Commissioner Bud Selig said
Rodriguez used testosterone and human growth hormone over
“multiple years” and tried to “obstruct and frustrate” the
investigation of performance-enhancing substances supplied from
a now-closed anti-aging clinic in  Florida . Of the 13 players
punished yesterday by MLB for involvement with Biogenesis of
America LLC, Rodriguez was the only one to appeal his ban.  “It was a hard day, a long day,” Rodriguez told reporters
in the locker room after the game. “It’s been crazy, but from
this point on I’m going to do my very best to focus on baseball.
It was good to get the first one behind me.”  Rodriguez, who said four years ago that he used banned
substances from 2001-03 as a member of the Rangers, declined to
answer questions last night about whether he used performance-enhancing drugs in recent years.  “At some point we’ll sit in front of an arbiter and give
our case,” said Rodriguez, the active career home-run hitter in
the major leagues with 647. “That’s as much as I feel
comfortable telling you right now. We’ll have a forum to discuss
all of that and we’ll talk about it then.”  Rodriguez Return  Rodriguez was back in the Yankees’ lineup for the first
time since the 2012 postseason, as he missed 110 games while
rehabilitating from offseason hip surgery and then what was
diagnosed by the Yankees’ doctor as a mild quadriceps strain.
Rodriguez, 38, said before last night’s game he was “thrilled
and humbled” to have the opportunity to put the Yankees’
uniform on again and play at the major-league level.  Rodriguez spent some time chatting with White Sox players
on the field before the game and also signed autographs for a
large throng of fans after taking batting practice.  Rodriguez was loudly booed the first time he came to bat in
the second inning last night in Chicago, where the White Sox
said they sold 2,500 extra seats after it was announced that
Rodriguez would be playing. With MLB Network breaking in for
live national coverage of his first at-bat, the three-time
American League Most Valuable Player hit a bloop single that
dropped in front of sliding leftfielder Casper Wells.  Rodriguez flew out just short of the warning track in his
next two at-bats before striking out looking at a full-count
slider during the eighth inning. The White Sox ended a 10-game
losing streak and dropped the Yankees to 57-54, 9 1/2 games
behind the  Boston Red Sox  in the  American League East .  A-Rod’s Appeal  Michael Weiner , the head of the MLB Players Association,
said yesterday that Rodriguez’s appeal may take until the end of
October to resolve. Weiner said the union supported Rodriguez’s
decision and that Selig acted inappropriately in its discipline
of the player, whose ban is set to take effect Aug. 8 and run
211 games.  The other 12 players suspended yesterday in the Biogenesis
probe -- including All-Stars Jhonny Peralta of the  Detroit
Tigers  and  Nelson Cruz  of the  Texas Rangers  -- each received a
50-game ban the union said is consistent with punishments set
forth in the joint drug agreement.  Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said he didn’t have any problem
plugging Rodriguez back into the lineup even though the
commissioner’s office handed down a penalty more than twice the
length of its longest previous drug-related ban. MLB previously
imposed one 105-game drug suspension and 16 100-game bans, with
one coming to a major-league player, pitcher Guillermo Mota.  No Shortcuts  “There is an appeals process, so you let it play out,”
Girardi said, adding he doesn’t think there’s room for
performance-enhancing drugs in the sport. “I don’t believe in
shortcuts because I think everybody gets shortchanged when
there’s shortcuts.”  If Rodriguez’s ban is upheld on appeal, he won’t be
eligible to return until the 2015 season, when he turns 40, and
would lose a total of about $32 million in pay, including his
$25 million salary for 2014. Rodriguez would still have three
years and $61 million remaining on his MLB-record 10-year, $275
million deal when he’s eligible for reinstatement.  Buyout Deal?  The 27-time World Series champion Yankees may try to cut a
deal with Rodriguez regarding his contract’s final three years,
said Michael McCann, director of the Sports and Entertainment
Law Institute at the University of New Hampshire School of Law.  “The Yankees could argue that they’re going to try to void
the contract, and certainly Alex Rodriguez would oppose that
through grievance,” McCann said in a July 29 telephone
interview. “In all likelihood it would end with some kind of
buyout rather than either side entirely winning.”  Rodriguez and the Yankees had waged an increasingly public
feud in recent weeks.  Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  in June told
Rodriguez to shut up after the player’s public comment about his
rehabilitation contradicted those that had been made by the team.
Following an Aug. 2 minor league rehab game in Trenton,  New
Jersey , Rodriguez said it was concerning that “all this stuff
is going on in the background” and that “people are finding
creative ways to cancel your contract.”  Yankee Rebuttal  The Yankees rebutted some of Rodriguez’s recent claims
yesterday in a statement, saying they didn’t institute or assist
MLB in the direction of the investigation.  The team also said it didn’t use the investigation as an
attempt to “avoid its responsibilities under a player
contract,” and that at no time did its medical staff fail to
provide appropriate care to Rodriguez.  Rodriguez said last night there were no awkward feelings in
his return, which he called “business as usual,” and said
Cashman had welcomed him back.  “I’ve got a job to do,” Rodriguez said. “We have
challenges ahead of us, but my focus is what can I do to help
this team win.”  How long Rodriguez continues playing for the Yankees
becomes the next question in a saga that started in January,
when the Miami New Times reported it obtained medical records
from Biogenesis linking banned substances to Rodriguez and other
players including 2011 National League Most Valuable Player  Ryan Braun  of the  Milwaukee Brewers . MLB later started its own
investigation, obtaining Biogenesis records and gaining the
cooperation of clinic founder Anthony Bosch.  Braun on July 22 accepted a suspension for the final 65
games of the regular season and any playoff games for taking
banned substances provided by Bosch and Biogenesis.  Attempted Cover-up  Rodriguez has said he wasn’t a patient of Bosch and was
never treated or advised by him. Yet Selig said yesterday that
Rodriguez’s suspension was based on “his use and possession of
numerous forms of prohibited performance-enhancing substances”
and attempting to cover-up his violations.  Yankees players such as  Robinson Cano  said Rodriguez’s
return isn’t a distraction, though ex-Yankee Aaron Boone said
there’s probably a significant difference between what
Rodriguez’s teammates say publicly and how they actually feel.  “It’s a big time distraction in that locker room,” said
Boone, now an MLB analyst for ESPN. “You’re just wondering
what’s going to happen next and what question am I going to have
to answer. If I’m a player in that locker room, I feel like I’m
in for a long, distracted road.”  Rodriguez said yesterday the past seven months have been
“a nightmare, probably the worst time of my life.” He said a
second phase is just now starting with the appeals process.  “I’m fighting for my life,” Rodriguez said. “I have to
defend myself. If I don’t defend myself, no one will. There’s a
process and I’m happy there’s a process. In due time, whatever
happens, happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  