-- Amazon’s Jeff Bezos to Buy Washington Post for $250 Million
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-06T01:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/amazon-s-jeff-bezos-to-buy-washington-post-for-250-million-3-.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Bezos  agreed to buy the  Washington Post (WPO)  for $250
million, betting that he can apply his success in e-commerce to
the struggling newspaper industry.  Bezos is making the deal as an individual and not as part
of Amazon, the world’s biggest online retailer, according to a
statement today. Current owner  Washington  Post Co., which isn’t
selling its Kaplan education division and other businesses as
part of the transaction, now plans to change its name.  In acquiring the publication, famed for its coverage of the
Watergate scandal in the 1970s, Bezos becomes the latest
billionaire to try his hand at reviving the newspaper business.
Boston  Red Sox  owner  John Henry  agreed to buy the Boston Globe
last week, and Warren Buffett has assembled an empire of
community papers in recent years.  “I understand the critical role the Post plays in
Washington, D.C., and our nation, and the Post’s values will not
change,” Bezos said in the statement. “Our duty to readers
will continue to be the heart of the Post, and I am very
optimistic about the future.”  The deal marks the end of the paper’s stewardship by the
Graham family and its relatives, who acquired the Post in 1933.
Seven years of declining sales, triggered by an industrywide
advertising slump, ultimately pushed the family to sell.
Investment bank Allen & Co. handled the process.  Eight Decades  “This is a day that my family and I never expected to
come,” Publisher Katharine Weymouth, niece of Chairman Don Graham, said in a letter to readers. “The Washington Post Co.
is selling the newspaper it has owned and nurtured for eight
decades.”  Washington Post Co., which also owns Post- Newsweek  Stations
and Cable ONE, hasn’t announced what its new name will be. In
addition to buying the Washington Post, Bezos will get Greater
Washington Publishing, the Gazette newspapers, Express, El
Tiempo Latino and Robinson Terminal.  “It’s kind of like the Grahams threw in the towel,” said
 Ken Doctor , an  analyst  at Burlingame, California-based research
firm Outsell Inc. “They looked at the future, and they said,
‘We can’t see how to get from here to there, and we need someone
who knows what to do.’”  Washington Post Co. shares  jumped as much as 5.5 percent to
$600 in extended trading today after the deal was announced. The
stock has climbed 56 percent this year.  Operating Losses  Washington Post Co.’s newspaper division reported widening
operating losses in the past two years, including a $53.7
million loss in 2012, according to its annual filings. The
division’s annual sales declined 7 percent to $581.7 million in
2012, with the Washington Post’s print advertising, once the
lifeblood of the paper, falling 14 percent to $228.2 million in
the same period.  As part of the agreement, Bezos will take on the pension
obligations of  current employees  while Washington Post Co. will
handle retired workers. The company also will provide Bezos with
$50 million to help pay the obligations.  In a May filing, Washington Post Co. had valued its
newspaper-publishing division at $255.6 million -- within $6
million of Bezos’s purchase price. That’s less than 10 percent
of the company’s $4.2 billion market value.  Globe Sale  The transaction extends a frenzy of media deals over the
past three days. On Aug. 3,  New York  Times Co. announced plans
to sell the Boston Globe to Henry, a billionaire hedge-fund
manager who owns the Red Sox and the Liverpool Football Club.
Times Co. sold the paper for $70 million, more than $1 billion
less than the Globe’s purchase price in 1993.  IBT Media, meanwhile, said it would buy Newsweek from
IAC/InterActiveCorp, splitting it from the Daily Beast brand.
Terms of that deal weren’t disclosed.  Bezos, 49, has a net worth of $27.9 billion, making him No.
16 on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He ranks above Google
Inc. co-founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin , as well as
Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  founder  Michael Dell .  Over the past three months, Bezos’s Amazon 86.4 million
shares have increased or decreased in value each day by an
average of $249 million -- almost the same as the price he’s
paying for the newspaper.  Blue Origin  Most of Bezos’s fortune is tied to a 19 percent stake in
Amazon. Since the company’s initial public offering in 1995,
Bezos has sold almost $2 billion in Amazon stock. Much of that
has been plowed into Blue Origin, his closely held space-exploration company.  After deducting $175 million in Blue Origin funding, Bezos
probably has about $1.7 billion in cash and other investable
assets, based on an analysis of insider transactions, dividend
income, taxes and market performance.  Bezos made an earlier foray into the media business in
April, when he participated in a $5 million investment round for
Business Insider Inc., the news site co-founded by  Henry Blodget , the former Internet industry analyst. The Amazon
founder’s Bezos Expeditions investment firm handled the
investment.  Bezos said he would keep the Post’s current management in
place while he remains in  Seattle  focusing on Amazon. Weymouth
will stay on as publisher and CEO.  ‘Day Job’  “I am happily living in ‘the other Washington’ where I
have a day job that I love,” Bezos said. “The Post already has
an excellent leadership team that knows much more about the news
business than I do, and I’m extremely grateful to them for
agreeing to stay on.”  While he won’t be moving to the capital, Bezos has taken an
interest in politics before. He and his wife, MacKenzie, made a
$2.5 million  donation  to a Washington campaign to defend the
state’s law protecting same-sex marriage last year. He also has
supported the creation of a federal framework for collecting
sales tax online.  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Bezos, declined to comment
beyond the public statements.  In tackling the newspaper industry, Bezos is following in
the footsteps of Buffett, who has his own connection to the
Post. Buffett served on the board of Washington Post Co. until
2011 and his company, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., is the Post’s
largest shareholder -- an investment he pledged to keep the year
he resigned as a director. Buffett didn’t respond to a request
for comment sent to an assistant today.  Community Papers  Berkshire has been expanding its newspaper operations in
the past two years, buying publications in towns with a strong
sense of community, rather than in large cities with more
competition among news providers. The enthusiasm for print
journalism is a reversal for Buffett, who said in 2007 that
investors in the industry faced “long-term problems.”  Buffett was a longtime confidant and friend of Katharine Graham, the former Post chairman and CEO who died in 2001. In
May, he called her one of his role models and an example of a
“super high-grade” woman who didn’t think she deserved praise.
The billionaire also is friends with Don Graham, Katharine
Graham’s son, according to Alice Schroeder’s “The Snowball:
 Warren Buffett  and the Business of Life.”  The Post’s sale was necessitated by a declining newspaper
industry and challenges too large for a small publicly held
company to handle, Don Graham said in a separate statement. The
Washington Post’s weekday circulation fell 6.5 percent this year
to 474,767, according to March 31 figures from the Alliance of
Audited Media.  “Our revenues had declined seven years in a row,” Graham
said. “We had innovated and to my critical eye our innovations
had been quite successful in audience and in quality, but they
hadn’t made up for the revenue decline. Our answer had to be
cost cuts and we knew there was a limit to that. We were certain
the paper would survive under our ownership, but we wanted it to
do more than that. We wanted it to succeed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  