-- Ambry Claims Myriad Is Monopolizing Breast Cancer Market
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2013-08-06T14:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/ambry-claims-myriad-is-monopolizing-breast-cancer-market.html
Ambry Genetics Corp. , a seller of
tests for genetic risks of  breast cancer , accused Myriad
Genetics Inc. of misusing its patents to “intimidate and chill
competition” in the market.  Myriad sued Ambry and another closely held company,
Houston-based Gene By Gene Ltd., in July, claiming their tests
infringe its patents for the testing process and synthesized
DNA. The tests look at genes known as BRCA to determine if there
is a hereditary risk of developing breast or ovarian cancers.  Myriad, based in Salt Lake City, filed the suits after the
companies began offering competing tests hours after a U.S.
Supreme Court ruling that invalidated some of Myriad’s patents
on genes linked to the diseases. Richard Marsh, Myriad’s general
counsel, said Ambry and Gene by Gene were using the company’s
patented processes.  “Myriad continues a practice of using sharp and
overreaching practices to wrongfully monopolize the diagnostic
testing of human BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes in the  United States  and
to attempt to injure any competitor who dares to challenge
Myriad’s monopoly,”  Aliso Viejo , California-based Ambry said in
a counterclaim filed yesterday.  Threatening Letters  Ambry said Myriad is sending threatening letters to doctors
with false allegations meant to confuse genetic counselors. The
antitrust contentions, which are only against Myriad and not the
other patent owners, were part of a filing in which Ambry
responded to the Myriad claims.  Ambry said the patents are invalid, based on the high
court’s ruling in the Myriad case and a March 2012 decision
involving diagnostic tests.  In addition to Myriad, the other owners of the patents --
the University of Utah, the  University of Pennsylvania , the
Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto and Endorecherche Inc. --
also joined in the suits.  The Ambry case is University of Utah Research Foundation v.
Ambry Genetics, 13cv640, The Gene By Gene case is University of
Utah Research Foundation v. Gene By Gene LTD., 13cv643, both
U.S. District Court for the District of Utah ( Salt Lake City ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Chicago at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  