-- Rural/Metro Wins Court Approval of Bankruptcy Financing
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-08-06T21:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/ambulance-company-rural-metro-wins-approval-of-bankruptcy-loan.html
Rural/Metro Corp., a nationwide
ambulance operator owned by  Warburg Pincus  LLC, won court
approval of bankruptcy financing to help fund operations as it
seeks to complete a restructuring by year-end.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey granted the company
permission to borrow as much as $40 million on an interim basis
from its existing lenders at a hearing today in Wilmington,
 Delaware . The company will seek approval of the remaining
$35 million of the $75 million loan at an Aug. 28 hearing.  Rural/Metro worked out a proposed restructuring deal before
bankruptcy with a majority of its lenders and noteholders that
would cut its $735 million in funded debt by about half,
according to court documents.  Under a timetable in a support agreement with creditors,
the reorganization plan needs approval by Dec 20, court papers
show. About 75 percent of noteholders and about 51 percent of
lenders have pledged support for the deal, Rachel C. Strickland,
a lawyer for the company, said after the hearing.  Rural/Metro provides ambulance and firefighting services to
about 700 communities in 21 states, according to its  website . It
offers industrial fire protection to airports, oil refineries
and manufacturing plants.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , Citgo Petroleum Corp. and
Textron Inc.’s Bell Helicopter are among its customers.  The company, based in Scottsdale, Arizona, listed more than
$500 million in both assets and debt in Chapter 11 papers filed
Aug. 4 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  Billing Disruptions  The company said it sought  bankruptcy protection  in part
because it “experienced significant challenges and disruptions
operating its billing and collections functions,” which
resulted in “reduced revenue and delayed cash collections.”  Warburg Pincus, the New York-based investment firm, bought
Rural/Metro in July 2011 for about $676.5 million, including
$236.3 million in debt.  The case is In re Rural/Metro Corp., 13-bk-11952, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  -- Editors:  Charles Carter , Mary Romano  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 