-- Amgen Said to Boost Onyx Pharmaceuticals Bid to $130 a Share
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-08-06T21:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/amgen-said-to-boost-bid-for-onyx-pharmaceuticals-to-130-a-share.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the drugmaker in pursuit
of  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , boosted its offer for the company
to $130 a share, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The offer is currently the highest for Onyx, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the process is
private. Onyx disclosed in June that it was working with
advisers to find a buyer after spurning an offer of $120 a share
from  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen. Onyx rejected
Amgen’s proposal because management saw it as too low compared
with other recent deals in the industry, a person familiar with
the matter said at the time.  Amgen increased the offer after reviewing South  San
Francisco , California-based Onyx’s non-public financial
statements, said the person with knowledge of the current bid.
The company is scheduled to report results this week. A
successful suitor would gain control of Onyx’s blood-cancer
treatment Kyprolis, which it sells alone and whose sales may
surge about ninefold to $2.4 billion by 2019, according to
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “This looks like Amgen is last man standing and this is
probably pretty close to the final price,” said  Michael King , a
JMP Securities senior biotech analyst in  New York . “If there
was a third party, they would have either stepped in or the
price would be higher,” he said in phone interview. King has an
equivalent to a hold rating on the stock.  Other Suitors  Onyx closed at $132.02 in New York today, giving the
company a market value of $9.6 billion. The shares rose 1
percent to $133.75 in trading after exchanges closed.  Lori Melancon, a spokeswoman for Onyx, declined to comment,
as did Christine Regan, an Amgen spokeswoman.  AstraZeneca Plc, Pfizer Inc. and Novartis AG were among the
suitors preparing bids for Onyx, people familiar with the matter
said last month. Onyx said in June that it was working with
adviser  Centerview Partners .  Onyx also sells Nexavar for liver and kidney cancer in
partnership with  Germany ’s  Bayer AG. (BAYN)  Onyx generated $362 million
in 2012 revenue, with 80 percent coming from Nexavar and
Stivarga. The company gets a 20 percent royalty on sales of
stomach-cancer treatment Stivarga from Bayer, which has said it
expects the drug to be a bestseller.  While Amgen’s $120-a-share bid was 37 percent more than
Onyx’s 20-day average before it was disclosed, the stock soared
past that price after it became public, signaling investors
expected competing offers. Onyx should be valued at $130
to $165 a share in a takeover, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg after Onyx said June 30 it had rejected
Amgen’s bid.  Higher Premium  In Gilead Sciences Inc.’s takeover of Pharmasset Inc.
announced in 2011, Gilead paid 94 percent more than Pharmasset’s
average price in the 20 days before the deal was announced, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Applying that premium to Onyx’s 20-day average stock price before the Amgen bid was disclosed would
yield an offer for almost $170 a share.  Amgen’s increased offer for Onyx “might be modestly
disappointing because there were some people who were holding
out for the $140 to $150-type surprises,” King said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  