-- Lanxess Cuts 2014 Profit Forecast Amid No Sign of Recovery
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-08-06T09:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/lanxess-cuts-2014-profit-goal-as-no-sign-of-second-half-recovery.html
Lanxess AG (LXS) , which until today had
lost 30 percent since joining Germany’s benchmark DAX index in
September, cut its profit forecast for 2014 as it sees no sign
of a demand recovery in the second half of this year.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items of 1.4 billion euros ($1.85 billion) next
year is no longer a realistic goal, the company said. Earnings
this year will probably be 700 million euros to 800 million
euros, excluding potential inventory devaluations. The stock
fell the most in more than four months in Frankfurt trading.  It’s “clearly a disappointment,” said Baader Bank analyst
Norbert Barth. “The company gives up former hopes for a demand
recovery in the tire industry.” He rates the stock sell.  Lanxess, based in Cologne,  Germany , has cut costs as
clients reduce inventories, especially in  Asia , and it already
idled factories in the first half to counter falling auto
industry demand. Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann said
today he’ll review strategy for less competitve products and
present the results in mid-September. Measures include short-and
long-term cost savings as well as structural changes, he said.  “It’s not about a new strategy,” Heitmann said today on a
conference call with journalists. “It won’t be a revolutionary,
but more of an evolutionary effect and will affect less-competitive products. These are peripheral areas.”  Shares Slump  The shares  slid  as much as 7.9 percent, the biggest drop
since March 21, to 42.81 euros and were trading down 3.3 percent
as of 11:02 a.m. local time. The stock has lost 32 percent this
year, cutting the company’s market value to 3.7 billion euros.  “We assume that the weakness will reach into 2014,”
Heitmann said on the conference call. “We can’t give any new
targets for 2014 but I can point out that the consensus is just
below 1.1 billion euros” for profit, he said.  The chemical maker is cutting costs at the performance
chemicals unit, which makes preserving agents, pigments, leather
and rubber chemicals. It is consolidating production for
vulcanization accelerators, used in the tire industry, at sites
in  Belgium  and the U.S. and an antidegradants factory in
Isithebe,  South Africa  is being closed.  Heitmann today declined to give further details on cost and
job cuts, saying the strategy review will be presented in
September.  Ebitda excluding one-time items fell 45 percent to 198
million euros in the second quarter. Analysts had predicted
191.2 million euros, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales fell 12 percent to 2.14 billion euros, in line
with the average analyst estimate. Net income plunged 95 percent
to 9 million euros.  Lanxess is still aiming to meet a target for 1.8 billion
euros in earnings by 2018, although the goal has become more
challenging, it said today. The company is also reducing its
capital expenditure and is planning to spend about 600 million
euros instead of the previously envisaged 650 million euros to
700 million euros, it said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  