-- Apple, Insomniac Games, Microsoft: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-06T23:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/apple-insomniac-games-square-enix-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. decision to overturn an
import ban on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s older iPhones and iPads may help
short-term sales and hobble  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in any
settlement talks in the companies’ patent fight.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, in issuing the
reprieve to Apple Aug. 3, lets the company continue selling the
iPhone 4, which is priced lower than newer models, said  Brian
Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group. Less expensive smartphones
are selling more quickly than higher-priced models, he said.  The ruling is a setback for Samsung, which had won the
import ban against Apple from the U.S. International Trade
Commission in June based on a patent widely used in the mobile-device industry for transmitting data. The U.S. drew a line
between blocking the sale of products infringing patents that
are part of industry standards versus those for unique features.  The decision will probably handicap Samsung’s ability to
obtain higher technology licensing fees from Apple in any
negotiations, said Susan Kohn Ross, a trade lawyer with Mitchell
Silberberg & Knupp in  Los Angeles .  More broadly, the decision by U.S. Trade Representative
 Michael Froman , designated by Obama to review the case, could
limit the ability of large patent-holding companies like
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , InterDigital Inc. and  Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB)  to
rely on royalty revenue from standards patents used in
smartphone chips or sound transmission.  “The problem now for Samsung is not that Apple can
continue to sell its products, but whether Samsung’s products
will be banned,” said Lee Sun Tae, a Seoul-based analyst at NH
Investment & Securities.  The reprieve isn’t expected to help Apple shares because
the company’s patent lawsuits are not an issue investors care
most about, said  Brian Blair , a principal at Wedge Partners
Corp., a boutique research and trading firm in New York.  “The genuine investor concerns are about product growth,
margin improvement and Apple moving into new categories,” Blair
said.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , said disputes over
licensing terms shouldn’t result in product import bans.  “We applaud the administration for standing up for
innovation in this landmark case,” an Apple spokeswoman,
 Kristin Huguet , said in an interview. “Samsung was wrong to
abuse the patent system in this way.”  Apple sued Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung first, in April
2011, over patents covering the look and unique features of the
iPhone. Samsung, which has made mobile phones for decades,
retaliated with infringement claims over the fundamental ways a
phone works, in the type of one-upmanship that’s typical of
patent dispute. In all, there have been more than three dozen
cases across four continents.  Microsoft Seeks Patent for Glasses for Computer Games  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will join  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the augmented-reality glasses space, according to a recently published patent
application.  In application  20130196757 , published Aug. 1 in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Microsoft is
seeking patent protection for what it calls “multiplayer gaming
with head-mounted display.”  The program embedded in the game will receive from the
wearable device “eye-tracking information, depth information,
facial recognition information, potential player head-mounted
display device information, and/or potential player voice
data,” according to the application.  The program will then join the user to a player account
participating in the multiplayer game.  Apple, based in Redmond,  Washington , said in its
application that the use of the head-mounted device can free the
player from having to focus on tasks related to inviting another
player, and give the user the ability to make a face-to-face
invitation.  The head-mounted device could be connected by wire or
wirelessly to a variety of devices, including “a mobile
computing device such as a smartphone, laptop, notebook or
tablet computer, network computer, home entertainment computer,
interactive television, gaming system,” Microsoft said.  The user will be able to see real-world objects because the
pixels projected on the lenses will be transparent, according to
the application. The device will respond to gestures from the
user and, like the Google glasses, can contain a camera.  Microsoft filed the application for the patent in January
2012.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Angels’ Hamilton Settles Suit Over ‘Play Hard Pray Hard’ Mark  Josh Hamilton , a right fielder on  Major League Baseball ’s
 Los Angeles Angels  team, has agreed to a mediated settlement in
a trademark suit brought by a producer of Christian-themed
clothing.  Dallas-based Play Harder Pray Harder LLC sued Hamilton in
federal court in  Dallas  in December 2012, accusing him of
infringing their “Play Harder Pray Harder” mark.  The Texas company said Hamilton and  Scripture Art LLC  of
Holly Springs, North Carolina, were making unauthorized use of
the mark.  Hamilton released a statement in which he said that he
began using the phrase in 2006 in conjunction with his recovery
from drug and alcohol addiction. He said he then used the phrase
publicly in 2008 in motivational talks in which he encouraged
others “in their walk with God.” Sales of the shirts by
Scripture Art were to provide support for his FourTwelve
charitable foundation.  He didn’t reveal any details of the settlement in his
statement, saying only that “In the spirit of Matthew 5:39-40,
I have settled the lawsuit over the commercial use of the phrase
‘Play Hard, Pray Harder.’” He was referring to a phrase in the
Christian Bible that urges people to “turn the other cheek”
even if they believe they have been wronged.  Eric Fein  of Dallas, the attorney representing the clothing
company,  told Associated Press  that his clients will file a
request that the court dismiss the suit.  The case is Play Harder Pray Harder LLC v. Hamilton, 3:12-cv-05121-N, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  Insomniac Games Seeks Registration for ‘Bad Dinos’ Trademark  Insomniac Games Inc., a developer of games for  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s
PlayStation game controller, has applied to register “Bad
Dinos” as a trademark, according to the database of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  According to the application filed July 29, the Burbank,
California-based game developer plans to use the mark with
interactive game programs, entertainment services and the
provision of online video games.  Among the company’s already published games are
“Overstrike,” created in conjunction with  Redwood City ,
California’s  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , and “Spyro the Dragon,”
“Ratchet & Clank” and “Resistance.”  Hotel Zaza, Z Ocean Hotel Battle Over Use of ‘Z’ Trademarks  Fontana Investors LLC, operators of  Hotel Zaza  of Dallas,
sued a Miami Beach hotel developer for trademark infringement.  Fontana, based in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, objects to marks
used by South Beach Resort Development LLC’s  Z Ocean Hotel . The
company claims the use of this name for a hotel on Miami’s South
Beach causes confusion to customers, vendors, retailers and
others.  In both cases, the two hotels use a stylized upper-case
letter “Z” with a horizontal line through the letter as a
logo, according to illustrations in the complaint.  Fontana says the infringement is deliberate, claiming that
previously the Florida company agreed to halt the use of a
“confusingly similar” letter “Z.” This agreement went into
effect in March 2010, according to court papers, with the
Florida company promising to stop printing new brochures and
other promotional materials, and to quit ordering new uniforms
for the staff bearing the objectionable mark.  Because South Beach Resort Development allegedly failed to
follow through with its promises, Fontana says it has been
“damaged substantially,” and asked the court to order an end
to the infringement.  Additionally, Fontana asked the court to order South Beach
to engage in a campaign of corrective advertising to prevent
further confusion, and for awards of money damages, litigation
costs and attorney fees.  Heidi Tandy, a Miami-based IP counsel for South Beach
Resort Development, said in an e-mail that her client hadn’t yet
seen the filing and that from a summary she had seen, “it seems
that Zaza misstates the situation and we believe there is no
likelihood of confusion between the marks.”  The case is Fontana Investors LLC v. South Beach Resort
Development LLC, 1:13-cv-22780-UU, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Miami).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Square Enix Forces End to Fan Group’s Kickstarter Campaign  Square Enix Holdings Co.’s Square Enix has managed to
derail fans’s efforts to create a live-action series based on
one of its games.  Fans of Square Enix’s “Final Fantasy VII” game had turned
to Kickstarter Inc.’s crowd-funding mechanism, seeking support
for a multiple-episode live-action version of the game.
 According to  Wired magazine, the fan group had sought $400,000
in funding.  On Aug. 1 the  Kickstarter page  for the project said that
“Final Fantasy VII: The Web Series (Unofficial Fan Project)”
is the subject of an  intellectual property  dispute and is
unavailable.  Tokyo-based Square Enix had made a  take-down request  under
the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. The games company said
that it is the owner of “all intellectual property rights to
the Final Fantasy franchise under which video games, online
services, and motion pictures have been published.”  Copyrights to the game have been registered with the U.S.
Copyright Office, the company said in its filing.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  