-- LightSquared’s Ad Hoc Lenders Propose Reorganization Plan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-08-06T19:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/harbinger-capital-sues-dish-ergen-in-lightsquared-bankruptcy.html
Philip A. Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC sued Charles Ergen and his  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ,
claiming Ergen is fraudulently trying to take control of
Falcone’s bankrupt company, LightSquared Inc.  Ergen and other entities he controls “are engaged in a
fraudulent scheme,” that has involved buying up the company’s
debt in secret to gain an advantage in taking over its assets,
according to the lawsuit, filed in  Manhattan  bankruptcy court
today. The lawsuit also named  EchoStar Corp. (SATS) , SP Special
Opportunities LLC, and L-Band Acquisition LLC, which has offered
to buy LightSquared’s assets out of bankruptcy for more than $2
billion.  Ergen and his entities are trying to “prevent LightSquared
-- a potential competitor to Dish and EchoStar -- from emerging
from bankruptcy under Harbinger’s control” and take its
valuable wireless spectrum assets, the lawsuit said.  Ergen said he will open up his track record and let the
courts and public decide whether his actions have been
fraudulent or not.  “I personally have followed all of the rules,” Ergen
said, answering a question about the lawsuit on a conference
call today. “I think Dish has followed all of the rules.”  Ergen’s Sound Point and its related SP Special
Opportunities fund, which was an investment vehicle created to
buy LightSquared debt, amassed $1 billion in LightSquared debt
while rebuffing inquiries from Harbinger about who was behind
the “corporate facade,” the lawsuit said.  Suffered Damages  Harbinger already has suffered damages and will suffer
billions of dollars more if Ergen can complete his scheme,
lawyers for the fund wrote.  “Harbinger has filed this action to ensure that it and
LightSquared can continue to work towards achieving a successful
reorganization that will be in the best interests of all
stakeholders and bring competitive broadband wireless services
to consumers and businesses across the U.S.,”  David Friedman , a
lawyer for Harbinger, said in a statement.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , filed for
bankruptcy in May 2012, listing assets of $4.48 billion and debt
of $2.29 billion.  It sought  bankruptcy protection  to reorganize while seeking
regulatory approval of its wireless spectrum. U.S. regulators
blocked the service in 2012 after GPS-device makers and users --
including the U.S. military and commercial airlines -- said
signals from LightSquared’s service would confound navigation
gear.  Falcone, who founded Harbinger in 2001, is the subject of a
potential $18 million settlement with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission which could bar him from serving as an
officer or director of a public company, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter who spoke to Bloomberg News July
19.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-bk-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  