-- Tata Margin Declines to Seven-Year Low on Drag From Nano
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-08-07T04:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/margin-slips-as-nano-to-sumo-drag-tata-earnings-corporate-india.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  will report the
narrowest  profit margin  at its Indian business in at least seven
years as sales of models from the Nano to Sumo plunge.  Earnings  margin  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization at  India ’s biggest automaker narrowed to 0.9
percent in the three months ended June 30, according to a median
 estimate  of five analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That will
shrink the measure for the group, which includes U.K.-based
Jaguar Land Rover, to 13.6 from 14 percent in the preceding
quarter, data show.  Passenger vehicle deliveries at Tata Motors have dropped
for 11 straight months as promotions to buy back the Manza sedan
and credit card purchases of the  Nano , the world’s cheapest car,
failed to lure buyers. Intensifying competition and slowing
growth in  Asia ’s third-largest economy cut demand for Tata’s
vehicles. Group net income will drop for a fourth straight
quarter, according to a survey compiled by Bloomberg.  “The domestic business of Tata Motors is a drag on the
company but luckily they have Jaguar Land Rover,” said Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund manager  at Raiffeisen Capital
Management, which oversees about $1.1 billion in emerging-market
assets. “If you look at the passenger vehicle business, there
are serious problems. Hopefully commercial vehicles will recover
once the economy picks up.”  The company’s  shares , which have dropped 9.4 percent this
year, fell 1.4 percent to 283.5 rupees at 9:27 a.m. in Mumbai.
Tata Motors is scheduled to announce its results today.  Trucks, Buses  Tata Motors, which was India’s third-biggest passenger
vehicle maker in the year ended March 31, sold fewer cars than
 Honda Motor Co. (7267) , ranked eighth, in July. Tata delivered 10,824
cars, utility vehicles and vans in the month. Honda sold 11,223
while  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  sold 15,249 units of the DZire
model in the same period.  Mumbai-based Tata, which also makes trucks and buses, in
March said it would buy back Manza sedans, offering customers 60
percent of the purchase price after three years to entice
clients. The offer failed to attract buyers with the model
selling 392 units in the three months ended June 30 compared
with 2,698 a year earlier, according to the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers .  Hindustan Motors Ltd. (HM) , which makes the
Ambassador based on the 1948 Morris Oxford, sold 709 units of
the model in the period.  “On the passenger car side, Tata Motors’ brand positioning
has fallen,” said Abhishek Gaoshinde, an analyst with Sunidhi
Consultancy Services. “With competition having better products
than Tata at the same price, customers are bound to chose them
over models such as the Indica and Indigo.”  New Models  In comparison, deliveries at the Jaguar Land Rover luxury
unit, which Tata Motors bought from Ford Motor Co. in 2008,
 increased  10 percent in the three months ended June. Jaguar
accounted for 17,459 units of the luxury unit’s deliveries last
quarter, an increase of 28 percent spurred by the new F-Type
convertible introduced in May. Land Rover sales increased 7
percent to 77,260 vehicles, according to company  data .  The unit based in Gaydon,  England  plans to introduce eight
new or refreshed models this year, Jaguar Land Rover Chief
Executive Officer Ralf Speth said in May.  Tata Motors will report a  consolidated net income  of 22.2
billion rupees ($363 million) in the quarter ended June from
22.4 billion rupees a year earlier, according to the median of
39 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales are
estimated to rise 7.1 percent to 462.5 billion rupees.  ‘Solid Positioning’  The company beat analyst’s profit  estimates  by 48 percent
in the three months ended March 31 on higher sales at the luxury
unit and a foreign-exchange gain of 837.1 million rupees.  Jaguar Land Rover “has confirmed its solid positioning in
the premium car segment,” Milan-based Barbara Castellano, a
credit analyst with  Standard & Poor’s , which raised Jaguar Land
Rover’s credit rating one level to BB last month, wrote in a
report. Revenue at Jaguar Land Rover may increase 15 percent in
the year ending March 31, she said.  The local business will report a record loss of 4.7 billion
rupees in the three months ended June 30, according to a median
estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Slowing
economic growth and high borrowing costs are keeping buyers from
Tata Motors’ showrooms.  The  Reserve Bank  of India on July 30 cut its growth
forecast for the $1.8 trillion economy to 5.5 percent from 5.7
percent for the year ending March 31. The monetary authority
last month also raised two  interest rates  to curb the rupee’s
depreciation.  ‘Challenging Environment’  India’s automotive industry group predicts car sales to
grow as much as 5 percent this financial year, compared with an
average growth of 15.5 percent in the past four years.  “It’s a tough challenging environment” for any company
selling to local consumers, Kenneth Andrade, head of investments
at IDFC Asset Management Co., which has $6.4 billion in assets,
said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India. “The market doesn’t
necessarily need to grow for you to make money. From an
investment profile you just need to back” companies that are
maintaining market share, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  