-- Has Obama Forgotten the Danger of Loose Mortgage Lending?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-06T23:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/has-obama-forgotten-the-danger-of-loose-mortgage-lending-.html
Politicians have been promising more
than they can deliver since the dawn of democracy. So it’s no
surprise that President  Barack Obama  wants to make  housing  more
affordable, ensure that  home prices  keep going up, reduce
taxpayer support for the mortgage-finance system and prevent
future crises -- simultaneously. But some of the items on his
wish list, as outlined in a  speech  Tuesday in Phoenix, are
contradictory.  Many of the president’s goals are smart steps along the
path of reform. Private lenders should have to deal with the
consequences of their own bad decisions without dumping them on
taxpayers. It should be easier for borrowers who are current on
their loans to refinance at today’s relatively low  mortgage
rates . And government policy shouldn’t favor homeownership over
renting, now that it’s clear renting is the better option for
millions of households.  Some of Obama’s other ideas are worrisome. It’s all well
and good to say that the government should “cut red tape” and
“simplify overlapping regulations” so that “responsible
families” have an easier time buying homes. But what does this
mean in practice? Should income and down-payment requirements be
eased? Lest we forget, lowering lending standards was precisely
what got us into the housing mess in the previous decade.  In his speech, Obama sketched out a sensible plan for
limiting taxpayers’ exposure. What he still needs is a strategy
for setting minimum standards for the kinds of mortgages that
can be packaged into securities by Wall Street banks.  Catastrophic Losses  As things stand, the federal government is on the hook for
all of the losses on nearly every mortgage issued since 2009. To
change this, it makes sense to abolish  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac , the government-owned mortgage financiers that buy loans
from banks so they have the money to lend again, and replace
them with a more limited entity devoted solely to selling
insurance to protect against catastrophic losses.  In the event a borrower defaults on a mortgage, this new
government insurer would reimburse investors only for losses
beyond a certain point. In other words, private investors would
pay a deductible before they were eligible for coverage. This
would limit taxpayer risk, especially if the new insurer
collected adequate premiums.  A similar  reform plan  proposed by U.S. Senators  Bob Corker ,
the Tennessee Republican, and  Mark Warner , the Virginia
Democrat, would pay investors only for insured mortgages that
lose more than 10 percent of their value in a default -- more
than twice what Fannie and Freddie had to deal with during the
crisis. That would be a welcome first step in removing the
taxpayer crutch from the mortgage market.  So far, so good. But less progress has been made in
defining what constitutes a qualified residential mortgage, and
thus eligible to be sold to investors.  The Dodd-Frank Act bars lenders from offloading to
investors all the risk of the mortgages they originate, unless
those loans meet certain basic standards, such as a minimum down
payment and a maximum debt-service ratio (the share of income
spent on interest and principal payments). Lenders are still
free to make riskier loans, but then they must be ready to
absorb at least 5 percent of any losses if they plan to get
those mortgages off their books.  Government standards distinguishing “qualified” mortgages
from riskier ones  still haven’t been finished . After aggressive
lobbying by industry lobbyists and affordable-housing advocates,
regulators agreed to lift the maximum debt-service ratio to 43
percent from 36 percent. We think that’s too high. But the
minimum down-payment requirement remains up in the air.
Regulators have been proposing options ranging from as little as
zero to as high as 30 percent.  More Equity  It’s unclear where Obama stands on this last, crucial
issue. It would be unfortunate if he were to pressure regulators
to take a softer line. The best way to prevent mortgage
borrowers from defaulting is to make them put a large amount of
equity -- at least 20 percent -- into their homes upfront. It’s
roughly analogous to the sensible requirement that banks use
less leverage.  Minimum down payments and strict debt-service ratios have
the added benefit of mitigating destabilizing swings in  house
prices . Economists have  shown  that, during the recent housing
bubble, prices rose as down payments fell. This empowered buyers
who had been shut out of the market, which pushed up prices and
temporarily increased the homeownership rate -- until it came
crashing down.  To keep this from happening again, Obama, regulators and
lawmakers must avoid the siren song of homeownership for
everyone.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 