-- Stocks Fall With Oil on Fed Concern as Yen, Pound Advance
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-08-07T20:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/asian-futures-drop-as-tapering-concerns-sink-u-s-stocks.html
Stocks (SPX)  declined amid corporate
earnings that disappointed investors and growing concern the
 Federal Reserve  may reduce its bond purchases, while oil capped
the biggest four-day slide in nine months. The pound gained
after the  Bank of England  raised its growth forecast.  The MSCI All-Country Index lost 0.6 percent to 374.59 and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.4 percent at 4 p.m. in
 New York , extending its three-day drop to 1.1 percent.  Japan ’s
currency gained 1.3 percent to 96.44 per dollar and the pound
climbed to a six-week high versus the dollar. The yield on 10-year Treasury notes decreased 4.5 basis points to 2.60 percent.
Oil extended its four-day retreat to 3.3 percent, while gold
rebounded following its longest slump in 11 weeks.  Fed Bank of Cleveland President  Sandra Pianalto  said a
tapering of the central bank’s stimulus may be warranted if the
labor market continues to strengthen. The Bank of England raised
its outlook for the economy this year and next and said  price
stability  remained a primary objective as it linked  interest
rates  to the jobless rate for the first time. The Bank of Japan
probably won’t expand stimulus at its two-day meeting that ends
tomorrow, according to all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We’re just going through a period of consolidation,”
Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth
Management in Minneapolis, said by phone. His firm manages $112
billion. “We still like the outlook for the broad equity
market, but near term we’re probably in a trading-range pattern
until we get greater clarity as to what happens with
quantitative easing.”  Earnings Miss  Financial shares lost 0.8 percent to help lead declines in
eight of the 10 main industry groups in the  S&P 500 . Bank of
America Corp. declined 0.8 percent after the  Department of
Justice  yesterday accused the company in a lawsuit of misleading
investors.  Walt Disney Co. dropped 1.7 percent after quarterly profit
stalled on lower earnings from films and weaker revenue at the
ABC network. First Solar Inc. tumbled 13 percent after the
largest U.S. solar-panel manufacturer’s profit fell amid a 46
percent drop in sales. Zillow Inc. plunged 7.7 percent after the
owner of the largest real-estate information web site reported a
second-quarter loss on higher costs related to advertising and
acquisitions.  Earnings have beaten  analyst estimates  at about 72 percent
of the 434 companies in the S&P 500 that posted results so far
in the reporting season, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Profits increased 4.1 percent for the group on 1.7
percent growth in sales.  European Markets  Two shares fell for each that gained in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, which slipped 0.2 percent.  Andritz AG, the world’s second-biggest maker of hydro-power
turbines, slid 7.9 percent in Vienna after profit missed
estimates. Rexel SA dropped 4.2 percent as Ray Investment SARL,
the company’s largest investor, sold a 526 million-euro ($698
million) stake in the electrical-equipment distributor.  The MSCI World AC Index has lost 1 percent in the past
three days as investors gauge the prospects for continued
central-bank stimulus.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said on Aug. 5 the
central bank is closer to slowing bond buying and warned
investors not to rely on stimulus.  Dennis Lockhart , president of
the Atlanta Fed, told Market News International that should
economic growth and job creation pick up as expected, policy
makers should proceed with the “removal” of asset purchases.  ‘Good Improvement’  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said yesterday
he “would clearly not” rule out a decision to begin curbing
bond purchases in September.  “We’ve seen good improvement in the labor market, there’s
no question in my mind about that,” Evans, among the strongest
proponents of the unprecedented efforts to revive the  U.S.
economy , told reporters yesterday in Chicago. “I’m still
wanting to see greater evidence that it’s a sustainable
improvement.”  Treasuries remained higher after the U.S. sale of $24
billion in 10-year notes produced a lower-than-forecast yield.
The benchmark securities drew a yield of 2.620 percent, compared
with a forecast of 2.635 percent in a  Bloomberg News  survey of
eight of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 2.45, compared with an average of 2.81
for the past 10 sales.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.9 percent to a four-week low today after results from companies including Tata
Motors Ltd. and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. missed analysts’
estimates. India’s rupee led declines in currencies.  South Korea’s Kospi index dropped 1.5 percent, led by
Hyundai Motor Co. and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  after their labor unions
walked out of wage talks. TPK Holding, a supplier of touch
screens to Apple Inc., slumped 6.9 percent in Taipei after the
company said it expects third-quarter revenue to drop by at
least 15 percent.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average sank 4 percent in Tokyo, the
most in almost two months, as exporters slipped amid a stronger
yen and earnings disappointed investors.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong lost 2.1 percent, the most in five weeks.
The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.7 percent.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , a gauge of the currency against
10 major peers, slipped 0.3 percent.  The yen rose against all 16 major counterparts, advancing
1.1 percent versus the euro. The  Bank of Japan  will expand its
record easing by June next year as inflation remains distant
from its 2 percent target, according to a survey of economists
by Bloomberg News.  BOJ Bets  Twenty of 26 analysts expect more stimulus in the next 10
months, while all said the BOJ would keep policy on hold at a
two-day meeting starting today. Consumer prices excluding fresh
food, the BOJ’s preferred measure of inflation, rose 0.4 percent
in June. Koichi Hamada, a retired Yale University professor who
advises Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on monetary policy, said today
that Governor Haruhiko Kuroda should be prepared to add easing
if the economy falters after a planned sales-tax increase in
April.  The pound advanced 0.9 percent to $1.5493. The BOE said it
sees the economy growing 0.5 percent this quarter after
expanding 0.6 percent in the previous three months. It raised
its 2013 and 2014 gross domestic product growth projections to
1.5 percent and 2.7 percent from 1.2 percent and 1.9 percent in
May.  German Production  The euro was up 0.3 percent at $1.3338, after falling as
much as 0.3 percent. German industrial production increased 2.4
percent from May, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a gain of 0.3 percent, according to the
median of 41 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge declined 0.8 percent as natural gas
tumbled 2.1 percent to lead losses in 15 of 24 commodities. Gold
futures settled up 0.2 percent at $1,285.30 an ounce after
sliding for six straight sessions.  West Texas Intermediate oil fell 0.9 percent to $104.37 a
barrel. A government report showed inventories of gasoline and
distillate fuels unexpectedly increased. The Energy Information
Administration said gasoline inventories rose 135,000 barrels to
223.6 million last week. Stockpiles were forecast to decrease
500,000 barrels, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  