-- Latvia Will Extradite Suspected Hacker to U.S., Minister Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-08-06T14:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/latvia-will-extradite-suspected-hacker-to-u-s-minister-says.html
Latvia’s government agreed to
extradite a suspected hacker to the U.S., where he’ll be tried
for allegedly helping create a computer virus that aided frauds
from America to Europe, Justice Minister Janis Bordans said.  Deniss Calovskis was one of three people charged by U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  in January with distributing
a virus that infected more than 1 million computers worldwide,
allowing thieves to steal data and millions of dollars from
online accounts. The Gozi virus infected 40,000 computers in the
U.S., as well as machines in Germany, the U.K.,  Poland , France,
 Finland , Italy and  Turkey , according to prosecutors. Calovskis
denies wrongdoing.  “This decision was based on decisions by the  Supreme Court 
and the general prosecutor,” Bordans said, according to a
recording of comments posted today on the cabinet’s website.
Seven ministers backed the extradition, five voted against, one
abstained and one was on holiday, Martins Panke, a spokesman for
Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, said by text message.  Calovskis faces 67 years in jail in the U.S., a
“disproportionate” punishment, Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics said July 30 in a  statement  on the website of the
Latvian-language magazine IR. Rinkevics said he’d oppose the
extradition.  Calovskis, also known as Miami, is charged with five counts
of conspiracy. Prosecutors say he developed “web injects” that
changed the appearance of banking websites that were viewed on
infected computers, making the Gozi virus more dangerous.
Victims were fooled into providing personal information that was
used by others to steal from bank accounts, according to
prosecutors.  “I am like a hostage in this situation,” Calovskis said
Aug. 3 in an  interview  with Latvian television. “I don’t know
about the Gozi virus. I haven’t helped any schemers to get money
and I haven’t received any.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  