-- Australian House Prices Jump Most in 3 Years on Rate Cuts
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-06T05:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/australian-house-prices-jump-by-most-in-3-years-on-rba-rate-cuts.html
Australian house prices rose by the
most in more than three years in the second quarter as home
buyers responded to a series of  interest rate cuts  by the
central bank since November 2011.  Home prices  across  Australia ’s eight major cities jumped
2.4 percent in the three months to June 30 after a revised 0.8
percent gain in the first three months of the year, according to
an index of established homes released by the statistics bureau.
The rise was the biggest since the first quarter of 2010,
beating the median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News of a 1 percent increase, and sent the index to
the highest level since it was established in March 2002.  The Reserve Bank of Australia, which today continued its
easing cycle with a 25 basis-point cut of its  benchmark interest
rate  to a record-low 2.5 percent, is rebalancing the economy
toward industries including residential construction as the
mining investment boom fades. The cuts have boosted housing
demand, with the number of homes available for sale in the
biggest cities falling 2.5 percent in July from a year ago,
according to real estate data provider SQM Research Pty.  “This is further confirmation that the housing market is
starting to stir,” said  Matthew Hassan , senior economist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “Lower interest rates have been the key
catalyst, with the improvement in June, July and August coming
after the last interest rate cut in May.”  Mortgage Rates  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  said it will reduce its
variable mortgage rate by 25 basis points to 5.88 percent from
Aug. 12, following the central bank’s decision today. Westpac
Banking Corp. and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  are reviewing
their rates, and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
will consider its loan rate on Aug. 9, according to the
respective spokesmen at the banks. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “It is crucial that banks pass this rate cut on in full to
mortgage borrowers,” Shane Garrett, senior economist at the
Housing Industry Association, said in an e-mailed release
following the rate decision. “Lower interest rates have helped
to support a modest though hesitant recovery in residential
construction activity.”  House prices in the second quarter rose 5.1 percent from a
year earlier, the government figures today showed. Perth had the
biggest year-on-year increase, climbing 11 percent, followed by
a 7.7 percent gain in Darwin and 6.1 percent in Sydney,
according to the data.  House and apartment prices climbed 5 percent as of Aug. 4
from a year earlier, Brisbane-based real estate researcher RP
Data said in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  