-- Bafin Reviews German Banks’ Role in ISDAfix Rigging Case
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-08-06T15:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/bafin-reviews-german-banks-role-in-isdafix-rigging-case-1-.html
German financial regulator Bafin is
reviewing whether the country’s banks may have participated in
manipulating a benchmark for interest-rate derivatives.  Bafin is in contact with the German lenders taking part in
the ISDAfix benchmark, Ben Fischer, a spokesman for the
regulator, said in an interview today. So far, Bafin hasn’t
found any indication that German banks were involved in
manipulation, he said.  According to the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association’s  website ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s HypoVereinsbank unit are contributors to ISDAfix
euro rates.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is probing Wall
Street banks over the issue, people familiar with the matter
said in April. The U.S. investigators uncovered evidence that
banks reaped millions of dollars in trading profits at the
expense of companies and pension funds by manipulating the
benchmark, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, Nils
Happich, a spokesman for Commerzbank, and Claudia Bresgen, a
spokeswoman for HypoVereinsbank, all declined to comment.  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association created
ISDAfix in 1998 along with the predecessors of Thomson Reuters
Corp. and  ICAP Plc. (IAP)   The benchmark is used to value derivatives trades known as
swaptions, which are options on rate swaps. The contracts give
the holder the right to swap a fixed- for a floating-rate
obligation at some future point at a predetermined level. The
amount of derivatives underlying swaptions contracts outstanding
as of July 26 totaled $29.5 trillion, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Annuity Interest  ISDAfix rates also help determine everything from borrowing
costs on bonds that finance skyscrapers to interest on
annuities. The benchmark, set in five currencies, is used to
price euro-denominated corporate bonds and $550 billion of
securities tied to commercial real estate. Fluctuations help
determine the performance of structured notes bought by wealthy
individuals.  The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority is reviewing how
ISDAfix swaps prices are set in British pounds, and is working
with the CFTC on the issue, two people familiar with the matter
said in April.  The ISDAfix rates are distributed by  Thomson Reuters ,
Telekurs and Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News,
according to ISDA’s website. Bloomberg competes with ICAP in
some businesses, including foreign-exchange and swaps trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net  