-- Batista Said to Grant Lenders Collateral Swap: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-08-06T21:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/batista-said-to-grant-lenders-collateral-swap-corporate-brazil.html
Eike Batista  gave his biggest private
creditors securities linked to port royalties as loan collateral
in an attempt to bolster confidence in his commodities empire,
said two people with direct knowledge of the agreement.  Banco Bradesco SA and Itau Unibanco Holding SA swapped
shares in Batista’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA for the
port securities as loan guarantees, said the people, who asked
not to be named as terms are private. The securities, called
MMXM11, have better prospects than OGX stock, the people said.
They didn’t say when the collateral swap was undertaken.  Creditors are seeking to prevent losses after a series of
missed targets at OGX, Batista’s flagship oil producer,
triggered a selloff of his group’s securities that wiped out
more than $30 billion of the 56-year-old entrepreneur’s personal
wealth since March of last year. The MMXM11 securities are down
30 percent this year compared with an 87 percent slump by OGX
shares. The securities dropped 0.8 percent to 2.45 reais at the
close in Sao Paulo today.  “Those notes are linked to future revenue from the port
and because of that are better perceived than OGX shares that
are pure equity risk of an even riskier company,” Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst at hedge fund Teorica Investimentos,
said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  Sale Talks  Batista’s holding company EBX Group Co., based in Rio de
Janeiro, declined to comment in an e-mailed response. Bradesco
and Itau also declined to comment.  In an opinion piece for Valor Economico newspaper last
month, Batista vowed to pay back those who had lent him money.  After peaking at $34.5 billion in March last year,
Batista’s estimated fortune has fallen below $1 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Abu Dhabi
sovereign wealth fund Mubadala Development Co. converted an
investment in Batista’s companies into debt, three people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  OGX  shares  fell 3.3 percent to 58 centavos. The company’s
$2.56 billion of bonds due in 2018 are trading at 21 cents on
the dollar, tumbling from 98.1 cents in January in the world’s
worst corporate bond performance.  The MMXM11 securities are linked to royalties from  MMX
Mineracao (MMXM3)  & Metalicos SA’s Sudeste port in Rio state, based on
$5 per ton of iron-ore shipped. Shares of MMX  jumped  12 percent
today to a two-month high 1.73 reais.  Sudeste is scheduled to open this year with initial
capacity of 50 million tons a year. MMX said June 27 it was in
talks to sell a stake or assets to Glencore Xstrata Plc and
Trafigura Beheer BV, among other companies it didn’t name.  ‘Very Risky’  MMX’s total liability with MMXM11 holders was $809.5
million at the end of last year, according to the company’s
earnings release.  “MMXM11 notes are also very risky as we don’t know if MMX
assets are going to be sold and even if the port will start on
time given Batista’s track-record of not fulfilling promises,”
Elad Revi, an analyst at Spinelli SA, said by phone today from
 Sao Paulo . “Sudeste royalties are not a sure thing.”  Itau, based in Sao Paulo, had about 5.5 billion reais in
loans outstanding from EBX, while Batista borrowed about 4.8
billion reais from Bradesco and 1.6 billion reais from Grupo BTG
Pactual, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said in
March. BTG Pactual’s loans to companies linked to Batista total
about 650 million reais, a person familiar with the matter said
last month.  Batista used shares of OGX as collateral for an undisclosed
portion of the loans, according to the people.  At least $250 million of the MMXM11 securities have been
used as debt collateral, one of the people said. BTG has no
MMXM11 as collateral on its debt, a third person with knowledge
of the matter said.  “The market is considering as a possibility that MMX could
be sold and the new owner could even pay future royalties or
part of them in advance,” Teorica’s Brito said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  