-- Bats Exchange Trading Restored After One-Hour Shutdown
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-08-06T20:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/bats-says-exchange-not-accepting-orders-amid-system-issues-.html
Bats Global Markets Inc., the fourth-largest U.S. stock exchange operator, shut its main market for
almost an hour today amid a malfunction in its computer systems.  Trading on the Bats BZX Exchange stopped at 1:10 p.m.  New
York  time and resumed at 2 p.m., according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The issue was caused by an internal network problem,
not a software malfunction,  Randy Williams , a spokesman for
Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats, wrote in an e-mail. “All systems
were fully operational for the remainder of the trading day and
we fully expect them to run smoothly tomorrow,” he said.  The malfunction is the latest black eye for Bats, which was
forced to cancel its initial public offering in March 2012 after
the company couldn’t get its own  stock trading . In January, Bats
said it had discovered computer issues dating back to October
2008 that had allowed about 12,000 trades that violated rules
intended to ensure all investors get the best prices.  “The problem they are going to run into if they continue
to have these issues is that people are not going to choose them
to execute because they are not reliable.”  Frank Ingarra , head
trader at Greenwich, Connecticut-based NorthCoast Asset
Management LLC, said in a phone interview. His firm manages $1.7
billion. “There are plenty of other exchanges.”  The shutdown was the latest computer malfunction to hit
U.S. markets in the past year. In April, the  Chicago Board
Options Exchange  was down for three-and-a-half hours because of
a software error, and in August 2012 Knight Capital Group Inc.
lost more than $450 million when it bombarded U.S. exchanges
with erroneous orders. Knight was later purchased by Getco LLC
to create  KCG Holdings Inc. (KCG)   Market Share  Before today, the Bats BZX Exchange handled about 8.7
percent of average daily trading volume in the U.S. stock market
in 2013, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  After Bats restored its market, Direct Edge Holdings LLC
 said  on its website that its EDGX Exchange was having trouble
processing orders for U.S. stocks listed by  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  with
symbols “SPYV” to “TNC.” That issue was resolved in about
eight minutes, according to alerts on the Direct Edge site.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  