-- Bayer Wins Panel Backing for Pulmonary Hypertension Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-08-06T19:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/bayer-wins-panel-backing-for-pulmonary-hypertension-drug.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s experimental lung drug won
the backing of U.S. regulatory advisers to treat two forms of
pulmonary hypertension.  Bayer’s riociguat should be approved for the condition that
can eventually lead to fatal heart failure, a panel of advisers
to the Food and Drug Administration voted 11-0 today at a
meeting in Silver Spring,  Maryland . The pill would be the first
to treat pulmonary hypertension that lasts six months or longer
often caused by a blood clot in the lungs.  Riociguat, which Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer has
proposed calling Adempas, may generate $498 million in sales by
2017, according to the average of six analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The World Health Organization separates
pulmonary hypertension, or high blood pressure in the arteries
to the lungs that makes the heart work harder, into five
categories.  For a patient who can’t undergo surgery “this is probably
the only medical therapy that’s been shown to have a benefit,”
 Linda Fried , a panel member and chief of peritoneal dialysis at
the Veterans Affairs Pittsburgh Healthcare System, said during
the meeting.  The pill improved the distance patients can walk during a
six-minute test in clinical trials and should be approved though
at a lower dose than what the company sought, FDA staff said in
a report last week ahead of the meeting. The panel disagreed.
Bayer is seeking approval for a maximum 2.5 milligram dose.  Dosage Review  FDA staff recommended patients with both forms of pulmonary
hypertension start at a 0.5 milligram dose three times daily and
increase the dose 0.5 milligram to a maximum of 1.5 milligrams
three times a day. Chronic patients who don’t respond could
increase the dose to 2.5 milligrams, staff said “though there
is no clinical trial evidence of benefit from these higher doses
and there appears to be an increased incidence of drug-induced
hypotension,” or low blood pressure.  Most panel members said doctors need flexibility.  “In this field we need the opportunity to adjust the dose
for the patient,” said  Stuart Rich , a panel member and
attending physician at the Center for Pulmonary Hypertension at
the University of Chicago Hospitals. “They will let me know if
their blood pressure is too low because there’s a symptom
associated.”  Two Conditions  Bayer asked the FDA to approve riociguat to treat chronic
pulmonary thromboembolic hypertension. The condition affects
about 5,000 people each year and now can only be treated with a
complex surgery, the Cleveland Clinic says on its website. The
company also applied to sell the drug to treat pulmonary
arterial hypertension that is often inherited or has no known
cause.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , based in Allschwil, Switzerland, is seeking
FDA approval for macitentan to treat pulmonary arterial
hypertension. Actelion’s best-selling Tracleer was approved in
2001 for the condition and generated $1.6 billion in sales last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tracleer’s patent
expires in November 2015 when the drug may face competition from
low-cost generic copies.  The FDA may make a decision on whether to approve riociguat
or macitentan in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  