-- Bernanke Seeking Animal Spirits Channels Yellen Spouse Akerlof
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-08-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/bernanke-seeking-animal-spirits-channels-yellen-spouse-akerlof.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  can review  John Maynard Keynes  on reviving “animal
spirits” after an economic slump. Or he can read the more
contemporary work of  Janet Yellen ’s husband.  George Akerlof , a Nobel Prize-winning economist and spouse
of the Fed vice chairman, co-wrote with  Yale University ’s  Robert Shiller  a 2009 book titled “Animal Spirits,” a phrase borrowed
from Keynes’s 1936 work. They argued that confidence and human
behavior play an under-appreciated role in driving the  U.S.
economy  and global  capital markets .  What motivates Americans to spend and lend is a key concern
of Bernanke, who has said a goal of unprecedented monetary
 stimulus  is to “increase confidence, both among market
participants, but also among investors and private consumers and
other people in the economy.” As consumer sentiment and  home
prices  reach five-year highs and stocks hover near records,
signs are increasing that animal spirits are awakening.  “If there’s any common theme, it’s about willingness to
take risk, and a sense of optimism that I can take risk and have
a chance of succeeding,” Shiller said in an interview. “Maybe
the animal spirits are coming back somewhat.”  In their book, Akerlof and Shiller wrote that “there are
limits to the effectiveness of such standard monetary policy
when there is a loss in confidence, and businesses and consumers
are loath to spend.”  Bernanke Succession  The insight into their theory is even more noteworthy
because Yellen is under consideration for appointment by
President  Barack Obama  to succeed Bernanke. Akerlof, in an e-mail, declined to comment.  As the U.S. was emerging from the Great Depression, Keynes
wrote that many human actions are “a result of animal spirits -
- of a spontaneous urge to action rather than inaction, and not
as the outcome of a weighted average of quantitative benefits
multiplied by quantitative probabilities.”  The Fed faces a similar crossroads in the national psyche.
As Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  consider whether they can begin slowing and unwinding
their stimulus campaign, they’ll be considering whether
improvement in the  labor  market can lead to a sustained period
of growth.  Measures of confidence suggest a stronger outlook. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index reached the highest level since
January 2008 last week. The index is still lower than any
reading from 1994 to 2007. The Conference Board’s gauge of
 consumer confidence  in June recorded its highest reading since
January 2008, before dipping in July.  ‘Armageddon’ Worries  “We’re no longer worried about Armageddon but we’re so far
from the periods of out-and-out glee, of unleashed animal
spirits where the future looks bright as ever,” said  James Paulsen , the chief investment strategist of Wells Capital
Management in  Minneapolis  with $340 billion in assets under
management.  Rising investor confidence has helped propel stocks to
record highs, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closing last
week at 1,709.67.  In the past year home prices have swung to gains from
losses. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities rose 12.2 percent in May from a year earlier, compared
with an 0.5 percent decline reported in May 2012.  While the  unemployment rate  fell to 7.4 percent in July as
the economy added 162,000 jobs, Shiller sees the economy still
at risk. The share of people with jobs, known as the employment
population ratio, was unchanged in July at 58.7 percent and is
lower than a record high of 64.7 percent in 2000.  Long Joblessness  “The story of our time now is that long-term unemployment
remains high and the  labor force  as a percentage of our
population has gone way down,” Shiller said. With so many
Americans left behind, “the danger is that animal spirits can
get much worse, and we just can’t control it,” he said.  Yellen’s speeches on monetary policy show an awareness of
the people affected by central bank decisions. In a Feb. 11
speech to the AFL-CIO, the federation that represents 57 labor
unions with 12 million members, Yellen noted that 15 percent of
the population lives in poverty, and that three million
unemployed Americans have been looking for work for one year or
more.  “These are not just statistics to me,” Yellen said. “We
know that long-term unemployment is devastating to workers and
their families. Longer spells of unemployment raise the risk of
homelessness and have been a factor contributing to the
foreclosure crisis.”  Mental Health  She said, “the toll is simply terrible on the mental and
physical health of workers, on their marriages, and on their
children.”  Before leaving academia to become a central banker, she and
Akerlof were frequent co-authors, publishing papers together on
topics ranging from the efficiency of the labor market, to the
causes of unemployment, to the reunification of Germany and the
rise in out-of-wedlock childbearing in the U.S.  When Akerlof won the  Nobel Prize  in 2001, he wrote of their
professional  compatability . “Not only did our personalities
mesh perfectly, but we have also always been in all but perfect
agreement about macroeconomics,” Akerlof wrote in a biography
published with the award.  Andrew Rose, a professor of economics at the  University of
California  at Berkeley’s Haas School of Business who has co-written research with Yellen and Akerlof, described the
symbiosis of their approach.  Collaborators  “George is more loosey-goosey, more casual, with flashes
of brilliance,” Rose said. “Janet helps to separate the wheat
from the chaff. She’s incredibly sensible and allows you to
think very carefully and rigorously about the ideas. Between the
two of them, they were a huge pleasure to collaborate with.”  Akerlof, 73, came to Washington with Yellen, who served
first as a Fed governor, then as chairman of  Bill Clinton ’s
 Council of Economic Advisers .  “When Janet was at the Fed, I supported her as much as
possible by taking over household duties,” Akerlof wrote in
2001. “Later when she was at the White House, my role in
providing psychological support in the daily political storms
was yet more important.”  In 1995, a year after being appointed a Fed governor by
Clinton, Yellen told the  Minneapolis Fed  that “if you spent an
evening at our house you would probably hear economics discussed
over the dinner table.”  In recent years those discussions may have involved
Akerlof’s work on “animal spirits,” a phrase from Keynes’s
“The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.”  Stimulus Support  Yellen has supported, and in some cases helped design, the
Fed’s efforts to respond to the most recent recession with
record monetary stimulus, including lowering its target interest
rate to near zero in 2008 and beginning large-scale asset
purchases known as quantitative easing.  That helped stop the longest and deepest recession since
the Great Depression and has allowed the U.S. to outperform the
euro area, where unemployment has been at a record high 12.1
percent for the past four months.  “Europe is in recession, China is pulling back, India is
weakening” and “the U.S. is doing fairly well,” Shiller said.
“We’re getting better confidence relative to the rest of the
world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  