-- Bezos the Innovator Is What News Business Needs
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-06T17:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/bezos-the-innovator-is-what-news-business-needs.html
One can only hope that  Jeff Bezos ,
founder of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and the new owner of the  Washington
Post (WPO) , doesn’t mean it when he says he won’t be involved in the
Post’s day-to-day operations. This is precisely where fresh
thinking is needed in the newspaper business.  Nobody needed to be told that the industry is in trouble
and maybe terminal decline. In discussing the sale, Washington
Post Co. Chief Executive Officer Donald E. Graham frankly
admitted defeat, noting that he “couldn’t see how to grow the
paper and began to wonder if there was a better owner.”  It would be hard to imagine a more  intriguing one . Bezos is
among the most creative and disruptive innovators American
capitalism has ever seen. Many Internet billionaires have, you
could say, had success thrust upon them, playing at projects
they thought were cool and discovering that the world agreed.
Bezos is different. He brought deliberate vision and remorseless
commercial logic to the overthrow of existing ways of doing
business. He’s no accidental revolutionary.  This is what makes his acquisition of the Post so exciting
-- that, and the strategic, operational and financial room for
maneuver that such a deep-pocketed owner can provide.  Various commentators (including  Henry Blodget  at Business
Insider, an Internet news-and-comment site in which Bezos has
invested) point to possible synergies between news and the
Amazon model. Like newspapers, Amazon is in the content and
distribution business, and via its Prime service it has found a
new way to collect subscriptions from users. Amazon understands
the economics of physical and virtual delivery -- the puzzle
that’s defeating newspapers all over the world.  User-generated content is another intersection. A hallmark
of Amazon’s success as a retailer has been its focus on  customer
service  and use of customer reviews, something buyers now take
for granted across all e-commerce. Empowering consumers and
recasting them as producers has been an Amazon specialty. Bezos
found a way to engage with and make money from shoppers in a new
kind of community -- and it’s the heart of his business, not an
afterthought. Notice that the online news business is
increasingly preoccupied with social media, user-generated
content by another name. Bezos might try to marry these ideas in
new ways.  So many other complementarities suggest themselves that a
deal that surprised almost everybody is already looking like
something that had to happen. A newspaper in every box? An
accelerated shift to all-digital? Maybe both. The challenge
that’s eluded the industry so far is to manage the upheaval and
thrive commercially at the same time. Bezos may find the answer,
and we wish him well.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 