-- Bezos Washington Lobbying Creates Tricky Issues for Post
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-08-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/bezos-washington-lobbying-creates-tricky-issues-for-post.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , whose founder  Jeff Bezos  is purchasing the  Washington Post (WPO) , ranks among the biggest
spenders among high-technology companies seeking to influence
the work of the federal government.  Former U.S. Senators Trent Lott, a Mississippi Republican,
and John Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat, are among those working
for Seattle-based Amazon, which spent $1.7 million on lobbying
from January through June, ninth highest among high-tech
companies, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group that tracks lobbying.  The company weighed in on issues with Congress, the
Commerce Department and the Federal Trade Commission on matters
such as Internet sales taxes and privacy, patent laws,
cybersecurity and online wine sales, Senate filings show.  “They have a huge number of issues before the federal
government and now he’s bought the hometown paper for covering
those politicians,” said  Bill Allison , editorial director for
the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based watchdog group.
“There’s always a concern you’re going to have a conflict when
you have wealthy publisher. Given all of Amazon’s issues, it’s
hard to see where Bezos won’t have a conflict.”  ‘Competing Loyalties’  Ethics specialist Bob Steele agrees.  “There are certainly competing loyalties,” said Steele,
director of the Janet Prindle Institute for Ethics at DePauw
University in Greencastle,  Indiana . “If he handles it very
well, it’s possible to manage those competing loyalties, but
it’s also possible for competing loyalties to turn into
conflicts of interest that could erode the integrity of his
journalistic obligations.”  Like other high-tech companies, Amazon has increased its
lobbying spending. The company’s 2013 totals for the first six
months of the year are 31 percent higher than the $1.3 million
spent during the same period a year earlier. In 2000, when the
company first reported it was lobbying the federal government,
it spent $246,000 during the first six months.  Amazon’s team of lobbyists also includes former Assistant
Treasury Secretary Jonathan Talisman, who served in the Clinton
administration; Elizabeth Frazee, former aide to House Judiciary
Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican; and
Holly Fechner, former counsel to the Senate Health, Education,
Labor and Pensions Committee.  Bezos, chief executive officer of Amazon, is purchasing the
Post on his own, paying $250 million to the Washington Post Co.,
for a newspaper which has been held by the family of Post CEO
 Donald Graham  since 1933.  Issues Involved  Amazon, the largest Internet-based retailer, is supporting
legislation that would allow states to require companies selling
products online to collect sales taxes. Current law requires
such taxes to be collected only when the  Internet company  has a
physical presence in the state.  As it builds more facilities to speed delivery and
therefore becomes subject to more state tax collections under
current law, Amazon has aligned itself with brick-and-mortar
giants such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , opposing other online
marketplaces such as  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   The Post published an  editorial on April 23  supporting a
Senate measure allowing states to collect sales taxes from out-of-state vendors. “This will level the playing field for stores
that have a physical presence, which are already charging tax on
all local purchases,” the editorial board wrote.  Digital Matters  Amazon also is a member of the Internet Association trade
group that has urged the White House to exempt Internet services
from new cybersecurity rules. The group acted after President
 Barack Obama  in February called for new computer security
standards in areas such as telecommunications, pipelines and
power grids.  And Amazon is part of a Digital Due Process coalition
seeking changes to privacy laws to make it harder for the
government to gain access to e-mails and digital documents. In
addition to companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , the
coalition includes the  American Civil Liberties Union . It’s
seeking to require the government to obtain a search warrant to
get online documents.  In July, the company sued the federal government after the
U.S. Government Accountability Office recommended that the
bidding process for cloud-computing services be reopened after
Amazon initially had won a $600 million contract.  Political Contributions  Amazon’s political action committee contributed $55,000
from January through June, more than double the $23,500 in
donations it made during the same period two years earlier,
Federal Election Commission reports show.  Bezos’s only personal campaign contribution from 2009 to
2013 was the maximum $4,800 to Senator  Patty Murray , a Democrat
from Washington state, where he lives and his company is
located. He also gave $5,000 a year to Amazon’s PAC.  Bezos must consider the reputation of the Post going
forward as he acquires a newspaper at the heart of reporting on
and editorializing about Washington’s issues. Kelly McBride, an
ethics specialist at the Poynter Institute, a  St. Petersburg ,
Florida-based journalism training organization, says Bezos would
undercut the value of his purchase if he used the Post to
advocate for his business interests.  “He will have to create -- and I have no doubt that he
will -- a standard of independence and transparency in his
newsroom,” McBride said. “It doesn’t make any business sense
for it to become a mouthpiece. It makes business sense to do the
right thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 