-- Billionaire Barons Back in the Newspaper Game
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2013-08-06T15:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/billionaire-barons-back-in-the-newspaper-game.html
When I stepped down as the editor of
 Reason magazine  in 2000, I had no idea I was leaving behind the
business model of the future.  I left nonprofit publishing just as the Internet was about
to do to metropolitan dailies and many other periodicals what
television had done to general-interest magazines such as the
Saturday Evening Post and Collier’s: Destroy their businesses by
swiping their advertisers and giving their audience alternative
content free.  Now the future of journalism depends on the model I knew so
well in the 1990s: patrons and amateurs. The patrons underwrite
a relatively small cadre of professionals, while the amateurs
use other sources of income to subsidize their work. (Think of
all the academics writing here and elsewhere, or of the many
consultants churning out free columns and blog posts to woo new
clients.)  Jeff Bezos ’s purchase of the Washington Post and  John Henry ’s of the Boston Globe are the latest shift toward that
model. These new owners are following the well-established form
of family newspapers -- with a major difference. Old-style press
barons combined their civic-mindedness and personal
aggrandizement with the pursuit of profits. Their papers made
them rich.  Bezos and Henry, by contrast, aren’t really investors. Both
are immensely rich: Bezos founded Amazon.com and Henry made his
first fortune in commodities trading. They’re white knights
coming to the rescue of culturally significant institutions.
Like the fans sending pledges to  National Public Radio  (or
Reason) or the foundations funding  ProPublica  and the  Center for
Investigative Reporting , they’re patrons.  Cultural Shift  A world of  patrons and amateurs  can produce excellent work.
But it won’t reproduce the journalistic culture that newspaper
reporters, in particular, are accustomed to.  It means, first of all, abandoning the monolithic norms
established by American metropolitan dailies.  Beginning in the late 19th century, U.S. newspapers
developed a principle of objectivity based on the need to
deliver as many readers as possible to mass-market advertisers.
As more papers became monopolies and journalists
professionalized, the idea became ever-more entrenched.
Newspapers took a business requirement for broadly acceptable
content and turned into a definition of “ethical” journalism so
restrictive that it would exclude most magazines. (Vogue is not
“objective,” and no one wants it to be.)  At the same time, newspapers professed allegiance to
muckraking ideals -- “afflicting the comfortable and comforting
the afflicted” -- that required taking sides and in many cases
campaigning for controversial policy changes. Coexisting
uneasily, these two standards defined the culture of American
newspapers and, because of the sheer number of jobs newspapers
supplied, the culture of journalism schools, journalism prizes
and other norm-enforcing institutions.  Journalism supported by patrons and amateurs will, of
necessity, be more diverse: in content, style, viewpoint,
reliability and organizational forms. Money is fungible, but
passion is not.  The goals of patrons and amateurs are more varied than
providing a platform for department store ads. Some will want to
preserve 20th-century ideals of objectivity and investigative
reporting. Some will want to explore new forms of story-telling
or data analysis. Some will want to pursue social crusades, and
those crusades will themselves vary. Some will want to
demonstrate their high-mindedness or support for the arts. Some
will want to support political candidates, foster downtown
development or root for local sports teams. Some will, like
magazines, want to serve niche audiences, defined by lifestyle,
ethnicity, religion, ideology, education or enthusiasms.  Reader Focus  The second big shift complements this increased variety: a
greater emphasis on the audience’s experience. “The duty of the
paper is to the readers, not the owners,” Bezos  told  a Post
reporter.  Coming from the chief executive officer of Amazon, that
sounds like a restatement of the company’s emphasis on customer
experience over short-term shareholder gains. Coming from a
newspaper owner, however, it means something slightly different.
It signals a shift toward readers, rather than advertisers, as
the primary customers -- and toward reading, rather than buying
papers, as what the paper wants most from them. By buying the
Post, Bezos gives readers hope that they can get its reporting
even if advertising and subscription revenue continue to
collapse. For a patron, whatever his goals, reading is
fundamental.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies,” “The Substance of Style”
and the forthcoming “The Power of Glamour.” Follow her on
Twitter at  @vpostrel .)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Virginia Postrel  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 