-- Billionaire Soros Backs De Blasio in New York Mayoral Race
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-06T17:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/billionaire-soros-backs-de-blasio-in-new-york-city-mayoral-race.html
Billionaire  George Soros  endorsed New
York City Public Advocate Bill de Blasio for mayor, citing the
candidate’s opposition to police stop-and-frisk tactics and
support of pre-kindergarten and after-school programs.  Soros, 82, the hedge fund pioneer and philanthropist, is
chairman of the Manhattan-based Open Society Foundations, an
organization that supports free expression, human rights and
open government around the globe. He lives in Katonah in
Westchester County, where he’s registered to vote.  In a prepared statement, Soros said de Blasio, a 52-year-old Democrat, would work to reduce economic inequality and guard
against too much influence over elections by corporations and
wealthy individuals. He is competing against six other Democrats
in a Sept. 10 primary election to win the party’s mayoral
nomination. Soros, who has given the campaign $2,000, was
unavailable for interviews, said Michael Vachon, a spokesman.  “New York’s next mayor needs to possess conviction,
intelligence, and a clear vision for where they want to take the
city,” Soros said in a news release distributed by de Blasio’s
campaign. “Bill de Blasio possesses these qualities.”  Soros has acted as a philanthropic partner with New York
Mayor Michael Bloomberg, including a $30 million contribution to
the city’s Young Men’s Initiative, to help black and Latino
young men; $125 million to support after-school programs; and
$11 million to city arts organizations and initiatives.  Bloomberg Critic  In de Blasio, Soros has chosen a candidate who has
criticized several of the mayor’s policies, saying they have
favored wealthy New Yorkers in  Manhattan  and widened a gap
between rich and poor. Bloomberg, 71, is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Among the Democratic candidates, de Blasio has been one of
the most outspoken critics of the Bloomberg administration’s
stop-and-frisk police tactics.  Of 4.3 million stop-and-frisk searches on city streets in
the past nine years, more than 80 percent were of blacks and
Latinos, according to the New York-based Center for
Constitutional Rights, a nonprofit that has sued the city over
the practice. Less than 1 percent of those stops led to recovery
of a gun, the center has said.  ‘Powerful Impact’  De Blasio has also proposed taxing the city’s wealthiest
residents to pay for a $500 million program that would provide
universal all-day pre-kindergarten and after-class programs for
middle-school students. Soros said the plan would “have a
powerful impact on reducing inequality and improving the lives
of generations of New Yorkers.”  De Blasio placed second to City Council Speaker Christine Quinn in a July 29 Quinnipiac University  poll  of likely
Democratic mayoral voters, with 21 percent to Quinn’s 27
percent. Former city Comptroller William Thompson ranked third
with 20 percent; former U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner had
16 percent; and current Comptroller John Liu, 6 percent. The
poll had a 4.6 percentage-point margin of error.  De Blasio has raised $6.3 million from 5,631 donors,
according to his July statement to the city Campaign Finance
Board, which yesterday awarded him $2.2 million in 6-to-1
matching funds on donations of $175 or less. As of July 15, he’d
spent about $1.9 million, and had a balance of $4.3 million.
Board regulations place a $6.4 million spending limit on the
primary election.  In 1969, Soros created one of the first hedge funds, the
largely unregulated, private pools of capital whose managers can
participate substantially in profits. His bet against the
British pound in 1992 forced the Bank of England to drop the
currency’s link to the European monetary system.  Soros is ranked 26th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index ,
with a net worth of $23.1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  