-- Blackstone-Backed Senrigan’s Fund Gets First Inflow Since March
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-08-06T01:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/blackstone-backed-senrigan-s-fund-gets-first-inflow-since-march.html
Senrigan Capital Group Ltd., the
Asia-focused, event-driven hedge fund backed by  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , has received more than $13 million of additional capital
from an existing investor, the first inflow since March.  The new money pushed up the fund’s assets under management
to more than $280 million, said Suzi-Kay Jacoel, investor
relations officer at Hong Kong-based Senrigan. She declined to
identify the U.S. institution, which was one of the top five
investors in the fund before the latest investment, citing a
confidentiality agreement.  The additional capital represents a vote of confidence for
Senrigan, whose assets topped $1 billion in April 2011 before it
was hit by the collapse of a deal that was once its largest
investment.  “Some investors indicated earlier this year that they
would add to the fund if they saw positive developments,”
Jacoel said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Senrigan started trading in November 2009 and is led by
Nick Taylor, who oversaw more than $1 billion for Modal Capital
Partners, a Credit Suisse Group AG hedge fund that he helped set
up in 1999. He went on to head Citadel LLC’s principal
investments business in  Asia  and  Europe  between July and
December 2008.  Senrigan invests in companies undergoing events such as
mergers and acquisitions.  Sundance Deal  It lost money from the collapse of Sichuan Hanlong Group’s
bid to take over  Australia ’s  Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL)  The deal
broke after Liu Han, the billionaire chairman of closely held
Hanlong, was reported by  China ’s Shanghai Securities News to
have been unexpectedly detained with his wife in China in March.  Senrigan Master Fund lost 14 percent in the first half,
according to a performance update sent to investors last month.
Without the Sundance investment, it would have generated a 5
percent return in the six months, it said in the document.  The fund lost 3 percent in June, with 2 percentage points
attributable to a Sundance-related markdown on what the document
described as a general sell-off in Australia before the end of
the tax year, it said.  A Eurekahedge Pte  index  of 14 Asian event-driven funds lost
3.6 percent in June as concerns about interest-rate increases in
the U.S. and an economic slowdown in China hit the stock  market ,
cutting first-half gain to 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  