-- Boeing Noses Ahead of Airbus in Pinocchio Ad Over Jumbo Claims
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/boeing-noses-ahead-of-airbus-in-pinocchio-ad-over-jumbo-claims.html
Airbus SAS suffered a setback in its
bid to brand as misleading a  Boeing Co. (BA)  advertising campaign
after a regulator threw out the complaint, saying the targeted
audience was sophisticated enough to make a nuanced judgment.  Airbus challenged a Boeing ad promoting the 747-8 jumbo’s
cost advantage over Airbus’s A380, which ran in trade
publications including Flight International. The British
Advertising Standards Authority, which rules on false
advertising claims, struck down the complaints, arguing the
professional audience for which the campaign was intended would
understand the underlying assumptions.  The spat, which led Airbus to take out a competing ad
showing a Boeing jet nose grotesquely elongated to resemble
Pinocchio’s, comes as the rhetoric between the planemakers
becomes more heated even as both enjoy record backlogs.
Executives from both companies have exchanged public barbs about
the inferiority of each other’s products and strategy.  In the case of the 747-8 advertisement, Boeing claimed its
plane delivered a 26 percent cost advantage over the A380 and 8
percent greater efficiency under certain conditions. In both
cases, the watchdog said the audience would not be misled and
instead use the campaign as just one of many pieces of
information required to make an  investment decision .  Trading Barbs  “We are pleased that our advertisements underlining the
advantages of buying Boeing products have been supported,”
Boeing spokesman Matt Knowles said by e-mail.  Boeing is still waiting on a ruling from the standards
board on ads taken out by Airbus, including the Pinocchio
depiction and another campaign unfavorably comparing its 737 Max
narrow-body airliner to the Airbus A320neo.  The two planemakers, which share a duopoly in the market
for large commercial jets, have been known to trade the
occasional jibe, accusing each other of making misleading
performance claims, while shying away from battling over safety.  Tom Enders , chief executive officer at Airbus-parent
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. in May accused Boeing
of using “rivets from Wal-Mart” on the first 787 Dreamliner
unveiled to the public in 2007, as he sought to contrast
Boeing’s struggles with its latest jet and the successful maiden
voyage of Airbus’s A350 wide-body model.  Enders’s comment followed a claim by Boeing CEO Jim McNerney that Airbus would need a brand new plane to take
Boeing’s updated version of the biggest twin-engine long-range
jet, a task for which the European company doesn’t “have the
appetite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  