-- BOJ Seen Adding Stimulus by June as 2% Inflation Elusive
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-08-07T02:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/boj-seen-adding-stimulus-by-june-as-2-inflation-remains-elusive.html
The  Bank of Japan  will expand its
record easing by June next year as inflation remains distant
from its 2 percent target, according to a survey of economists
by Bloomberg News.  Twenty of 26 analysts expect more stimulus in the next 10
months, while all said the bank would keep policy on hold at a
two-day meeting starting today. Consumer  prices  excluding fresh
food, the BOJ’s preferred measure of inflation, rose 0.4 percent
in June.  Koichi Hamada, a retired Yale University professor who
advises Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on monetary policy, said today
that Governor Haruhiko Kuroda should be prepared to add easing
if the economy falters after a planned sales-tax increase in
April. While the BOJ in July raised its assessment of the
economy for a record seventh straight month, the increase in the
levy and a slowdown in  China ,  Japan ’s largest trading partner,
could threaten the  revival .  “It’ll be really difficult to achieve 2 percent inflation
in two years,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at
Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in Tokyo. “A sales tax
increase will undoubtedly slow the Japanese economy and
inflation momentum.”  Economists are split on the timing of the bank’s next
easing. Five see stimulus in the October-December period; six in
the first quarter of 2014; and nine in the three months through
June, the survey showed. Five forecast more accommodative
measures in July or later.  Being Prepared  “Mr. Kuroda seems to be in favor of the consumption tax
hike,” Hamada said in a phone interview from his home in
 Connecticut , U.S. “In that case, he should be ready to use the
strong medicine of monetary policy if the economy falters.”  Kuroda should “accelerate monetary policy” if the economy
is precarious or unsteady in the first or second quarters,
Hamada said.  Japanese stocks slipped today as the yen strengthened. The
Topix index slid 1.8 percent as of 10:52 a.m. local time, paring
this year’s gain to 36 percent. The yen traded at 97.32 per
dollar as of 10:55 a.m., up 0.4 percent.  Yuji Shimanaka, chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. in  Tokyo , was the only analyst not to
forecast any further stimulus. He sees the bank starting to
taper its asset purchases from the latter half of fiscal 2015.  BOJ Projection  The bank last month confirmed a median forecast of board
members that prices will rise 1.9 percent in the fiscal year
starting April 2015 -- coinciding with the end of its stated
two-year time horizon for meeting its target. The projection
excludes the effects of a planned two-step sales tax increase in
April next year and October 2015.  The bank will add stimulus in the first three months of
2014 as the pace of price gains is slow compared to a BOJ
inflation forecast that is too optimistic, said  Kiichi Murashima , Citigroup Inc.’s chief economist in Tokyo.  Yasuhide Yajima, chief economist at NLI Research Institute
Ltd., predicts BOJ action in the final quarter of 2013 as the
nation’s economic outlook is clouded by a decision later this
year on the implementation of the sales-tax rise.  International Monetary Fund directors “generally”
supported the plan to boost the consumption levy, though “a
few” expressed concern over a possible hit to growth, the fund
said Aug. 5 in a statement. Kuroda said July 29 that the economy
can weather the tax rise.  Outlook Risk  “Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has not yet decided to raise
the tax so there is some risk that the growth and fiscal outlook
will change materially,”  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former BOJ official, wrote
in a report on Aug. 5.  Coupled with the Asian financial crisis, the last sales-tax
increase in 1997 helped push the economy into a recession and
cost then Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto his job. Prices
excluding fresh food  haven’t gained 1 percent  in any year since.  Monetary and fiscal stimulus under the banner of Abenomics
is supporting economic growth and boosting corporate profits.  Toyota Motor Corp., Japan’s biggest exporter, is
forecasting its biggest profit in six years as the yen’s 12
percent slide against the dollar this year boosts earnings from
overseas sales. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average has risen 39
percent this year, the most among major global indexes tracked
by  Bloomberg News .  GDP Expansion  Japan’s gross domestic product  rose  an annualized 3.5
percent in the three months through June, according to the
median forecast of economists ahead of preliminary data due Aug.
12. The economy is forecast to contract for three months
starting April next year, if the tax is introduced as planned,
before returning to growth.  Other factors that could persuade Kuroda to increase
stimulus include a slowdown in China, a potential strengthening
of the yen,  stagnation in Europe  and a lack of  wage growth  at
home, according to analyst Mari Iwashita.  “The biggest risk is developments in the global economy,”
said Iwashita, a bond strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
in Tokyo. “Any shock from abroad could drastically change the
BOJ’s outlook and force them to consider taking more steps.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  