-- Burbank’s Passport Sells Entire Agency Mortgage Portfolio
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-08-06T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/burbank-s-passport-sells-entire-agency-mortgage-portfolio.html
Passport Capital LLC, the $3 billion
San Francisco-based hedge-fund firm run by  John Burbank , sold
its entire portfolio of mortgage debt backed by the U.S.
government in the second quarter, according to a letter to
investors obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “When we recognized prospects in the agency space had
changed, we cut risk,” Passport wrote in the July 31 letter,
referring to mortgage securities backed by  Fannie Mae , Freddie
Mac or Ginnie Mae. The firm retained its holdings of home-loan
bonds without government backing, “viewing the prospects there
as brighter.”  Hedge funds  focused on  agency mortgage debt  have been
roiled since May by lower prices caused partly by signals that
the  Federal Reserve  may soon pare its bond-buying program.
Securities known as interest only and inverse IO notes, debt
that typically outperforms when interest rates rise, also
suffered amid speculation that a potential new overseer for
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac could expand the federal Home
Affordable Refinance Program.  Passport sold the agency debt in its $162 million M1 fund,
a mortgage strategy run by Jeff Kong and Raphael Gonzalez, and
in its $1.2 billion Passport Global Fund, which allocates to M1
and is run by Burbank, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Mortgage REITs  During the three months ended June 30, Passport bet against
certain real estate investment trusts that buy mortgage debt by
using options and equity, the firm said in the letter. Passport
largely exited the positions at a profit in early July, which
offset some losses in agency securities, according to the
letter. Shares of Mortgage REITs, which use borrowed money to
invest in home-loan debt, have dropped in the past three months
as the falling values of their holdings, amplified by leverage,
prompted investors to sell.  Pine River Capital Management LP, whose bets on U.S. home-loan bonds fueled the second-best hedge-fund performance last
year, has also bet against some mortgage REITs while wagering on
others, Steve Kuhn, the firm’s fixed-income trading head, said
last month. Pine River bought shares of mortgage REITs including
two run by ex- Freddie Mac  portfolio chief Gary Kain, Kuhn said
at the time.  Passport Global Fund rose 10 percent this year through June
and 19 percent on an annualized basis since inception in August
2000, according to the letter.  Passport had net redemptions of $768 million in the second
quarter, the firm wrote in the letter. The withdrawals came
after an unidentified sovereign wealth fund shifted its
investment strategy and reduced its allocation to Passport in a
separate account, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Katrina Allen, a spokeswoman for Passport, declined to
comment on the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  