-- Canaccord Returns to Profit as U.S., Europe Units Lift Revenue
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-06T20:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/canaccord-returns-to-profit-as-u-s-europe-units-lift-revenue.html
Canaccord Financial Inc. (CF) ,  Canada ’s
largest non-bank owned brokerage, returned to profit in the
fiscal first-quarter, lifted by its U.S. and European
businesses.  Profit for the period ended June 30 was C$7.9 million ($7.6
million), or 6 cents a share, compared with a net loss of C$20.6
million, or 24 cents, a year earlier, the Toronto-based firm
said today in a statement. Revenue rose 15 percent to C$187.2
million from a year earlier.  Canaccord said it earned 9 cents a share excluding
significant items, matching the average  estimate  of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Canaccord benefited from operations outside its home
country, which helped boost revenue and profit. About two-thirds
of the company’s global revenue was generated outside Canada,
according to Chief Executive Officer Paul Reynolds.  “This was a record quarter for our U.S. division and
another solid performance by our U.K. and European operations,”
Reynolds, 50, said in the statement. “While challenging market
conditions continued in some of our core markets,  Canaccord
Genuity ’s firm-wide cost containment initiatives continued to
deliver increase value for our shareholders.”  Canaccord will focus on further efficiencies through
“targeted investments” in back-office infrastructure and
upgrading support services, Reynolds said. The firm also said
it’s renaming itself Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. on Oct. 1.  (Canaccord will discuss its quarterly results tomorrow at 8
a.m. Toronto time at +1-647-427-7450 or 1-888-231-8191 or at
www.canaccordfinancial.com/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/Events.aspx.
Canaccord will hold its annual information meeting at 10 a.m. at
the TMX Broadcast Centre in Toronto.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  