-- Canadian Crudes Weaken as Suncor Oil-Sands Production Rebounds
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-08-06T19:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/canadian-crudes-weaken-as-suncor-oil-sands-production-rebounds.html
Canadian crudes weakened on the spot
market after the largest oil-sands producer,  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,
said output reached a record last month, increasing supplies.  Suncor’s oil-sands production reached 390,000 barrels a day
in July, the Calgary company said in a release today. Output
rebounded 33 percent from June rates, which were reduced as
Alberta pipelines were shut because of record flooding.  Western Canadian Select oil for September delivery weakened
by $1.50 a barrel to a $23.75 discount to U.S. benchmark West
Texas Intermediate oil, according to Calgary oil broker Net
Energy Inc. Syncrude light oil, produced from oil-sands bitumen,
lost 40 cents to trade at a $2 premium, the broker said.  “Our oil sands facilities have been producing at record
rates the past few weeks, and our refineries are operating at
near capacity,” Suncor Chief Executive Steve Williams said
during the company’s conference call last week. “Obviously,
this implies strong production through the second half of the
year and that’s exactly what we’re expecting.”  Production at another large oil-sands producer, Syncrude
 Canada  Ltd., declined 17 percent to 183,000 barrels a day in
July because of coker maintenance that’s expected to be complete
in early August, according to a statement by the project’s
largest owner,  Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. (COS)  Siren Fisekci, a
spokeswoman for Canadian Oil Sands, declined to comment on the
status of the maintenance in an e-mailed response.  WTI-Brent  Lower production from Canada contributed to the rise in
U.S. benchmark WTI oil last month, which exceeded international
marker Brent for the first time in almost three years. WTI
declined 60 cents against Brent to a $2.88  discount , based on
settlement prices.  WTI prices will fall to a $6-a-barrel discount to Brent by
the end of 2013 “as crude oil production in  Alberta , Canada,
recovers following the heavy June flooding and as Midcontinent
production continues to grow,” the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said yesterday in a  report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  