-- Canadian Stocks Fall as Commodities Slide on Fed Stimulus Bets
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-08-06T20:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/canadian-stocks-snap-two-day-gain-as-gold-energy-producers-drop.html
Canadian  stocks  fell the most in six
weeks, led lower by commodities producers as gold and oil
extended declines amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will
pull back on stimulus.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and Yamana Gold Inc. retreated 6.5
percent as the precious metal fell, capping the longest slump in
11 weeks. Athabasca Oil Corp. and Canadian Natural Resources
Ltd. slid at least 2.1 percent as  oil prices  dropped for a third
day. Paladin Energy Ltd. sank 5.6 percent to extend losses a
second day after the uranium producer agreed to sell new shares
at a discount. Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers Inc. jumped 7.4 percent
after raising its dividend and reporting better-than-estimated
earnings.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 133.93
points, or 1.1 percent, to 12,469.32 at 4 p.m. in Toronto,
snapping two days of gains. Today’s drop, the biggest since June
24, trimmed the gauge’s advance for the year to 0.3 percent.
Trading volume was in line with the 30-day average. Canadian
markets were closed yesterday for a holiday.  “The commodities are weak and it affects us more than the
U.S. market,” said  John Kinsey ,  fund manager  with Caldwell
Securities Ltd. in Toronto. The firm manages about $1 billion.
“Gold looked like it was starting to form a bottom for a while
there but now it’s breaking down. It’s been a big disappointment
for an awful lot of people. The Fed really gave all the wrong
signals and they’ve been trying to repair the damage ever
since.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month
that it’s too early to decide whether to begin paring asset
purchases in September. The comments helped gold rise 7.3
percent in July, the biggest monthly gain since January 2012.  Stimulus Cuts  The  S&P 500  fell 0.6 percent today, giving the benchmark
U.S. equity gauge its biggest drop in six weeks as speculation
the central bank would pull back on stimulus escalated. Fed Bank
of Chicago President  Charles Evans , who has been among the
strongest proponents of record monetary accommodation, said he
“would clearly not rule” out a decision to begin dialing back
the purchases in September.  Nine of 10 industries in the S&P/TSX retreated. Producers
of raw materials fell the  most , declining 3.6 percent to the
lowest since June. Energy shares slid 1.2 percent.  Barrick Gold, the world’s largest producer of the metal,
tumbled 6.5 percent to C$16.25 and Yamana Gold plunged 6.5
percent to C$9.31, pacing declines in the S&P/TSX Gold Index.
The gauge lost 5.9 percent, the most since June 26, with 23 of
its 24 members retreating. Gold futures for December delivery
declined 1.5 percent in  New York  for the longest losing streak
since mid-May.  Oil Slides  Athabasca Oil slumped 3.5 percent to C$7.37 and Canadian
Natural Resources retreated 2.1 percent to C$32.02. Crude for
September delivery fell for a third day amid speculation the Fed
will reduce stimulus, losing 1.2 percent in New York.  Francisco Blanch, head of commodities research with Bank of
America, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene  West
Texas Intermediate crude could slide $8 to $10 “unless there is
a major geopolitical event” to drive prices higher.  Crude jumped 8.8 percent in July for the biggest monthly
gain since August 2012, as U.S. inventories dropped and on
concern political instability in  Egypt  would disrupt exports
from the  Middle East .  Paladin Energy sank 5.6 percent to 68 Canadian cents, the
lowest since the shares began trading in 2005. The stock plunged
22 percent on Aug. 2 after the company said it failed to sell
part of the Langer Heinrich mine in Namibia. That prompted the
uranium miner to sell shares at a 30 percent discount to its
previous closing price in  Australia  to raise about $78 million.  Ritchie, based in Burnaby, British Columbia, jumped 7.4
percent to C$20.74, the most since May 2009. The industrial
equipment auctioneers posted second-quarter adjusted earnings of
28 cents a share, ahead of the average estimate of 27 cents
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company increased its quarterly  dividend  to 13 cents a
share, from 12.25 cents previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  