-- Canada’s Canola at Risk From Freeze Amid Delays, Oil World Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-08-06T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/canada-s-canola-at-risk-from-freeze-amid-delays-oil-world-says.html
Canola crops in  Canada , the world’s
biggest exporter, are at risk of frost damage after planting was
delayed and cool weather slowed development, Oil World said.  Canada’s production of canola, a variety of rapeseed, may
be about 15 million metric tons if plants are able to fully
mature before the first frost arrives, the Hamburg-based
researcher said in an e-mailed report today. Crop development is
as much as two weeks behind normal, and recent cold weather may
delay growth further. Some crops may not be finished maturing
until mid-September, leaving them at risk of frost in areas of
Saskatchewan, Alberta and Manitoba, according to the report.  “A frost in the fourth week of August would result in
significant damage in the Canadian Prairies, as it would hit the
canola crop before maturity is reached,” Oil World said. “The
impact could be substantial as a large share of the seeds would
remain green and thus be downgraded.”  Canola futures have dropped 17 percent this year on ICE
Futures Canada in Winnipeg, while rapeseed on NYSE Liffe in
Paris is down 22 percent. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
estimates global rapeseed production will climb to 64.84 million
tons in the 2013-14 season, the highest on record. The European
Union is the world’s biggest producer, followed by Canada.  “European rapeseed prices have been under considerable
pressure in recent weeks owing to increasing new-crop arrivals
and reports about higher-than-expected production in Ukraine and
several EU member countries,” Oil World said.  Ukraine’s Exports  Ukraine’s rapeseed exports may climb to 2 million tons in
the 2013-14 season that began July 1, more than 50 percent
higher than a year earlier, Oil World said. While the researcher
pegs the country’s harvest at 2.2 million tons, some trade
sources indicate production may be as much as 200,000 tons
higher, according to the report.  Ukraine’s rapeseed harvest started one to two weeks ahead
of normal, and exports in July may have totaled as much as
170,000 tons, a record for the month. Shipments were mostly
destined for the EU, Israel and  Turkey .  Pakistan  may have booked
at least 140,000 tons of rapeseed from Black Sea region
suppliers including Ukraine and  Romania , and the  United Arab
Emirates  probably will step up purchases, Oil World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  