-- Canada Housing Agency Caps Mortgage-Securities Guarantees
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-08-06T15:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/canada-caps-government-backing-on-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Canada ’s housing agency is rationing
the amount of mortgage-backed securities it guarantees, in a
move that may lift the cost paid by consumers to buy a home.  Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. said it will impose a limit
of C$350 million ($337 million) this month for each lender on
new guarantees, according to a  note  to financial institutions
published Aug. 1 on its website. CMHC said it was facing an
“unexpected increase in issuance volumes” that was causing it
to approach an C$85-billion ceiling.  Government-owned CMHC guarantees pools of mortgages that
financial institutions repackage as securities sold to
investors. The guarantee is backed by the Canadian government.  CMHC’s move may increase mortgage rates charged by Canada’s
largest banks by between 15 and 45 basis points, National Bank
Financial Inc. analyst  Peter Routledge  said in an Aug. 5
research note. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Smaller
competitors that don’t see their funding costs increase to the
same degree may benefit, he said.  The agency said it will introduce a “formal allocation
process” next month after consulting lenders about demand for
guarantees over the rest of the year.  The cap is the latest attempt by policy makers to cool the
nation’s housing market and contain the exposure of taxpayers to
a downturn. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty and the Bank of Canada
have warned that high levels of household debt pose a risk to
the financial system.  Home Sales  Housing-market data are showing few signs of a hard landing
even amid the warnings. Home sales in Toronto and  Vancouver ,
Canada’s two largest real estate markets soared in July, the
cities’ real-estate boards reported last week.  Under its mortgage-based securities  program , the housing
agency guarantees investors will receive principal and interest
payments if the asset’s issuer defaults.  CMHC can guarantee as much as C$85 billion this year in
mortgage-backed securities. At the end of last month, it had
backed C$66 billion this year, compared with C$76 billion for
all of 2012, the agency said in its note to lenders.  The agency also insures mortgages, and its insurance is
fully backed by the federal government. By law, Canadian
mortgages that have less than a 20 percent down payment must be
insured. The government has capped the amount of insurance CMHC
offers at C$600 billion.  Last year, the agency started rationing the provision of
portfolio insurance, which covers mortgages that had a down
payment greater than 20 percent.  Flaherty said in his March budget that mortgages carrying
portfolio insurance would eventually have to be securitized
through CMHC. The government said the change was intended to
restore “taxpayer-backed portfolio insurance to its original
purpose of allowing access to funding for mortgage assets.”  Flaherty tightened rules on insured mortgages for the
fourth time in four years in July 2012 on concern some regional
housing markets were overheating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  