-- Care.com Said to Pick Morgan Stanley as Lead Bank for IPO
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/care-com-said-to-pick-morgan-stanley-as-lead-bank-for-ipo.html
Care.com Inc., owner of a website
used to find babysitters, plans to hold an initial public
offering early next year and chose  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as the lead
bank, according to two people with knowledge of the decision.  Care.com, based in Waltham, Massachusetts, intends to file
to go public in a few weeks and wants to raise about $100
million in the first quarter of 2014, said one of the people,
who asked not to be named because the information isn’t public.  The company, which helps consumers find local caregivers
for children, seniors and pets, has been expanding globally and
making acquisitions, helping it to double revenue last year.
Care.com hired former  IRobot Corp. (IRBT)  Chief Financial Officer  John Leahy  as CFO in April, bringing aboard an executive with public-company experience ahead of a potential IPO.  Akhilesh Raina, a spokesman at Morgan Stanley, and Meredith
Robertson, a spokeswoman at Care.com, declined to comment.  Care.com,  founded  in 2006, raised $50 million in its most
recent round of funding last year, led by Institutional Venture
Partners. The investment brought the company’s total funding to
$111 million, founder and Chief Executive Officer Sheila Lirio Marcelo said at the time.  Last year, the company started service in the U.K. and
Canada and acquired Berlin-based Besser Betreut GmbH, boosting
its presence in Europe.  Business Model  Care.com makes money from online subscriptions, along with
the fees that providers pay to be listed on the website. In
addition, companies that offer off-site services, such as day-care centers, may pay referral fees. The company also has
corporate customers, including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.,
that offer Care.com as a benefit for employees.  U.S. consumer Web IPO filings have been scarce since
Facebook’s own initial share sale flopped in May 2012 -- only
real estate site  Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , travel search engine Kayak
Software Corp., and  RetailMeNot Inc. (SALE)  have gone public since
then. RetailMeNot has jumped 44 percent since its share sale
last month, and Facebook’s shares recovered to their IPO price
of $38 last week for the first time since their debut trading
day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  