-- Caterpillar Board Sued Over ERA Mining Machinery Merger
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-06T00:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/caterpillar-board-sued-over-era-mining-machinery-merger.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  Chairman Douglas R. Oberhelman and 13 directors failed to heed “red flags” that
should have alerted them the company was overpaying for a
Chinese mine-equipment maker, a shareholder said in a lawsuit.  New Jersey investor Michael D. Wolin accused Oberhelman,
the directors and Chief Financial Officer Edward J. Rapp of
breaching their fiduciary duties to the company in a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in  Chicago .  Caterpillar, the world’s biggest maker of construction and
mining machinery, took a $580 million writedown in January on
its 2012 acquisition of Hong Kong-based ERA Mining Machinery
Ltd. and its Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical & Electrical Equipment
Manufacturing Co.  “The red flags clearly show that Siwei was being
overvalued by Caterpillar senior management, including Rapp and
Oberhelman,” Wolin said in the complaint. The board “blindly
acceded” to the acquisition, he said.  Among the factors Caterpillar executives should have
considered were the Chinese company’s aging receivables and its
need for “an immediate $50 million cash infusion” to continue
operating before the deal was closed, Wolin said.  The allegations are based on documents Caterpillar provided
to Wolin after his lawyers demanded on Jan. 23 to inspect the
company’s books and records, according to the complaint.  Jim Dugan, a spokesman for the Peoria, Illinois-based
company, declined to comment on the complaint, saying the
company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Caterpillar acquired ERA for about HK$6.15 billion ($790
million) to gain factories that make underground coal-mining
equipment in  China , the world’s biggest producer of coal.  Accounting Misconduct  In a Jan. 18 statement by the company announcing the
writedown, it was attributed to “goodwill impairment.”
Caterpillar said it determined several Siwei senior managers
engaged in deliberate accounting misconduct for several years
before its acquisition.  Wolin seeks a court finding that the individual defendants
failed to protect the company’s interests and an award of
damages payable to Caterpillar.  Among those board members named as individual defendants
are San Francisco Giants baseball team owner Peter A. Magowan,
Abbott Laboratories Chairman Miles D. White and former
Republican Party presidential candidate and Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman .  The case is Wolin v. Oberhelman, 13-cv-05561, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  