-- CBS’s Moonves Attacks Time Warner Cable Plan in Blackout
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-06T20:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/cbs-calls-time-warner-cable-ceo-s-a-la-carte-proposal-a-sham-.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  Chief Executive Officer Les Moonves rejected a  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  proposal to offer his
channels a la carte on cable TV as “a public relations
gesture,” escalating a dispute that led to a blackout.  Moonves responded today to a letter by CEO Glenn Britt
after CBS called the plan a “scam.” Britt said yesterday he
would resume using the broadcaster’s programming if stations
were made available individually to customers. Subscribers could
choose which channels they wanted at a separate price for each,
and the money would go directly to CBS, Britt said.  “Are you really so reluctant to come to the same kind of
agreement that we have struck –- without incident –- with every
other cable operator, telco and satellite provider?” Moonves
wrote.  Time Warner Cable stopped broadcasting CBS to more than 3
million viewers in  New York ,  Los Angeles ,  Dallas  and other
markets on Aug. 2. The two sides have sparred over the fees that
New York-based CBS charges to retransmit shows over Time Warner
Cable’s system, as well as other issues, such as how content can
be streamed over the Internet.  CEO Answers  The a-la-carte proposal would “allow customers to decide
for themselves how much value they ascribe to CBS programming,”
Britt said in his letter.  Moonves challenged Britt by asking him why Time Warner
Cable isn’t selling its regional sports networks in Los Angeles
on an a-la-carte basis. Instead, Moonves said, all customers
that receive basic cable pay at least $8 a month for the
channels, “whether they want them or not.”  Time Warner Cable owns the rights to broadcast games of the
 National Basketball Association ’s  Los Angeles Lakers  and  Major
League Baseball ’s Los Angeles Dodgers, whose network will debut
next year. The cable provider sells the networks to other pay-TV
operators and includes them in their basic cable packages for
Los Angeles subscribers.  “We view your so-called proposal, then, as nothing more
than an attempt to muddy the water and confuse the public
discussion,” Moonves said.  Time Warner Cable is “disappointed” that CBS offered no
solution,  Maureen Huff , a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  ‘Under the Dome’  CBS’s networks include the Showtime and TMC premium
channels, as well as Flix and Smithsonian, which are blocked
from Time Warner Cable customers. Time Warner Cable is still
airing the programming in parts of the country where it has
agreements with the network’s affiliated stations.  The blackout, the first of its kind for CBS, entered its
first prime-time weeknight last night. That meant viewers
couldn’t watch an episode of the popular series “ Under the
Dome ,” based on a Stephen King book about a mysterious force
field that cuts off a small town from the rest of the world. The
potential loss of CBS’s football lineup next month is a bigger
threat, said  Brad Adgate , director of research for media-buying
agency Horizon Media Inc. in New York.  “They could ride this out for a few more weeks, but with
the start of the football and broadcast seasons, there will be
an outcry from subscribers to make a deal,” Adgate said in an
interview.  The showdown pits the most-watched network against the
second-largest cable company in the U.S. CBS is demanding $2 in
fees per subscriber per month, up from about $1, according to
two people familiar with the negotiations.  Seeking Compensation  Broadcast networks such as CBS, which offer programming
free over the air, didn’t traditionally ask for fees to transmit
their signals over cable networks. That changed in 1992 when the
Cable Television Protection and Competition Act gave the
networks the right to seek compensation from pay-TV providers.  Retransmission fees have steadily climbed since then,
though they remain lower than those for popular cable channels.
ESPN, owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , gets an average of $5.54 per
subscriber each month from pay-TV systems and is attracting an
average audience of 2.1 million this season, according to
Nielsen. CBS, meanwhile, is drawing 10.6 million people over the
same time period.  The talks also involve whether Time Warner Cable can
deliver CBS content online both inside and outside the home --
for instance, via tablet computers -- said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are private. Time
Warner Cable and CBS have declined to comment on the revenue at
stake in the negotiations.  Tiger Woods  Time Warner Cable subscribers affected by the blackout
missed  Tiger Woods  winning the Bridgestone Invitational by seven
strokes last weekend. The  PGA Championship , the last major
tournament of the golf season, begins in two days on CBS.  CBS has said that Time Warner Cable cut off service to gain
leverage at the bargaining table.  Britt has been a critic of rising programming costs paid by
TV distributors, and he’s attracted industry allies to his
crusade. DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-television
provider, said last weekend it supported Time Warner Cable
“fighting back against exorbitant programming cost increases.”
DirecTV had its own standoff last year, when it dropped Viacom
Inc. networks for 10 days before reaching a $600 million deal.  “If there was ever a retrans battle for the distributor to
fight, this is the one,” said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst with
BTIG LLC in New York. “This is a unique opportunity to push
back for the subscribers.”  Extended Deadlines  The two companies had extended their negotiating deadline
several times before the blackout started. Programming in some
areas was temporarily blocked on July 30 and restored about 30
minutes later after the companies agreed to keep talking.  The blackout is the first of a top broadcaster by a major
pay-TV carrier in New York, the largest U.S. TV market, since
Cablevision Systems Corp. shut down Fox for two weeks in 2010.  Shares of CBS, controlled by  Sumner Redstone , rose less
than 1 percent to $54 at the close in New York. The stock had
reached its highest price in 13 years on Aug. 1 after the
company reported an 11 percent increase in second-quarter
profit. Time Warner Cable, which has about 12 million video
customers, fell 1.9 percent to $114.26. The stock is up 18
percent this year.  As the most-watched television network, CBS ranks ahead of
Comcast Corp.’s NBC, Disney’s ABC and 21st Century Fox Inc.’s
Fox.  Using Aereo  Time Warner Cable, based in New York, has encouraged
customers to sign up with Aereo Inc. to watch CBS. Aereo is a
startup service, backed by billionaire  Barry Diller , that sells
access to the broadcast networks online for $8 a month. Aereo,
which pays no retransmission fees to broadcasters, is currently
being sued by CBS.  Retransmission fees have become a frequent sticking point
in negotiations between pay-TV providers and broadcasters, which
historically provided their signals for free. Pay-TV operators
will spend more than $3 billion in retransmission fees this
year, according to data compiled by research firm SNL Kagan.  “CBS wants to be paid like a cable network,” Greenfield
said. “Yet you don’t see ESPN putting their content over the
air for free or on the Internet for free. They were looking for
a big step up from Time Warner Cable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  