-- Charter Reports Second-Quarter Loss as Video Losses Accumulate
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-06T12:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/charter-reports-second-quarter-loss-as-video-losses-accumulate.html
Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the
fourth-largest U.S. cable company, reported a second-quarter
loss as TV subscriber defections exceeded analyst projections.  Charter’s net loss widened to $96 million, or 96 cents a
share, from $83 million, or 84 cents, a year earlier, the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based company said in a statement. Sales
were $1.97 billion, compared with the average analyst estimate
of $1.96 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Charter needs to show its pricing and promotional
strategies will pay off, said  Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI
Group in New York, in an interview before the results were
released. The third quarter must produce improvements in video
subscriptions and earnings, he said.  “This quarter is sort of a free pass because Charter
instituted its new triple play pricing last year in June, so
investors will be looking for double-digit year-over-year growth
next quarter,” said Jayant, who rates the company a buy. “Of
course, if Charter is involved in an M&A transaction, that’ll
change the narrative.”  The cable provider is studying mergers with bigger
companies. John Malone’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) , which owns 27
percent of Charter, is pushing the company to pursue an
acquisition of  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  or a combination with Cox
Communications Inc., people familiar with the matter have said.  Charter lost 48,000 residential video customers, a larger
decline than the 36,000 average estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Charter gained 40,000 broadband
subscribers, more than the 33,000 average analyst projection.  The motivation to get bigger is driven by increased
programming costs, Craig Moffett, an analyst at Moffett Research
LLC in New York, said in an interview. It’s the biggest reason
Malone and Rutledge are pushing for a merger to gain scale.  “Charter, more than anyone, needs to do something to
change the trajectory of programming costs,” Moffett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  