-- Chicago Offers $250 Million for O’Hare After City Rating Cut
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-06T21:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/chicago-offers-250-million-for-o-hare-after-city-rating-cut-1-.html
Chicago offered about $250 million of
revenue bonds for O’Hare International Airport, the nation’s
second-busiest, about three weeks after the city had its rating
cut three levels by Moody’s Investors Service.  The issue included a portion maturing in January 2023 that
was being offered with a yield of 4.18 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That was down from 4.21 percent
earlier in the sale.  Interest rates  declined across maturities,
and by as much as 0.13 percentage point.  The 10-year yield is 1.31 percentage points more than
benchmark municipal debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
O’Hare’s bonds have a Baa1 rating from Moody’s, three steps
above junk. The gap compares with a 1.44 percentage point
penalty on similarly rated revenue debt, the data show.  The sale shows that the municipal market “understands the
underlying strength of the Chicago economy,” Sarah Hamilton, a
spokeswoman for Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , said in an e-mail. “The
financing costs for the project will be extremely attractive.”  The deal is the first by a Chicago issuer since the city’s
general-obligation grade was dropped three levels to A3 from Aa3
by Moody’s on July 17. A cut of that magnitude is unprecedented
for such a populous U.S. city, according to Moody’s data since
1990. Chicago has about 2.7 million people, trailing only New
York and  Los Angeles .  The extra yield investors demanded to own Chicago debt
jumped 25 percent in the week after the rating cut, pushing
interest rates to a two-year high. The O’Hare revenue bonds are
considered limited obligations of the city, backed by some
customer facility charges, though not Chicago’s taxing power,
according to offering documents.  The proceeds will finance a rental-car facility and
improvements to the airport’s transit system. O’Hare served
about 67 million passengers in 2012, according to Airports
Council International data.  Municipal airport bonds have lost 4.4 percent this year, a
bigger decline than the 4.1 percent drop for the broader $3.7
trillion market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. It
would be the first time since 2010 that airport debt
underperformed the entire market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  