-- China Stocks Rise for Sixth Day, Longest Win Streak in 4 Months
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-08-06T07:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/china-s-stock-futures-fall-after-5-day-rally-for-benchmark-index.html
China’s  stocks  rose for a sixth day,
the longest stretch of gains in four months, after automakers
rallied on improving earnings and Shenyin & Wanguo Securities
Co. recommended power producers on valuations.  Chongqing Changan Automobile Co. surged 10 percent after
partner Ford Motor Co. reported a jump in July sales. SAIC Motor
Corp. and Hisense Electric Co. led a gauge of consumer-discretionary stocks to the biggest gain among industry groups.
 Huaneng Power International Inc. (902)  surged 4.6 percent after
Shenyin & Wanguo advised buying the shares. Poly Real Estate
Group Co. fell 1.5 percent after the nation’s economic planning
agency signaled the government would maintain real-estate curbs.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.5 percent to 2,060.50
at the close, the highest level since July 16. Premier Li
Keqiang’s policies to boost domestic consumption are working
amid recent government data showing improvements in the services
trade, Zhang Haidong, an analyst at Tebon Securities Co., said
by phone from  Shanghai .  “Investors decided to bet on consumer stocks that will
benefit from key reforms boosting local consumption,” Zhang
said.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 10 percent
higher than the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The CSI 300 Index rose 0.7 percent to 2,293.64. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost 0.8 percent. The Bloomberg China-US
55 Index fell 0.8 percent in New York yesterday.  SAIC Motor, the biggest-listed Chinese automaker, climbed
5.4 percent to 13.34 yuan. Chongqing Changan, which last month
estimated first-half profit more than doubled, surged 10 percent
to 10.21 yuan. Ford Motor reported a 71 percent jump in vehicles
sales last month.  Growth Outlook  Macquarie Group forecasts Chinese auto sales growth in the
second half will exceed last year’s level, Janet Lewis, a Hong-Kong based analyst, said by phone today. “We’d be looking for
around ten percent growth for the rest of the year,” which is
an improvement from last year, Lewis said by phone today.  A measure of consumer-discretionary stocks in the CSI 300
gained 3.6 percent, the biggest advance among 10 industry
groups. Hisense Electric jumped 6.3 percent to 13.49  yuan . GD
Midea Holding Co. rose 3.2 percent to 13.86 yuan.  China is transforming its economy to focus more on domestic
consumption and less on smokestack industries, Premier Li’s
cabinet said last month. An official gauge of the services trade
accelerated for the first time since March, according to data
from the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing.  Domestic Consumption  Changes in China’s household-registration policies may
“unlock” consumption, JPMorgan Asset Management fund manager
Lilian Leung said yesterday from a briefing in Hong Kong. Leung,
who is positive on the long-term consumption theme, said
valuations of A shares are unlikely to see a further de-rating.  Huaneng Power jumped 4.6 percent to 5.87 yuan. GD Power
Development Co. climbed 2.6 percent to 2.36 yuan. Both stocks
were recommended by Shenyin & Wanguo Securities.  Valuations of Chinese thermal-power stocks have “safety
margins” and shares have priced in possible tariff cuts,
analyst Liu Xiaoning wrote in a report today. Power stocks trade
at 10 times estimated earnings for 2013, lower than the
historical average, the report said.  China  Vanke Co., the biggest Chinese developer, lost 0.6
percent to 9.93 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second
largest, lost 1.5 percent to 10.82 yuan.  National Development and Reform Commission Chairman Xu
Shaoshi said yesterday macro-control policies for real estate
will continue. Investors are getting mixed signals on the
property market after a Politburo report last week didn’t
mention any curbs, said Zeng Xianzhao, an analyst at Everbright
Securities Co. in Chongqing.  Upcoming Data  The Shanghai measure trades at 8.3 times 12-month projected
profit, compared with 10 times for the MSCI Emerging-Markets
Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Data on trade, industrial output and inflation are expected
to be released later this week. China’s overseas shipments are
expected to have gained 1.5 percent from a year ago, compared
with a 3.1 percent decline in June, according to estimates of 18
economists compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation is poised to quicken
to 2.8 percent in July from 2.7 percent the previous month,
according to another survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  