-- China Money Rate Falls as PBOC Lowers Reverse-Repo Yield
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-06T08:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/china-money-rate-falls-as-pboc-lowers-reverse-repo-yield.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped to a two-week low after policy makers lowered the cost
of funds for banks at an auction of reverse-repurchase
agreements today.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 12 billion  yuan  ($2
billion) of seven-day reverse repos at a yield of 4 percent,
according to a statement on its website. That compares with 4.4
percent on July 30, when the contracts were used in open-market
operations for the first time since January. The central bank
issued 14-day agreements on Aug. 1 at a yield of 4.5 percent.  “By lowering its reverse-repo rate today, the central bank
is aiming to guide interbank repo rates lower,” said Pin Ru Tan,
an interest-rate strategist at HSBC Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “The dovish policy tilt is obvious, so money-market rates
should still have room to decline.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of cash availability
in the banking system, fell 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage
point, to 4.14 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai, according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It touched 4 percent, the lowest since July 23. The
overnight repo  rate  was little changed at 3.12 percent.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, dropped four basis
points to 3.87 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of  China  will appropriately fine-tune
policies and strike a balance between stable economic growth,
structural adjustment, reform and risk prevention, according to
a statement published Aug. 4 after a meeting of heads of central
bank branches.  Gross domestic product increased 7.5 percent from a year
earlier in the three months through June, the least since a 7.4
percent gain in the third quarter of 2012 that marked the
slowest expansion in more than three years.  The yield on the government’s 3.38 percent bonds due May
2023 was little changed at 3.73 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. The  yield  on benchmark 10-year notes
has averaged 3.55 percent this year, ChinaBond data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  