-- China Vanke Rises on First-Half Profit Increase: Shenzhen Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-07T08:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/china-vanke-first-half-profit-rises-22-on-smaller-home-sales.html
China Vanke Co. (3333) , the biggest
developer by market value traded on the nation’s exchanges, rose
after first-half profit climbed 22 percent and as more property
companies seek the sale of new shares.  The stock added 0.5 percent to 9.98  yuan  at the close in
Shenzhen, the biggest advance since Aug. 2, after jumping as
much as 4.1 percent earlier. The developer’s  net income 
increased to 4.56 billion yuan ($745 million), or 0.41 yuan a
share, from 3.73 billion yuan, or 0.34 yuan, a year earlier, the
company said in a Shenzhen stock exchange filing yesterday.
Sales gained 35 percent to 41.4 billion yuan.  “The company has clear earnings visibility,” said Zhenyi
Zhao, a Shanghai-based property analyst at Industrial Securities
Co. “It had a very good sales, outperforming the peers in the
first half of the year. It also invested well in the land market
at good prices.”  The profit gain comes as more Chinese developers seek to
resume share sales on the country’s mainland exchanges in the
past week, adding to signs that the government may allow the
financing to proceed.  Sundy Land Investment Co. (600077) , a Shenyang-based developer,
plans to raise as much as 1.5 billion yuan ($245 million) in a
private placement to finance two housing projects, the company
said in a statement to  Shanghai Stock Exchange  yesterday.  China
Merchants Property Development Co. (000024) , the country’s third-biggest
developer by market value, plans to sell shares to buy assets,
according to a statement posted to Shenzhen Stock Exchange.  Property Stocks  The  gauge  tracking property shares on  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.7 percent to the highest since July 17, after
climbing as much as 2.4 percent earlier. It also increased the
most among the five industry groups in the benchmark measure,
which lost 0.7 percent.  The planned share sales reinforce expectations that
regulators will ease limits on fundraising by developers,
according to  Haitong International Securities Group Ltd. (665)   “These companies must have received some signal that the
government will gradually ease refinancing for developers,
otherwise they wouldn’t announce such plans,” said Hugo Hou, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Haitong. “It will be good news for
the industry, because the availability of more options will
lower fundraising costs for developers.”  For Vanke, about 90 percent of its projects comprised of
homes of less than 144 square meters (1,550 square feet) each in
the first half, the company said. That helped boost sales even
as the government stepped up a three-year campaign to cool
housing prices in March, including ordering the central bank to
raise down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities
with excessive cost gains.  Strong Sales  “The developer’s strong sales in the first half helped
boost the earnings,” Jack Gong, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at Orient Finance, said before the earnings
announcement. “It also adopted an active land purchasing
strategy, which will sustain Vanke’s future growth.”  Contracted sales in the first seven months rose 34 percent
to 97.7 billion yuan, the company said in a separate statement
yesterday. Chinese developers begin selling homes while they are
under construction and book profits upon completion.  “Land markets in certain cities showed signs of
overheating,” Vanke President Yu Liang said in an-emailed
statement. “With the increase in land supply in the second half
of the year, in particular in the fourth quarter, the market is
expected to become more rational.”  Vanke had 37.6 billion yuan of cash at the end of June, it
said, compared with 52.3 billion yuan at the end of last year.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , a state-controlled
developer, the first among major Chinese developers to report
interim earnings, said on Aug. 5 that first-half profit climbed
32 percent to HK$11 billion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  