-- Singapore Land Bids ‘Suicidal’ With Rules, Billionaire Kwek Says
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-08-06T06:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/city-developments-net-income-rises-48-on-asset-sales.html
Buying land in Singapore at current
high prices would be “suicidal” given the government’s
requirement that new homes must be sold within two years of
completion,  City Developments Ltd. (CIT)  Chairman Kwek Leng Beng said.  Developers of land for high-end residential projects are
subject to conditions of a so-called qualifying certificate,
which includes the two-year deadline, according to the city-state’s rules. Developers can apply for an extension after
paying a fee.  “With these qualifying certificates, it will be suicidal
to keep buying land at high prices just because we want a land
bank,” Kwek said at a press conference in Singapore today. He
forecasts Singapore’s private home prices will decline as much
as 5 percent over the next year due to the government’s property
curbs.  The billionaire chairman of Singapore’s second-biggest
developer is bracing for “stronger headwinds” after record
home prices amid low interest rates raised concerns of a housing
bubble, prompting the government to widen a four-year campaign
in January to curb speculation in  Asia ’s second-most expensive
housing market.  The government increased stamp duties for home buyers by 5
percentage points to 7 percentage points in January and set loan
limits in June.  “The global economy remains fragile and unpredictable,”
Kwek said in a statement today. “Domestically, with the latest
round of property cooling measures which has been the most
effective to date, the group expects stronger headwinds in the
second half.”  Profit Rises  City Developments also said second-quarter profit rose 48
percent on asset sales and property development.  Net income 
climbed to S$203.8 million ($161 million) in the three months
ended June 30, from S$137.7 million a year earlier, it said in a
Singapore exchange statement. Sales gained 1.8 percent to
S$801.6 million.  Profits were boosted by the sale of an industrial site at
100G Pasir Panjang in the quarter ended June, the company said.
The property development segment was the second-highest
contributor, adding 23 percent to pretax profit, according to
the statement.  Over-Leveraged Buyers  The central bank estimates that between 5 percent and 10
percent of borrowers have probably over-leveraged on their
property purchases with total debt service payment at more than
60 percent of their income, Monetary Authority of Singapore’s
Managing Director Ravi Menon said on July 23. Low  interest
rates , growing leverage, and surging property prices pose
significant risks to financial stability, he said.  The volume of private residential sales is more measured
and prices are expected to moderate in the mass market segment,
due to a tightening of bank borrowings, the company said in the
statement.  The company’s  shares  fell 1.1 percent to S$10.58 as of 1:32
p.m. in Singapore trading. The stock has dropped 7.4 percent in
the past three months, compared with the 10 percent decline for
the  Singapore property index .  The group started offering homes at the 616-unit Jewel @
Buangkok in June, selling 203 of 280 apartments released during
its first weekend preview, the developer said.  Its D’Nest project, a 912-unit joint venture condominium
located at Pasir Ris Grove, has been 91 percent sold, while
Bartley Ridge, a 868-home joint development it started marketing
in end-March, has sold more than 75 percent of the project, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  