-- Cnooc Parent Said to Weigh Up to $3 Billion Dollar-Bond Sale
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2013-08-06T02:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/cnooc-parent-said-to-weigh-up-to-3-billion-dollar-bond-offering.html
China  National Offshore Oil Corp.,
the parent of the nation’s biggest offshore energy explorer, is
considering raising as much as $3 billion in a sale of dollar-denominated bonds, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The state-backed company hasn’t made a final decision on
the size of the offering, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the deliberations are private.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , its
listed unit, in May raised $4 billion in the biggest dollar-bond
sale from Asia outside of  Japan  in more than nine years.  Chinese dollar-bond sales are showing signs of a revival
after yields fell from a peak in June. Firms from  China
Petroleum and Chemical Corp.  to China Huaneng Group Corp. sold a
record $22.8 billion of dollar-denominated notes in the second
quarter, before interest-rate jitters froze the market, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Liu Xiaobiao, China National Offshore’s Beijing-based
spokesman, didn’t respond to phone calls, e-mails and a text
message seeking comment.  Yields on Chinese dollar bonds  declined  to 6.26 percent, as
of yesterday, from as high as 6.59 percent in June, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Bond Sales  China this month announced rising manufacturing and
services indexes and gains in gauges of business expectations.
Such reports could bolster confidence that Premier Li Keqiang’s
policies are helping prevent a deeper slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy, allowing him to pursue reforms that will
secure more sustainable longer-term expansion. China is still on
track to meet its 2013 growth target of 7.5 percent, according
to a July survey of analysts for Bloomberg News.  China National Offshore’s plans come as  China Longyuan
Power Group Corp. (916) , a state-backed wind farm operator, sold debt
in the U.S. currency yesterday. The company, which is based in
Beijing, raised $300 million in the third offering by a Chinese
company since sales froze in June, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Cnooc and its parent spent about $26 billion on overseas
acquisitions in the five years through end of 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, making it the second most
acquisitive Chinese energy company during the period. Cnooc
bought Nexen Inc. for $15.1 billion last year in the biggest
outbound takeover by a Chinese company. The proceeds from its
May sale were slated to partly refinance that buyout, stock
exchange filings show.  Cnooc’s 3 percent bonds due May 2023 were quoted at 89.9
cents on the dollar as of 10:42 a.m. in Hong Kong, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The securities priced at
98.477 cents, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  