-- Coffee Declines on Brazil Aid Delay, Falling Real; Sugar Rises
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-08-06T15:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/coffee-declines-on-brazil-aid-delay-falling-real-sugar-rises.html
Coffee fell for the first time in
three sessions as  Brazil , the world’s largest producer, delayed
measures that may ease a glut, and a weakening real boosted the
incentive to export beans sold for dollars. Sugar, cocoa and
cotton gained, while orange juice fell.  Brazil may announce a plan to support growers later this
week during President Dilma Rousseff’s visit to Minas Gerais,
the biggest growing state, Agriculture Minister Antonio Andrade
said in Brasilia, where the details were expected to be revealed
yesterday. The Brazilian real dropped to a four-year closing low
against against the dollar and is down 12 percent in the past
three months, the biggest drop among the world’s emerging-market
currencies.  “The weakness of the real is bearish for futures traded in
dollars as it has helped stabilize growers’ incomes” as
international prices fall,  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail today.  Arabica coffee for delivery in September fell 1.2 percent
to $1.182 a pound at 11:30 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
after gaining 3.5 percent the previous two sessions.  Raw-sugar futures for October delivery rose 0.1 percent to
16.57 cents a pound in New York, after retreating 2.4 percent in
the last three sessions. The real traded at 2.3003 per dollar
today after yesterday selling at 2.306, the weakest close since
March 2009.  “We’ve got to keep a very close eye on the dollar-real
right now,” Alex Oliveira, a trader at Newedge Group in New
York, said by telephone. “Any strength on the dollar against
the real would push the market further lower.”  Cocoa futures for September delivery advanced 0.5 percent
to $2,376 a metric ton on ICE. Cotton futures for December
delivery climbed 0.1 percent to 85.28 cents a pound. Orange-juice futures for September delivery declined 1.8 percent to
$1.3985 a pound.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  