-- Comac Said to Delay Maiden Flight for First Large China Jet
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-08-06T05:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/comac-said-to-delay-maiden-flight-for-china-s-first-large-plane.html
Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China 
will delay the maiden test flight of the country’s first large
passenger plane to 2015 from an earlier plan for next year, four
company officials familiar with the plan said.  Comac, as the company is also known, delayed the flight of
C919 because of certain procedures that aren’t linked to
technical matters, the people said, declining to be identified
as the information isn’t public. The Shanghai-based planemaker
may notify suppliers about the decision as early as this month.  China  is building the 168-seat plane as it tries to break
Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s stranglehold in the global market
for aircraft of this size. Last year, Comac asked its project
designers to work 12-hour days, and also Saturdays, to meet the
deadline for the maiden flight of the jet.  Comac said last year it had 380 commitments for the C919,
with most clients being Chinese airlines and lessors.  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  and CFM International, a venture between
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF) , are among its suppliers.  GE’s aircraft leasing arm has signed on to take 20 of the
C919 planes. Other customers include China’s big three airlines
--  Air China Ltd. (753) , China Southern Airlines Co. and China Eastern
Airlines Corp. -- and the leasing units of state-controlled
lenders such as Bank of China Ltd.,  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. (601398)  and Bank of Communications Co.  Bombardier’s Help  The China News Service reported the C919’s flight delay
late yesterday.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  last year said it plans to help Comac get
overseas approval for the C919 plane as the Canadian aircraft
maker has experience from winning approvals for regional and
business aircraft worldwide over 20 years.  The two companies said in March 2012 that the C919 and
Bombardier CSeries plane would share a common cockpit, paring
research costs and boosting the appeal of the planes as pilots
will be able to fly both of them with little extra training.
They also comitted to joint-purchasing of aluminum alloys.  Economic growth in China has boosted travel demand in the
world’s most-populous nation, spurring Air China and other
carriers to boost aircraft purchases. The country is expected to
have 4,200 commercial aircraft in 2020, compared with a fleet
size of 2,001 with 46 airlines, the Civil Aviation
Administration of China said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  