-- Combat Doesn’t Raise Risk of Suicide in the Military
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-08-06T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/combat-doesn-t-raise-risk-of-suicide-in-the-military.html
Neither combat nor being stationed
abroad increases the likelihood that U.S. soldiers will die by
suicide, according to a seven-year study of active and former
U.S. military members.  Rather, the risk factors for suicide are similar to those
seen in the civilian population, according to the study in the
 Journal of the American Medical Association.  People at higher
risk of dying by suicide were male, were depressed or bipolar,
and had alcohol-related problems.  The suicide rate in the U.S. Army surpassed that of similar
civilians in 2007, according to research published last year in
the journal Injury Prevention. The number of suicides has been
rising since 2004. Today’s finding suggests that the approaches
used to curb suicides by civilians will also work in the
military, said  Charles Engel , a colonel in the Army Medical
Corps who wrote an accompanying editorial.  “In the military, we don’t have to reinvent the wheel to
prevent suicide,” Engel said in a telephone interview. He
wasn’t involved in today’s study. “There are things tested in
the civilian sector that we have been making big efforts to
implement.”  One of the biggest problems in getting soldiers  mental
health care  is that they know their careers are on the line when
they see doctors, said Engel, who also is an associate professor
of psychiatry at Uniformed Services University in Bethesda,
 Maryland . Clinicians can remove men from a job or recommend
early retirement discharge. That makes the soldiers less likely
than the general population to seek mental  health services .  Like Civilians  “The answer has to be an effort to approximate civilian
standards of confidentiality,” Engel said. “Unless we’re
dealing with an imminent risk to combat or a tactical mission,
really we should be using civilians’ standards.”  About 150,000 current and former members of the military,
including the Army Reserve and National Guard, participated in
today’s study. By the end of 2008, there were 83 suicides.
That’s about equivalent to 12 people out of 100,000 current and
former members of the military dying by suicide each year.  While a  study  published by the Journal of Psychiatry
Research in 2011 suggested that deployment increased the
likelihood of risky behavior and psychiatric problems, the
authors’ findings suggest that isn’t the case as far as suicide
is concerned. The length and numbers of deployments and combat
experiences weren’t directly associated with an increased risk
of suicide.  Studies have shown that diagnosed mental illnesses have
risen among those in active-duty service since 2005, the authors
wrote in their paper. That increased risk factor may explain why
the suicide rates are the same for military members and
civilians.  The steepest increases in suicides have been since 2008, a
period the authors’ data doesn’t cover. Today’s finding doesn’t
rule out that the psychological aftereffects of multiple and
long deployments may be delayed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  