-- Company Bond Yield Premiums Decline to Eight-Week Low in Europe
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-08-06T10:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/company-bond-yield-premiums-decline-to-eight-week-low-in-europe.html
The yield premium investors demand to
hold corporate bonds in  Europe  dropped to the lowest in eight
weeks as company note sales slow and credit risk declines to the
least since May.  The extra yield investors demand for  investment-grade  bonds
in euros rather than  government securities  dropped 3.6 basis
points to 103.4 basis points yesterday, the lowest since June
11, Bloomberg index data show. Spreads on  high-yield  securities
narrowed 6.8 basis points to 396.5, the least since May 30, the
data show.  Borrowing costs have fallen since Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  reassured markets last month that there is no
preset course for the withdrawal of stimulus measures. The
Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 125
companies with investment-grade ratings declined 1.8 basis
points today to 92.6, the lowest since May 22. Issuance of bonds
denominated in euros stalled after sales fell last week to the
least this year.  “In recent weeks we’ve seen little new issuance, so the
supply-demand balance has been in favor of tightening,” said
Oliver Woyda, a  money manager  at Deka Investment GmbH in
 Frankfurt , which oversees about 20 billion euros ($26.5
billion). “The trend of rising interest rates, triggered by
concern of the Fed slowing stimulus, has stopped at least
temporarily which is also supportive.”  NAB Bonds  National Australia Bank is selling three-year covered
floating-rate notes in pounds, according to a person familiar
with the transaction, who asked not to be identified because the
details are private. The notes, which will be backed by
Australian residential mortgages, are being offered to investors
to yield about 30 basis points more than three-month sterling
Libor.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings fell 7.5
basis points to 384.5, the lowest since May 22. A decrease
signals improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers dropped 2.4 basis points to 132, also a
10-week low.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  