-- Concessions Seen for Telefonica-KPN German Merger
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-08-07T07:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/concessions-seen-for-telefonica-kpn-german-merger-to-win-eu-nod.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s bid
to combine their German assets has become an acid test for a
telecommunications industry anxious over whether regulators will
allow deals carriers say they need to spur growth.  Already  Germany ’s phone regulator has given Telefonica’s O2
and KPN’s E-Plus units two weeks to turn over details of
wireless frequencies so it can determine they’d be “efficiently
used,” and that the merger won’t hamper competition, according
to a July 25 letter from the Bonn-based agency.  The letter raised the prospect of a surrender of some
airwaves, which could water down the benefits of the 8.1
billion-euro ($10.8 billion) transaction and by extension
inhibit other carriers from attempting similar consolidation
moves, which regulators have said are key to rationalizing the
28-nation European Union market. Approval of the deal will
probably come with conditions such as asset disposals, according
to competition lawyer Paul Hughes.  “You’re looking at a reduction in the big players from
four to three,” said Hughes, European competition counsel at
Steptoe & Johnson LLP in Brussels. “No doubt, there will be
remedies required in the form of making available access to
wholesale network for virtual mobile telephony companies, for
making spectrum available to other players.”  Price Differences  The EU telecommunications market is inundated with carriers
spread over 28 countries. That creates a sevenfold difference in
the price of a domestic mobile call between the priciest and
cheapest markets across a region less than half the size of the
U.S., according to a  statement  yesterday from Neelie Kroes, who
is in charge of the digital agenda for the European Commission,
the EU’s executive arm in Brussels.  “It is critical for the whole EU to move quickly to build
a real single market,” Kroes said.  The combination of O2 and E-Plus, two of  Europe ’s fiercest
competitors, sets up the likelihood of more deals in a region
where phone companies struggle to keep up profitability and need
to boost investments in faster services. With earnings under
pressure, carriers from EE in the U.K. and Vivendi SA’s SFR in
 France  to Telecom Italia SpA and  Spain ’s Yoigo are considering
partnerships or share sales.  Combining forces in markets like Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, will help competition, not thwart it, Telefonica Chief
Operating Officer Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete said last month.  ‘Play Scale’  “There are too many players in Europe that if Europe as a
whole, as a region, wants to play scale, it needs to
consolidate,” he said on a July 25 conference call. “The
consolidation of the third and fourth should create an
infrastructure-based player that is going to accelerate
competition” in Germany with market leaders Deutsche Telekom AG
and Vodafone Group Plc.  Telefonica Deutschland spokesman Albert Fetsch and Stefan
Simons, a spokesman at KPN, declined to comment on the reviews.
Alvarez-Pallete said on the call he expects it will be approved.  Telefonica fell 0.7 percent to 10.71 euros at 9:43 a.m. in
Madrid, while shares of its German unit,  Telefonica Deutschland
Holding AG (O2D) , slipped less than 0.1 percent to 5.10 euros in
 Frankfurt . KPN dropped 0.6 percent to 1.97 euros in Amsterdam.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  has indicated
that he sees consolidation in the industry could be helpful,
saying earlier this year the fragmentation “preoccupies” him.  “Our merger control in this sector therefore becomes
especially important,” said Almunia in a speech in February.
“We have to ensure that the market structures that result from
the mergers we control remain competitive.”  ‘Diligent Review’  The day before the German regulator’s letter, Andreas Mundt, head of the Federal Cartel Office, said to German
newswire DPA that antitrust approval was “anything but a shoo-in” and requires “a diligent review.” Kay Weidner, a
spokesman for the cartel office, declined to comment on the
proposed merger, referring to Mundt’s remarks to DPA.  It remains to be seen how that will translate into the EU
review of the merger. Madrid-based Telefonica and KPN, based in
the  Hague ,  Netherlands , haven’t notified the regulator of the
deal and there is no rule on how soon they must put in their
application. Once they do, it triggers a 25 working-day
countdown for the commission to approve it or start an in-depth
review, known as phase two, that lasts about 90 working days.
Companies with significant deals often propose their own fixes
to the competition concerns they foresee in a bid to head off a
deeper look.  Irish Review  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s 1.3 billion-euro takeover of
wireless carrier Orange Austria last year faced intense
scrutiny. Hutchison, owned by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ,
received EU antitrust approval after agreeing to divest radio
spectrum and offer network access to new rivals. Li, which
agreed in June to take over Telefonica’s Irish assets, also
needs regulatory approval for that deal.  “Phase two isn’t a death knell anymore,” said Peter Alexiadis, an EU competition lawyer in Brussels with Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP. O2’s tie-up with E-Plus has “phase two
written all over it only because of the enormity of the market
and the level of consolidation.”  Almunia has blocked four deals since taking the post in
2010, including the 5.16 billion-euro bid by United Parcel
Service Inc. for TNT Express NV. Vodafone withdrew its attempt
to merge with a rival in  Greece  last year in the face of
commission opposition to creating a market with two operators.  Inevitable Tension  Part of the challenge is that EU merger rules look at
markets on a country by country basis given the lack of an EU-wide market for mobile telephony, Steptoe & Johnson’s Hughes
said.  “There will inevitably be tension between industry and the
competition regulator in Brussels,” he said. “The merger
regulation evaluates them on a national basis at a time when
they’re being told to become pan-European.”  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
declined to comment on how the deal might fare before the
competition authorities.  “If regulators allow the E-Plus deal, it will send a clear
message that similar M&A deals can happen and will be a huge
positive for the much-needed telco consolidation in Europe,”
said Espen Furnes, who helps oversee $75 billion at Storebrand
Asset Management.  “Regulators are now the biggest risk to the E-Plus deal,”
Furnes said, adding that it will probably be approved at the
end. “We’re likely to see more inner-market deals in the larger
mobile markets if this one goes through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  