-- Credit Agricole Rises; Profit Tops Estimate on Greek Exit
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-08-06T07:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/credit-agricole-rises-profit-tops-estimate-on-greek-exit.html
Credit Agricole  SA rose in Paris
trading after reporting a surge in second-quarter profit
following the sale of its unprofitable Greek unit.  France ’s third-largest bank by market value advanced as
much as 5.2 percent after posting net income of 696 million
euros ($922 million), up from 56 million euros a year earlier
and exceeding the 481.6 million-euro  average estimate  of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Credit Agricole is emerging from two consecutive annual
losses after selling its Athens-based Emporiki unit, a business
that cut earnings by about 370 million euros in the second
quarter of 2012. The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, also sold its brokerage units and boosted profit
at its corporate and investment bank.  The results reflect a “satisfying situation” for Credit
Agricole, even if “the economic environment remains fragile,”
Chifflet, 63, told journalists on a call. He reiterated that the
bank’s net income will be “significantly positive” in 2013.  The bank rose 4.4 percent to 8.19 euros by 9:13 a.m. in
Paris, bringing the gain this year to 35 percent and giving the
company a market value of about 20.5 billion euros.  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank, has climbed 17 percent this year,
while  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA  advanced  22 percent.  The three largest French banks reported combined profit of
about 3.4 billion euros in the quarter, the highest since the
Greek debt swap in early 2012.  Societe Generale , which also sold
an unprofitable Greek consumer-banking unit, said last week that
earnings more than doubled to 955 million euros on a surge in
corporate- and investment-banking revenue. BNP Paribas reported
net income of 1.76 billion euros in the period.  Leverage Ratio  Credit Agricole Group, the entity regulators and rating
firms look at for compliance with international rules, had a
common equity Tier 1 capital ratio under fully applied Basel III
standards of 10 percent at the end of June, according to the
presentation.  The  leverage ratio , which measures capital as a proportion
of total assets, was 3.5 percent, based on the company’s
understanding of how European authorities will implement
international standards, the bank said in the document.  The leverage ratio “won’t be a reason to engage a major
reduction of the balance sheet’s size,” Chief Financial Officer
Bernard Delpit said.  Regulators are questioning the risk weightings banks apply
to their assets, which are typically set by the lenders’ own
models, and calling for inclusion of the broader measure of
leverage. Under current Basel leverage proposals, banks would
have to hold equity equal to 3 percent of total assets by 2018.  Cost Reductions  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  will comply this year with a 100 percent
Basel III 30-day liquidity ratio designed to force banks to hold
enough easy-to-sell assets to resist a credit squeeze, the bank
said on its website. The Credit Agricole Group will comply with
the 30-day liquidity ratio next year.  Credit Agricole, like BNP Paribas and Societe Generale, is
pushing through cost cuts as sputtering economic growth curbs
lending. The lender said in February that it expects to reduce
expenses by 650 million euros by 2016 through changes in
 information technology , real estate and procurement.  Profits from Credit Agricole’s French regional-bank network
amounted to 256 million euros in the quarter, surpassing the 229
million-euro average estimate of four analysts.  Retail Lending  President  Francois Hollande ’s government is prodding banks
to lend more to help France emerge from a recession, while
cutting them some slack on other fronts. French banks were
spared a split of investment-banking businesses as lawmakers
passed a bill this month to segregate proprietary trading, the
first such move in  Europe . New French regulations are also
giving the lenders a liquidity boost of 30 billion euros by
letting them keep additional client deposits in tax-free
accounts on their balance sheets.  Cariparma, the bank’s Italian branch network, had a 31
million-euro profit, down 25 percent from a year earlier.
Cariparma’s loan-loss provisions rose 9.4 percent from the
previous year, the bank said.  Credit Agricole’s total provisions for bad loans were 680
million euros, a 14 percent improvement from a year earlier, the
document shows.  “We shouldn’t have any significant slide in the cost of
risk this half,” Chifflet told reporters.  Investment Bank  Profit from Credit Agricole’s  corporate and investment bank 
rose as revenue from  capital markets  and investment-banking
activities jumped 24 percent, when restated for the disposal of
its brokerage units and other 2012 adjustment efforts, according
to the presentation. Credit Agricole has no proprietary trading
and has stopped most of its equity-derivatives business, it said
in September.  Credit Agricole is seeking a 12 percent return on equity, a
profitability measure, at the corporate and investment bank over
the “medium term” by cutting fixed costs by about 15 percent
compared with 2011, the firm said in March.  At the savings-management division, which includes asset
management, insurance, private banking and custody, earnings
fell to about 410 million euros from 413 million euros, the
presentation shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  