-- Czech Interim Cabinet Gets Party Backing Before Confidence Vote
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-06T16:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/czech-interim-cabinet-gets-party-backing-before-confidence-vote.html
The Czech interim cabinet received
the backing from the largest parliamentary party, signaling a
close confidence vote tomorrow as parties clash with President
Milos Zeman’s effort to shape government policies.  The Social Democrats recommended its lawmakers back Prime
Minister Jiri Rusnok, the CTK news service in  Prague  said today,
citing a resolution from a party leadership meeting. While two
other parties also pledged support for the cabinet, the three
members of the previous ruling coalition said they hold a
majority that will vote against Rusnok.  A scandal of illegal spying and graft allegations sank ex-Premier Petr Necas’s government in June, throwing Czech politics
into turmoil. The three parties that backed Necas are trying to
return to power, locked in a struggle with Zeman, who picked
Rusnok against their will. The turbulence risks delaying
measures to revive the $196 billion  economy  mired in a record-long recession.  “Should the Social Democrats unite behind Rusnok’s
government, the vote would likely be very close and depend on
the quorum in the parliament,” Otilia Dhand, an analyst at
Teneo Intelligence in  London , said by phone yesterday. “Zeman
and Rusnok have already suggested that should the confidence
vote fail, the president would keep Rusnok in charge of
government in resignation for several months.”  The yield on 10-year government koruna debt, which reached
an all-time low 1.48 percent on May 17, has risen since the
start of the political crisis to 2.27 percent today, holding
below comparable U.S. Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  