-- Deutsche Post Raises Forecast as Mail Unit Charges Wane
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-06T08:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/deutsche-post-raises-forecast-as-mail-unit-charges-wane.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , Europe’s largest
postal service, raised its earnings forecast for this year after
fewer one-time costs at the mail unit hurt second-quarter
profit, lifting the stock to its highest in more than 5 years.  Earnings before interest and taxes at the mail division
will reach 1.15 billion euros ($1.53 billion) to 1.25 billion
euros, 50 million euros more than previously forecast, the Bonn-based company said today. Group Ebit will total 2.75 billion
euros to 3 billion euros, it said. Second-quarter Ebit rose 14
percent to 619 million euros, beating the average analyst
estimate of 602 million euros  compiled by Bloomberg.   “Our strength in the international express business and in
Germany’s parcel market has paid off once again in the past few
months,” Chief Executive Officer Frank Appel said in a
statement. “Our focus on cash flow generation is also
increasingly bearing fruit.”  The company has avoided most of the effects of the  European
debt crisis  that has left freight companies struggling to
maintain earnings amid recessions in Europe that have pushed
unemployment in some countries to record highs. Deutsche Post
has focused on expansion of express-package and cargo businesses
in  emerging markets  while seeking to stabilize the mail unit’s
earnings.  Mail Earnings  The shares rose as much as 1.03 euros, or 4.8 percent, to
22.34 euros, the highest since May 28, 2008. They have gained 34
percent this year, in the third-best performance on the 22-stock
Bloomberg Europe Transportation Index, valuing the company at
26.9 billion euros.  Second-quarter Ebit at the letter-delivery division surged
to 223 million euros from 38 million euros a year earlier, when
profit was reduced by a value-added tax payment to  Germany ’s
government, Deutsche Post said in an online  presentation .  The express-package, freight-handling and forwarding
operations that use the DHL brand posted second-quarter sales
growth of 1.3 percent in Latin America and 4.3 percent in the
Asia-Pacific region, excluding acquisitions or disposals.  Ebit at the express unit declined 17 percent because of a
year-earlier boost from disposals and the release of a
provision. Excluding those effects, earnings increased 17
percent, Deutsche Post said. Profit at the supply-chain business
declined 22 percent because of charges from a sale and a
restructuring.  No Tailwind  Time-definite express shipments handled daily rose by an
average 7.8 percent, while parcel volume in Germany advanced 6.9
percent a day. Air freight volume declined 5.7 percent, while
ocean freight volume slid 1 percent. Global freight and
forwarding revenue fell 4.3 percent, excluding acquisitions or
disposals.  “As expected, we don’t have much tailwind from the
economy,” Chief Financial Officer Larry Rosen said in an
interview posted on the company’s website. “We really saw the
effects of the economic environment most in our global
forwarding business.”  Clients are switching some shipments from air to cheaper
sea routes, while high-tech products such as smartphones and
tablets use less space and weight than personal computers and
laptops did in the past, Rosen said on a conference call.
Revenue in express grew slower than volumes, indicating weaker
pricing.  United Parcel Service Inc (UPS) , the world’s largest package-delivery company, on July 23 said customers are shying away from
pricier overnight packages to cheaper two-day and deferred
offerings.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the world’s largest cargo airline, on
June 19 said revenue from its most-expensive international
shipments declined.  Deutsche Post group profit by 2015 will amount to 3.35
billion euros to 3.55 billion euros, the company reiterated
today. Growth in net income  this year  will outpace the
improvement in operating profit, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  