-- Dish, Charter Customer Losses Fuel Pay-TV Merger Speculation
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-06T20:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/dish-reports-second-quarter-loss-on-declining-customer-numbers.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and  Charter
Communications Inc. (CHTR)  posted second-quarter results hurt by video-subscriber defections and programming costs, fueling speculation
they’ll seek mergers to improve results.  Dish, the third-largest U.S. pay-TV company by customers,
and Charter, the eighth-biggest, both may look to combine with
competitors as a way to gain leverage in negotiations with TV
networks to carry their programming, according to  Paul Sweeney ,
an analyst at Bloomberg Industries. Both companies reported
second-quarter losses today.  “The logic seems to be that challenging subscriber trends
only highlight the need for consolidation to drive down costs in
a mature industry,” Sweeney said. “Investors clearly expect
the remainder of 2013 to be active.”  Dish’s most likely partner is  DirecTV (DTV) , the second-largest
pay-TV company and biggest satellite-TV provider, said Jaison Blair, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York . The two
largest satellite-TV providers attempted to merge in 2002, and
the deal was struck down by regulators.  Dish lost about 78,000 customers in the second quarter,
more than the 37,000 average decline estimated by 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. About 48,000 residential-video customers
left Charter, a larger decline than the 36,000 average estimate
of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , rose less than 1
percent to $44.91 at the close in New York. Charter fell 2.4
percent to $127.05.  ‘Materially Different’  The pay-TV industry is “materially different than the last
time we tried to merge,” Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said
during today’s earnings conference call, referring to the
presence of AT&T Inc.’s U-verse and Verizon Communications
Inc.’s FiOS, which have more than 10 million video customers
combined, and online video distributors including Netflix Inc.
and Hulu LLC.  “We would certainly look at DirecTV and putting Dish and
DirecTV together because we think that’s obviously something
that makes a lot of sense strategically,” Ergen said. “That
doesn’t mean -- we look at a lot of deals that don’t get done.”  DirecTV Chief Executive Officer Mike White said during his
company’s earnings conference call last week that higher
programming costs from content companies, such as Walt Disney
Co. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal, are making consolidation
more appealing.  “Further industry consolidation does make sense to help
address what I think are unsustainable cost increases for the
average customer,” White said.  Malone’s Influence  Consolidation in the cable business may be the driving
force that pushes Dish and DirecTV together, Ergen said.
Charter, for one, is studying mergers with larger cable
companies, people familiar with the matter have said.  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp., which owns 27 percent of
Charter, is pushing the company to pursue an acquisition of  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  or a combination with Cox Communications Inc.,
the fourth- and seventh-largest pay-TV companies, the people
said.  “Our big opportunity is to take advantage of our inherent
strengths and grow our share,” Charter Chief Executive Officer
 Tom Rutledge  said during today’s earnings conference call. “In
terms of timing of M&A, I think Charter can be extremely
successful without it and potentially with the right deal be
even more successful.”  Dish’s disappointing subscriber numbers are less important
than its company strategy and potential wireless plans, said
Blair of Telsey Advisory Group. Dish was thwarted earlier this
year in its attempts to buy Sprint Nextel Corp. and Clearwire
Corp. -- deals that would have let the company take advantage of
its stockpile of wireless spectrum.  T-Mobile Challenge  Acquiring T-Mobile US Inc., the fourth-largest U.S.
wireless provider, “may be a challenge we wouldn’t feel
comfortable taking on,” Ergen said, now that the largest
industry players have gained strength. Sprint and Clearwire are
together under  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s management, and AT&T agreed to
acquire Leap Wireless International Inc. last month.  Instead, a Sprint partnership may be “an interesting
fit,” Ergen said, despite losing out on the opportunity to
acquire the third-largest U.S. wireless provider to SoftBank.  “They basically won an asset that we’d like to have,”
Ergen said of SoftBank. “We gave our best shot to get it. And
sometimes, your best isn’t enough, but their best was better
than ours. Well, I like those kind of people, right? I like
people that are better than us. I want to hire people that are
better than us, and I’d like to work with people that are better
than us.”  Earnings Results  Dish’s net loss was $11 million, or 2 cents a share,
compared with net income of $226 million, or 50 cents, a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement.  Charter’s net loss widened to $96 million, or 96 cents a
share, from $83 million, or 84 cents, a year earlier, the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based company said in a statement. Charter
gained 40,000 broadband Internet subscribers, more than the
33,000 average analyst projection.  Dish’s average revenue per user rose 4.3 percent to $80.90,
compared with analyst projections of $81.11. Dish also added
61,000 net satellite broadband subscribers, bringing the
company’s total Internet customer base to about 310,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  