-- Disney Net Little Changed as ‘Lone Ranger’ Charge Looms
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-08-06T22:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/disney-profit-rises-on-cable-parks-to-beat-analysts-estimates.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest
entertainment company, said third-quarter profit was little
changed amid costs to market the box-office disappointment “The
Lone Ranger” and shrinking revenue at ABC television.  Net income rose to $1.85 billion, or $1.01 a share, from
$1.83 billion, or $1.01, a year earlier, Burbank, California-based Disney said today in a  statement . Profit came to $1.03 a
share excluding items, compared with the $1.01 average of 30
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the number of headwinds we faced, we are very
pleased with the financial results we delivered,” Chief
Financial Officer Jay Rasulo said on a call with investors.  Disney expects to record a loss this quarter of as much as
$190 million on “The Lone Ranger,” which cost $225 million to
make and has produced less in worldwide sales. The company’s
ESPN, A&E and domestic children’s cable channels, along with the
popular theme parks, continue to spur growth for Disney as film
profits slide and the ABC broadcast division struggles.  Disney fell 1.7 percent to $65.88 in extended  trading  after
results came out. The stock rose 1.6 percent to $67.05 at the
close in  New York  and has gained 35 percent this year.  Sales increased 4.4 percent to $11.6 billion in the period
ended June 29, compared with the $11.7 billion average of 27
analysts’ estimates.  Film Costs  “There has been a lot said I know about the risk of
basically high-cost, tentpole films, and we certainly can attest
to that given what happened with ‘Lone Ranger,’” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  said on the call. “We still
believe that a tentpole strategy is a good strategy. One way to
rise above the din and the competition is with a big film, not
just a big budget, but a big story, big cast, big marketing
behind it.”  Disney’s film studio posted a 36 percent drop in profit to
to $201 million due to pre-release marketing costs of the “The
Lone Ranger” and lower revenue from “Iron Man 3” compared to
last year’s megahit “The Avengers.”  “The Lone Ranger,” featuring Armie Hammer in the title
role and  Johnny Depp  as his sidekick Tonto, has collected $176
million in worldwide ticket revenue since its July 3 release,
according to Box Office Mojo, an industry website. Studios split
those receipts with theater owners and incur additional costs
marketing their pictures.  Cable, TV  Operating income at Disney’s media networks, the company’s
largest group, rose 8.2 percent to $2.3 billion. Growth in fees
from pay-TV services and advertising at networks, including
ESPN, countered higher programing costs and lower revenue from
the ABC broadcast business. Sales increased 5.3 percent to $5.35
billion, Disney said.  Costs at the ABC network rose as the broadcast division
aired fewer shows made internally and acquired more programming
from outside producers, according to the statement. The ABC
network lost about 6 percent of its viewers in the TV season
that ended in May and saw a 10 percent drop in the younger
viewers that advertisers target, according to Nielsen data.  Investments and an improving economy lifted profit at
Disney resorts and theme parks, where earnings increased 9.4
percent to $689 million on 7 percent higher attendance and more
spending by tourists.  The company said projects such as MyMagic+, a wristband for
guests that serves as an admission ticket, room key and credit
card, led to higher costs. The Florida parks are benefiting from
the new Disney’s Art of Animation resort and the expansion of
the Magic Kingdom.  Consumer products operating income rose 4.8 percent to $219
million, while losses at the company’s interactive division
increased to $58 million from $42 million a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  