-- Euro at Almost 7-Week High After German Orders Climb
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-06T21:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/dollar-advances-versus-yen-amid-fed-outlook-aussie-jumps.html
The euro traded at almost a seven-week high against the dollar after a report showed  Germany ’s
 factory orders  rebounded in June more than economists forecast,
adding to signs the region is recovering.  The 17-nation currency rose versus most of its 16 major
counterparts after separate data showed Italy’s recession eased
in the second quarter. The yen touched an almost six-week high
versus the greenback. The Australian dollar gained for a second
day against the U.S. currency after the central bank damped
expectations of further interest-rate cuts after reducing its
benchmark to a record low.  “Stronger-than-expected German factory orders have been
encouraging and support the view that, economically, the
European outlook is finally beginning to turn,”  Camilla Sutton ,
head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , wrote in a
note to clients.  The euro gained 0.4 percent to $1.3305 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time after rising to $1.3345 on July 31, the highest level since
June 19. The common currency fell 0.2 percent to 130.05 yen.
 Japan ’s currency rose 0.6 percent to 97.74 yen per dollar after
reaching 97.51, the strongest since June 26.  Rand, Zloty  The South African rand fell versus all 16 of its major
peers as an expansion in U.S. service industries in July
supported speculation that the  Federal Reserve  is poised to
reduce monetary stimulus. The currency decreased 0.9 percent to
9.9342 per dollar.  Poland’s zloty rose against most of its 31 most-traded
counterparts after the increase in German factory orders. The
zloty appreciated 0.5 percent to 3.1616 per dollar after
touching 3.1568, its strongest level since June 14.  The British pound weakened for the first time in four days
against the euro before Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
presents a review tomorrow for implementing forward guidance in
the U.K. Sterling depreciated 0.4 percent to 86.69 pence per
euro.  The euro has strengthened 5.8 percent this year, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 4.8
percent, while the yen slumped 8.2 percent.  A measure of price fluctuations among Group of Seven
currencies fell for a fourth day. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7
Volatility Index declined to 9.42 percent, the lowest intraday
level in almost two weeks.  ‘Fully Valued’  German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, increased 3.8 percent from May, when they fell 0.5
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Analysts
forecast a gain of 1 percent in June, according to the median of
42 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  “The euro is looking pretty fully valued versus the dollar
here,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . “The data is
telling us we’ve probably hit the bottom in the euro area and
we’re heading towards some modest growth. Whilst we’re seeing
some degree of improvement it’s a much slower recovery than
we’re seeing elsewhere.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week
that economic indicators signal the euro region is past the
worst of its longest-ever recession, while reiterating that
 interest rates  will stay low for the foreseeable future.  The euro’s gains were limited after ECB Chief Economist
Peter Praet said interest rates may be cut from a record-low 0.5
percent.  ‘Neutral Bias’  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  trimmed
the overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to
2.5 percent and said the central bank’s board “has previously
noted that the inflation outlook could provide some scope to
ease policy further.” That contrasted with last month’s view
that the outlook for prices “may provide some scope for further
easing.”  “They haven’t said that they have more room to cut
rates,” said David Forrester, a senior vice president for Group
of 10 currency strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  Singapore .
“It’s considered more of a neutral bias than an easing bias. I
think we’ll see a squeeze” higher in the Aussie, he said.  Australia’s dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to 89.85 U.S.
cents after sliding to 88.48 cents yesterday, the weakest level
since August 2010.  Trade Gap  The dollar briefly pared losses as the U.S. trade gap
shrank 22.4 percent to  $34.2 billion  from a revised $44.1
billion in May that was smaller than previously estimated, the
Commerce Department reported today in  Washington . The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 72 economists called for a
$43.5 billion deficit. Exports increased to an all-time high
while imports fell to a three-month low.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $33 billion, compared with $19 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $16.7 billion, the
largest share of trades at 50 percent. Options on the Australian
dollar-U.S. dollar rate totaled $2.6 billion, or 8 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 130 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Aussie-greenback options
trading was 12 percent less than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  