-- Don Graham Says Bezos’s Changes Will Succeed at Post: Interview
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-08-06T20:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/don-graham-says-bezos-s-changes-will-succeed-at-post-interview.html
Don Graham, chairman of  Washington
Post Co. (WPO) , agreed to an in-person interview at the  Washington 
Post’s headquarters in Washington, D.C. He discussed how the
Graham family decided on the Post’s sale to  Jeff Bezos , the
founder and chief executive officer of  Amazon.con Inc. (AMZN)  and the
billionaire’s vision for the future of the newspaper. This is an
edited transcript of the questions and his replies.  Question: Clearly this is a momentous day and a huge
decision. I’m really interested in how you came to this point.  Don Graham: Katharine, the publisher of the Post, is my
niece and the company has been in my family for a little more
than 80 years. Katharine and I literally grew up knowing from
very little that we were part of this family and we were proud
of it. Katharine became the publisher in 2008. Even before then,
the Post was going down in revenue. But 2008 and 2009 were
horrible years. The revenue has been down significantly for
seven years in a row.  We have innovated very successfully in terms of building
audience, in terms of the quality of our products, in terms of
our reputation but not in terms of offsetting the decline in
revenues. Our digital revenues have been growing, but they
haven’t been growing nearly enough to offset the decline in
print advertising revenues. So Katharine and I talked at the end
of last year or beginning of this year. We had no doubt the
business could stay alive under our ownership, but what we would
have had to do was innovate all we could and cut. For the first
time, to our surprise, we asked each other whether there might
be some person or company out there who could bring something
different.  Question: So this was initiated by your reflection?  Graham: By the two of us jointly looking at the future.  We
didn’t decide to sell, we decided to ask ourselves if there
would be a buyer. Yes, obviously we cared about fairness to the
shareholders to the company, but we also wanted to give the Post
the maximum chance for success.  Question: So how did you find Jeff?  Graham: We employed an  investment company , Allen & Co. LLC,
and Nancy Peretsman, who is a well-known person to work with on
behalf of Allen & Co. Nancy reached out to Jeff early. Jeff
expressed interest to Nancy and they had two long talks on the
telephone. Then there were a couple of months of silence.  Question: When was this, roughly?  Graham: I don’t know what month, but earlier this year.
Then, I had thought early on Jeff would be an unusually
wonderful buyer, but I didn’t expect him to come forward because
he’s so single-minded about his company. Jeff then reached out
to me with an e-mail less than a month ago and obviously, he had
been thinking about it for those interim months. So this wasn’t
a sudden or impulsive decision. It was a considered decision and
then he and I, face-to-face, spent about three hours talking in
meetings -- one hour one day, two hours the next day.  Question: When was that meeting?  Graham: Last month. I would say roughly three weeks ago.  Question: And that was the first time you’d met Jeff?  Graham: No, I’ve known Jeff for 15 years. It was the first
time we’ve discussed this face-to-face. We would have talked
late in the week of July 7 to July 13.  Question: And that meeting was here?  Graham: No, that was at a conference in  Sun Valley . But it
was two successive, pretty long talks. But Jeff and I had
talked. Over the years, I have sought advice from people who
know a lot about technology, which I do not, about what they
thought the future of the news business was and Jeff was
obviously someone I was eager to consult with. We talked a lot
about the time the Kindle launched because it interested me a
lot for the same reason that it came out when the iPad did. We
were very early on the Kindle -- I don’t think we were first,
but we were tied for first.  Question: The meeting at Sun Valley -- was it at a
restaurant, hotel room, office?  Graham: We sat outside on the back porch of the buildings
where the meetings themselves were going on and the second
meeting was at a typical rental condominium in Sun Valley that
was owned by Allen & Co. I’ve known Jeff long enough and I know
enough about his personal qualities. We had talks that centered
on the well-known problems of the newspaper industry. We ended
those talks and he said, “I’m still interested.”  Question: What’s your sense of what his vision is for the
paper and the company?  Graham: If there’s one sentence that everyone would agree
with from the newsroom to the printing plant, it is that every
year there will be a little more digital. People will read more
news on digital devices and a bit less every year in print.  The print business here is very strong, but the advertising
side is declining in revenues. The digital side has surprised me
by how big it is and how fast it’s growing. It’s growth in
revenues has been welcome, but big not enough to make the
crucial difference between growing and cutting.  Question: What about the publisher and the editor and the
staff?  Graham: Everybody on the staff will go with him. A binding
agreement has been reached between the Post Co. and Jeff that
isn’t a complete, definitive agreement, but it is a binding
contract. It looks forward to a definitive agreement, possibly
within the next 60 days.  Question: How did you decide on the price?  Graham: I told Jeff what I thought would be a fair price
and he agreed to it. I was informed by conversations with other
potential buyers.  Question: Has Jeff said to you where he sees the business
developing? Is this a revolution in the newspaper business?  Graham: I hope so, but Jeff is not coming in with a plan.
He personally isn’t going to come in and do development work on
the newspaper -- that’s not what’s going to happen. But if
you’re Jeff, or one of the great technologists in the country,
you know everybody. And Jeff knows how to get people together to
develop successful changes in what we do. But first he’s going
to have to think about it. And he’s going to have to get
familiar with why we aren’t growing in the first place, where
news comes from, what our readers want. One of the wonderful
things in Jeff’s statement is that it’s all going to begin with
readers, which is also what Eugene Meyers said when he bought
the paper in 1933.  Question: How do you feel? What kept you up at night about
this?  Graham: When we started this, every member of my family and
every member of management had the same reaction when we started
thinking about this. Great surprise. None of us had ever
imagined doing this. Then, when we think about what Jeff brings,
that part is pretty obvious. None of us -- me, Katharine or any
other member of the Post Co. or my family wanted to sell. But
what I described is what led me to think of it. He says in the
statement that we don’t have certainty, but we’re going to try
and that I find very exciting. This could be a very exciting
place to be.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net  