-- Dragon Looks to Export Turkmen Gas After Talks With Nation Stall
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-08-06T09:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/dragon-looks-to-export-turkmen-gas-after-talks-with-nation-stall.html
Dragon Oil Plc (DGO) , an explorer in
Turkmenistan, is in talks with potential natural-gas buyers
outside the Central Asian state as contract negotiations with
the government stall.  “There are a few potential customers around that are
willing to get our gas,” Chief Operating Officer Hussain Al Ansari said today in a telephone interview, declining to
identify any of the parties. “We are discussing with a few
other people within Turkmenistan and the region.”  Dragon pumps out gas in conjunction with crude oil in the
country, which already produces its own fuel and has held off
striking an accord while demand remains muted. That leaves the
company to burn off the gas or feed it into a state-owned
pipeline for free. It has been in talks with  Turkmenistan  since
2010 on a sales contract.  Dragon plans to increase production by about 36 percent to
100,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2015. It already has
a production-sharing agreement that allows it to look beyond the
government for gas sales, including for export, Al Ansari said.  The Dubai-based company intends to build a gas-treatment
plant in Turkmenistan, allowing it to separate liquids from the
fuel before selling it. The facility would be able to process
360 million cubic feet of gas a day, stripping out about 3,600
barrels of condensate, the company said today in a statement.  Getting approval from state agencies for the plant has
taken “a bit longer than we anticipated” because the
government wants to “synchronize” oil and gas output with
other companies, Al Ansari said. The producer is still in talks
with Turkmenistan about gas sales, he said.  Dragon expects to award contracts to build the plant in the
fourth quarter and start operating the facility in 2016, the
executive said, declining to estimate the cost of development.  The company today reported a 22 percent slump in first-half
net income to $241.4 million after revenue dropped 16 percent
amid lower oil prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  