-- Easy Cash Ebbs for $300 Billion Asean Port-to-Rail Cost: Freight
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-08-06T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/easy-cash-ebbs-for-300-billion-asean-port-to-rail-cost-freight.html
Emerging Southeast Asian nations need
to pour $300 billion into transport links to help ease freight
bottlenecks. That just got harder as the prospect of reduced
Federal Reserve monetary stimulus pushes up borrowing costs.  Indonesia,  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and the Philippines require
$128 billion of investment in roads, $119 billion for rail, $33
billion in ports and $16 billion for airports through 2020,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates. At the same time, their
government bond yields have surged since May as concern the Fed
could taper cash injections sparked outflows of foreign capital.  The four nations plan about $1 trillion in development
spending, partly to improve goods transport performance that
declined in all except the Philippines since 2007, based on
World Bank rankings. The expenditure is needed to keep up a pace
of expansion that averaged more than 6 percent in 2012, closing
in on  China  and beating  India  for the first time in a decade.  “The region has to improve infrastructure, including
transport links, to sustain higher growth rates,”  Sanchita Basu
Das , an economist and fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian
Studies in Singapore, said in an interview. “It can’t rely on
cheap funds from abroad as America looks to suck liquidity out
of financial markets.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 $85 billion a
month of debt purchases could be reduced if the country’s jobs
market shows sustained improvement. Employment growth was the
weakest in four months in July even as the U.S. jobless rate
fell, underscoring uneven progress in America’s labor market.  Surging Yields  Indonesia’s 10-year bond yield has climbed 193 basis
points, or 1.93 percentage points, to 7.63 percent since
Bernanke’s comments, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rate on the similar-maturity debt in Malaysia surged 91
basis points during the same period to 3.96 percent. Thailand’s
increased 66 basis points to 3.97 percent and the  Philippines ’
36 basis points to 3.74 percent.  Emerging-market debt funds suffered a 10th consecutive week
of outflows in the period to July 31, as investors pulled out
$741 million, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows. Higher rates threaten to make
it more difficult for governments to borrow to fund projects
while sticking to fiscal goals.  Indonesia’s 2011-2025 development plan seeks $390 billion
of investments. Malaysia’s goal is developed-nation status by
2020 through a 10-year, $444 billion program.  In Thailand, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra plans $64
billion of railway investments, partly to speed up freight
traffic. Philippine President Benigno Aquino is aiming for more
than $17 billion of projects from roads to airports.  Roads, Rail  The pool of domestic savings in the 10-member Association
of Southeast Asian Nations was about $760 billion in 2012,
concentrated in the group’s bigger economies, the Asian
Development Bank estimates.  Asean  contains Indonesia, Thailand,
Malaysia and the Philippines, as well as  Singapore ,  Vietnam ,
Cambodia, Myanmar,  Laos  and Brunei Darussalam.  The coverage provided by Southeast Asia’s infrastructure is
a fraction of that in advanced economies and trails the Asian
average, the lender  said  in May.  World Bank rankings underscore the need for improvements as
Asean tries to create an integrated economic bloc by 2015.  Indonesia  placed  59th out of 155 economies in the World
Bank’s Logistics Performance Index for 2012, down from 43rd in
2007. Thailand fell to 38th from 31st. Malaysia placed 29th from
27th. The Philippines rose to 52nd from 65th. The index measures
the perceptions of international freight forwarders.  The  cost  of transporting goods in Indonesia as a proportion
of gross domestic product was 24.6 percent in 2011, more than
double the 9.9 percent of GDP in the U.S.,  Indonesia ’s Trade
Ministry said in April.  Slow Trucks  Trucks hauling goods to the country’s main port in Jakarta
provide an example of the bottlenecks. They take up to 18 hours
to cover 10 kilometers on rainy days, according to Copenhagen-based  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of the world’s biggest
container line. That’s slower than walking pace.  Once at the port, loading times for a 200-meter cargo ship
exceed the world’s most efficient berths at China’s Qingdao by
about 25 percent, the company said.  “The road network is a huge challenge and there aren’t
enough loading windows in the port,” Thomas Knudsen, Asia-Pacific Chief Executive Officer for Maersk Line, said in an
interview. “These delays increase our costs.”  Better transport links will improve the region’s
integration into the global economy, Goldman Sachs said in a May
report.  Tapering Size?  While the region missed an opportunity in the past few
years when funding costs were at record lows, “it’s by no means
clear we’ll get an aggressive Fed tapering as markets feared
back in May and June,” said  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian
economics research at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong.  The stimulus being provided by the Bank of  Japan  also means
it’s still “somewhat early” to gauge the potential impact of
Fed tapering on infrastructure financing in Southeast Asia, said
Arjun Goswami, a regional ADB director in  Manila .  BoJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda on April 4 unleashed a two-year program designed to double Japan’s monetary base, in an
effort to revive credibility on price stability and growth.  Indonesia’s 10-year yield dropped 67 basis points as of
Aug. 6 from 8.3 percent reached on July 16, the highest level
since March 2011. The rate on similar-maturity Philippine debt
fell 79 basis points to 3.74 percent from 4.53 percent on July
5.  Era Ending  The rate in Thailand hit a two-year high of 4.02 percent on
Aug. 2. In Malaysia, it was 4.13 percent on July 31, the most
since January 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While some emerging-market bonds have recovered in the past
month, “make no mistake, global stimulus will end in the next
few years and the era of cheap financing will come to an end,”
HSBC’s Neumann said.  The efflux of capital from the Asean countries hurt their
currencies. The Philippine peso and Malaysia’s ringgit have
dropped about 5.8 percent against the dollar this year, followed
by the Indonesian rupiah’s 4.8 percent slide, and a 2.7 percent
fall in the Thai baht.  Of the four Southeast Asian nations, the Philippines is the
only contender for a credit-rating upgrade that would help to
restrain borrowing costs, after Moody’s Investors Service placed
the country’s assessment on review on July 25. The $250 billion
economy expanded 7.8 percent in the first quarter.  Fitch Ratings cut Malaysia’s credit outlook July 30 to
negative from stable because of rising debt levels. Standard &
Poor’s dashed Indonesia’s chances of escaping junk status by
lowering the outlook to stable from positive May 2, citing
stalling reform momentum and risks from a current-account gap.  Growth in Indonesia’s $878 billion economy fell below 6
percent year-on-year in the three months through June for the
first time since 2010. Thailand and Malaysia have also slowed.  “Infrastructure is an economic enabler and all these plans
are encouraging,” Maersk’s Knudsen said. “But what we normally
have seen, especially in Southeast Asia, is that the time it
takes them to actually finish these projects is too long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  