-- Heat Wave Scorching Crops in China May Cut Rice, Cotton Output
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-06T07:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/heat-wave-scorching-crops-in-china-may-cut-rice-cotton-output.html
Rice and cotton output in  China , the
world’s biggest producer, may drop this year amid a deadly heat
wave across much of the country, according to researcher
 Shanghai  JC Intelligence Co.  Hangzhou, Chongqing and Fuzhou provinces across the middle
of the country are bracing for their hottest days so far this
year, the Shanghai Daily reported today. Temperatures are
expected to reach 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit) in
Shanghai where the heat wave has killed at least 11 people since
July, according to the report.  Rice output along the lower  Yangtze River  and in southwest
China may be threatened by a lack of rain, the official China
National Grain and Oils Information Center said today in an e-mailed report. Cotton plants across the Yangtze River basin are
becoming dryer, causing bud shedding, according to another
report today by broker INTL FCStone.  “The impact on rice will be quite substantial as the
drought is getting worse in some of the main growing regions,”
said  Li Qiang , managing director at Shanghai JC. He declined to
give a figure. The harvest for the mid-to-late rice crop will
start in late September to early October.  The crop accounts for most of the rice harvested in China,
Li said. Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi and Anhui provinces in the center
of the country, where high temperatures are expected to continue
in the coming days, contribute to about 40 percent of the
country’s total production, Li said.  Cotton, generally regarded as a heat-tolerant plant, will
also be affected, though any losses so far seem negligible amid
oversupply in China, Li said.  Unhusked rice output is expected to rise by 1.2 percent
this year to 206.7 million metric tons on expanded acreage and
improved yield, according to the CNGOIC forecast last month. A
new forecast is scheduled to be released next week, said Wang
Xiaohui, an analyst at the center in Beijing.  Cotton output in China may rise to 7.22 million tons this
year, according to a Cotlook Ltd. report on July 25. The
forecast was raised from 7.05 million tons projected in June.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  