-- Ebix Said to Be Reviewed by U.S. for Money Laundering
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-08-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/ebix-said-to-be-reviewed-by-u-s-for-money-laundering.html
Federal investigators are reviewing
 Ebix Inc. (EBIX) ’s cross-border financial transactions to see whether
the Atlanta-based  software company  engaged in money laundering,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  Ebix fell 88 cents to $10.91 or 7 percent in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading yesterday. The shares fell almost 30 percent
earlier in the day.  The focus on the company’s wire transfers around the globe
follows the June disclosure by Ebix that the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Atlanta had begun an investigation into “allegations
of intentional misconduct.”  The U.S. Attorney’s investigation upended a plan by Ebix
Chief Executive Officer Robin Raina to take the company private.
Ebix, which sells management software to insurance companies,
had proposed a $820-million deal financed by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. In May, Ebix had disclosed that the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission was investigating its accounting practices.  Tim Lynch, a spokesman for Ebix who works for Joele Frank,
said any allegations of  money laundering  are “false, inaccurate
and likely to cause significant financial harm to Ebix
shareholders.”  Robert Page, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
Atlanta, declined to comment, as did Judith Burns, an SEC
spokeswoman.  One of the people familiar with the probe is a former Ebix
executive who was contacted by FBI agents.  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  agents asked him about the company’s wiring of
funds to operations in locations such as  India , Sweden and
 Singapore , the person said.  Money Laundering?  In one of the interviews, the former executive said he was
asked by the FBI whether he thought the transfer of funds
constituted money laundering. The former executive requested
anonymity because the investigation is confidential.  The former executive as well as the two other people with
knowledge of the probe said the SEC investigation, which began
last year, had been joined with the  Justice Department ’s
examination of Ebix.  One area of interest to the FBI agents and SEC attorneys is
Ebix’s largest investor, the Rennes Foundation, according to one
of the people briefed on the probe, who declined to be
identified because the SEC investigation is confidential.  The lead director of the Rennes Foundation, which is based
in  Liechtenstein , is Rolf Herter, a Zurich attorney who is also
a member of Ebix’s board of directors. The foundation owns 9.6
percent of Ebix’s stock, according to public records, which
don’t identify the foundation’s owners.  No Access  Goldman Sachs was not able to determine the identity of the
Rennes Foundation’s beneficiaries, even though the foundation
was slated to receive a cash windfall of $11.4 million from the
Wall Street bank’s proposed buyout of Ebix, as well as a 15
percent stake in the newly private company, according to an SEC
filing from May 10.  In that filing, Goldman Sachs partner Sumit Rajpal wrote
that the Wall Street bank hadn’t been given access to any
documentation or information about the people or organizations
behind the Rennes Foundation.  Referring to the lack of data about Rennes, Rajpal wrote:
“For the sake of clarity, it is agreed” by Goldman Sachs,
“that all documentation and information related to the
potential beneficiaries of the Rollover Investor is deemed to be
documentation and information that is not available.”  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, said the
language used in the filing was not unusual, given that the
proposed deal was months away from consummation.  SEC Failed  The SEC tried to identify the sources of the Rennes
Foundation’s funds in 2005, in a letter to  Futuremedia Plc (FMDAY) , a
U.K. company in which Rennes held a substantial stake.
Futuremedia responded that it had no information about the
sources of Rennes’s funds. Following several years of losses,
Futuremedia became a penny stock in 2007 and was delisted from
the Nasdaq Stock Exchange in early 2008.  Investigators from the SEC haven’t found any violations
regarding the Rennes Foundation. What attracted their attention
initially was the lack of information about the fund’s owners
and its base in Liechtenstein, a country that advertises its
privacy laws to attract investors, said one of the three people,
who had been briefed on the SEC’s investigation.  Also of interest to the SEC is that each of the three
directors of the Rennes Foundation identified in an SEC filing
from May 14, including Herter, serve as directors of companies
registered in  Panama , which also advertises its privacy laws to
attract investors.  Can’t Say  Herter, who serves on Ebix’s corporate governance and
nominating committee, is a director of two Panamanian entities,
Nesbit United SA and Melberry Financial SA  In an e-mail, Herter said confidentiality laws prevented
him from identifying the clients he represented in the
Panamanian companies.  “I can confirm that neither of the companies are related
to Ebix in any way whatsoever and neither of the companies are
involved in any laundering activities whatsoever,” he said in
an e-mail. Herter didn’t respond to a question of whether there
was any relationship between Rennes and the Panama entities.  On the foundation itself, Herter did say: “Rennes
Fondation is a discretionary family foundation. The foundation’s
beneficiaries are not public. Not even the beneficiaries
themselves have knowledge of their entitlement. Also, the
beneficiaries do not have any enforceable claim of distribution
against the foundation. Therefore, the beneficiaries will not be
disclosed.”  Panama, Liechtenstein  Two other directors of the Rennes Foundation, Anton Daniel
Wyss and Renzo Zanolari, are listed as partners of Audax
Consulting Trust in Vaduz, Liechtenstein. Both men also serve as
directors of companies in Panama. The address of their firm,
Audax, is the mailing address of the Rennes Foundation,
according to SEC filings.  Another thing about the Rennes Foundation that intrigued,
according to the person in touch with the SEC investigation, is
its weak track record as an investor in companies listed on U.S.
exchanges.  Since 1999, Rennes has accumulated stakes of 5 percent or
more in seven different companies, including Ebix, according to
SEC filings. In addition to Futuremedia, Rennes’ other
significant investments were in Semiconductor Laser
International Corp., @Comm Corp., Cardiome Pharma Corp., Inovio
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Orthovita, Inc., which was acquired by
Stryker Corp. Like Futuremedia, Semiconductor Laser was
delisted, while @Comm filed for  bankruptcy protection .  Question Raised  The foundation’s investment performance raises the question
whether Rennes’ backers are interested in getting a return on
their investments, said Joseph Carcello, co-founder of the
Corporate Governance Center at the University of  Tennessee .  “Where is their money coming from, and how does it
continue to flow?” Carcello asked. “This doesn’t make economic
sense.”  “Rennes Foundation’s investment activities are of course
directed to generate a positive return,” Herter said in an e-mail. “Although Rennes shall not publicly discuss its
investment activities and/or its financial results I may let you
know that Rennes’ board of directors is satisfied with the
performance. Please be aware that Rennes’ investments are not
limited to US  stock exchanges .”  Lynch said Ebix had no “business or transactional
relationship with any company affiliated with the Rennes
Foundation other than the investment in Ebix common stock by the
Rennes Foundation.”  Other Reviews  The Justice Department review of Ebix’s transactions comes
while the company is being investigated by the SEC over its
accounting practices, and while the  Internal Revenue Service  is
examining Ebix’s strategy of booking U.S. revenues to foreign
subsidiaries in low-tax nations such as Singapore and India.  For more than two years, Ebix has been the target of short-sellers who have claimed the company’s earnings have been
manipulated. On May 1, CEO Raina appeared to have secured a
victory over the shorts, when he announced plans to take Ebix
private in the $820-million leveraged buyout.  The transaction would have inflicted pain on short-sellers
who were betting Ebix’s shares would trade at less than half the
$20-per-share offer price. A completed deal would also have
demonstrated that the quality of Ebix’s earnings had been
ratified by the due diligence team at Goldman Sachs.  Following disclosure of the U.S. attorney’s investigation
and the termination of the Goldman Sachs deal in June, shares in
Ebix dropped by almost half, from $19.72 to $11. In response,
the company announced that it would spend $100 million over the
next two years on a share buyback.  Investigators Puzzled  The person briefed on the SEC probe said investigators were
“puzzled” not only by the share buyback, but by the absence of
any indication that the Ebix board has hired an outside  law firm 
to conduct an independent review of the allegations which have
led to the regulatory probes. Lynch declined to say if such a
firm had been hired but not previously disclosed.  Lynn Turner , former chief accountant of the SEC, says
Ebix’s board probably should be focused on matters other than
the share price.  “As a director, I would want to get an independent
perspective of what, if any, allegations are truthful,” Turner
said in an e-mail. “As chair of an  audit committee  I would do
an investigation to quickly get to the bottom of things.  I
would retain independent legal counsel and independent
accountants. This should have all been done before things blew
up, but as they say, better late than never.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  