-- Meggitt’s Young Seeks Deals to Make Energy Third Business Pillar
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-06T08:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/meggitt-s-young-seeks-deals-to-make-energy-third-business-pillar.html
Meggitt Plc (MGGT) , the largest provider of
wheels and brakes for military aircraft, is looking for
acquisitions to bolster its energy business and make the segment
a stronger contributor to revenue.  “We would like to see it as a genuine third leg of the
business,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Young said today in
a telephone interview, adding the company wants to grow sales
from its energy division to as much as 30 percent of group
revenue from 17 percent.  Acquisitions will focus on sensors and valve technologies
and the company has reduced debt to provide cash for purchases,
Young said. Net debt as of June 30 fell 12 percent from a year
earlier to 700.9 million pounds ($1.1 billion). Young, appointed
CEO in May, said in March that the company was ready to strike
deals following any decline in the price of aerospace assets
that may result from cuts in the U.S. defense budget.  The company will rely on organic growth for its heat-exchanger business used on off-shore gas rigs and similar
platforms, Young said.  Meggitt advanced as much as 3.7 percent, the most in a
month. The  shares  traded 0.4 percent higher at 556 pence as of
9:30 a.m. in  London . The stock has advanced 46 percent this year
valuing the company at 4.4 billion pounds.  Airline Platforms  Meggitt continues to pursue contracts on airline platforms
with the next target the  Boeing Co. (BA)  777X, a rewinged replacement
of the largest twin-engine wide-body the U.S. planemaker plans
to introduce around the end of the decade, Young said.  Meggitt said today it won a contract to provide fuel
systems for the S-92 helicopter, made by  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky unit, with deliveries from 2015 through 2030.
Meggitt will also provide fire protection equipment to the
Russian MS-21 narrow-body, it said.  Civil aerospace sales, which account for about 45 percent
of group revenue, were driven by high production rates at Boeing
and No. 2 planemaker Airbus SAS, Young said. Deliveries on
regional and large business jets should see growth this year, he
added.  Sales of spare parts, which had lagged as airlines deferred
spending, showed “modest recovery” in the second quarter,
Young said. The company reaffirmed its full-year guidance for
mid-single-digit sales growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  