-- Egypt Spurns Outside Pressure as Envoys Continue Efforts
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-08-07T02:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/egypt-diplomats-try-to-broker-peace-amid-protests.html
Egypt  denounced interference from
other nations as visiting U.S. and European diplomats persisted
in efforts to broker an end to the crisis triggered by the
military’s ouster of President Mohamed Mursi.  “Foreign pressure has exceeded international norms, and
Egypt is capable of protecting the revolution and the state,”
Ahmed El-Meslemani, media adviser to interim President Adly Mansour, said in a statement.  Within hours of the comments, U.S. Senators John McCain and
Lindsey Graham reiterated western calls for reconciliation among
Egypt’s rival factions, at a news briefing in Cairo yesterday.  “We have urged the release of political prisoners,” said
McCain, an  Arizona  Republican. “We have urged a national
dialogue that is inclusive of all parties that renounce the use
of violence. We have strongly urged a set timetable for
amendment of the constitution, elections for the parliament,
followed by elections for the presidency.”  Supporters of Mursi, the Islamist leader toppled on July 3,
have continued street protests demanding his reinstatement, even
as authorities call on them to disperse. At least 130 Mursi
backers were killed by security forces in Cairo last month amid
clashes across the country.  Alexandria Death  Later yesterday, at least one person died and as many as 27
were injured as Mursi supporters confronted army backers in
Alexandria, Egypt’s second-largest city, according to local news
reports. The state-run Ahram Gate website said one person died
and five were injured, citing local hospital officials, while
the Al Arabiya satellite channel said 27 were injured in a
messsage posted on its Twitter Inc. web page.  U.S. Deputy Secretary of State William Burns and European
Union special envoy Bernardino Leon also were in Cairo along
with Gulf Arab officials for a diplomatic push that reflects
growing international concern over the political deadlock.  The army-backed interim government has repeatedly warned
that time is running out for the Islamist protesters to end
their sit-ins, saying they are undermining efforts to restore
stability and rebuild the economy.  Mansour said on Aug. 4 that the protests can’t be allowed
to go on for much longer. “If it’s possible to disperse it
peacefully, we will do so,” he said. “If not, then the state
can’t watch this happen with its hands tied.”  Brotherhood’s Terms  The National Coalition for Legitimacy, an Islamist group
made up of the Muslim Brotherhood and other Mursi supporters,
said any measures to ease the crisis should begin with
reinstating the deposed president and revoking the suspension of
the constitution.  The group also called for the release of political
detainees and an urgent investigation into “massacres” of
peaceful demonstrators, in a statement yesterday. Some Islamist
leaders were arrested on charges of inciting violence following
Mursi’s ouster.  Vice President Mohamed ElBaradei, the Nobel laureate and
onetime opposition leader, urged the Muslim Brotherhood to work
toward a peaceful solution. The Brotherhood shouldn’t count on
manipulating the security forces into forcibly dispersing the
sit-ins “so that a big massacre takes place, and so that you
strengthen your position in negotiations,” ElBaradei said in an
interview published in the independent al-Shorouk newspaper.
“The trick will not work.”  The political turmoil since Mursi’s fall threatens to
extend an economic slump that his one-year administration failed
to reverse. Since the start of last year, the nation’s gross
domestic product, the broadest measure of performance, has grown
at the  slowest pace  in two decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  