-- Emerging Stocks Slump Most in Month as HSBC Sees Slowdown
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-06T21:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/emerging-market-stocks-decline-as-hsbc-says-growth-to-slow.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in almost a month, led by  India  and  Brazil , as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
said fast-growing developing nations are slowing and amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus measures.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 1.1 percent to 946.30,
the biggest drop since July 8.  Tata Power (TPWR)  Co., India’s biggest
non-state generator, sank the most in nine years after reporting
a loss, while OAO Lukoil tumbled 3 percent in Moscow and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA paced declines in  Sao Paulo . The  yuan 
closed 0.01 percent shy of its 19-year high after the central
bank boosted the currency’s reference rate and the government
reiterated plans to open up the nation’s capital markets.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans , a voting
member of the U.S. central bank’s policy committee who has been
among the strongest proponents of record monetary accommodation,
said today he “would clearly not rule” out a decision to begin
dialing back the purchases in September. HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, reported profit that missed estimates. Chief Executive
Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said  China ’s market slowed, while Latin
American growth eased on weak consumer consumption.  “That could certainly weigh on emerging markets and
explain why it’s underperforming so badly,” said  James Paulsen ,
the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at Wells
Capital Management, referring to HSBC’s comments on developing
nations. He helps oversee more than $340 billion in assets.
“People have sort of realized the Fed is going to start
tapering by year-end.”  Biggest Losses  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated
today as commodity, utility and financial shares had the biggest
losses. The measure of developing-nations extended this year’s
 decline  to 10 percent, compared with a 14 percent increase in
the MSCI World Index.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund lost 1.3 percent to $38.96. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
jumped 8.2 percent to 22.12.  Brazil’s Ibovespa fell the most in three weeks as
Petrobras, as the state-run oil producer is known, slid 2.2
percent. Real estate company BR Properties SA sank after posting
second-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.
Brazil’s real rebounded from a four-year low.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 2 percent in Moscow as oil, Russia’s
chief export earner, retreated and investors bet the nation’s
central bank may refrain from cutting rates as inflation remains
above target. Lukoil slid the most since June 21.  Indian Stocks  Indian equities posted the biggest drop in six weeks amid
speculation the central bank will further tighten  money supply 
and as Tata Power sank the most since May 2004.  China’s stocks rose for a sixth day, the longest stretch of
gains in four months, after automakers rallied on improving
earnings and Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. recommended power
producers on valuations.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid 0.01 percentage point to 322 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  