-- Tencent Lets WeChat Users Buy Online Amid Alibaba Block
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-06T03:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/tencent-commercializes-wechat-to-tap-mobile-users-pocket.html
     Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s biggest
Internet company, yesterday began allowing its WeChat users to
make online payments, less than a week after Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. said it blocked the messaging app.  Users in mainland China -- which excludes Hong Kong, Macau
and  Taiwan  -- can buy goods as well as virtual products on games,
said Jerry Huang, an investor relations director for Tencent in 
Shenzhen. Accounts abroad will be limited to buying animation 
stickers, he said. WeChat has more than 300 million users with 
more than 70 million registered outside of mainland China.  Tencent is counting on the chat application as it
challenges virtual mall operator Alibaba for dominance over
Internet retail in China, which McKinsey & Co. estimates will
triple to $395 billion from 2011 to 2015. Alibaba, which is
heading toward what may be the biggest initial share sale since
Facebook Inc., has been  buying  stakes in mobile apps as users
spend more time and money on smartphones and tablets.  “Online games and e-commerce are both very important as it
is a new source of growth,” said Ricky Lai, an analyst at
Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “This
will help Tencent compete against Alibaba.”  Tencent  rose  1.6 percent to HK$376.80 as of 11:39 a.m. in
Hong Kong trading,  reversing  from an earlier decline and giving
it the biggest percentage gain on the  Hang Seng Index  today. 
The stock has gained 51 percent this year,  compared  with a 3.4 
percent drop for the benchmark.  Internet Juggernaut  Closely held Alibaba, China’s largest e-commerce company,
hasn’t kept up with WeChat, billionaire Chairman Jack Ma said in
March, even as his Internet juggernaut started developing its
mobile business three years ago.  Still, Tencent’s profit will probably be slower than the
average of the previous five years, according to the average of
 analysts’ forecasts  and data compiled by Bloomberg.  WeChat offered its latest version on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s app store
on yesterday, Huang said. The Android version isn’t available
yet, he said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Alibaba on Aug. 1 said it blocked sellers’ access to
WeChat, citing security reasons. Shoppers have instead been
offered to log on to the Taobao Marketplace using their Weibo
accounts.  Some sellers on Alibaba tried to steer transactions away
from its Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com platforms, and
disturbed customers through promotions on WeChat, Alibaba said
in an Aug. 1 statement.  Alibaba agreed to  buy  a stake in Sina’s Weibo unit in
April. About 76.5 percent of the 49.8 million daily active users
of Sina Corp.’s Weibo accessed the service through mobile
devices in March, according to an earnings call in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  