-- Mental Health First Aid Need After Disaster, Study Finds
-- B y   M a r y   C a m i l l e   I z l a r
-- 2013-08-06T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/mental-health-first-aid-need-after-disaster-study-finds.html
“ Hurricane Sandy  is gone. For some
the stress still lingers.” A New York subway ad underscores a
call by researchers for better mental health response in
disasters.  In a study published today in the Journal of  American
Medical Association , researchers recommended that disaster teams
provide mental health care for victims of emergencies sooner and
more systematically to prevent illnesses from going unseen and
untreated after a traumatic experience. They called for a system
of early assessment, triage and referral be established and
empirically tested for a mental health care emergency response.  “Mental injuries are prevalent and require a similar
system for identifying and treating these individuals, just as
you would those with physical injuries,” said  Carol North , a
professor of psychiatry at the University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center and senior author of the study.  An increasing number of Americans experience a fire, flood,
earthquake or other natural disaster  during their lives ,
according to the study. About one third of people who experience
these events, as well as airplane crashes and acts of terrorism,
may develop  post-traumatic stress disorder  and about 1 in 4 may
experience major depression, the researchers said.  While various treatments have been available in disaster
settings, few previous studies emphasized the need for diagnosis
that integrates psychiatric assessment early on, North said.
Researchers reviewed 222 articles on emergency and medical
disaster response to summarize evidence of the best ways to
identify disaster victims in need of mental  health services .  More than 26 percent of Americans ages 18 and older suffer
from a diagnosable mental disorder in a year, according to the
National Institute of Mental Health.  Early Assessment  Distress almost universally affects victims of a disaster.
Interventions can prevent a normal level of stress from
escalating into post-traumatic stress disorder or major
depression, the researchers said. Early intervention includes
 psychological first aid , psychological debriefing, and crisis
counseling.  Providing mental health care without assessment creates the
potential for failure to treat disorders as well as the
potential for doing harm. People with serious psychiatric
illness “might even get worse in debriefings, because they
might have to encounter uncomfortable material that involves
unpleasant reminders that they are not ready for,” North said.  Slow Reaction  Post-traumatic stress disorder and  major depression  can
take between two and four weeks to develop, so early diagnosis
can “meaningfully address” issues, the report states.  After adequate assessment, the next major step is
determining treatment and referral to appropriate care,
researchers said.  People identified with previous disorders and those newly
diagnosed with acute psychiatric crisis, such as suicidal
thoughts, need formal mental health services. Among the
sheltered evacuees from  Hurricane Katrina  in  New Orleans  in 2005
assessed in a mental health clinic, 40 percent were treated for
pre-existing mental illness and 24 percent for a new post-disaster disorder.  Incorrect assessment of psychiatric illness can leave some
without care while providing in-depth aid to those who are
experiencing a normal level of distress. Failure to
differentiate between distress and psychiatric illness “has the
potential to overestimate need for psychiatric services and
related costs by magnitudes as high as 10,” the researchers
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Camille Izlar in  New York  at 
 mizlar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  