-- EPA Gives Refiners More Time to Meet Renewable Mandate
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-08-06T20:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/epa-gives-refiners-more-time-to-meet-renewable-mandate.html
The federal government relented on
quotas for renewable fuels as U.S. production of next-generation
sources and demand for gasoline have lagged projections.  In issuing long-overdue final quotas, the Environmental
Protection Agency today gave refiners an additional four months
to reach the goal of using 16.55 billion gallons of renewable
fuel for 2013. It also signaled it will cut the 18.15 billion
gallon mandate for 2014, a looming requirement that had driven
up the price of  ethanol credits  that refiners can buy to comply.  “EPA’s decision represents a positive sign for consumers
and should help to prevent unnecessary increases in gasoline
prices,” Jason Bordoff, director of Columbia University’s
Center for Global Energy Policy, said in a statement.  Under the Renewable Fuel Standard, passed by Congress in
2007, refiners such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  must use a certain
amount of renewable fuels each year, with their contribution
determined by their share of the fuel market. The EPA and
renewable-fuel producers argue it both spurs production of
domestic fuels and cuts greenhouse-gas emissions by reducing use
of gasoline or diesel.  Refiners complain that declining demand for gasoline means
next year they would be forced to blend in more than 10 percent
of ethanol, which they say isn’t safe for all engines and lacks
support from consumers. Lobbyists for refiners such as  Valero
Corp. (VLO)  have pressed Congress to scrap the program altogether.  EPA Pledge  The EPA pledged today to lower the quota next year based on
the estimated 13.2 billion gallons of ethanol that could fit
within the 10 percent so-called blendwall, plus additional
biodiesel or cellulosic fuels that would qualify. Without a
change, “in 2014 compliance is expected to become significantly
more difficult,”  according to the rule .  The companies are “encouraged that the agency indicated
the need to address the blendwall when setting next year’s
requirements,”  Charles Drevna , the president of the American
Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, which represents both
Exxon and Valero, said in a statement. “In doing so, EPA now
has an opportunity to act decisively to bring long-term
stability to the market.”  Because the 2013 quotas were issued late in the year, EPA
also extended the deadline to comply by four months, to June 30,
2014. The agency also cut its 2013 requirement for use of
cellulosic biofuel to 6 million gallons from a proposed 14
million, saying the next-generation fuel wasn’t available in
adequate volumes.  ‘Phantom Fuels’  That change “should put to an end the argument that
refiners are being taxed to pay for phantom fuels,” said
Michael McAdams, president of Advanced Biofuels Association,
which represents makers of fuels from products such as algae and
wood waste.  If refiners don’t make or buy enough renewable fuel, they
can buy credits for it, known as Renewable Identification
Numbers, on a market. Those RINs had  surged  this year, as
refiners worried there wouldn’t be adequate gasoline demand to
mix in a safe level of ethanol and other renewable fuels either
this year or next.  After today’s announcement, corn-based ethanol RINs dropped
13 percent to 90 cents, the lowest since June 18. The RIN price
was $1.43 on July 17 before Congress started hearings on
overhauling the program, up from 7 cents at the beginning of the
year.  Rising Prices  That run-up in price prompted refiners to join with
advocates for the hungry and corn buyers such as chain
restaurants to urge Congress to scrap the mandate. Refiners have
argued that the RIN price is driving up the cost of gasoline for
consumers.  Gasoline for September delivery declined 3.66 cents to
$2.9140 a gallon at 3:55 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , a four-week low, as the value of RINs fell today.  Some of critics weren’t swayed by today’s EPA pledge.  “EPA missed an opportunity to fix the problem this year,”
 Jack Gerard , president of the  American Petroleum Institute , said
in a statement. “Now it’s up to Congress to exercise leadership
and move quickly to end this dangerous mandate before it hurts
consumers, damages vehicles, and harms our economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  