-- Ethanol RINs Plunge on Speculation EPA to Announce Final Rules
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-08-06T14:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/ethanol-rins-plunge-on-speculation-epa-to-announce-final-rules.html
The value of certificates that track
compliance with a U.S. mandate to use ethanol plunged on
speculation that the Obama administration will release final
targets for this year and may adjust the requirements.  Corn-based ethanol  Renewable Identification Numbers dropped
17 percent to 85 cents, the lowest level since May 28, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Environmental Protection Agency
said last month that it sent the final rule for this year’s
volume standards to the White House Office of Management and
Budget for review.  “We’ve heard from a number of sources that EPA will
announce its final rules today or tomorrow,” said Tim Cheung, a
research associate at ClearView Energy Partners LLC in
 Washington . “The market could be reading the final rule as
providing some sort of certainty.”  Denatured ethanol for September delivery climbed 1.3 cents,
or 0.6 percent, to $2.192 a gallon at 10:19 a.m.  New York  time
on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices have gained 4.1 percent
this year.  A 2007 energy law, known as the Renewable Fuels Standard,
requires the U.S. to use 13.8 billion gallons of ethanol this
year and 14.4 billion in 2014.  RINs are certificates attached to each gallon of biofuel.
Once refiners blend ethanol into petroleum, they can keep the
RIN to submit to the EPA to show compliance with the law, or
trade it to another party.  “Our view is that the rules will stay in line with the
statute,” Cheung said.  Ethanol interests and petroleum advocates have argued about
whether the targets are too ambitious and the impact the law has
on gasoline pump prices.  Oil groups including the  American Petroleum Institute  say
that the law would force refiners to sell volumes of ethanol
beyond 10 percent at filling stations and risk damaging engines.  The EPA in 2011 approved concentrations of as much as 15
percent ethanol in gasoline for vehicles made after 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  