-- Evercore Plots Southeast Asia Expansion in Challenge to Goldman
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-08-06T02:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/evercore-plots-southeast-asia-expansion-in-challenge-to-goldman.html
Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the mergers
advisory firm entering  Southeast Asia , plans to add as many as
10 investment bankers in Singapore by October next year as
companies from  Malaysia  to  Thailand  pursue more takeovers.  Evercore, which last month hired Keith Magnus from UBS AG
to set up its Singapore office, will also offer advice on
restructuring and share and debt sales in Southeast Asia, Chief
Executive Officer Ralph Schlosstein said in an interview in
Singapore yesterday.  The region is luring investment banks as companies make
more cross-border acquisitions and tap capital markets to
finance expansion. Evercore was in 20th position in mergers
advisory in Southeast Asia last year according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, lower than its global ranking, as companies in the
region opt for investment banks that also provide financing.  “It’s a little bit more challenging to get the Asian
market to embrace the advice-only model but I’m very optimistic
and I think the momentum is very much in our direction,” said
Schlosstein. “The most likely place for us to find talent is
the large firms.”  Goldmans Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was the top-ranked adviser on M&A
involving Southeast Asian companies last year, followed by HSBC
Holdings Plc, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Malaysian banks
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and Malayan Banking Bhd. were the top
two underwriters of share sales in the region in 2012, the data
shows.  Evercore is advising on some of the biggest announced
takeovers worldwide this year, including counseling Dell Inc. on
its proposed buyout by founder  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake
Management LLC. The firm, founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury
Secretary  Roger Altman , has 15 bankers in  Hong Kong .  Generating Capital  Magnus, who ran UBS’s investment-banking business in
Singapore and Malaysia, will be chief executive officer of
Evercore’s Singapore operations.  Announced mergers involving Southeast Asian companies
reached $68 billion so far this year, on pace for the most
annually since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Equity
offerings in the region have raised $23.5 billion in 2013,
surpassing Hong Kong.  Evercore was part of a group of banks that advised AIA
Group Ltd. on its $1.7 billion acquisition of ING Groep NV’s
insurance business in Malaysia in October last year.  The firm said last month that second-quarter profit more
than doubled as investment-banking revenue climbed. Asian
clients made up almost 10 percent of its advisory business
revenue last year, said Schlosstein. With countries like
Singapore generating a “huge amount of capital,” he said
companies and sovereign wealth funds will be seeking more advice
on how to grow.  “There’re not nearly enough opportunities to deploy that
capital that has been generated in this market alone, so there’s
going to be a lot of outward-bound M&A activity,” he said.
“There’s also going to be a lot of consolidation and
diversification across the different markets in  Asia .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  