-- Leverage for Banks Seen Impeded by Fed Rules on Basel III: Taxes
-- B y   L y d i a   B e y o u d
-- 2013-08-06T10:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/leverage-for-banks-seen-impeded-by-fed-rules-on-basel-iii-taxes.html
New rules from the  Federal Reserve 
will significantly alter how banks account for taxes on some
assets, especially at large institutions.  New standards change the math behind whether taxes can be
deferred on some items when banks compute how much capital they
have. If deferrals are removed, the result can be a significant
reduction in the size of a bank’s balance sheet -- possibly
making it look less stable, Bloomberg BNA reported.  The rules, which will force companies to perform a far more
complex calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, are
part of the heightened capital  standards  for U.S. banks known as
Basel III -- rules drawn up by global regulators intended to
make the financial system safer after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. They are meant to help community lenders,
while taking a stricter line with large banks.  “The new focus of tax planning will be to effectively
manage a bank’s deferred tax position to enhance regulatory
capital,” said Liz L’Hommedieu, KPMG LLP’s tax managing director
for its Washington National Tax practice.  The new regime goes into effect Jan. 1 for the largest
banks -- those with assets greater than $250 billion or with
more than $10 billion in foreign exposures, such as  Bank of
America  Corp.,  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. or  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. Smaller
banks have until 2015.  The idea behind the rules, issued last month, is to provide
more uniformity in the 27 countries of the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  -- so banks in  France ,  Hong Kong  or the U.S.
can run comparable analyses of capital profiles, said  John
Taylor , partner with the Financial Services Tax Practice at EY.  New Limits  The rules limit how and when deferred tax assets must be
subtracted from equity to determine a bank’s capital, which is
used to assess the financial health of a bank, EY said in a July
report. Banks must meet minimum capital levels and have new
minimum ratios of capital to risk-weighted assets.  A complicating factor is that the calculation must now be
done on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis, both state and
foreign. In other words, unlike the current rules, banks won’t
be able to offset liabilities in one jurisdiction against assets
in another in computing the limits, Taylor said.  That can be a big deal. The extent to which the deffered
tax assets are subtracted from capital reduces the amount of
leverage a bank can have, Taylor said. Higher leverage can often
mean more potential for profits, but it also exposes the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. to a greater risk “in the event things
go sour,” Taylor said.  If deferred tax assets are cut from the math in a bank’s
capital, it can reduce the size of a bank’s balance sheet by
about 14 times the amount of disallowed assets, Taylor said.  Good Conversions  Banks will need to assess their positions and review
accounting methods for the deferred tax assets, known as DTAs,
to gain the best tax position, L’Hommedieu said during a KPMG
webinar on the final rules.  “Opportunities and areas of exploration may include
converting ‘bad’ DTAs into ‘good’ DTAs by accelerating income --
deferring expenses or accelerating deductions,” she said.  The rules probably will result in more footnote disclosures
in annual reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission
and in more detailed disclosure in quarterly earnings reports
“where a reader can see precisely why a financial institution’s
capital is what it is,” Taylor said.  This may be an important development because capital drives
a lot of a bank’s behavior, Taylor said. If a bank appears to be
hovering near its minimum level of capital, it may not be able
to grow, he said.  “The market will put a lot of emphasis on those metrics,”
Taylor said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  