-- Texas Lawmakers Let Voters Decide on Transportation Funds
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-06T14:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/texas-lawmakers-seek-road-fund-boost-to-accomodate-growth.html
Texas lawmakers agreed to let voters
decide whether to raise highway funds by diverting some oil and
natural-gas tax revenue from reserve accounts in a state where
spending on roads and bridges hasn’t kept pace with growth.  The financing increase won final passage in the House of
Representatives and Senate yesterday. To become law, it must be
signed by Republican Governor  Rick Perry  and approved by voters
next year. Under the proposal, transportation funding would rise
about $1.2 billion, or 12 percent, in 2015, state forecasts
show.  The vote “moves our state closer to securing a strong
economy well into the future by providing more resources for
building and maintaining a transportation system that will keep
our economy growing and our population moving,” Perry said
yesterday in a statement.  Texas, whose population of 26.1 million makes it the
second-largest state, added 5.21 million residents from 2000 to
2012, worsening traffic congestion and prompting business
leaders to press for more money for roads. Texas spends about
$10 billion annually on transportation and needs an additional
$5 billion a year to keep up with growth and repairs, according
to the state Transportation Department.  ‘Emergency Situation’  “If voters don’t approve this in November 2014, it puts us
in more of an emergency situation,” said state Representative
Joe Pickett, an El Paso Democrat who sponsored the bill. “We
should now let the public decide.”  Texas spent $427 per capita in fiscal year 2011 on
highways, compared with $391 per capita in  California , the
largest state by population, according to the most recent
available data from the Tax Policy Center in  Washington , which
researches tax and budget matters. That includes state, local
and federal money.  A gas tax of 20 cents a gallon, dedicated to roads, hasn’t
changed since 1991, and efforts to increase vehicle-registration
fees failed this year, reflecting opposition to levy increases
by Perry and the Republican-led legislature. Perry has said he
supports more highway spending.  “We are increasing funding for transportation without
raising taxes, which sends an incredibly strong message that
Texas is committed to keeping the wheels of commerce turning,
while protecting taxpayers,” Perry said about the bill.  The state has issued or guaranteed more than $15 billion of
road-related bonds over the past decade and lawmakers are averse
to additional debt, said Vic Suhm, executive director of the
Tarrant Regional Transportation Coalition, a Fort Worth group
that favors additional spending.  Production Taxes  The plan approved by the legislature would redirect half of
oil and gas production-tax revenue now sent to state reserves.  “It’s a significant bump, although we don’t think it is
nearly enough,” said Lawrence Olsen, executive vice president
of the  Texas  Good Roads and Transportation Association, an
Austin-based group representing businesses.  The measure would let a committee of 10 lawmakers reduce
the flow of oil-tax money for roads if they conclude the reserve
fund isn’t at an adequate level.  Opponents of the bill said use of the so-called rainy day
fund should be restricted to emergencies and that withdrawals,
in the form of diverted revenue, may hurt the state’s credit
rating. Backers said the fund would retain at least $5.8 billion
over the next two years, making a credit downgrade unlikely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for th
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  