-- Fed’s Evans Sees Labor Improvement With September Taper Possible
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-08-06T18:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/fed-s-evans-sees-qe3-totaling-1-2-trillion-since-january-2013.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Chicago 
President  Charles Evans , who has been among the most vocal
proponents of record monetary accommodation, said there has been
“good improvement” in the labor market and indicated that a 
tapering of the central bank’s bond-buying program in
September is possible.  Evans, speaking to reporters today, said the Fed probably
will have bought at least $1.2 trillion of bonds from January
2013 until the time he sees the current quantitative easing
program ending in mid-2014.  “We’ve seen good improvement in the  labor market , there’s
no question in my mind about that,” Evans said in Chicago.
“I’m still wanting to see greater evidence that it’s a
sustainable improvement” and “I would clearly not rule” out a
decision to begin dialing back the  purchases  in September.  U.S. central bankers are scrutinizing incoming economic
reports to determine if the labor market has substantially
improved since last September, when they renewed an expansion of
their  balance sheet  that’s now at $3.57 trillion. The economy
added the fewest jobs in four months in July, even as the
 unemployment rate  fell to  7.4 percent , Labor Department figures
showed Aug. 2.  That employment report “wasn’t bad” yet was “not
great,” Evans, who votes on monetary policy this year, said in
the meeting with reporters at the district bank. “We’re looking
for continued labor improvement, payroll employment growth on
the order of 175,000 to 200,000 per month.”  Backs Timetable  Evans, 55, today said he backed the timetable that was laid
out by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 19, when Bernanke said
the  Federal Open Market Committee  could start trimming its $85
billion in bond purchases later this year and may end it in the
middle of 2014 if the economy improves along officials’
expectations. The Fed may make that decision to taper at its
Sept. 17-18 meetings, according to half the economists surveyed
by Bloomberg on July 18-22.  The Chicago Fed chief has been among the most vocal backers
of additional easing at the Fed in recent years. He was the
first to propose the central bank pledge to keep  rates low  until
pre-determined economic thresholds are met, a move intended to
guide longer-term borrowing costs lower and support the economy.
In December, the FOMC adopted the proposal to keep rates near
zero at least as long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent and
inflation is no more than 2.5 percent. The plan became known in
financial markets as the Evans Rule.  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  has been
urging his colleagues to adopt a lower unemployment threshold,
to 5.5 percent. Evans today said his thinking is “not largely
inconsistent with President Kocherlakota’s proposal” because,
if inflation remained low, he would support keeping rates near
zero even after joblessness fell below 6.5 percent.  Adjust Threshold  “Unemployment might get down to 6 before we see the need”
to tighten, he said. “If the committee viewed it as
additionally useful to adjust that threshold” down, “I would
certainly pay attention to that. I don’t anticipate I would have
a problem with that.”  While some commentators have speculated that the Fed may
set a lower bound on inflation, “I don’t really appreciate how
that helps in providing the appropriate amount of
accommodation,” he said.  The personal consumption expenditure index, the Fed’s
preferred gauge of inflation, rose 1.3 percent through June from
a year earlier, the Commerce Department said Aug. 2, below the
Fed’s 2 percent target.  The policy-making FOMC last week warned that persistently
low inflation could damp the economic expansion and said it
would keep buying $85 billion per month in bonds.  Evans said today that any decision to begin dialing back
bond purchases will be “data-dependent.” If low inflation --
currently expected to be transitory -- continues to persist, the
Fed could choose to delay ending the asset purchasing program,
he said.  One Tool  The so-called quantitative easing “was intended to be one
tool of the total policy accommodation package” and “we always
intended it to be temporary,” he said. He added that a recent
increase in longer-term borrowing costs won’t be as harmful to
growth as he previously expected.  Data released since last week’s FOMC meeting have painted a
mixed outlook for the  U.S. economy , with a report showing on
Aug. 2 that employers added fewer workers to payroll in July
than economists had previously expected. Still,  service
industries  expanded in July at the fastest pace in five months,
according to figures released by the  Institute for Supply
Management  yesterday.  The district bank chief was also an early backer of the
current round of bond purchases, and he dissented twice in 2011
in favor of easier policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  