-- First Solar Gives GE 1.8% Stake in Thin-Film Partnership
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-08-07T14:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/first-solar-buys-ge-s-cadmium-telluride-solar-property.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) ’s acquisition of
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s solar technology brings a stakeholder
with connections in the utility industry that may help the
renewable-energy manufacturer sell large-scale power plants.  First Solar acquired GE’s cadmium-telluride technology
portfolio in exchange for 1.75 million shares, the companies
said in a statement yesterday. The 1.77 percent stake in the
Tempe, Arizona-based solar manufacturer is worth $81.8 million,
based on yesterday’s closing price.  First Solar also reported profit yesterday that fell short
of analysts’ estimates as revenue from its current project
pipeline slumped. The shares plunged the most in five months.
GE, the world’s largest supplier of power equipment, will now
help market First Solar’s panels to companies building large-scale solar farms, according to First Solar Chief Executive
Officer Jim Hughes.  “We will see near-term benefit from access to the GE sales
force, particularly on hybrid installations,” Hughes said
yesterday on an earnings call with analysts.  GE has promoted the idea of combination power projects
using both  wind turbines  and solar panels. It’s the top U.S.
wind-turbine maker and sells inverters that link solar panels to
the grid. It plans to market First Solar panels under its own
name, and now will be able to offer both generating technologies
to customers, said Anne McEntee, Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE’s head of renewable energy.  “We’re shifting to what we’re good at, and that’s utility-scale power systems,” she said in an interview yesterday.  Lower Revenue  First Solar’s second-quarter sales declined 46 percent to
$519.8 million from $957.3 million a year earlier, largely
because of lower revenue from selling  power plants , the company
said in a statement yesterday.  Net income fell to $33.6 million, or 37 cents a share, from
$111 million, or $1.27, a year earlier. Excluding one-time
items, per-share profit was 14 cents below the 53-cent average
of 16 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company now expects earnings of $3.75 to $4.25 a share
this year, down from a May forecast of $4 to $4.50. Sales will
be $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion.  First Solar shares slumped 12 percent to $41.19 at 10:17
a.m. in  New York , the most intraday since Feb. 27.  ‘Top-line Miss’  “It was a miss, clearly; there’s no way of getting around
that,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in Houston, said in an interview. “They missed
our estimate pretty badly. It was really a top-line miss.”  First Solar needs to expand its sales of utility-scale
plants, according to Dan Ries, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in
New York.  “We do not believe they are booking new business for late
2015 and 2016 at the pace needed to remain fully utilized,”
Ries said in an Aug. 5 note to clients. He estimated First Solar
needs to sign contracts for at least 500 megawatts each quarter
to keep factories running at capacity. “Thus far in 2013 it has
not approached that pace.”  GE’s support will boost First Solar’s utility business,
said  Sanjay Shrestha , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in
New York who has a buy rating on the shares.  “GE provides an ideal ally for First Solar to maintain a
global dominance in utility-scale solar,” he said in an
interview.  “It validates their technology, it validates their
manufacturing process and it projects them on a global scale.”  Pipeline Acquisition  First Solar also announced yesterday the acquisition of a
1.5-gigawatt pipeline of solar projects from Element Power.
Terms weren’t provided. The projects are in various stages of
development and permitting, and the deal gives First Solar
access to  Mexico , according to a statement.  GE and First Solar have been racing to improve their
cadmium-telluride efficiencies to drive down costs. GE reached
an 18.3 percent cell efficiency at the  National Renewable Energy
Laboratory  in October. About four months later, First Solar beat
that with a cell that converts 18.7 percent of the energy in
sunlight into electricity.  Solar Factory  The transaction marks GE’s exit from long-dormant plans to
become a solar manufacturer. It acquired a minority stake in the
cadmium-telluride company PrimeStar Solar Inc. in 2007 and then
bought the rest of it in 2011, announcing plans then to build
the biggest U.S. solar factory. It purchased a Colorado site for
the plant that never began commercial production, and McEntee
said yesterday it never will.  Cadmium-telluride technology doesn’t have the performance
of cells made from polysilicon, which are more widely used in
the industry.  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)   claims  the most efficient
polysilicon-based solar products, with rates as high as 24
percent.  The GE-First Solar collaboration includes efforts to
improve panel efficiency. “We’re working with First Solar to
move our technologies forward together,” McEntee said.  The partnership with GE includes “a specific commitment
purchase obligation,” Hughes said on the call. “There is a
larger commitment that has agreed pricing and extends over an
extended period of years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  