-- India Says Attackers in Pakistan Uniforms Killed Five Troops
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-06T11:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/five-indian-soldiers-killed-in-attack-along-border-with-pakistan.html
India  said 20 heavily-armed
“terrorists” along with men dressed in  Pakistan  army uniforms
killed five Indian soldiers along the border in the disputed
region of Kashmir, in a blow to efforts to resume peace talks.  The attack occurred early this morning and is part of a
growing trend of violence at the frontier separating the
nuclear-armed neighbors, Defense Minister A.K. Antony said in
parliament today. Pakistan’s foreign ministry in a statement
rejected “baseless and unfounded allegations. Our military
authorities have confirmed that there had been no exchange of
fire that could have resulted in such an incident.” Pakistan is
committed to a 2003 cease-fire agreement, it said.  The latest violence in the Himalayan region may hinder
efforts to repair ties between the South Asian neighbors
shattered by the Mumbai terrorist attack in 2008. Pakistan’s
Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  last month suggested dates for talks
on access to water, and the Sir Creek maritime border, his first
major peace initiative since winning elections in May.  “We strongly condemn this unprovoked incident,” Antony
told lawmakers in both chambers of the house. “The government
of India has lodged a strong protest” through diplomatic
channels.  India has been considering a proposal for discussions
between Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and Sharif at the  United
Nations  in  New York  at the end of September, an Indian
government official, who asked not to be named because he’s not
authorized to discuss the matter publicly, said last week.  Biggest Hurdle  Indian “army commanders at the appropriate level may take
retaliatory action,” said Dipankar Banerjee, a retired major
general in the Indian army who served in Kashmir and now a
defense analyst with the Forum for Strategic Initiative in  New
Delhi . “This tit-for-tat is par for the course, and both sides
are at it.”  In the first seven months of this year, there have been 57
cease-fire violations along the border, 80 percent more than in
the same period last year, Antony said in parliament. India had
successfully foiled 17 infiltration attempts this year and
killed 19 militants in the last two months, Antony said.  The territory of Kashmir is the biggest hurdle to India and
Pakistan improving ties. The nuclear-armed neighbors have fought
two of their three wars since 1947 over the region that is
divided between them and claimed in full by both. An anti-India
insurgency erupted in 1989, with India accusing Pakistan of
aiding guerrillas groups in their attacks. Pakistan rejects the
claim. Violence has ebbed in recent years.  Parliament Protests  In January and February, India and Pakistan’s governments
and their militaries traded accusations of deadly raids across
the de facto frontier in Kashmir. Indian Foreign Minister Salman Khurshid said at the time the clashes meant an end to “business
as usual” between the countries.  The parliament in New Delhi adjourned earlier as opposition
lawmakers in both chambers stood up from their seats to demand
an explanation from the government over how the attack occurred.  The  Press Trust of India , citing Indian defense officials
it didn’t name, said the incident occurred in Indian territory
after midnight and ambushed the Sarla post along the so-called
Line of Control that has divided Kashmir since shortly after
independence from British colonial rule.  India escalated “technical and inadvertent” border
violations in recent days, according to an Aug. 3 statement on
the Twitter page of Pakistan military spokesman Major General
Asim Saleem Bajwa. A Pakistani soldier was killed and another
injured by Indian firing July 27 in the Rawalakot sector of
Kashmir, he said.  ‘Wake Up’  Sitanshu Kar, India’s defense ministry spokesman, did not
answer two calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Narendra Modi , who is expected to be the main opposition
alliance’s prime ministerial candidate at the next election in
less than a year, criticized the government for failing to
secure India’s borders. Writing on his official Twitter account,
he described the attack as a “dastardly ambush”.  “When will the center wake up?” Modi said, referring to
the central government. “From  China ’s intrusions to Pakistan’s
ambushes -- UPA government has been absolutely lax in securing
Indian borders.”  India had a military standoff with China high in the
Himalayas in April. India alleged Chinese troops crossed into
Indian-held territory in Ladakh in the north, triggering a
three-week escalation in tensions that ended with an agreement
negotiated by army commanders.  “This is not the way that we are going to have better
relations” with Pakistan, junior home minister R.P.N. Singh
said in televised comments outside parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  