-- Ex-New York State Majority Leader’s Indictment Upheld
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-06T16:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/former-new-york-state-majority-leader-bruno-indictment-upheld.html
Former New York state Senator Joseph L. Bruno, who served as Republican majority leader, failed to
win dismissal of corruption charges on the grounds that he would
unconstitutionally be tried twice for the same crimes.  Bruno is accused of accepting as much as $440,000 from
former TerreStar Networks Inc. chairman Jared E. Abbruzzese and
companies he was affiliated with in exchange for political
favors. After his conviction was thrown out in 2011 in light of
a U.S.  Supreme Court  ruling, Bruno faced a new indictment in
 Albany , New York, over the same allegations in 2012.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan  ruled today that the
government could proceed with its charges because they are now
based on a theory of bribery and kickbacks rather than the
earlier theory of a conflict of interest.  “Bruno was convicted of the offenses that are now the
subject of the retrial,” the court said in its ruling today.
The convictions are significant because “the jury found that
Bruno possessed the requisite intent to devise a scheme to
defraud.”  The earlier convictions were vacated following a 2010
Supreme Court ruling in the case of former Enron Corp. Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling . The Supreme Court said the
honest-services law criminalizes schemes involving bribes or
kickbacks, not the failure to disclose conflicts of interest.  Corruption Probe  Bruno, a Republican, was elected to the state Senate in
1976 and served until 2008, when he resigned amid a federal
corruption investigation. He served as Senate majority leader
for almost 14 years.  In a court appearance in May 2012, Bruno pleaded not guilty
and was released, according to court documents.  Bruno solicited payments from Abbruzzese, who directed that
several companies pay Bruno a total of $440,000, prosecutors
said in a statement. The payments were disguised as
“consulting” fees, and $80,000 was for a “virtually
worthless” horse, the government said.  In exchange, Bruno performed official acts benefiting the
interests of the businessman and his companies, including
directing the award of a $250,000 grant to Evident Technologies
Inc. and a $2.5 million grant to colleges for the benefit of the
company, the government said.  William Dreyer, a lawyer for Bruno, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the ruling. Abbruzzese served
as a witness for the government in the 2009 trial, according to
court records.  The case is U.S. v. Bruno, 09-00029, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  