-- Former White Sox All-Star Seeks Venezuelan Mayor’s Job
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-08-06T20:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/former-white-sox-all-star-seeks-venezuelan-mayor-s-job.html
Magglio Ordonez, a six-time Major
League Baseball All-Star with the  Chicago White Sox  and  Detroit
Tigers , will run for mayor of a Venezuelan oil town in the
socialist party of the late President  Hugo Chavez .  “We invite our major leaguer, Magglio Ordonez, to hit a
grand slam in Puerto La Cruz,” Chavez’s successor, President
 Nicolas Maduro , announced on state television yesterday.  Ordonez, a 39-year-old former outfielder, hit 294 home runs
during 15 seasons with the White Sox and Tigers, and won the
 American League ’s batting title with Detroit in 2007. He moved
to Puerto La Cruz in his native Venezuela after retiring in
2011. The city of about 500,000 is 300 kilometers (186 miles)
east of Caracas.  Ordonez, who earned an estimated $133 million over his
professional career, according to baseball-reference.com,
supported Chavez’s “21st Century Socialism.” In 2009, he told
Venezuelans in political ads that “the best of the revolution
is yet to come.”  During his 14 years in power, Chavez, a former paratrooper,
tapped the world’s biggest oil reserves to cut Venezuela’s
poverty rate to 29.5 percent in 2011 from 48.6 percent in 2002,
according to the  United Nations . His term was also marked by
falling oil production, declining foreign currency reserves and
one of the fastest inflation rates in the world. He died from
cancer in March.  Puerto La Cruz is currently run by Stalin Jose Fuentes of
the ruling United Socialist Party.  Active Players  Baseball has made millionaires of hundreds of working-class
Venezuelans. There are about 60 Venezuelans currently playing in
the major leagues, the second biggest group outside North
America after people from the Dominican Republic, according to
Jose Grasso, former president of the Venezuelan Professional
Baseball League. A total of  294 Venezuelans  have played in the
MLB, according to baseball-reference.com.  “It’s the dream of every Venezuelan,” Grasso said in a
telephone interview from Caracas today. “Ordonez is loved by
everyone here, and as a retired player he has every right to run
for any office and for any party.”  Both Chavez and Maduro pitched in minor leagues in
 Venezuela , the only South American country where baseball tops
soccer as the most popular sport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Beberman at 
 jbeberman@bloomberg.net  