-- French Wine Outlook Is Cut on Poor Flowering, Berry Development
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-06T16:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/french-wine-outlook-is-cut-on-poor-flowering-berry-development.html
French wine production is forecast to
rise 11 percent this year, less than predicted a month ago on
poor flowering and berry development in regions including
Bordeaux and Burgundy. The forecast for Champagne was raised.  Output may rise to 45.8 million hectoliters (1.21 billion
gallons) from 41.4 million hectoliters in 2012, the  Agriculture
Ministry  wrote in a  report  today. The outlook was cut by 888,000
hectoliters, equivalent to 118 million bottles.  A cold and humid June resulted in unpollinated flowers and
falling berries, called  coulure  by growers, as well as unevenly
developed bunches, or  millerandage , the statement showed. June
was chilly this year, while the southwest had excessive
rainfall, according to the weather office.  “Flowering for most of the important wine regions was poor
because of these unfavorable weather conditions,” the ministry
said. “Weather conditions at the end of June and start of July
caused coulure and millerandage, which proved to be significant
in some regions and for some varieties, resulting in a downward
revision of the production potential.”  France  exported 7.84 billion euros ($10.4 billion) of wine
and champagne in 2012, accounting for 14 percent of the
country’s farm and food shipments, government  data  show.  Production in the Bordeaux region, France’s biggest
producer of designated-origin wines, may fall 7.8 percent to
5.03 million hectoliters from 5.45 million hectoliters in 2012,
the ministry forecast, reversing an outlook for the vintage to
increase 7.9 percent.  In Bordeaux, “couloure and millerandage were significant,
mainly for merlot,” the ministry wrote, referring to the grape
variety used for red wines by vintners including  Chateau Petrus .
“Production potential is therefore revised lower.”  Chardonnay Variety  Burgundy  suffered from coulure, particularly in vines of
the chardonnay variety, while neighboring Beaujolais suffered
from millerandage, the ministry said. Combined output in both
regions is predicted to rise 25 percent to 2.26 million
hectoliters, less than the 34 percent jump forecast a month ago.  Output in the  Champagne  region is forecast to jump 56
percent to 3.01 million hectoliters from 1.98 million, with the
outlook raised from 2.24 million hectoliters in July. Flowering
and fruit set in July went well, the ministry said.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  is the world’s largest
maker of champagne, with brands including Moet & Chandon and  Dom
Perignon .  Vranken-Pommery Monopole SA (VRAP)  ranks second, followed by
Pernod-Ricard SA and Laurent-Perrier.  In Languedoc-Roussillon, France’s biggest wine region by
total volume, production is forecast to advance 11 percent to
13.3 million hectoliters, 2 percentage points less than
predicted last month. Output in the Loire valley may surge 41
percent to 2.79 million hectoliters, according to the ministry,
which had previously predicted a 35 percent gain.  “In the Loire Valley, thanks to a warm July, the vineyard
caught up part of its initial growing delay,” the ministry
wrote. “The vines’ vigor is great thanks to humid soils and the
warmth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  