-- Frida Kahlo Meets Lovers Trotsky, Rivera in Mexico Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-08-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/frida-kahlo-meets-lovers-trotsky-rivera-in-mexico-show.html
The  Royal Academy of Arts  in  London 
has gathered a star-studded cast for its exhibition “ Mexico: A
Revolution in Art 1910-1940 .”  Where else between the wars would you have found the
novelist D.H. Lawrence, the film director Sergei Eisenstein, the
photographer Henri Cartier-Bresson, the “pope” of Surrealism
Andre Breton, plus Frida Kahlo and Leon Trotsky?  In the 1920s and ’30s, Mexico was a destination of great
allure. It was, like  Russia , a revolutionary country -- emerging
from a bloody, decade-long civil war which, viewed from the
outside, seemed rather glamorous. Mexico was also the home of
ancient and mysterious cultures, land of the Aztecs and Mayans,
the Olmecs and the Toltecs.  Add to that low living costs, and it’s no surprise that so
many were tempted to make the trip. As a result, the show has a
lot of juicy ingredients. What it adds up to, however, is an
indigestible mixture of excellent photographs and (with the
exception of a tiny  Frida Kahlo ) bad paintings.  Mexico seemed to bring out the best in photographers. Henri
Cartier-Bresson, Edward Weston, Paul Strand, Robert Capa and the
Hungarian Martin Munkacsi all did remarkable work there. Tina
Modotti began to use a camera with distinctive brilliance after
arriving in Mexico as Weston’s lover, model and studio assistant
in 1923. A remarkable group of Mexican photographers included
Agustín Jimenez and Manuel Alvarez Bravo.  Surrealist Country  Mexico made a terrific subject for the same reason that
Breton declared it the surrealist country par excellence. Sex
and death were conspicuously on view, as was the bizarre beauty
of pre-Columbian sculpture and Hispanic baroque. Some of
Cartier-Bresson’s most striking Mexican images brought two of
those attributes together: Mexican prostitutes looking a little
like Aztec gods.  Everything was illuminated by a powerful light. Otherwise,
the country’s appeal faded. “Without sun,” complained the
painter Marsden Hartley, “ Mexico  is one colossal gloom.”  All in all, Mexico did not agree with Hartley, one of the
most impressive American modernists of his time: Neither his
stomach nor his palette reacted well to the place. He ate at a
German pension -- “the food here is simply paralyzing to one
not born to it,” he said -- and produced pictures that, on the
evidence of the ones in the exhibition, were garish failures.  British painter Edward Burra delivered somewhat better
results, visually speaking. He then retired back across the
border after a month suffering from dysentery. All too often,
subjects that look great in photographs seem labored and kitschy
when translated into paint.  Dead End  One of the great dead ends in 20th-century art was the
Mexican muralist movement of the ’20s and ’30s, headed by Diego Rivera (Kahlo’s husband), David Alfaro Siqueiros, and Jose
Clemente Orozco. This group aimed to produce grand, figurative
wall paintings on patriotic and revolutionary themes.  In retrospect, they look like a bombastic mix of Italian-Renaissance revival and socialist realism. Yet at the time, they
influenced other artists, including a future Abstract
Expressionist: Philip Guston made the journey south and produced
overwrought works crammed with muscular nudes.  Of all the painters, only the marvelous Kahlo pulled it
off. She made herself, not her country, the subject. The lesson
seems to be that Mexico did not really suit too many of these
visitors artistically. There was often too much travelogue and,
photographers excepted, not enough truth.  Lawrence produced a stinker of a novel (“The Plumed
Serpent”), and Eisenstein never completed his Mexican film. As
for Trotsky, after an affair with Kahlo, he famously ended up
with an ice-pick in his head.  “Mexico: A Revolution in Art 1910-1940” is at the  Royal
Academy  through September 29. Information:
 http://www.royalcademy.org.uk  or +44-20-7300-8000.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture,  Jorg
von Uthmann  on Paris culture and  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last
Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 