-- German Orders Gain Most in Eight Months in Recovery Sign
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-06T12:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/german-factory-orders-rise-most-in-eight-months-as-recovery-seen.html
German factory orders increased by
the most in eight months and U.K. industrial production beat
forecasts in June, adding to evidence of a nascent recovery in
 Europe . Italy’s economic contraction slowed.  German  orders , adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 3.8 percent from a month earlier, driven by contracts
for bulk items, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a gain of 1 percent in June, according to
the median of 42 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . U.K.
output climbed 1.1 percent from May after stagnating for three
months, the  Office for National Statistics  said in  London .  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week
that a “tentative” stabilization in the 17-nation euro area,
which excludes the U.K., is under way after at least six
quarters of contraction. That may benefit Germany, the region’s
biggest economy, as its export-focused manufacturers boost
European sales to counter a slowdown in  Asia . The country’s
leader, Angela Merkel, faces parliamentary elections next month.  “The above-average big-ticket orders mean that the June
number overstates the real economic dynamic,” said Stefan Kipar, an economist at BayernLB in Munich. “Still, given the
discernible upwards movement in the confidence indicators,
continued economic rejuvenation can be expected for the second
half of the year.”  Paris Air Show  The euro traded at $1.3275, up 0.1 percent, at 1:45 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . The pound was little changed at $1.5359. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index gained 0.1 percent to 305.09.  German factory orders advanced 4.3 percent from a year ago,
when adjusted for the number of working days, today’s report
showed. Basic-goods and consumer-goods orders both dropped 0.2
percent from the prior month.  Orders for investment goods climbed 6.8 percent from May,
led by a 20.2 percent gain in orders from within the  euro zone .
The increase for the single-currency bloc was the largest since
June 2007 and partly reflects contracts signed at the  Paris Air
Show  last month, the ministry said.  Pan-European planemaker Airbus SAS, a unit of European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., received orders for 466 planes
worth $69 billion at the Paris Air Show in June this year. Based
on the number of orders and deliveries, Airbus’s first-quarter
book-to-bill ratio on narrow-body jets was the highest since
September 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.K. Output  “A rebound in factory orders reflects a recovery in demand
for airplanes and ships,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “For the second half of the year,
an increase in demand for investment goods would be decisive,
since it would be a sign that entrepreneurs have put the crisis
behind them.”  U.K.  industrial production  beat the 0.7 percent increase
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Factory output jumped 1.9
percent, also exceeding economists’ predictions.  After expanding 0.6 percent in the second quarter, the U.K.
economy is showing signs of gaining traction, with manufacturing
and construction and services all strengthening in July and
 house prices  rising. Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  will
tomorrow present the central bank’s new economic forecasts as
well as officials’ assessment of using forward guidance.  Italy Recession  “The strength in manufacturing could be a sign that what
has so far been a sugar rush of low  interest rates  and rising
house prices is broadening out to more sustainable sources of
growth,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in
London and a former U.K. central bank official. “The BOE’s job
is to ensure the stimulus is not withdrawn prematurely and this
recovery continues to blossom.”  The euro area’s emergence from recession isn’t guaranteed.
Gross domestic product probably stagnated in the three months
ended June, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg last
month. The European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
reports second-quarter figures on Aug. 14.  Italy’s recession, the country’s longest since World War
II, eased in the period. The nation’s economy contracted 0.2
percent from the first quarter when it fell 0.6 percent,
national statistics institute Istat said in a preliminary report
published in  Rome  today. Economists predicted a decline of 0.4
percent, according to the median of 24 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. From a year earlier, output fell 2 percent.  German Election  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  will seek a third term as
leader on Sept. 22 on the strength of shielding her country from
the worst effects of the region’s debt crisis. A survey
published Aug. 2 by Forschungsgruppe Wahlen showed support for
the opposition Social Democratic party up 1 percentage point to
27 percent, while Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc slid to
40 percent. An Emnid poll showed no movement, with Merkel’s
party retaining its 15-point lead.  While the Bundesbank said last month that the German
economy expanded “strongly” in the second quarter, it also
warned of signs of a slowdown. The Frankfurt-based central bank
in June cut its 2013 growth outlook to 0.3 percent from 0.4
percent. The economy in  China ,  Germany ’s third-biggest trading
partner in 2012, has cooled for the past two quarters.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest car-parts maker, on
Aug. 1 scaled back its sales forecast for this year, saying the
region’s tire market isn’t recovering as expected. Continental
now expects revenue to increase 4 percent, down from an earlier
prediction of 5 percent.  At the same time,  Hugo Boss AG (BOSS)  reported second-quarter
earnings last week that beat estimates. Sales in Europe climbed
14 percent, beating a 7 percent increase in Asia. European
countries accounted for 69 percent of German exports last year,
while 16 percent of shipments went to Asia, according to the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden.  “The worst could be behind us” in the euro region, said
 Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“The German manufacturing sector should be the first to profit
from a recovery in the euro area, and demand from there is still
more important than that from Asia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  