-- Italian Bonds Rise With Spanish Debt on Signs Economy Is Growing
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-08-06T15:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/germany-s-bonds-are-little-changed-before-factory-orders-report.html
Italian and Spanish government bonds
climbed as factory orders rose in  Germany , the euro area’s
largest economy, underpinning demand for higher-yielding assets.  Italy’s 10-year yields fell to the lowest level in seven
weeks after a government report showed the nation’s recession
eased in the second quarter and as a  European Central Bank 
official suggested policy rates may fall further, spurring
optimism the recovery may gather momentum. Austria sold 770
million euros ($1 billion) of 10-year securities, while  Greece 
auctioned six-month bills. Germany is scheduled to sell 4
billion euros of five-year debt tomorrow.  “Things are improving more quickly than people expected,”
said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin.
“This should support Italian and Spanish bond markets over the
next few weeks.”  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds fell two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.26 percent at 4:34 p.m.  London 
time after reaching 4.22 percent, matching the lowest level
since June 14. The 4.5 percent security due in May 2023 rose
0.17, or 1.70 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 102.275.
Similar-maturity Spanish rates dropped three basis points to
4.57 percent.  German factory orders increased 3.8 percent from May, when
they fell 0.5 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said
today. Analysts forecast a gain of 1 percent, according to the
median of 42 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  ‘Positive’ Data  “We expect growth in Germany to pick up and track that of
the U.S., but with a lag,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
London. “Data from Germany has been positive. While short-dated
rates are anchored because of the European Central Bank’s
policy, longer-dated yields are likely to rise to reflect an
improved economic outlook.”  The German 10-year yield increased two basis points to 1.70
percent after rising to 1.73 percent on Aug. 2, the highest
level since July 5.  The rate will increase to 1.80 percent by the end of 2013
before climbing to 2 percent by mid-2014, according to the
median estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Italy’s gross domestic product contracted 0.2 percent from
the first quarter, when it fell 0.6 percent, according to a
preliminary report today by Istat, the national statistics
institute in  Rome . Economists predicted a decline of 0.4
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Manufacturing Growth  The data added to signs that the euro-region economy is
gathering pace. Recent reports also showed manufacturing in the
17-nation bloc expanded last month for the first time in two
years and services output shrank at a slower pace, according to
a survey of purchasing managers by London-based Markit
Economics.  Yet, policy rates may stay low. The forward guidance used
by the ECB suggests it hasn’t reached the lower bound of its key
 interest rates , the central bank’s Chief Economist Peter Praet
said in comments on the VoxEU.org website.  “We have not run out of ammunition,” he said. “Further
cuts in policy rates remain an option for the ECB if the outlook
on  price stability  so warrants.”  Volatility on French securities was the highest in euro-area markets today followed by those of Belgium and Germany,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Austria sold bonds due in October 2023 at an average yield
of 2.072 percent. It last auctioned the securities on June 4 at
an average yield of 1.903 percent, compared with a record-low
rate of 1.62 percent at a previous sale on May 7.  Greece allotted 813 million euros of bills due in February
2014 at an average yield of 4.20 percent, matching the rate at a
previous auction on July 9.  Italian securities returned 3.8 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German
bonds lost 1.4 percent and  Spain ’s gained 6.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  