-- MGM China Profit Rises on Stronger VIP Contribution
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-08-06T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/mgm-china-profit-rises-on-stronger-vip-contribution.html
MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , the Macau
casino operator controlled by  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , said
its second-quarter profit rose 11 percent as high-stake gamblers
bet more in the world’s largest gaming hub.  Adjusted property earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, increased to $220
million from $199 million a year earlier, according to the U.S.-
based parent’s filing yesterday. That compares with the median
estimate of $218.5 million from eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Net revenue at MGM China for the quarter ended in June
climbed 18 percent to $835 million, mainly because of VIP
revenue and main-floor table games, according to the parent’s
filing. Casino mogul  Stanley Ho ’s daughter Pansy Ho, holds a 27
percent stake in the company.  The company has only one Macau casino on the peninsula and
is now building its second resort on Cotai Strip, Asia’s
equivalent of Las Vegas Strip, as it faces rising competition
from bigger rivals.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  and  Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  are adding new attractions to their
casino resorts in Cotai to lure mainland Chinese gamblers, who
make up the bulk of bettors in Macau.  “Despite fierce competition from Cotai, MGM China was the
only market share winner in Peninsula during the second
quarter,” George Choi, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Citigroup
Inc., wrote in an research note before the earnings
announcement. “We continue to rank MGM China as our most
preferred Peninsula casino operator, ahead of SJM and  Wynn
Macau ,” he added.  Shares Drop  Shares of MGM China dropped 0.4 percent to close at
HK$22.90 in Hong Kong trading yesterday, before the earnings.
The stock has risen 63 percent this year, beating the benchmark
Hang Seng Index’s 3 percent decline.  Turnover at MGM China’s VIP-room gambling tables rose 34
percent from a year earlier, and wins increased 29 percent for
main-floor tables and 4 percent for slot machines, MGM said in
the filing.  Macau’s gross revenue from VIP baccarat rose to 58 billion
patacas in the second quarter from 57.8 billion patacas in the
previous quarter,  data  from the city’s gaming regulator showed.
High rollers generate two-thirds of Macau’s casino revenue.  Casino revenue  in Macau, the only place in China where
casino gambling is legal, raked in $38 billion casino revenue
last year, six times that of the  Las Vegas strip .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  