-- GM Financial Said to Offer Subprime Auto ABS at Wider Spreads
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-08-06T18:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/gm-financial-said-to-offer-subprime-auto-abs-at-wider-spreads.html
The lending unit of  General Motors
Co. (GM)  that finances buyers with blemished credit is paying more to
borrow in the asset-backed  debt market , signaling that rates on
auto loans are poised to climb.  General Motors Financial Co., formerly known as
AmeriCredit, is offering top-ranked securities maturing in 2.1
years to pay as much as 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage
point, more than the benchmark swap rate, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t public. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based company
paid 40 basis points more than swaps on similar debt sold June
13, up from 24 basis points on April 3.  Bond buyers are demanding higher relative yields on
securities linked to subprime buyers even as fixed-income
markets snap back from a sell-off that began in May when Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may start
reducing record stimulus within months. Deals tied to auto loans
spanning buyers from the weakest to the most creditworthy make
up the largest part of the asset-backed market, accounting for
about $36.3 billion of $105.8 billion of transactions offered
this year, according to data compiled by Deutsche Bank AG.  “We’re contending with a lot of uncertainty that is
forcing managers to allocate to shorter duration, higher-quality
options,”  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2.1 billion as
chief investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union
in  New York , wrote in an e-mail. “We may have reached a
satiation point for this type of credit,” amid concern about
rising interest rates, he said.  Calming Buyers  Bernanke rattled fixed-income  markets  on May 22 by telling
Congress that the Fed may reduce the pace of its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds if the
economy showed sustainable improvement. Eight weeks later, the
Fed chairman calmed bond buyers when he told the House Financial
Services Committee on July 17 that the asset purchases “are by
no means on a preset course” and that the central bank would
respond to economic data.  Companies that make loans to car buyers with bad credit are
increasingly tapping the asset-backed market as yield-seeking
investors chase riskier assets with the central bank’s benchmark
interest rate near zero for a fifth year.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) 
sold its first such offering on Jan. 15, Bloomberg data show.  Issuance of asset-backed bonds linked to subprime  car loans 
surged 20 percent to $12.9 billion this year compared with the
same period in 2012, according to Deutsche Bank.  GM Financial may sell its $877 million deal as soon as
today, the person said. About $4.4 billion in bonds tied to
everything from auto loans to equipment debt is being marketed
this week, people with knowledge of the sales said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  