-- MGM Resorts Profit Beats Estimates on Strip Gambling
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-08-06T20:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/mgm-resorts-profit-beats-estimates-as-more-gamblers-visit-nevada.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the
largest casino operator on the  Las Vegas  Strip, reported a
quarterly profit that beat analysts’ estimates, as the company
drew more gamblers in  Nevada . The shares rose.  Excluding items, profit was 4 cents a share, the Las Vegas-based company said today in a statement. Analysts on average
projected a profit of 1 cent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales climbed 6.8 percent to $2.5 billion, compared
to the average analyst projection of $2.42 billion.  While Las Vegas casinos have struggled to return to pre-recession growth as  consumer spending  has remained weak, MGM
Resorts reported gains in its operations there during the
quarter. Strip earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 15 percent, as casino revenue climbed 7
percent, and hotel sales added 5 percent.  Investment in hotel room remodeling, restaurants and
entertainment has attracted more leisure travelers to the city,
Chief Executive Officer Jim Murren said in an interview.  “Having a show like ‘One,’ the Michael Jackson show at
Mandalay Bay,” Murren said, referring to one of the company’s
Strip casinos. “Mandalay hadn’t had a show for two years and
now it’s got one of the best shows I’ve ever seen. It’s driving
tremendous traffic.”  Slot Machines  The company more aggressively marketed its slot machine
business to frequent gamblers and signed marketing partnerships
with  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  that
increased business, Murren said.  MGM’s shares rose 2.2 percent to $16.91 at the close in  New
York , their highest price since October 2008. The stock is up 45
percent this year compared with a 19 percent advance in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company posted a net loss of $92.9 million, or 19 cents
a share, in the three months ending in June, compared with a
loss of $145.5 million, or 30 cents, a year earlier. Items
affecting earnings in the quarter included a $45 million
impairment charge on corporate buildings in Las Vegas that are
being torn down to build an arena which the company will jointly
own.  Adjusted property Ebitda rose 9 percent to $596 million,
ahead of the average analysts’ estimate of $576.6 million.  Strip Casinos  Properties on the Strip generated total gaming revenue of
$1.39 billion in the second quarter, down 2.1 percent from last
year, while baccarat revenue, a growth area in recent years,
declined 15 percent, according to Bloomberg Industries. In
contrast, gaming revenue at casinos in  Macau , where MGM owns a
property, rose 16 percent.  MGM  China  reported revenue of $835 million, a gain of 18
percent from a year earlier. Adjusted Ebitda rose 10 percent to
to $205 million, its highest ever quarterly amount, according to
the statement.  The company focused on the slot machine business there and
marketed to more provinces in mainland China than competitors
did, Murren said. The business has also benefited from the MGM
name.  “People still think we make movies, it’s easy to say, it’s
a brand well known in China,” he said.  MGM China declared a dividend of $113 million, to be paid
on or about Sept. 2 to shareholders of record as of Aug. 26. MGM
Resorts will receive $57 million, representing its 51 percent
share, according to the statement.  Mall Inquiries  MGM has received three or four inquiries to purchase the
Crystals mall at its CityCenter resort in Las Vegas and will
consider its options there, the company said. MGM is also
considering refinancing CityCenter’s $1.85 billion in debt,
Chief Financial Officer Daniel D’Arrigo said on a conference
call.  The company had total long-term debt of $13.1 billion at
the end of the second quarter, down from $13.6 billion on Dec.
31. Murren said his goal is to reduce the company’s total
borrowing to below $10 billion over the next couple of years.  Credit-default swaps tied to the company’s debt, which
typically fall as investor confidence improves, decreased 9.6
basis points to a mid-price of 358.6 basis points as of 4:07
p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg prices.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. Investors and traders use the contracts to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  