-- GM Says Industry Vehicle Sales May Exceed 15.5 Million
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-08-06T18:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/gm-says-industry-vehicle-sales-may-exceed-15-5-million.html
U.S. light-vehicle sales could exceed
15.5 million this year, especially if automakers use end-of-the-year incentives aggressively,  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Economist
Mustafa Mohatarem said.  “If there’s a big sales contest at the end, you’ll get
above it,” he told reporters today following a presentation at
the Center for Automotive Research’s annual Management Briefing
Seminars near Traverse City, Michigan. “Mathematically, it’s
not going to take a whole lot to be higher than 15.5.”  U.S. car and light truck sales climbed 14 percent in July
to 1.32 million, according to Autodata Corp. The annualized
industry  sales rate , adjusted for seasonal trends, was 15.8
million, accelerating from 14.2 million a year earlier. The
industry’s sales pace for the month keeps the U.S. on track for
its best year since 16.1 million vehicles were sold in 2007.  “Things are very, very positive,” Mohatarem said during a
presentation at the conference. “I’m hearing more concern about
the fact that do we have enough cars to sell rather than do we
have too many cars to sell?” GM isn’t revising its 2013 U.S.
light-vehicle forecast of as many as 15.5 million deliveries for
the year.  Low  interest rates  and competitive lease deals are helping
boost new car sales, because Americans tend to buy vehicles
based on monthly payments.  The  auto industry  is outperforming the broader  U.S.
economy , which grew at an annualized rate of 1.7 percent in the
second quarter, Commerce Department figures showed last week.
Growth has averaged 2.2 percent during the expansion that
entered its fifth year in July, a slower pace than the first
four years of the last three economic recoveries, Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, Ford’s chief economist, said last week.  Separately, GM said it’s boosting a planned Spring Hill,
 Tennessee , plant investment by $167 million. The Detroit-based
automaker is adding $40 million to a previously announced mid-size vehicle program and will spend $127 million on a second
mid-size vehicle program. The moves will retain or create 1,800
jobs, according to a  statement  on GM’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Acme,  Michigan , at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  