-- Google Seeks Court Reversal of Mobile Phone Import Ban
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-08-06T17:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/google-seeks-court-reversal-of-mobile-phone-import-ban.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility told
a U.S. appeals court today a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  patent that led to
an import ban on its phones is the “poster child” for common
ideas being applied to new devices and labeled an invention.  “Simply saying ‘on a mobile device’ is not an invention,”
Motorola Mobility lawyer Charles Verhoeven, of  Quinn Emanuel  in
 San Francisco , said today.  Microsoft’s patent for a way phones synchronize calendars
with computers is little different than techniques used by  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s failed Newton personal digital assistant of the 1990s, or
Microsoft’s desktop software, Verhoeven said.  Motorola Mobility is seeking to invalidate the patent that
it concedes it has infringed. The U.S. International Trade
Commission in  Washington  issued an import ban in May 2012 after
finding that Motorola Mobility devices violated the patent.  The commission rejected infringement claims on four other
patents, and Microsoft appealed that part of the case in a
second argument heard today by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit.  The patent is part of Microsoft’s ActiveSync software that
Motorola Mobility used to license before the two companies
started fighting.  The case is part of a broader argument by Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft that Google’s market-dominant Android
operating system uses its technology. Motorola Mobility, which
was aquired by Google in 2012, is one of the biggest holdouts of
a licensing program that Microsoft started three years ago.  Unique Application  While the synchronization was common with computers,
software engineers who thought “wouldn’t it be great to have
this on a mobile device” were initially prevented by their
limited power, said Microsoft lawyer Constantine Trela, of
Sidley Austin in  Chicago .  “The patent comes up with the solution,” he told the
three-judge Federal Circuit panel in Washington.  Google’s Android operating system is the most popular
platform for smartphones. Strategy Analytics Inc., a Newton
Centre,  Massachusetts , research firm, on Aug. 1 said 80 percent
of the 156.5 million smartphones sold worldwide in the second
quarter ran on Android.  Microsoft’s system, used in  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s Lumia phones, was
third with 4 percent behind Apple’s 14 percent.  Microsoft said Windows Phone revenue for the fiscal year
ending June 30 rose $1.2 billion, which includes both sales of
handsets running Windows and license revenue from sales of
Android phones. The company didn’t break out how much of the
increase came from each category and didn’t provide total sales.  Moto X  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , is seeking to
revive Motorola Mobility’s smartphone business. On Aug. 1 it
announced a new flagship Moto X smartphone with customizable
colors that will be assembled in the U.S. -- probably putting it
outside the ITC’s jurisdiction.  Microsoft contends any Motorola Mobility phone that has the
syncing feature infringes the patent, and has sued  U.S. Customs ,
saying its officials aren’t stopping phones from crossing the
U.S. border.  The four patents that the agency said weren’t infringed
relate to mobile computing and drop-down menus on screens.
Microsoft, in a filing with the agency, said they cover “such
basic computer technology as application synchronization and
user interface enhancements, as well as innovations particularly
directed to mobile computing.”  In its filing, Google said it didn’t use the Microsoft
technology covered by those patents. Google also said Microsoft
hadn’t fulfilled the ITC requirement that it show the software
maker used the technology, too, a condition unique to the
agency.  Xbox Case  A Motorola Mobility case against Microsoft, seeking to
block imports of the Xbox video-gaming system, failed at the ITC
and is on appeal. In connection with that case, Microsoft has
accused Motorola Mobility of demanding unreasonable fees on
fundamental technology used in many electronics. A trial on
Microsoft’s claims that Motorola Mobility breached its
obligations to license its standard-essential patents on fair
terms is scheduled for later this month in  Seattle .  The cases are Microsoft Corp. v. ITC, 12-1445, and Motorola
Mobility LLC v. ITC, 12-1535, both U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The ITC case is In the Matter of
Certain Mobile Devices, Associated Software and Components
Thereof, 337-744, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 