-- Greek Debt Outlook Concerns German Coalition’s Fuchs, Schaeffler
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-08-06T14:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/greek-debt-outlook-concerns-german-coalition-s-fuchs-schaeffler.html
Greece  will struggle to cut its debt
load as envisaged by international assessors even with the
return of modest economic growth next year, said German
Christian Democratic Union lawmaker  Michael Fuchs .  “I’m very much concerned because to me it’s almost
impossible to do this without great leaps in economic growth,”
Fuchs, a deputy parliamentary leader and economy spokesman for
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s CDU, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “You have to look at the math of cutting debt to
about 120 percent -- one plus one is two, not three.”  European officials are at odds over how to ease Greece’s
burden as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government strives to
fulfill the terms of its bailout program through August 2014.
While Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras is counting on the euro
area to ease debt repayment terms after Greece reports a primary
 budget surplus , Merkel has ruled out a second writedown of Greek
debt, or haircut, as too risky. Her finance minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , has left open the door to reviewing help for Greece
as agreed with euro-area partners.  “Because of some legal arguments there will be no proper
haircut, but rather a third program in which interest payments
are suspended or Greece gets direct support to circumvent the
cut,”  Frank Schaeffler , a member of parliament’s Finance
Committee who opposed aiding fellow euro members, said by phone.
“It won’t be called a haircut, but it will have the same
effect.”  In November last year, euro-area finance chiefs agreed to
review Greece’s finance needs provided it ran a budget surplus
before interest payments. Achieving the goal this year would be
a “catalyst” to fill the financing gap from mid-2014,
Stournaras said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Payment Agreed  Greece’s sputtering efforts to fulfill conditions tied to
aid payments in the third quarter are more indicative of its
underlying fiscal situation than achieving a primary surplus,
said Fuchs. A payment of 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) was
only agreed on July 26 after Greece agreed to transfer a group
of education ministry workers to a general work pool.  The  Greek economy  may grow 0.6 percent next year following
six years of recession, the European Union Commission forecast
on May 3. Unemployment may slip to 26 percent from 27 percent,
while debt as a percentage of gross domestic prices will
remained unchanged on the year at 175 percent, it said.  “The Greek people are suffering -- if it were German civil
servants they too would be out on the streets,” said Fuchs.
“They have made progress in reforms and they have to do more
even though it will be even more difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  