-- Ibovespa Drops as Fed Speculation Dims Brazilian Stock Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-08-06T15:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/ibovespa-drops-as-fed-speculation-dims-brazilian-stock-outlook.html
The Ibovespa fell the most in  three
weeks  as speculation mounted that the  Federal Reserve  will soon
reduce a U.S. stimulus program that has helped buoy demand for
emerging-market assets including Brazilian stocks.  Real estate company  BR Properties SA (BRPR3)  sank to a four-week
low after posting second-quarter earnings that missed analysts’
estimates. Suzano Papel & Celulose SA led losses by raw-material
producers as commodities dropped.  The Ibovespa declined 1.9 percent to 47,537 at 11:36 a.m.
in Sao Paulo with 66 stocks lower and four higher. The real
climbed 0.4 percent to 2.2963 per dollar. U.S. stocks retreated
as investors awaited an address by Fed Bank of Chicago President
 Charles Evans  for indications of the central bank’s policy.  “What we see in the U.S. is signs that the economy is
picking up, which could mean that the Fed will soon start
cutting back stimulus,” Fernando Goes, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Clear Corretora, said in a telephone interview.
“A stronger  U.S. economy  should be good news, but for  Brazil ,
less liquidity in the world would only mean reduced flow to
equities.”  Evans is speaking to reporters today and his remarks will
be made public at 2 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index yesterday slipped 0.1 percent after Fed Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher , one of the most vocal critics of
quantitative easing, said the central bank is closer to slowing
its $85 billion in monthly bond buying.  BR Properties, Suzano  BR Properties lost 3.6 percent to 18.41 reais. The company
posted adjusted net income of 49.2 million reais in the second
quarter, which compares with an average  estimate  among analysts
of 66.4 million reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Fourteen of the 24 Ibovespa members that have already reported
earnings have trailed forecasts, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Suzano sank 3.7 percent to 7.64 reais.  Retailer  Guararapes Confeccoes SA (GUAR3) , which owns the Riachuelo
apparel chain in Brazil, rose 2 percent to 85.10 reais, its
biggest one-day gain on a closing basis in two weeks, after
posting earnings that beat analysts’ forecasts.  The Ibovespa slumped 21 percent this year through
yesterday, wiping out $248 billion from the  value  of Brazilian
stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge
trades at 11.8 times analysts’  earnings estimates  for the next
four quarters, compared with 10.4 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume in  Sao Paulo  was 4.61 billion reais
yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.61 billion reais
this year through Aug. 2, according to data  compiled  by the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  