-- IFC to Expand Nigeria Investments to $2 Billion by 2014
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-08-06T08:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/ifc-to-expand-nigeria-investments-to-2-billion-by-2014.html
The International Finance Corp., the
 World Bank ’s private-lending arm, plans a 25 percent boost in
Nigeria investments to $2 billion by next year, said Solomon Adegbie-Quaynor, the country manager.  Funds to be raised directly by the IFC or mobilized from
other sources will be targeted at industries that offer
competitive advantage to the West African nation, Solomon
Adegbie-Quaynor said in an Aug. 2 interview from Lagos,
Nigeria’s commercial capital.  “We are partnering with the Nigerian Sovereign Investment
Authority and also looking at institutions to work with for
activities in banks, power, gas, transport and agriculture,” he
said. Power will be an important industry for IFC investment
“as it is identified as largest constraint to private-sector
growth” in  Nigeria , he added. The Nigerian Sovereign Investment
authority manages the country’s sovereign-wealth fund.  Africa’s most populous nation of more than 160 million
people needs $10 billion of infrastructure investment a year to
keep up with rising population and expanding economy, Finance
Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said in May. The country’s
sovereign-wealth fund, set up in October to invest savings made
from the difference between budgeted oil prices and actual
market prices, also has a brief to fund the country’s
infrastructure needs.  Targeting Agriculture  The economy is forecast by the government to expand 6.5
percent this year. Nigeria needs annual economic growth of 13
percent to bring down unemployment, now at more than 25 percent,
by 2020, according to the  finance ministry . Its currency, the
naira, has declined 2.2 percent this year against the dollar
while the stock exchange index has advanced 37 percent.  Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, is selling majority
stakes in power plants and letting private investors acquire as
much as 60 percent of six transmission and 11 power-distribution
companies created from the former state-owned utility.  The IFC signed an agreement with the sovereign-wealth-fund
authority last month to cooperate in developing financial plans
to fund investments in target areas such as power generation and
distribution and gas-to-power projects, through equity
participation and selling debt, according to Adegbie-Quaynor.  The IFC is also targeting investments in agriculture,
Nigeria’s largest employer, according to Adegbie-Quaynor. The
lender is working with the government to identify ways to link
producers to markets and boost output, he said.  The government said it will increase food supplies by 20
million metric tons by 2015. While Nigeria grew enough food to
feed itself in the 1960s, it is now the world’s second-largest
importer of rice and sub-Saharan  Africa ’s biggest importer of
wheat. Oil has dominated the economy since the 1970s, now making
up 95 percent of export earnings and 80 percent of government
revenue.  “Whichever project the IFC identifies for investment, the
government has to design the enabling environment to make it
sustainable,” Adegbie-Quaynor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  