-- Milk Drops Most in 33 Months as Botulism Scare Spurs Demand Risk
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o   K a y d e n
-- 2013-08-06T22:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/milk-drops-most-in-33-months-as-botulism-scare-spurs-demand-risk.html
Milk futures tumbled the most in 33
months on concern that demand may fall after a contamination
scare at Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest
dairy exporter.  Fonterra said Aug. 3 that a dirty pipe in one of its
processing plants may have tainted whey protein with a bacteria
that causes botulism, a paralytic illness, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The news prompted
recalls in China, Vietnam,  Sri Lanka ,  Thailand  and  New Zealand .
Auckland-based Fonterra accounts for about a third of global
trade in dairy products.  “The botulism scare is the straw that broke the camel’s
back for the dairy markets,”  Shawn Hackett , the president of
Hackett Financial Advisors Inc. in Boynton Beach,  Florida , said
in a telephone interview. “When you have a big, quality
supplier that is now in question, people wonder who they can
trust. The initial reaction is to sell, and if you’re a buyer,
you pull out of the market until you get clarity on how big the
problem is and how long term it will be.”  Milk futures for September delivery fell 3.8 percent to
close at $17.69 per 100 pounds on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, the biggest drop for a most-active contract since Nov.
5, 2010.  China, New Zealand’s largest trading partner, has imposed a
ban on imports of whey powder and another dairy ingredient,
threatening export ties. Fonterra said yesterday that no
products offered at a GlobalDairyTrade auction of dairy products
were subject to trade sanctions. Prices of whole-milk powder
fell 1.6 percent at today’s auction, the first decline in two
months.  Milk futures “fell sharply lower” after the auction
results were released, Mary Ecklund, a market analyst at FCStone
in  Chicago , said in an e-mailed report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto Kayden in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  