-- IMF Split on Need for More German Stimulus, Wants Imbalances Cut
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-08-06T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/imf-split-on-need-for-more-german-stimulus-wants-imbalances-cut.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
executive board is split on the need for German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s government to do more to boost the economy while
it united in criticizing the country’s trade surplus.  “Most directors supported the current policy stance for
this year, although some saw scope for a more proactive
stimulus, given the significant risks to the outlook,” the
Washington-based IMF said.  Germany  should “sustain reform
momentum to raise the economy’s growth potential and promote a
more balanced economy.”  Europe ’s largest economy will expand 0.3 percent this year,
depressed by sluggish exports and “uncertainty” weighing on
corporate investments, the IMF said in a report today on its so-called Article IV consultations with Germany. At 1.4 percent,
growth will reach potential again next year, it said, after
predicting growth of 1.3 percent  in July .  Pressure on Merkel, who’s seeking a third term in Sept. 22
elections, to boost spending at home to foster recovery in cash-strapped euro region countries has been growing.  A year ago , the
IMF did “not see the immediate need to have a contingency plan
for a fiscal stimulus.”  Uncertainty surrounding policies and prospects for the euro
area is weighing on business investment and exports to the
region, the IMF said. German policies should be geared to
reducing this uncertainty to rebuild confidence, it said.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has offered German
loans from state-owned development bank KfW Group to  Portugal ,
 Spain  and  Greece  to kick-start lending to the countries’ small
and medium-sized businesses. Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen
is sharing Germany’s vocational training experiences with other
euro nations.  Orders Slump  German factory orders, industrial production and exports
slumped in May. The country’s sales abroad are being curbed as
the 17-nation euro region, its biggest trading partner,
struggles to emerge from recession.  “Given the size of Germany’s economy and its large
external imbalances, stronger and more balanced growth in
Germany is critical to a lasting recovery in the euro area and
global re-balancing,” the IMF said.  Germany’s trade surplus rose to 188.1 billion euros ($249.8
billion) last year, the second-highest since Germany started
keeping trade records, from 158.7 billion euros in 2011, the
Federal Statistics Office  said  Feb. 8. The  trade surplus  reached
a record 195.3 billion euros in 2007.  Projection Cut  The Bundesbank last month lowered its growth projection for
2013 to 0.3 percent from 0.4 percent, and cut its 2014 outlook
to 1.5 percent from 1.9 percent. The economy expanded 0.1
percent in the three months ended March.  Top credit-rated Germany, the biggest backer of the euro
region’s financial backstops, has provided “an important anchor
of regional stability” by achieving fiscal targets even while
allowing for a “modest loosening of fiscal policy to help
generate growth in domestic demand,” the IMF said.  Merkel’s Christian Union-Free Democrat government aims to
balance the  federal budget  in “structural” terms -- adjusted
for economic swings and one-time factors -- in 2014 and dispense
with new debt from 2015.  The IMF “welcomed the authorities’ intention to avoid
over-performance on fiscal consolidation, and encouraged a
recalibration of policy should growth fall short of
expectations,” according to the report. “Ensuring fiscal
sustainability remains a long-term objective in light of
demographic pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  