-- Incoming WTO Chief Says Regional Deals Threaten Doha Trade Talks
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-08-06T20:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/incoming-wto-chief-says-regional-deals-threaten-doha-trade-talks.html
The  World Trade Organization ’s
incoming director-general said nations pursuing regional and
bilateral trade accords threaten to hamper efforts to revive
global trade talks.  Roberto Azevedo, the Brazilian diplomat who takes over the
helm of the WTO next month, said policy makers will be hard
pressed to devote their attention to negotiations among the
WTO’s 159 member-nations amid simultaneous regional-level and
bi-lateral talks.  One of the “biggest problems” posed by such pacts,
Azevedo said, is that “once negotiations are going at full
steam, it’ll steal the attention a little from the multilateral
system.”  “There’s not enough time to work on everything,” Azevedo
said at an event in Rio de Janeiro.  Still, agreements like the proposed talks between the U.S.
and  Europe  and the 11-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership aren’t
incompatible with efforts to reduce trade barriers globally. If
successful, such accords can even serve as a template for future
negotiations at the Geneva-based WTO, he said.  Azevedo, who served as  Brazil ’s ambassador to the WTO since
2008, was selected in May to become the WTO’s first director-general from  Latin America .  One of his first tasks will be organizing a ministerial
conference in Bali in December that will seek to reach a
consensus on a so-called early harvest package of agreements
covering issues ranging from agriculture to concerns of least-developed nations.  Reaching a deal in Bali will be difficult, Azevedo said,
though doing so is important to send a signal that the stalled
Doha Round of trade talks, now in its 12th year, can advance.  One issue that won’t be on the table in Bali is the concern
shared by Brazil and other  emerging markets  over global currency
imbalances, Azevedo said.  Consensus on the trade distortions created by currency
fluctuations and exchange rate policies doesn’t exist and is
therefore unlikely to be taken up by the WTO or any other
international organization in the short to medium term, he
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  