-- Credit-Crisis Oracle Rajan to Head India’s Central Bank
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-08-07T08:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/india-s-rajan-to-be-next-rbi-head-as-rupee-plunges-btvi-reports.html
Raghuram Rajan , whose 2005 warning of
a financial crisis was described as “Luddite” by former Treasury
Secretary  Lawrence Summers , now has the chance to fix another
fault line: one caused by foreign-capital flight from  India .  Rajan, 50, a  University of Chicago  professor and ex-International Monetary Fund chief economist, was named the next
governor of the  Reserve Bank  of India yesterday. He said there’s
no “magic wand” to solve India’s problems instantaneously,
while adding that the central bank and the government will deal
with the challenges.  The immediate task is supporting a currency that slumped
about 13 percent against the dollar in the past six months,
adding to risks to economic stability. Rajan, the top adviser in
India’s  Finance Ministry  since 2012, has signaled Asia’s No. 3
economy has the option of issuing foreign-currency sovereign
bonds for the first time to garner dollars and bolster its
ability to steady the rupee.  “Rajan’s appointment will be very reassuring for the
markets and we could see more measures such as sovereign bond
issuances to attract more inflows,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh,
chief economic adviser at  State Bank  of India in Mumbai.  The currency weakened 0.9 percent to 61.385 per dollar as
of 1:45 p.m. in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex  index  of stocks slid
0.5 percent. The yield on the 7.16 percent bond due May 2023
fell to 8.19 percent from 8.20 percent yesterday.  Record Deficit  The rupee has been hurt by India’s current-account  deficit ,
which widened to an unprecedented $87.8 billion in the 12 months
through March. Concern the  Federal Reserve  could reduce monetary
stimulus as the  U.S. economy  strengthens has also triggered
capital outflows from  emerging markets .  “The Reserve Bank is a great institution with a tradition
of integrity, independence and professionalism,” Rajan said at
a briefing in New Delhi yesterday. “These are challenging times
for the Indian economy. No one can have doubt about the
country’s promise. The government and the Reserve Bank are
working together to address these challenges.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration said in a
statement that Rajan has been appointed for three years. He will
take over when Duvvuri Subbarao’s term  expires  Sept. 4.  Rajan, who was born in India and has an Indian passport,
said July 12 a foreign-currency sovereign bond issue is an
option to attract dollar inflows. Subbarao said July 30 such
debt may compromise Indian financial stability.  ‘Firm Influence’  “I don’t know how much he will be able to do because
traditionally the RBI governor is under the firm influence of
the Finance Ministry,” said Meghnad Desai, emeritus professor
at the  London School  of Economics. “But he’s independent
because he doesn’t need this job. He can walk out of it if he
wants.”  Rajan has described himself as a “believer in free markets”
rather than in “laissez-faire.”  He was  IMF  chief economist until 2006 and is Eric J.
Gleacher Distinguished Service Professor of Finance at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Rajan is on
leave from the post, said Ethan Grove, a spokesman for the
university.  Summers, now a candidate to replace Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in 2005 criticized aspects of Rajan’s analysis that a
credit crisis was possible.  At a central bankers’ gathering that year at Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming , Rajan argued innovation had made the financial system
more risky, not less and predicted the credit crisis. Summers,
 responding  to Rajan’s paper, described himself as “someone who
finds the basic, slightly Luddite premise of this paper to be
largely misguided.”  ‘Fault Lines’  Summers also said “while I think the paper is right to
warn us of the possibility of positive feedback and the dangers
that it can bring about in financial markets, the tendency
toward restriction that runs through the tone of the
presentation seems to me to be quite problematic.”  Rajan’s book, “ Fault Lines : How Hidden Fractures Still
Threaten the World Economy,” was the Financial Times and
Goldman Sachs business book of the year in 2010.  He sparred with Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  over arguments
in the book about the cause of the global financial crisis.  Krugman co-wrote a  review  that said Fault Lines buys into
“what is mainly a politically motivated myth” that Democrats
contributed to the meltdown through programs in the U.S. that
made more home loans available to lower-income families. Rajan
wrote in a  rejoinder  that his criticism is “bipartisan
throughout the book.”  Star Dimming  In a speech in April 2012, Rajan said “India’s star has
dimmed in the last few months, as our governance is besmirched
by corruption scandals and our macroeconomic health has
deteriorated,” adding that some key reforms have been stymied.  He warned of risks from  fiscal  and current-account deficits
and called for India to be kinder to foreign investors.  Subbarao raised two rates July 15 and has capped cash
injections into the banking system and tightened lenders’
reserve ratios to curb the supply of rupees, joining nations
from Brazil to Indonesia in fighting currency weakness.  Costlier credit could hamper a government push to
 revitalize  investment and revive growth from a decade low.  In an interview to Bloomberg TV India on July 25, Rajan
said India will do whatever it takes to stabilize the rupee. The
measures taken by the central bank to curb currency swings will
help contain inflation and will give the monetary authority room
to be “more accommodative,” he said.  Growth Slows  Rajan and Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram have
helped lead the effort since September to spur India’s expansion.
The steps taken have included easing restrictions on foreign
direct investment in industries such as aviation and retailing
to woo inflows and avert a credit-rating downgrade.  At least two previous holders of the Finance Ministry’s
chief economic adviser post went on to be appointed central bank
governor: Singh, the current  prime minister , and  Bimal Jalan .  India’s gross domestic product growth  slowed  to 5 percent
last fiscal year, the weakest pace since 2003. The rupee’s drop
threatens to stoke inflation, with  consumer prices  climbing
almost 10 percent in June from a year earlier.  Rajan’s initial education was in the South Asian nation. He
took further studies in the U.S. and has a doctorate from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  The new governor will need to “restore credibility in
stabilizing the  exchange rate  and fighting inflation,” said
 Rahul Bajoria , an economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, employment in  New
Zealand  rose 0.4 percent in the three months through June from
the first quarter, while the jobless rate rose to 6.4 percent as
more people sought work, data released today showed. Australia’s
home-loan approvals rose 2.7 percent in June from the previous
month.  In Europe, Germany and Ireland are scheduled to report June
industrial production data. U.S. mortgage applications data are
also due today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  