-- Italy Contraction Slows as Recession Lasts Record Two Years
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-08-06T09:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/italian-contraction-slows-as-recession-lasts-record-two-years.html
Italy ’s recession, the country’s
longest since World War II, eased in the second quarter amid
gains in business and household confidence.  Gross domestic product contracted 0.2 percent from the
first quarter, when it fell 0.6 percent, national statistics
institute Istat said in a preliminary report published in Rome
today. Economists predicted a decline of 0.4 percent, according
to the median of 24 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. From a
year earlier, output fell 2 percent.  Prime Minister Enrico Letta is easing the budget austerity
that Italy needed last year to fight the European sovereign debt
crisis. Companies are gaining liquidity as the public
administration, under Letta’s oversight, repays arrears to its
private-sector suppliers. Households have benefited from the
suspension of a controversial property tax.  “That probably supported consumer confidence and gave
people more money to spend during the holidays,” said Riccardo Barbieri, chief European economist at Mizuho International Plc
in  London . “But obviously it doesn’t fundamentally change the
picture unless the real-estate tax is reformed.”  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 1.3 basis points to 4.26
percent at 11:03 a.m. in Rome. That’s down from a five-month
high of 4.85 percent on June 25.  Record Recession  Italian consumers and businesses are relying on Letta to
pull the country out of its two-year recession, one of the
longest in the 17-nation euro area. The 46-year-old premier’s
push for stimulus is constrained by European Union deficit rules
and tenuous parliamentary backing, exacerbated by the legal
troubles of coalition partner and ex-premier Silvio Berlusconi.  Business confidence rose for a third month in July, and
unemployment slipped in June from a record high.  Consumer
confidence  unexpectedly advanced in June, and retail sales rose
in May for the first time in a year.  Industrial output increased in June, Istat said today.
Production rose 0.3 percent from May, matching economists’
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Budget Austerity  The country’s economic forecast was cut last month by the
Bank of Italy, and its credit rating was reduced by Standard &
Poor’s to BBB, or two levels above junk. Italy’s GDP, the third-biggest in the euro area, will probably decline 1.9 percent this
year, the central bank said on July 19. That’s down from a
January forecast of a 1 percent contraction.  Italians repudiated the budget austerity that former Prime
Minister Mario Monti imposed last year to shield the country
from bond-market speculation. Monti, 70, finished fourth in
parliamentary elections in February, while no single force won
enough votes to govern alone. Letta emerged as premier in April
after cobbling together a three-party coalition.  A property-tax suspension and Letta’s decision to postpone
the implementation of an increase in the value-added tax have
given consumers more cash. The government, composed of ministers
from three rival parties, must now agree on the future of the
real-estate levy known as IMU and decide whether it can afford
to delay the VAT increase any further.  Unemployment Rate  The government is at risk as Berlusconi, 76, protests a
definitive criminal conviction for tax fraud handed down last
week by Italy’s top court. While Berlusconi has said he will
continue to support Letta, lawmakers in the ex-premier’s People
of Liberty party have said they may consider resigning to
protest the conviction.  Unemployment fell to 12.1 percent in June from the record
of 12.2 percent the previous month. The Bank of Italy forecast
joblessness to climb to nearly 13 percent in 2014. Absolute
poverty rose to 6.8 percent of households last year from 5.2
percent in 2011, Istat said last month. That’s the highest level
since records began in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  