-- Liverpool May Take $23Mln Loss on Downing: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-08-06T10:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/liverpool-may-take-23mln-loss-on-downing-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Downing Dumped?  Liverpool has told  Newcastle United  it can buy winger
Stewart Downing for a reduced price of 5 million pounds ($7.7
million), the  Liverpool Echo  reported.  Liverpool paid 20 million pounds for Downing when he joined
two years ago from Aston Villa. He has two years left on his
contract.  United Tension  The relationship between  Manchester United  forward  Wayne Rooney  and teammates Rio Ferdinand,  Ryan Giggs  and Patrice Evra
has become “strained,” over his intention to leave, the
 Independent  reported.  Even after their pleas that he stay with the club, Rooney
still wants to go and may use his increasingly difficult
relationship with the fans and fellow players as a reason to
quit Old Trafford, the newspaper said.  United, the Premier League champion, yesterday rejected a
second bid, worth 25 million pounds “plus add-ons” from
Chelsea for Rooney, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Luiz Staying?  Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  has made it clear  David Luiz 
isn’t going anywhere even amid interest from Barcelona, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Mourinho has complimented Luiz -- who missed the start of
pre-season training because he was at the Confederations Cup --
saying the player “has come back with us fantastically and we
have to use his quality.”  Luiz, who joined Chelsea from Benfica in 2011 for 21
million pounds, is now valued at 45 million pounds by the Blues.  Cesar Exit?  Queens Park Rangers goalkeeper Julio Cesar is close to
joining Italian side Fiorentina after the London club was
relegated to the Championship last season, the  Daily Star 
reported.  Cesar, 33, had also been a target of Arsenal manager  Arsene
Wenger .  QPR manager  Harry Redknapp  is keen to offload the
Brazilian, who is paid 90,000 pounds a week and joined only a
year ago, the Star said.  Everton Target  The agent of Belgium international and Ajax player Toby
Alderweireld says Everton wants to sign him, the  Guardian 
reported.  The value of the 24-year-old central defender has declined
to 6 million pounds because he is in the final year of his
contract, the newspaper added.  Alderweireld, who last month rejected a move to Norwich
City, is also on Liverpool’s radar, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  