-- J.C. Penney Falls as Analyst Cuts Estimates
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-08-06T20:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/j-c-penney-falls-as-analyst-cuts-estimates.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  fell to the lowest in
more than 12 years after an analyst at Morgan Stanley said the
department-store chain is consuming cash faster than expected
and may post a wider loss than she previously estimated.  The shares  slid  3.9 percent to $13.28 at the close in  New
York , the lowest closing price since Jan. 26, 2001. The Plano,
Texas-based retailer’s shares have fallen 33 percent this year,
compared with a 19 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  J.C. Penney’s estimate, released last week, that it would
have about $1.5 billion in cash at the end of the quarter that
ran through July was less than the $1.9 billion projected by
Kimberly Greenberger, a New York-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley.  Greenberger wrote in a note to clients today that the
figure, which implies cash use of about $1 billion from the
previous quarter, may be caused by lower operating cash flow,
increased  capital spending  and higher-than-expected inventories.  J.C. Penney may have posted an adjusted loss as deep as
$1.34 per share in the quarter, wider than a previous estimate
of as much as $1, she said. The average projection of 22
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for an adjusted loss of $1.05
a share.  Same-store sales may have slid 10 percent, more than the
previously expected 8 percent drop, Greenberger said.  Johnson Renovations  Amid the costly store renovations and plunging sales under
former Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson , the retailer’s
operations consumed $10 million in cash in the year ended Feb.
2, the first year they’ve done so since at least 1987, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The chain’s operations generated
$820 million in cash the previous year.  In an effort to turn the retailer around, Chief Executive
Officer Myron Ullman drew $850 million from J.C. Penney’s
revolving credit facility a week after succeeding Johnson in
April. The drawdown on the $1.85 billion  credit line  was to be
used for capital spending and to replenish inventory as the
company opens renovated home departments, the retailer said in a
statement.  J.C. Penney also received a loan commitment from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in April. The five-year  term loan , initially
targeted for $1.75 billion and later raised to $2.25 billion,
was secured by real estate and an interest in other assets of
the retailer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  