-- Japanese Shares Gain on Weaker Yen, Pension-Fund Report
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-08-06T07:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/japanese-shares-fall-as-yen-holds-gains-against-dollar.html
Japanese  shares  rose, with the  Topix (TPX) 
index climbing for a third time in four days, as the yen fell
against the dollar and after a report Japan’s public-employee
pension fund may increase its stock holdings.  Honda (7267)  Motor Co., which gets more than 80 percent of its
revenue outside Japan, rose 2 percent as the yen reversed
earlier gains. Nisshin Steel Holdings Co. surged after raising
its half-year profit forecast.  Sony Corp. (6758)  slid 4.6 percent after
its board turned down activist investor  Daniel Loeb ’s proposal
to spin off part of the entertainment business.  The Topix gained 0.8 percent to 1,193.66 at the close of
trading in Tokyo, after falling as much as 1.3 percent. Volume
was 17 percent below the 30-day average. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average climbed 1 percent to 14,401.06. Reuters reported today
that the country’s pension fund for civil servants may sell
Japanese  government bonds  and buy local stocks.  “The story is prompting the rally as there is very little
other news around and most people are kind of expecting these
moves by the pension funds as JGBs may no longer be able to
match their liabilities,” said  Andrew Sullivan , director of
sales trading at Kim Eng Securities in  Hong Kong . “The key is
that other pensions are probably considering doing the same but
it takes time to switch allocations.”  Share swings are increasing as investors weigh Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus policies against concern  China’s
economy  is slowing and prospects the U.S. will end bond-buying.
The Topix moved more than 2.4 percent a day on average last
week, the biggest fluctuations since June.  Historical volatility 
over the last 90 days, a period that includes May and June when
the index plunged more than 18 percent, reached almost 32
percent last week, the highest since the crisis after the 2008
collapse of  Lehman Brothers , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Record Stimulus  “The undercurrent for Japanese stocks is that the country
will exit deflation and the market is still likely to advance on
fundamentals,” said  Toshihiko Matsuno , a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest lender by market value. “For the time being the market
will be trading without much direction.”  The Topix rose 39 percent this year, making Japan the
world’s best-performing developed equity market, amid optimism
Abe will push through reforms while the  Bank of Japan  continues
record stimulus. The equity gauge traded at 1.25 times  book
value  today, compared with 2.51 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 1.69 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index yesterday.  Profits have increased 90 percent at the 1,146 Topix
companies that have reported quarterly earnings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 203 companies on the gauge
that posted results for which Bloomberg has estimates, 59
percent  beat  projections.  U.S. Stocks  Futures on the  S&P 500  lost 0.1 percent. The equity gauge
fell from a record yesterday in New York as investors weighed
stronger-than-forecast growth in  service industries  and Fed Bank
of Dallas President  Richard Fisher ’s comments that investors
should’t rely on $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  Stocks gained today as Japan’s currency traded at 98.57 per
dollar after earlier strengthening to as much as 97.84. A weaker
yen boosts exporters’ overseas earnings when repatriated.  Honda rose 2 percent to 3,795 yen, rebounding from a 1.8
percent decline as the yen weakened. Mazda Motor Corp., which
gets more than 70 percent of sales outside Japan, climbed 2.4
percent to 433 yen. Canon Inc., the world’s largest camera
maker, added 1.1 percent to 3,210 yen.  More Stocks  In another boost to shares, the  Federation of National
Public Service Personnel Mutual Aid Associations , may allow more
of its $80 billion yen in assets to be invested in domestic
stocks instead of JGBs, Reuters reported without saying where it
got the information. The fund, which covers 1.24 million active
and retired civil servants in  Japan , allocates about 79 percent
of its holdings to domestic bonds and 6.8 percent to local
stocks, Reuters said.  Nisshin Steel jumped 16 percent to 1,059 yen, the most
since May 10, for the  second-biggest  gain on the Topix. Japan’s
fourth-largest steel producer raised its half-year profit
forecast by 350 percent to 4.5 billion yen ($46 million).  Sony slid 4.6 percent to 2,039 yen, its largest decline in
two months, after the board unanimously decided against an
initial public offering of the entertainment business. Loeb said
he was disappointed with the decision and would seek ongoing
dialogue with the company. Sony also said it will begin
providing additional disclosure on the unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 mwatanabe47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  