-- Japanese Battery Trial Seeks to Transform How Grids Work: Energy
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-08-07T14:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/japanese-battery-trial-seeks-to-transform-how-grids-work-energy.html
On a windy island 500 miles north of
Tokyo, Japan is about to experiment with a battery designed to
transform the way electricity is supplied and at the same time
boost Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic rescue plan.  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry is investing 20
billion yen ($203 million) on a  Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. (5802) 
device to be used by Hokkaido island’s utility to store excess
solar and wind power, stabilizing flows to consumers.  Since the earthquake in 2011, Japan has redoubled work to
upgrade power systems and spur exports that can revitalize the
economy. The Sumitomo device is meant to give Japan the kind of
market leadership it had in the 1970s with cheap calculators
made by  Casio Computer Co. (6952)  and this century with  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s fuel-saving hybrid cars.  “It’s great timing to make inroads into Europe and the U.S.
and to supply the system in Hokkaido toward commercialization,”
said Keisuke Murakami, a trade ministry official in charge of
the project.  The battery, which uses the metal vanadium to store
electrical energy in electrolyte tanks, has been researched from
Australia to China and promises to handle the sort of large
power surpluses that can develop on a transmission grid.  Hokkaido island was picked because it’s isolated from the
mainland’s electricity network and has open land ideal for
arrays of solar panels and  wind turbines . Success would benefit
 Sharp Corp. (6753)  and  SoftBank Corp. (9984) , which are among the investors
that have sought to build solar projects with four times the
capacity Hokkaido’s grid can handle. Installation is set for
completion by March 2015.  Abe’s Program  Energy storage  is one of the technologies Abe and Japan’s
previous government have been working on to modernize the grid,
whose structure has been fixed since World War II.  Utilities in Japan such as  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  and
 Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  have experimented with energy storage.
In the U.S., Electric Transmission Texas and  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  are
among the companies that have experience with the technology.  Aside from cost, one of the biggest obstacles is the
potential for battery systems to overheat and cause fires. Last
August, a 15-megawatt lead-acid battery backup system for a wind
farm in Hawaii caught fire and destroyed its warehouse, forcing
a temporary closure of First Wind Holdings Inc.’s 30-megawatt
wind farm.  Problems associated with more prolific  lithium-ion
batteries  have grounded  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s Dreamliner jets and led to
the bankruptcy of U.S. government-backed  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ)   Battery Fires  In September 2011, a fire started at a 2-megawatt storage
system developed by  NGK Insulators Ltd. (5333)  Production of sodium-sulfur batteries was suspended. In May, NGK announced it signed
an agreement to supply a battery system with the capacity of as
much as 490 megawatt-hours to  Terna SpA (TRN)  of Italy.  Trials on Hokkaido are aimed at answering how to integrate
bursts of power on sunny, windy days into a grid designed to
handle constant output from generators driven mainly by nuclear
reactors and fossil fuels typically run day and night.  “The project will enable gathering data and integrating
more clean energy onto the grid,” said Takahiko Date, a senior
researcher at the ICT innovation department of the Mitsui Global
Strategic Studies Institute in  Tokyo . “Once batteries’
performance is proven, it becomes easier to deploy them
abroad.”  Grid Bottlenecks  Not everyone is convinced the battery project will fix the
grid. “This may be a good pilot project to improve the
technology, but it won’t solve the problems Hokkaido is
facing,” said Ali Izadi-Najafabadi, an analyst for Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. “It doesn’t help much with the issue of
Hokkaido’s overall electricity demand being low,” where
renewable generation is increasing and there’s not enough
capacity to transfer electricity to the mainland, he said.  Alternatives to batteries have been working for years for
utility-scale power storage. Pumped hydroelectric power is the
most common, with more than 127 gigawatts of capacity worldwide,
according to the U.S. Electric Power Research Institute. Those
pump water into a reservoir where it can be released later to
drive hydroelectric turbines.  The Hokkaido project gives  Japan  and Sumitomo a chance to
showcase the vanadium redox flow technology to utilities around
the globe that need to integrate renewables into the grid. It
relies on almost three decades of research by Sumitomo on
rechargeable batteries.  Research History  The U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration was
developing the vanadium redox flow technology in the 1970s.
Sumitomo started research in 1985 and suspended work because the
batteries kept charge more briefly than expected.  It resumed in 2008 and this year set up a division to
promote the technology, said Mitsuyo Tsuruta, a Sumitomo
spokeswoman. It has been conducting pilot projects and wants to
commercialize the battery as early as next year.  With a capacity of 60 megawatt-hours, the battery will be
installed at  Hokkaido Electric (9509) ’s Minami Hayakita substation in
the town of Abira, according to a joint statement from Sumitomo
and the utility. One megawatt is enough to power about 333 homes
in Japan.  The trade ministry said there is an increasing need for
storage in Europe for wind power, and the system on trial in
Hokkaido shows promise.  Murakami, the trade ministry official, said, “that is why
Sumitomo is betting on a technology it once gave up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  