-- Jefferson County Approved to Seek Creditor Vote on Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/jefferson-county-approved-to-seek-creditor-vote-on-plan.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , won court
approval of a creditor vote on a $1.3 billion debt-reduction
plan that is being threatened by  interest rates  that are higher
than the county planned.  Sending the plan to creditors for a vote is the final legal
hurdle before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett in
Birmingham, Alabama, decides whether to approve the proposal and
allow the county to exit bankruptcy. The county still faces a
threat from the  bond market , where interest rates are higher
than the county and its creditors expected.  Unless rates return to the lower levels seen in the past
few years, the county may “have to go back to the bargaining
table,” with creditors, Ken Klee, the attorney leading the
restructuring, said in court yesterday in Birmingham.  Jefferson County’s reorganization plan is built on a
settlement with creditors, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and a
group of  hedge funds . The bank and the funds hold the majority
of the $3 billion in sewer warrants that the county proposes to
cancel and replace with about $2 billion in new debt.  Creditors have until October to vote on the plan. That is
about the time that the county will start a “road show” to
sell the debt to investors, Klee said.  The interest rates that the county must pay on that new
debt can’t be too high or the settlement will need to be
renegotiated, Klee said.  Financial Setbacks  The county may not be able to pay the current market rates,
which were driven up earlier this year by comments made by
 Federal Reserve  officials, a credit crunch in  China  and
 Detroit ’s bankruptcy, Klee said.  “There are substantial risks that it will not be able to
refinance come the fall unless the interest rates are within the
rates that they have been historically,” he said.  Yields on benchmark 30-year munis have jumped 1.24
percentage points since June 4 to 4.57 percent, the highest in
two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Interest
rates rose in June on speculation that the Federal Reserve would
slow its bond buying, and then again following Detroit’s record
bankruptcy filing on July 18.  The maximum rates the county can pay vary from 5 percent to
7 percent, depending on the type of debt being issued, according
to the statement being sent to creditors. The county has
proposed issuing three types of warrants with maturities
stretching out to 2053: current interest bonds, capital
appreciation bonds and convertible capital appreciation bonds.
The rates would go up over time for each type.  Disclosure Statement  The county’s lawyers appeared in court seeking approval of
a disclosure statement that describes the settlement and the
county’s plan to emerge from bankruptcy. The statement is
designed to give creditors enough information so they can vote
on the plan.  The  county , backed by a group of sewer-warrant holders,
will send creditors the statement describing how they will be
affected by the debt-reduction plan. Bennett will take that vote
into account when deciding whether to approve the plan in
November and allow the county to exit bankruptcy by year’s end.  “It is obvious they have more than enough information to
make a decision,” Bennett said in court as he overruled
objections by local elected officials who claimed the county did
not give creditors enough details about the plan.  Birmingham’s Water Works Board and the city of Bessemer,
also located in Jefferson County, asked Bennett to force the
county to add more financial information about its proposal to
issue the $1.9 billion in new sewer debt.  County Tax Assessor Andrew Bennett and a group of local
elected officials want the county to include more information
about the ability of area residents to pay for the proposed rate
increases. Households connected to the sewage system have a
median income of about $30,000, the group said.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Birmingham, Alabama, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  