-- Jefferson County Plan Threatened by High Rates: Lawyer
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-06T15:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/jefferson-county-plan-threatened-by-high-rates-lawyer-says-1-.html
Jefferson County, Alabama’s $3
billion settlement with creditors is threatened by the current
interest rates being demanded by the market, the lawyer leading
the county’s bankruptcy-exit strategy said.  Unless rates return to the lower levels seen in the last
few years, the county may “have to go back to the bargaining
table,” Ken Klee, the bankruptcy attorney leading the
restructuring, said in court today in Birmingham, Alabama.  Jefferson County’s reorganization plan is built on a
settlement with creditors, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and a
group of hedge funds. The bank and the hedge funds hold the
majority of the $3 billion in sewer warrants that the county
proposes to cancel and replace with about $2 billion in new
debt.  The interest rates that the county must pay on that new
debt can’t be too high or the settlement will need to be
renegotiated, Klee said. The county may not be able to pay the
current market rates, which were driven up earlier this year by
comments made by Federal Reserve officials, a credit crunch in
 China  and  Detroit ’s bankruptcy, Klee said.  When the county begins a “road show” to sell the debt to
investors this fall, rates will need to be lower to succeed,
Klee said during the hearing in U.S. bankruptcy court.  ‘Substantial Risks’  “There are substantial risks that it will not be able to
refinance come the fall unless the interest rates are within the
rates that they have been historically,” he said.  The county’s lawyers appeared in court seeking approval of
a disclosure statement that describes the settlement and the
county’s plan to emerge from bankruptcy. That statement is
designed to give creditors enough information so they can vote
on the plan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett will take those votes
into consideration when he decides whether to approve the plan
later this year. The county has asked Bennett to consider
approving the plan in November, so it can end its bankruptcy by
the end of the year, after the financing is in place.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Alabama  (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Birmingham, Alabama, at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 