-- Jefferson County Investors Seek Plan Vote as Exit Nears
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/jefferson-county-investors-seek-plan-vote-as-exit-nears.html
Jefferson County, Alabama’s, sewer-debt holders may win the right to vote on the county’s debt-reduction plan following a hearing on the matter today, the 
final legal hurdle before a judge decides whether to end the 
county’s $4 billion bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett in Birmingham,
Alabama, is scheduled to consider a timeline that would wind 
down the second-biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy just as the 
biggest, filed last month by  Detroit , gets under way.  The  county  and a group of sewer-warrant holders seek to
send creditors a disclosure statement describing how they will
be affected by the debt-reduction plan and giving them an Oct. 7
deadline to vote. Bennett would take that vote into account when
deciding whether to approve the plan in November and allow the
county to exit bankruptcy by year’s end.  “The plan is the product of more than 18 months of effort,
to restore the county’s general fund to operational balance, to
address and resolve years of litigation involving the sewer
system and its indebtedness,” the county said in the disclosure
statement.  The plan is based on a settlement between the county and
creditors, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and a group of hedge
funds. The bank and the hedge funds hold the majority of the
$3 billion in sewer warrants that Jefferson County proposes to
cancel and replace with about $2 billion in new debt.  Principal Reduction  Those creditors agreed to support that plan, which would be
the first time since the 1930s that a U.S. municipality has used
a bankruptcy case to impose cuts in principal on bond investors.  Detroit’s judge has scheduled a trial on Oct. 23 to decide
whether that city’s $18 billion bankruptcy should go forward or
be dismissed, as unions and pension officials say they will
request. If Detroit clears that hurdle, the city said, it
intends to file a plan by the end of the year to reduce its
debt, setting up another series of court battles for 2014.  Under Jefferson County’s plan, JPMorgan would collect about
31 percent of what it’s owed, or $375 million of $1.22 billion,
while seven hedge funds will recover more than 80 percent of the
$872 million they are owed.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  was picked by county commissioners to manage
the $2 billion refinancing.  The county will raise sewer rates 7.4 percent annually for
four years. Those rates may go higher if interest rates rise
before the refinancing is completed.  Local public officials have objected to the disclosure
statement, saying it doesn’t contain enough information for
creditors to vote.  New Debt  Birmingham’s Water Works Board and the city of Bessemer,
also located in Jefferson County, asked Bennett to force the
county to add more financial information about its proposal to
issue the $1.9 billion in new sewer debt.  County Tax Assessor Andrew Bennett and a group of local
elected officials want the county to include more information
about the ability of area residents to pay for the proposed rate
increases. Households connected to the sewer system have a
median income of about $30,000, the group said.  JPMorgan, the hedge funds and the bond insurers have all
pledged to vote in favor of the plan as part of the settlement.  Warrant holders who are owed more than $500 million aren’t
part of the deal and can vote however they like. They will have
a choice of collecting 65 cents of every dollar they are owed,
or 80 cents on the dollar if they give up their right to collect
money from the insurers.  Tainted Refinancing  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009, JPMorgan agreed to a  settlement 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over payments
its bankers were accused of making to people tied to county
politicians to win business.  JPMorgan, based in New York, paid the county $75 million in
that settlement and has given up more than $657 million in swaps
claims it held.  Jefferson County supplanted Orange County,  California , as
the largest municipal bankruptcy in the U.S. Orange County
entered court protection in 1994 after losing $1.7 billion on
interest-rate bets.  While its petition initially listed more debt than
Jefferson County, much of that liability was reduced in the
early weeks of the case. Partly through lawsuits against the
financial firms, Orange County creditors were paid in full.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Alabama  (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  