-- Job Openings in U.S. Climb to Highest Level in Five Years
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-08-06T16:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/job-openings-in-u-s-rose-in-july-to-highest-level-in-five-years.html
Job openings  in the U.S. rose in June
to the highest level in five years even as employers hired the
fewest workers so far this year, adding to evidence of an uneven
improvement in the labor market.  The number of  positions  waiting to be filled rose by 29,000
to 3.94 million, the most since May 2008, from a revised 3.91
million in May, the Labor Department reported today in
Washington. The pace of hiring decreased by the most in three
years to the slowest since December.  The figures follow data last week that showed payroll gains
cooled last month while the jobless rate dropped more than
projected as employers took on more part-time staff. The drop in
hiring for June underscores the irregular nature of the
improvement in the job market, which makes it more difficult for
Federal Reserve policy makers to gauge labor demand.  “It’s not all good news,” said  Jonathan Basile , an
economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . “If you’re looking for
forward guidance, you hang your hat on the job openings number,
and that looks good.”  Another report today showed the U.S.  trade deficit  narrowed
in June to the lowest level since October 2009 as crude oil
imports declined and American companies shipped more goods
abroad. The gap shrank 22.4 percent to $34.2 billion from a
revised $44.1 billion in May, according to the Commerce
Department. Exports increased to an all-time high while imports
fell to a three-month low.  Stocks dropped on disappointing results from retailers. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.6 percent to 1,697.32 at
11:58 a.m. in New York.  July Payrolls  Last week’s July employment report missed estimates as
payrolls rose by 162,000 people, the least in four months. Even
so, the Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index increased by
the most since February, data from the New York-based group
showed yesterday, suggesting job growth may rebound.  The  unemployment rate  declined to 7.4 percent last month,
the lowest since December 2008, from 7.6 percent in June.  Today’s Jobs Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS,
showed the number of people hired decreased by 289,000 in June,
the biggest drop since June 2010, to 4.2 million. That pushed
the  hiring rate  down to 3.1 percent from 3.3 percent.  It also showed fewer workers were fired in June than at any
time in the previous five months, indicating demand is strong
enough for companies to retain current staff. Total dismissals,
excluding retirements and other voluntary departures, dropped to
1.54 million from 1.75 million in May.  Fewer Quits  Another 2.16 million people quit their jobs in June, down
from 2.23 million the prior month. The quits rate was little
changed at 1.6 percent. It averaged 2 percent during the
previous expansion and went as high as 2.3 percent in late 2006.  In the 12 months ended in June the economy created a net
1.8 million jobs, representing 51.8 million hires and 49.9
million separations.  Fed policy makers have focused on the job market to
determine when to begin scaling back the central bank’s $85
billion in monthly bond purchases. Policy makers have said they
will continue the program until the labor market has improved
“substantially.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference after
the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s June 18-19 meeting that the
Fed may trim its bond-buying program later this year and halt it
around mid-2014, at which time the jobless rate will probably be
around 7 percent. About half the committee’s 19 participants
favor ending the program by year’s end, according to minutes
released after the June meeting.  Yellen’s View  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , a possible candidate to
head the Fed when Bernanke’s term expires in January, said in a
speech in March that she will be looking at several indicators,
not just the payroll figures and the unemployment rate, to gauge
the labor market’s strength.  Among those were the rate of hiring and the level of quits
which form part of the JOLTS report. The declines in both those
measures in June take some of the shine off the gain in payrolls
and drop in joblessness.  Yesterday,  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a post on Twitter
that Yellen lists JOLTS as one of four key employment
indicators. “If you don’t know what JOLTS stands for -- you
should,” he said.  In another post today, Gross said the JOLTS data didn’t
“validate” the recent gains in payrolls, and indicated a
reduction in bond purchases may be delayed if Yellen has a “big
vote.”  July Minutes  Policy makers are scheduled to release minutes of their July
30-31 meeting on August 21.  Today’s figures indicate there are about three job seekers
for every opening, compared with about 1.8 when the recession
began in December 2007.  Job openings improved in professional and business services
and construction, while help wanted at government agencies and
health-care providers declined, today’s report showed.  Jeff MacLellan is among those having the confidence to
switch jobs in July. He left his position at Imprivata Inc. to
become senior director of worldwide customer success at Boston-based Trusteer Inc., a cybercrime prevention services provider.  “I’ve got four little kids,” MacLellan, 41, said. “I
want to work for a company that’s solid, that’s profitable, or
that’s going to be shortly. Knowing that companies are spending
more allows me to know they will spend more on products like
Trusteer’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  