-- John Hancock Loses Suit Over $560 Million in U.S. Taxes
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-06T20:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/john-hancock-loses-suit-over-560-million-in-u-s-taxes.html
John Hancock Life Insurance Co. (MFC) ’s bid
for deductions on a series of leveraged lease transactions was
denied by the U.S. Tax Court in a decision addressing a $560
million tax dispute.  Judge Harry Haines accepted arguments by the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service that “the substance of the transactions is not
consistent with their form,” and denied claims for
depreciation, rental and interest expense and transaction costs.  “John Hancock did not acquire the benefits and burdens of
ownership” Haines wrote of one of the disputed transactions.  The ruling yesterday is the latest court victory for the
IRS in challenges to lease-in-lease-out and sale-in-lease-out
transactions, commonly called LILO and SILO, which the tax
agency has determined are vehicles for improper tax avoidance.  “There have probably been six or seven of them and they’ve
ultimately won all of them,” said Mark Allison, a tax attorney
with  Caplin & Drysdale Chartered  in  Washington .  In 2008, the IRS gave companies a chance to terminate LILO
and SILO transactions in exchange for keeping 20 percent of the
savings and getting reductions in some penalties.  In LILO and SILO transactions, a bank or other company
purchases large assets, such as railroads or utilities, and
leases them back to governments or other operating entities.  The companies purportedly buying the assets claim  tax
deductions  such as depreciation on the equipment.  ‘Sham’ Arrangements  The IRS has argued the arrangements are shams designed to
produce tax benefits on assets the companies never actually
owned.  John Hancock , the U.S. unit of Toronto-based Manulife
Financial Corp., is considering an appeal of the decision, Roy Anderson, a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We continue to believe our position on the tax treatment
of our lease investments was appropriate and factually
distinguishable from other recent cases addressing the tax
treatment of leverage lease investments,” he said.  Manulife said in its 2012 annual report it had established
provisions for “possible disallowance of the tax treatment and
for interest on past due taxes” on lease transactions.  ‘Material Impact’  “We do not expect the decision will have a material impact
on the Company’s finances,” Anderson said.  Based on company reporting, “reserves have been built up
even more than we had previously realized such that incremental
provisions at this point would be immaterial,” analyst Andre-Philippe Hardy, of  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, wrote in a
note this morning.  Manulife reports second-quarter earnings Aug. 8 at 6 a.m.
with an analyst conference call scheduled for 2 p.m. that day.  One of John Hancock’s SILOs scrutinized by Haines involved
the company’s purchase of an interest in a high-speed rail line
run by  Societe Nationale de Chemins de Fer Belges , or SNCB, the
owner and operator of the national rail system of  Belgium .  The transaction resembled a loan from John Hancock, Haines
wrote, denying John Hancock’s depreciation deductions.  The ruling applies to 27 lease transactions that occurred
from 1997 to 2001 and affect John Hancock’s tax liability for
those years as well as 1994.  Seven Transactions  The case examined seven of the transactions, with both
parties agreeing to apply a formula to determine any taxes owed
in the other cases.  Tax deficiencies claimed by the IRS range from $8.86
million in 1994 to $173.5 million in 1998.  Tax court decisions can be appealed to the  U.S. Court of
Appeals .  Haines’ ruling was not a blanket dismissal of John
Hancock’s arguments. Unlike previous court rulings on lease
transactions, Haines did not conclude that the company’s
arrangements lacked economic substance, according to Allison.  “It’s good for the taxpayer community to know that the
court wasn’t blindly following in the footsteps of other
courts,” Allison said.  The case is John Hancock Life Insurance Co. v. U.S.
Internal Revenue Service, 70830-10, U.S. Tax Court (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  