-- Justice Department Sues Bank of America Over Mortgages
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-08-06T23:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/justice-department-sues-bank-of-america-over-mortgages.html
Bank of America Corp.  was sued by the
U.S. for allegedly hiding risks from investors in a 2008 deal
for $850 million of bonds backed by residential mortgages.  Government lawsuits filed today in federal court in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , lay out a pattern of intentional acts
by bank officials to disguise the mortgages’ risks in
disclosures to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
investors. Those accused of fraudulent conduct are identified
only by their positions without any names.  “Today’s filing marks the latest step forward in the
 Justice Department ’s ongoing efforts to hold accountable those
who engage in fraudulent or irresponsible conduct,” Attorney
General Eric Holder said in a statement.  The new set of lawsuits could hinder Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s effort to end fallout from the 2008
credit crisis and purchases of Countrywide Financial Corp. and
Merrill Lynch & Co. The Charlotte-based bank has already spent
more than $45 billion on litigation, settlements and refunds to
investors tied to shoddy mortgages, servicing and foreclosures.  The Justice Department estimated in its suit alleging
violations of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and
Enforcement Act that investors in the securitization deal would
sustain losses exceeding $100 million. The SEC in its own
lawsuit said the firm had committed  securities fraud .  ‘Sophisticated Investors’  “These were prime mortgages sold to sophisticated
investors who had ample access to the underlying data,”  Bill Halldin , a Bank of America spokesman, said in a statement. “The
loans in this pool performed better than loans with similar
characteristics originated and securitized at the same time by
other financial institutions.”  The bank, the second-biggest U.S. lender, said last week it
had received subpoenas and information requests regarding
mortgage securities and collateralized debt obligations created
during the housing boom.  The company failed to disclose that more than 22 percent of
the mortgages in the pool were made to borrowers who were self-employed and that its own standards weren’t followed to verify
their income and assets, the department said in its complaint.  More than 40 percent of the 1,191 mortgages in the pool
didn’t “substantially comply” with the bank’s underwriting
standards, the Justice Department claimed. Employees who worked
on the origination of the mortgages admitted that the bank
“emphasized quantity over quality” and that they were
instructed by supervisors that it wasn’t their job to discover
 mortgage fraud , according to the Justice Department’s complaint.  Due Diligence  Bank of America decided not to conduct any loan-level due
diligence on the mortgages used as collateral in the
securitization, in part to save about $15,000 in expenses,
according to the complaint.  Federal Home Loan Bank of  San Francisco  bought about
$600 million of the pool while Wachovia Bank purchased about
$235 million, according to the complaint.  Amy Stewart, a spokeswoman for the Federal Home Loan Bank
of San Francisco, and  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo,
which bought Wachovia in 2008, declined to comment on the suit.  As of June, at least 23 percent of the mortgages in the
pool had defaulted or are delinquent, which the government calls
an abnormally high percentage that cannot be explained solely by
the slump in the real estate market. The defaults have led to
about $70 million in losses so far with another $50 million
estimated by  Fitch Ratings , according to the government.  “These mortgages share many of the same characteristics of
the now infamous ‘Liar Loans,’ although defendants misleadingly
referred to them as ‘Paper Saver’ mortgages,” the department
said in its complaint.  The Justice Department case is U.S. v.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , 13-cv-00446; the SEC case is Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Bank of America NA, 13-cv-00447, U.S. District
Court, Western District of North Carolina (Charlotte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 