-- Kellogg Home Is 2nd Michigan Issuer to Delay Bond Sale
-- B y   E m i l y   F r e e m a n
-- 2013-08-06T23:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/kellogg-hometown-is-2nd-michigan-muni-to-delay-bond-sale.html
Battle Creek, home of  Kellogg Co. (K) ,
became the second Michigan municipality to postpone a bond sale
following Detroit’s record bankruptcy.  Battle Creek, about 120 miles (193 kilometers) west of
Detroit, had planned to sell $16 million of general-obligation
bonds on Aug. 14. It delayed the sale because of market
conditions and plans to offer the debt, which will be used to
finance capital-improvement projects, within a month, said Linda
Morrison, the city’s finance director.  The Cereal City, as Battle Creek is known, joins Michigan’s
Genesee County, which postponed a $54.2 million bond offer
planned for Aug. 1. The delays are a sign that issuers in the
state are being penalized by Detroit, which sought court
protection on July 18.  “The market is so volatile right now,” Morrison said.
“We are positioned and ready to go, but strategically we just
want to wait a little to see what the market will do. We do have
plans to go forward with this bond deal.”  Battle Creek’s bonds have an Aa3 rating from Moody’s
Investors Service, the fourth-highest level. The company revised
its outlook on the city’s credit yesterday to negative, citing
its expectation that “the local economy will continue to be
relatively challenged” amid declining property values and
elevated unemployment, in a report.  Muni Rumbles  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market have
demanded higher yields to own  Michigan  debt in the past month on
speculation that a plan to impose discounts on Detroit general-obligation bonds would set a precedent in the state and
nationwide. Kevyn Orr, Detroit’s emergency manager, had proposed
paying pennies on the dollar for some general-obligation debt
before the city became the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  The extra yield buyers require to own 10-year general-obligation securities sold by Michigan rather than top-rated
debt rose to 0.44 percentage point on Aug. 2, the most since
July 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I don’t think anyone is going to look at Battle Creek and
affiliate us with the city of Detroit,” Morrison said. “Just
the market as a whole is uncertain with what’s happened with
 Detroit .”  Michigan Offering  The state plans a $9.89 million sale of transportation
refunding bonds next week, with the securities maturing in about
one to 10 years, according to a preliminary statement. Terry Stanton, a spokesman for state Treasurer Andy Dillon, said
recently that Detroit’s “incredibly unique situation”
shouldn’t affect investor views of Michigan credit.  The offering is rated Aa2, the third-highest level, by
Moody’s Investors Service, matching its previous grade for the
state’s general-obligation debt, according to a statement today
from the New York-based company. The new issue will be backed
partly with state fuel-tax revenue, Moody’s said.  Saginaw County, north of Detroit, still plans to sell $61
million of general obligations on Aug. 8. Robert Belleman,
Saginaw County’s controller, said any decision to postpone the
deal will be solely based on interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Freeman in  New York  at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net  