-- Killer Husband Who Burned 11 Wives Stalks Paris Exhibit
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-08-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/killer-husband-who-burned-11-wives-stalks-paris-exhibit.html
Remember “Monsieur Verdoux,”
 Charlie Chaplin ’s marriage swindler? Meet his real-life model,
Henri Desire Landru.  “Landru -- 6H10 -- Clear Sky,” the title of the show at
the Musee des Lettres et Manuscrits in Paris, is a quote from
the diary of Anatole Deibler, the executioner who guillotined
him on Feb. 25, 1922.  The diary is one of the items on display along with police
files, court records, photographs of the killer, his victims,
photographs of the crime scenes and the trial transcripts.  Old newspaper front pages remind us this was one of the
most spectacular trials of the 20th century, not least because
of the remarkable sangfroid of the accused: When a lady couldn’t
find a seat in the audience, Landru rose to his feet and
politely offered her his seat in the dock.  You look in vain, however, for the most important exhibits
in the trial -- Landru’s notebooks containing the names of the
169 ladies with whom he corresponded and the oven in which he
burned his 11 victims.  Landru, who was born in 1869, started his criminal career
with minor swindles and forgeries which earned him seven prison
sentences. When he was not locked up, he seems to have been an
exemplary husband and doting father to his four children.  War Widows  During World War I, Landru discovered a new field of
activity. While an entire generation of men fought in the
trenches, got mutilated and killed, he found a way to exploit
the women left behind.  Under various pseudonyms, he placed marriage advertisements
in newspapers, presenting himself as a widower “with
comfortable income, affectionate, serious and moving in good
society.”  A police document in the show lists 14 of the names he used
in his vast correspondence.  Whenever a lady seemed worthwhile, he proposed to her and
invited her to join him, along with her savings and belongings,
in his isolated house outside Paris -- first the “Lodge” in
Vernouillet, then the “Ermitage” in Gambais.  Later, a ticket agent recalled that Landru always bought a
return ticket for himself and a one-way ticket for his
companion.  In April 1919, Landru was arrested after the sister of one
of the vanished ladies had recognized him with a new bride in a
Paris shop.  Missing Bodies  It took more than two years before the trial opened because
police were unable to uncover bodies or remains of his victims.
What they found, however, were plenty of their clothes,
furniture and personal papers left behind.  His neighbors confirmed that around the time when the
brides disappeared, Landru’s chimney had issued putrid black
smoke.  Confronted with the evidence, Landru pretended that the
ladies had “gone south” to begin a new life, leaving their
belongings in his care. He challenged his accusers by saying
“If I killed those women, show me the corpses!”  Most of the time, though, he remained silent. He seemed to
believe that, without the bodies, he couldn’t be convicted.  He was mistaken.  The exhibition runs through Sept. 15. Information:
 http://www.museedeslettres.fr .  Don’t forget to also have a look at the museum’s permanent
collection which includes letters by Napoleon to Josephine, by
Chopin to George Sand,  Alfred Hitchcock ’s storyboard for “Stage
Fright” and Eisenhower’s telegram informing the Supreme Command
that the “Mission of the Allied Forces was fulfilled 02h1,
local time, May 7th, 1945.”  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture,
 Martin Gayford  on European art and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last
Night.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 