-- Korean Won Falls as Importers Seen Buying Dollars; Bonds Advance
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-06T07:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/korean-won-near-one-week-high-amid-export-orders-bonds-steady.html
South Korea’s won fell, erasing
earlier gains on speculation importers took advantage of its
recent advance to buy dollars. Government bonds rose.  The currency climbed the most in three weeks yesterday as
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest shipbuilder,
received a $3.3 billion power plant order from Saudi Arabia and
global investors pumped $1.27 billion into local equities in 11
straight days of net buying. A drop in Korean property
transactions and concern about a possible Federal Reserve
tapering of stimulus pose risks to the economy, the Finance
Ministry said in a monthly economic assessment today.  The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,115.51 per dollar in  Seoul ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier touched
1,111.91, the strongest level since July 30. The currency gained
0.9 percent yesterday, the most in three weeks.  “Importers may pursue dollars,” said Park Jung Hyun, a
currency trader at Hana Bank in Seoul. “Overall, the trading
volume is thin as many traders are on summer vacation.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, was little changed
at 7.08 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Overseas funds turned net sellers of South Korean shares
today, according to exchange data, after U.S. stocks fell from
record highs yesterday as investors weighed data showing
stronger-than-forecast growth in service industries and a
comment from Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher saying
investors mustn’t rely on the central bank’s $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases.  US Data  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
index increased to 56 in July from 52.2 the prior month, a
report from the Tempe, Arizona-based group showed yesterday. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a
gain to 53.1. Readings higher than 50 indicate growth.  The won and  Taiwan ’s dollar “look relatively resilient”
to the possibility of wide swings in foreign capital flows this
quarter, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a research note dated
yesterday.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016 dropped
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.91 percent,
according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  