-- N.Z. Expects to Avoid Immediate Economic Harm From Dairy Ban
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-06T03:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/n-z-expects-to-avoid-immediate-economic-harm-from-dairy-ban.html
New Zealand’s government expects the
economy will avoid any immediate harm from suspension of sales
of some dairy products to  China  after the identification of a
bacterial contamination that could cause botulism.  “So far, the immediate damage economically to New Zealand
is extremely limited,” Trade Minister Tim Groser told Bloomberg
Television’s  Rishaad Salamat  in an interview today.  China has imposed a ban on imports of whey powder and
another ingredient made from whey protein concentrate, after
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, said on Aug. 3 it had found contamination in a batch
of the concentrate. Baby formula makers Danone and Abbott
Laboratories, which either used Fonterra ingredients or packaged
their milk at the company’s production lines, said they took
precautionary recalls.  Fonterra, which makes up about a third of the world’s trade
in dairy products, said China’s decisions aren’t expected to
affect a GlobalDairyTrade auction of dairy products including
milk powders later today.  “Fonterra is confident the product offered on
GlobalDairyTrade will meet any additional inspection or testing
requirements that may be imposed by Chinese authorities,” the
Auckland-based company said in a  statement  on the auction
website yesterday.  Groser said China’s actions are “measured” and haven’t
affected products such as whole and skim milk powders, which
make up 95 percent of  New Zealand ’s shipments to China.  The government is “very conscious” of the risk to New
Zealand’s reputation as a producer of safe, high-quality foods,
he said. Food exports comprise more than half of the South
Pacific nation’s annual  exports , which in turn make up about 30
percent of gross domestic product.  “We sell ourselves and our image and justifiable
reputation for having put high-quality food on tables” around
the world, Groser said. “That reputation has been got there not
by spin but by world-class high performance. That’s still
intact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  