-- New Zealand Employment Gains as Case for 2014 Rate Rise Builds
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-06T23:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/new-zealand-employment-gains-as-case-for-2014-rate-rise-builds.html
New Zealand  employers added workers
at a faster pace than economists expected in the three months
through June and more people sought work, adding to the case for
an interest-rate increase early next year.  Employment rose 0.4 percent, or 8,000 jobs, from the first
quarter when it surged a record 1.7 percent,  Statistics New
Zealand  said in a report today in Wellington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists was for a
0.3 percent gain. The jobless rate rose to 6.4 percent from 6.2
percent, and was higher than the 6.3 percent seen by economists,
as the participation rate climbed to 68 percent.  Jobs growth and rising business confidence suggest pressure
may build on wages and inflation in coming quarter, adding to
signs that Governor Graeme Wheeler may start raising  interest
rates  from a record-low 2.5 percent early next year. Last month,
he signaled that borrowing costs will need to increase, while
adding that he didn’t expect to move this year because inflation
remains benign.  “New Zealand’s economic upswing is now well entrenched,”
Felix Delbruck, senior economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
Auckland, said in an e-mailed note earlier this week. “The
consequences for domestic inflation pressures are less
certain.”  The kiwi dollar was little changed after the report. It
bought 79.11 U.S. cents at 11:12 a.m. in Wellington.  Wheeler has resisted rate increases this year to tackle
what he has described as an overheated housing market, citing
low inflation and the risk that the currency will gain, hurting
exports. On July 25 he said “removal of monetary stimulus will
likely be needed in the future” while adding that the central
bank expects “to keep the cash rate unchanged through the end
of the year.”  House Prices  House prices  rose 7.6 percent in June from a year earlier,
the fastest pace since February 2008, according to Quotable
Value New Zealand, a government-owned property research company.
Business confidence gained in July to the highest since April
1999, ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. said last month.  There is a 43 percent chance of a rate rise by December,
according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg. The
odds of a March increase sat at 88 percent early today.  The labor force  participation rate  rose to 68 percent from
67.9 percent in the first quarter. Economists forecast 67.9
percent. More people were seeking work but unable to find it,
leading to a slight rise in the jobless rate, officials told
reporters in Wellington.  Labor Costs  Non-government ordinary time wages rose 0.4 percent from
the first quarter, less than the 0.5 percent pace in a Bloomberg
survey of 10 economists, the statistics agency said in the Labor
Cost Index report also released today. From a year earlier,
wages rose 1.7 percent, the slowest annual pace since the third
quarter of 2010.  Employment (NZLFQOQ)  rose 0.7 percent from the year-earlier quarter,
matching economists’ expectations. Jobs growth was led by
manufacturing, professional services and retailing, the report
showed, without adjusting for seasonal patterns.  The economy is also being underpinned by a NZ$40 billion
($32 billion) rebuild of earthquake-damaged Christchurch and the
surrounding Canterbury region, where companies are hiring to
assist with the rebuild of homes, roads and commercial buildings
damaged in quakes in 2010-11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  