-- New Zealand’s World Dairy Dominance Becomes Achilles Heel
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-07T05:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/new-zealand-s-world-dairy-dominance-becomes-its-achilles-heel.html
New Zealand  is finding that its
greatest strength is also its Achilles heel.  A contamination scare at milk-producer Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd. is jeopardizing export ties with China, which this
year overtook  Australia  as its biggest trading partner. Dairy is
the largest foreign exchange earner, accounting for 28 percent
of overseas sales in an economy where exports make up about a
third of output.  “The events of the past few days are a stark reminder of
New Zealand’s increasing vulnerability to a single product and
to a single export destination,” said Doug Steel, an economist
at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “Any lingering major
concern about the quality of New Zealand’s food production could
have far-reaching economic implications.”  The nation’s currency fell to a one-month low after
Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter, said Aug. 3 that a
dirty pipe at a processing plant may have tainted whey protein
used in baby formula with botulism-causing bacteria.  China 
halted imports of some Fonterra products, and the official news
agency Xinhua wrote in an editorial that New Zealand’s “100%
Pure” tourism slogan is becoming a “festering sore,” saying
buyers of Kiwi goods are losing faith in its clean, green image.  Product Recalls  New Zealand’s dollar fell more than 1 U.S. cent when
markets opened on Aug. 5 and traders pared bets on higher
 interest rates  this year on concern that the incident may weaken
the $156 billion economy.  The news prompted product recalls in China,  Vietnam ,
 Thailand ,  Sri Lanka  and New Zealand. Russia halted importation
and distribution of Fonterra products and its veterinary agency
has written to New Zealand’s Food Safety Authority asking it to
suspend the company’s certification.  Whey protein is used in goods ranging from  infant formula 
to sports drinks. Fonterra Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings apologized in Beijing on Aug. 5 and expressed optimism
that Chinese import restrictions will be lifted soon.  In 2008, Fonterra’s Chinese partner Sanlu Group collapsed
after locally made melamine-contaminated milk powder killed and
hospitalized babies, causing an industry-wide scandal. In
January this year, Fonterra had to assure China that traces of
an agricultural chemical found in some milk posed no health
risks.  ‘Quality Assurance’  “It’s been a continuation of failures of quality
assurance,” said Stephen Julian, CEO of  Peak New Zealand , whose
baby formula is sold in China and doesn’t contain the
contaminated ingredient. “It is going to damage New Zealand’s
integrity for a long time to come unless the government steps up
and gets involved.”  Prime Minister John Key has promised an inquiry into the
incident amid questions about the time it took Fonterra to
publicize the potentially tainted ingredient, which was
initially identified in March.  Asked about a possible economic impact, Key said much will
depend on how long it takes to get details and whether any
health issues emerge.  “In the medium to longer term, I’m comfortable that New
Zealand can regroup from this,” Key told a press conference in
Wellington on Aug. 5. “But in the short term, there’s no
question that it does damage New Zealand.”  ‘White Gold’  China bought NZ$7.7 billion ($6 billion) of New Zealand’s
goods in the year through June, NZ$3 billion of which was dairy.  “This cuts to our reputation as a clean, green, 100
percent pure provider,” said David Shearer, leader of the main
opposition  Labour Party . While “white gold” has “done an
enormous amount for our economy,” New Zealand needs to
diversify, he told state broadcaster TVNZ.  New Zealand’s dairy industry employs about 45,000 people
tending about 6.4 million cows. Exports began in 1846, just six
years after the Treaty of Waitangi between indigenous Maori and
the British Crown was signed. Refrigerated shipments in 1882
opened new markets and laid the foundations for New Zealand’s
dominance as a dairy exporter.  Fonterra, New Zealand’s biggest company, accounts for about
a third of the world’s trade in dairy products and posted
revenue of NZ$19.8 billion in the year through July 2012.  Virtual Monopoly  It was formed in 2001 from the merger of the nation’s two
largest dairy companies. Government legislation protected its
virtual monopoly after Fonterra argued it needed scale to
compete with rivals such as  Nestle SA (NESN)  in growth markets such as
China.  It’s now the world’s largest milk processor, handling 22
billion liters a year. It sold 3.9 million metric tons of
product in 2011-12. About 38 tons is affected by the possible
contamination, Fonterra said.  There are signs New Zealand is getting on top of the scare
and that the damage will be limited.  Spierings told a news conference in Auckland today that all
affected product has been located and contained.  Finance Minister  Bill English  said in parliament yesterday
that the products are worth NZ$125 million in sales to China a
year, and only a fraction of that is subject to restrictions.
“There is no indication that the issue has escalated to the
point where it could have a significant impact” on economic
growth, English said.  Whole milk powder prices fell 1.6 percent in a
GlobalDairyTrade auction overnight, the first since the scare.
That suggests Fonterra’s problems “shouldn’t weigh too
heavily” on farmers, ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. economist Con
Williams said. ANZ retained its 2013-14 milk payout forecast at
NZ$7.40 per kilogram.  Kiwi Recovers  The  New Zealand dollar  has recovered all of its lost ground
and traded at 78.97 U.S. cents at 5:15 p.m. in Wellington today
compared with 78.38 cents at last week’s close.  At the same time, investors reduced bets on central bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler raising the official cash rate from a
record-low 2.5 percent this year. The odds fell to 17 percent
late yesterday from 53 percent on Aug. 2, according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  Concerns about New Zealand’s ability to safely process its
dairy produce will persist, said Julian of Peak New Zealand, who
sees Holland and  Germany  as poised to take advantage.  “What we’re finding is a lot of chains that are buying New
Zealand product are now looking towards those markets, they see
them as much more secure,” he said. “New Zealand as an
ingredient is fantastic, it’s what we do with that ingredient
that’s of concern.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  