-- N.Y. Suburb Sued by U.S. for Drinking Water Parasite Risk
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-06T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/new-york-suburb-sued-by-u-s-over-water-treatment.html
The  New York  City suburb of
Westchester County was sued by the U.S. over its alleged failure
to adequately treat drinking water supplies for the parasite
cryptosporidium.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  filed a complaint today in
federal court in White Plains, New York, accusing the county of
violating the Safe Drinking Water Act by failing to upgrade its
treatment facilities to target the parasite. Cryptosporidium, a
microbe, can cause a potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness
for which there is no known treatment, according to the
government.  “Westchester County has an obligation to protect the
public and come into compliance with the Safe Drinking Water
Act,” U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Regional
Administrator Judith Enck said in a statement. “In 2013, it is
hard to believe there is resistance to taking action to prevent
water-borne diseases.”  Under a rule that went into effect in 2006, public water
systems that draw supplies from unfiltered surface water needed
to install secondary disinfectant systems by April 1, 2012, to
combat cryptosporidium, according to the complaint.  A Westchester official informed the EPA in December 2011
that the county wasn’t likely to meet the enhanced standards by
the deadline, the government alleged. The county still hasn’t
complied, according to the complaint.  ‘Prolonged Failure’  “Westchester’s prolonged failure to comply with treatment
rules designed to prevent cryptosporidiosis is unacceptable,”
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose jurisdiction
includes parts of Westchester County, said in a statement.  A county representative didn’t immediately respond to a
call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The county’s District No. 1 draws untreated surface water
from the Kensico Reservoir and partially treated water from the
Delaware Aqueduct, according to the complaint. The district
provides water to about 175,000 people in White Plains, Yonkers,
 Mount Vernon , Scarsdale and North Castle, according to the
government.  The Justice Department and EPA are seeking an order
requiring the county to comply with the enhanced standards as
well as civil penalties.  The case is U.S. v. The County of Westchester, New York,
13-cv-05475, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( White Plains ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Manhattan at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  