-- Newspaper Buyout Rush Lures Jeff Bezos in Turnaround Push
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-08-06T20:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/newspaper-buyout-rush-lures-jeff-bezos-in-turnaround-push.html
Whether for profit, vanity or
philanthropy, new media keeps snapping up old.  Jeff Bezos , founder and chief executive officer of
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , became the latest technology executive to jump
into the print media business, announcing yesterday the purchase
of the Washington Post for $250 million.  Newsweek  magazine and
the New Republic have gone a similar route in recent years,
while technology investors have started publications such as the
Bay Citizen and the Texas Tribune.  The track record so far isn’t convincing. Newsweek has
foundered under multiple owners and other deals have yet to show
returns. Bezos, who over 18 years has built Amazon into the
world’s largest Web retailer and provider of cloud servers, is
now responsible for finding a working business model for a
struggling 136-year-old newspaper.  “He’s somebody who’s incredibly inventive and thinking far
into the future,” Amy Webb, CEO of  Webbmedia Group LLC , a
digital media consultancy in Baltimore, said in an interview.
“There’s a very strong bond between the tech community and the
media community.”  Bezos, independent of Amazon, is buying the Washington Post
as well as other papers from the parent company, including the
Express, the Gazette Newspapers and Southern Maryland
Newspapers. The  Washington Post Co. (WPO) , which will be changing its
name, is keeping Slate magazine, TheRoot.com,  Foreign Policy  and
other non-newspaper assets including the Kaplan education
division.  New Media  Making old media work has thus far been a challenge for
industry newcomers. Newsweek has had several owners in recent
years, including the late  Sidney Harman , an entrepreneur in the
audio-equipment market, and  Barry Diller , the billionaire
chairman of  IAC/InteractiveCorp. (IACI)  Unable to curb losses, Newsweek
published its final print issue in December, becoming a digital-only publication, and last week was sold again to IBT Media,
owner of the International Business Times.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder Chris Hughes bought a majority
stake in the New Republic in March 2012. In January of this
year, he announced the redesign of the website and emphasized
that the publication “can no longer be just a magazine.” It
will also produce live events and focus on social media, as well
as mobile and tablet applications.  Bezos is getting something more influential, said  John Morton , a former newspaper reporter and president of consulting
firm Morton Research Inc. in Jessup, Maryland. Even with a 35
percent drop in newspaper revenue in the past five years, the
Post sells almost half a million print editions a day and more
than that on Sundays.  Bargain Hunting  “It’s read by everyone in the federal government from the
president on down,” said Morton. “It’s really an enormous
presence in the Washington market. There aren’t very many
newspapers that have that kind of standing.”  Katharine Weymouth, publisher of the Post, is staying on,
as are top editors, Bezos said yesterday. Drew Herdener, a
spokesman for Bezos, declined to comment beyond the statement.  Technology executives aren’t alone in their bargain
hunting. The Boston Globe was purchased last week by  John Henry ,
owner of the  Boston Red Sox , from the New York Times Co. for $70
million, a fraction of the $1.1 billion the Times paid for the
newspaper in 1993.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the biggest
Washington Post shareholder, bought the Roanoke Times in May,
adding to its roster of more than 60 publications, which
includes the Buffalo News and Richmond Times-Dispatch.  Buffett has said his Omaha, Nebraska-based company can
generate a return of at least 10 percent on newspapers after tax
by buying at the right price.  Public Service  For other financiers, journalism is a philanthropic
endeavor, with little prospect of making the kind of money
they’re used to. Warren Hellman, the private-equity pioneer who
died two years ago, provided $5 million in 2009 to start the
nonprofit Bay Area News Project after Hearst Corp. threatened to
close or sell the San Francisco Chronicle. The project, now
called the Bay Citizen, merged last year with the nonprofit
Center for Investigative Reporting.  John Thornton , a venture capitalist in Austin, Texas,
started the Web-only Texas Tribune in 2009 with more than $1
million of his own money. Thornton said the publication now
operates on a budget of over $4.5 million a year, with two-thirds of its revenue coming from sponsorships, events and
content, and the rest from philanthropy.  While newspapers can still generate cash, there are many
more profitable businesses and Bezos knows that as well as
anyone, Thornton said. Bezos’s net worth is close to $28
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  “If his main objective was to get richer, he’d probably
buy Amazon stock,” Thornton, a general partner at Austin
Ventures, said in an interview. “It’s a recognition on Bezos’s
part that this is worthy of his public service in a fairly
serious way.”  Washington Post Co. shares climbed 4.3 percent to $593 at
the close in New York, the highest level since September 2008.
The stock has gained 62 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  