-- Oaktree Second-Quarter Profit More Than Doubles on Fees
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-08-06T21:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/oaktree-second-quarter-profit-more-than-doubles-on-fees.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, said second-quarter
profit more than doubled as it realized more gains on
investments.  Net income rose to $56.6 million, or $1.71 a share, from
$24.7 million, or 84 cents, a year earlier, Los Angeles-based
Oaktree said in a statement today. Assets under management
declined to $76.4 billion from $78.8 billion at the end of the
first quarter as the firm distributed money to investors.  Oaktree is taking advantage of rising markets to realize
profits and delaying purchases with money from its most recent
distressed-debt fund,  John Frank , the firm’s managing principal,
said today. His comments echoed remarks from executives at
Blackstone Group LP to  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , who have
said now is a better time to sell holdings than to make new
investments.  “Because the financing markets are open and generous, and
because the economy is on an upward trend, it’s a pretty good
time to be selling assets and realizing investments,” Frank
said in a telephone interview today. “Generally speaking, the
environment is good.”  Oaktree founder and Chairman  Howard Marks  said last year
that his firm is aiming for returns of 15 percent before fees in
distressed strategies, the lowest target it has ever had.  Shares Rise  Oaktree rose 1.1 percent to $54.05 at the close of trading
in  New York , bringing gains this year to 19 percent. The stock
has increased 26 percent since the company’s initial public
offering last year, when it raised $380 million selling shares
for $43 each.  Management fees, which Oaktree earns for overseeing assets,
fell 3.4 percent to $182.5 million, while incentive income,
which it earns for performance above certain thresholds, more
than doubled to $338.1 million from $129 million a year earlier.  Adjusted net income, a measure of profit excluding some
costs, rose to $297 million, or $1.75 a share, from $165.5
million, or 89 cents, a year ago, Oaktree said. Earnings per
share beat the $1.62 average estimate of 5 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Adjusted net income excludes some expenses,
including noncash equity compensation and income taxes.  Earnings were better than expected because of “active
harvesting activity, healthy cash-earnings generation and
positive portfolio appreciation despite a more volatile market
backdrop during the second half of the quarter,” said  Howard Chen , a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG who has
a neutral rating on the stock.  Deals Delayed  Oaktree and Irving Place Capital Management LP last month
 agreed  to sell Chesapeake, a U.K. packaging company, to  Carlyle
Group LP. (CG)  The owners bought the London-based company out of
bankruptcy in 2009 and grew it with three add-on acquisitions.  Oaktree is testing investor appetite for an initial public
offering of Stock Spirits Group Ltd., the largest vodka maker in
Poland and  Italy , two people with knowledge of the matter said
in June. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Nomura Holdings Inc. are
speaking to investors ahead of a possible IPO this year, said
the people, who requested anonymity because the details aren’t
yet public and no final decision has been made.  Because it’s a better time to sell investments than buy
assets, Oaktree is delaying triggering the investment period on
its newest $5 billion distressed-debt fund, Opportunities Fund
IX, until next year, Frank said on a conference call with
investors and analysts today. The firm will collect management
fees on capital that has been drawn for deals, which Frank said
is about 10 percent of the money committed to the pool.  No Bargains  “It’s rarely possible to make bargain purchases and eye-popping sales at the same time,” said Frank. “Today the
generous financing markets that have facilitated so many of our
realizations are making it harder for our distressed-oriented
strategies to find attractive buying opportunities.”  Oaktree has raised more than $3 billion for new investment
offerings since it went public last year. The firm started a
fund dedicated to emerging-market distressed debt and sees
opportunities in real estate, one of its fastest-growing
businesses, according to Frank.  The firm said it will pay a record  dividend  of $1.51 a
share on Aug. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  