-- Obama Says Private Capital Should Take Lead Mortgage Role
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-08-07T17:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/obama-says-government-still-needed-in-housing-market.html
President  Barack Obama  is calling for
private capital to take the lead role in the nation’s mortgage
market with the U.S. government continuing to provide a backstop
only against catastrophic risk.  The president for the first time is endorsing an approach
to remake the housing finance system as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC)  are wound down. He said the government still must play a
role to preserve broad access to 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages
that underpin the market.  “You can’t have a situation in which the government is
underwriting and guaranteeing all the mortgage lending that’s
taking place around the country and big profits are being made
by these quasi-private institutions,” Obama said. Congress
should pass housing legislation by the end of the year, he said.  The president’s remarks today came during a question and
answer session in  Los Angeles  moderated by Spencer Rascoff,
chief executive officer of  Zillow Inc (Z) , operator of the largest
real-estate information website. Yesterday in Phoenix Obama
delivered a speech on housing policy.  A reduced government role would likely mean that mortgages
would become more expensive as the costs of covering risk are
shifted from taxpayers to borrowers. A Senate bill containing
Obama’s approach would increase  interest rates  by between 50 and
75 basis points for a typical borrower with a 30-year fixed rate
loan, a 20 percent down payment, and a 750 credit score,
according to a report by Moody’s Analytics.  Senate Moves  The president’s call for a government mortgage reinsurer
coincides with administration officials quietly aiding Senate
efforts.  Tennessee  Republican  Bob Corker  and Virginia Democrat
 Mark Warner  in June introduced the measure, which would require
private capital to take at least 10 percent of the first losses
on mortgage securities. The government would step in with more
aid during a financial catastrophe.  Separately, Obama said today that the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is working on ways to simplify mortgage forms
“so that you don’t have a lot of fine print, you know exactly
what you’re getting.”  In his speech yesterday in Phoenix, Obama blamed
“recklessness” on the part of lenders and borrowers for the
housing bubble and subsequent collapse of the market as the
nation fell into the deepest recession since the 1930s. Now, he
said, the market is healing, with  prices  rising and  foreclosures 
declining.  Rising Values  “We’ve got to turn the page on this kind of bubble-and-bust mentality that helped to create this mess in the first
place,” Obama said. “We’ve got to build a housing system that
is durable and fair and rewards responsibility for generations
to come.”  Nationwide, real-estate values are climbing at the fastest
pace since 2006 as improving employment helps draw buyers into
the market for a tight inventory of homes.  Prices rose 7.3 percent in the year through May, according
to the  Federal Housing Finance Agency . The number of homes for
sale fell 5 percent to 1.74 million in January from the year-earlier period, the fewest since December 1999, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  FHA Program  Obama said borrowers with foreclosures or bankruptcies
resulting from a  job loss  will be able to finance a home
purchase with a Federal Housing Administration mortgage as long
as they are back at work, demonstrate 12 months of timely
payments, and complete housing counseling. The FHA, a government
mortgage insurer, now requires a three-year wait.  A new system would replace  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac ,
which drew $187.5 billion in aid from the  U.S. Treasury  after
investments in risky loans pushed them to the brink of
insolvency. The two companies, which were taken into U.S.
conservatorship in 2008, provide liquidity to the mortgage
market by buying loans from banks and packaging them into
securities on which they guarantee payments of principal and
interest, freeing up the banks to make more loans.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac returned to profitability as the
housing market rebounded. They’ve paid the Treasury $131.6
billion in dividends, which count as a return on the U.S.
investment in the firms and not as a repayment of their debt to
taxpayers. Freddie Mac announced today that it will send an
additional $4.4 billion to the Treasury Department after
continued housing-market improvements allowed the company to
post a seventh consecutive profitable quarter.  Warner said in a statement that the bipartisan Senate
proposal “will end the current Fannie and Freddie model of
private gains and public losses.”  House Plan  In the House, Republicans have drafted a bill that would
wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with no government-backed
replacement. Written by Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas
Republican who leads the House Financial Services Committee, the
measure would leave the FHA as the sole U.S. mortgage backstop.
No Democrats are backing the legislation.  The cost of the House bill for borrowers would be even
greater than those of the Senate bill, according to Moody’s
Analytics. Borrowers would see interest rates rise by 90 basis
points if the measure were enacted, Moody’s said.  Hensarling said yesterday that the House version would
achieve the goals set out by Obama, and he faulted government
policies that he said “browbeat financial institutions to loan
money to people to buy homes they ultimately could not afford.”  Additional Steps  The White House would support additional measures ensuring
that housing is affordable for first-time homebuyers and
renters, according to Obama administration officials.  “We can’t go back to the housing-finance system that we
had before,”  Shaun Donovan , secretary of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, said on Bloomberg Television
yesterday. “We can’t go back to a place where trillions and
trillions of dollars of wealth is wiped out and the world
economy is put at risk.”  The president also called for passage of a new immigration
law, citing home purchases by immigrants as a boon to the
market.  Obama’s trip to Phoenix and Los Angeles is the latest
campaign-style effort to put pressure on Congress to pass
measures to help boost economic growth. Last week, he traveled
to Chattanooga, Tennessee, and visited an  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
distribution center to argue for a lower corporate  tax rate ,
with initial revenue designated for jobs programs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Los Angeles at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  