-- Obama’s Ex-Medicare Head Tells U.K. How to Fix the NHS
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-08-06T15:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/obama-s-ex-medicare-head-tells-u-k-how-to-fix-the-nhs.html
The U.K. should resist relying too
heavily on targets or taking criminal action against workers to
address shortcomings in its  National Health Service , a  panel 
headed by former U.S. Medicare chief Don Berwick said today.  The 17-member National Advisory Group, which U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  directed the Harvard-trained doctor to
assemble after a probe found “appalling” care in a local
health system, said the NHS should recognize that it needs
“wide systemic change” to make patient safety a top priority.
The group also recommended that the NHS provide sufficient
staff, involve patients more and become more transparent.  “When the pursuit of targets becomes, for whatever reason,
the overriding priority, the people who work in that system may
focus too narrowly,” the panel said. “Goals in the form of
such targets can have an important role en route to progress,
but should never displace the primary goal of better care.”  Berwick’s team spent five months assembling the 46-page
report. Their conclusions about targets run counter to practices
established in the NHS more than a decade ago when the Labour
Party-led government sought to improve access to care by
requiring the NHS to treat patients within specified timeframes.  They also rejected a call by lawyer Robert Francis, whose
 investigation  of the Mid-Staffordshire health system in central
 England  prompted Cameron’s appointment of Berwick, to impose a
“duty of candor” on NHS employees who discovered unsafe
conditions. Francis found that substandard care had led to
hundreds of deaths there between 2005 and 2009 and said he had
uncovered an attitude which tolerated poor care.  ‘Defensive Documentation’  “We do not subscribe to an automatic ‘duty of candor’
where patients are told about every error or near miss, as this
will lead to defensive documentation and large bureaucratic
overhead that distracts from patient care,” the National
Advisory Group said in its report.  The panel said existing professional behavior codes require
health-care workers to report what they believe or suspect about
serious incidents to their employers, though the government
should create a new category of offense to penalize leaders for
“willful or reckless neglect or mistreatment applicable to both
organizations and individuals.”  Criminal sanctions should be used only in exceptional
circumstances and should be similar to those provided in the
Mental Capacity Act 2005, they said. People convicted under that
law can be fined or imprisoned up to five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  