-- Obesity Rate Falls Among Poor Children Signaling Reversal
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s   a n d   M a r y   C a m i l l e   I z l a r
-- 2013-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/obesity-rate-may-decrease-among-poor-children-cdc-say.html
Obesity rates among low-income
preschool children fell in 19 U.S. states and territories in
2011, suggesting a decades-long rise in young children’s weight
may be reversing, U.S. health officials said.  The decline in obesity among 2- to 4-year-olds from poor
families ranged from 1.8 percent to 19.1 percent, according to a
report issued yesterday by the  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention . The research measured height and weight data from
about 12 million children in 40 states, two U.S. territories and
the  District of Columbia  from 2008 to 2011.  The study is the first conducted at the state level to find
evidence the obesity trend among American children may be
abating. In December, the CDC announced that on a nationwide
level the rate of obesity among low-income preschoolers fell 1.8
percent from 2003 to 2010.  “In the largest surveillance system we have to track
 childhood obesity , it’s the first time in a generation we’re
seeing it go in the right direction,” CDC Director  Thomas Frieden  said on a conference call.  Frieden cited changes in policy in the Women, Infants and
Children program, an increase in breastfeeding and government
initiatives such as first lady  Michelle Obama ’s “Let’s Move”
as contributing factors in the decline in childhood obesity.
Stores are now more likely to carry fruit and vegetables and
lower fat milk, which all help reduce obesity, he said.  The CDC recommends children cut the amount of juice drinks
they consume as well as reduce their time in front of screens.
At the same time, increasing outdoor activity and whole fruit
intake, will help prevent excess weight gain.  Excess Weight  One in eight children from 2 to 5 years old is obese,
according to the report. Overweight and obese preschoolers
retain their excess weight into adulthood at a rate five times
greater than their contemporaries with normal weights.  “Obesity is associated with many of the leading causes of
death in the U.S. such as  heart disease ,” Frieden said.  Minority children are more likely than their white
counterparts to be obese. During 2009-2010, 12.1 percent of
preschool-aged children were obese. Among black and Hispanic
children, the prevalence is 18.9 percent and 16.2 percent,
respectively.  The  U.S. Virgin Islands  saw the greatest absolute decline,
with the prevalence of obesity falling to 11 percent in 2011
from 13.6 percent of poor preschoolers in 2008. Only
 Pennsylvania ,  Tennessee , and Colorado saw an increase in obesity
among this demographic group, according to the report.  “We went from a low rate to a high rate to a little less
high rate, so we are not out of the woods yet,” said Frieden.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Camille Izlar in New York at 
 mizlar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  