-- Oerlikon’s Fedier Says Drive Systems Margin Helped by Job Cuts
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-08-06T08:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/oerlikon-s-fedier-says-drive-systems-margin-helped-by-job-cuts.html
OC Oerlikon Corp. (OERL) ’s interim Chief
Executive Officer Juerg Fedier said margins are improving in the
Drive Systems division after the Swiss maker of textile
machinery cut jobs at its Fairfield unit in the U.S.  “We have put out about 40 percent of the workforce in the
U.S.,” Fedier said today in a telephone interview. “The
effects are coming back into the business.”  The job cuts, which amount to about 480 of the 1,200
employees at the Lafayette, Indiana-based Fairfield business,
helped improve profitability at Drive Systems in the second-quarter, he said.  Second quarter earnings before interest and taxes at the
Drive Systems unit fell 62 percent on weaker demand for gears
and axels for construction and off-highway vehicles in  China  and
the U.S., Pfaeffikon, Switzerland-based Oerlikon said today in a
 statement . The unit had sales of 826 million francs ($890
million) last year, accounting for 28 percent of revenue.  Fedier, Oerlikon’s chief financial officer, has served as
interim CEO since Michael Buscher’s surprise exit on March 14.
The executive has continued Buscher’s push toward more
profitable businesses, such as coatings for airplanes and car
parts, while exiting lower margin units. The company completed
the sale of its natural fibers unit last month, a business with
about 3,800 employees and annual sales of 1 billion francs.  Advanced Technologies  Oerlikon is also exploring strategic options including a
possible sale of its Advanced Technologies unit, people familiar
with the matter said in June.  Second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes fell 8
percent from a year earlier to 89 million francs, Oerlikon said
in the  statement . Sales declined 3 percent to 720 million
francs. The company reiterated that full-year order intake and
underlying operating profitability should be around the levels
achieved in the previous year.  Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg , the world’s 57th
richest man, is the largest shareholder of Oerlikon, and is
represented by three of six board members including Chairman Tim Summers.  Oerlikon shares rose 1.6 percent to 12.45 francs at 10 a.m.
in Zurich. The stock has risen 23 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  