-- Los Angeles Gasoline Slides to Five-Month Low Against Futures
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-06T20:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/los-angeles-gasoline-slides-to-five-month-low-against-futures.html
Spot gasoline in  Los Angeles  slid to
the lowest level against futures since March with production of
the fuel at a record high for this time of year.  Output of California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, surged 16
percent to 7.34 million barrels in the week ended July 26, the
most in 14 months and the highest level for that period since at
least 1992, according to data from the state Energy Commission.  Carbob in Los Angeles declined versus gasoline futures on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  for a second day, widening its
discount by 5 cents to 14.5 cents a gallon, data compiled by
Bloomberg at 1:46 p.m. New York time show. That’s the biggest
discount for the fuel since March 12 and the lowest level for
this time of year since at least 2008.  Prompt-delivery in Los Angeles tumbled 8.64 cents to
$2.7692 a gallon, the lowest since January.  Carbob in  San Francisco  also weakened 5 cents against
futures to a discount of 15.5 cents. The  discount  to Los Angeles
Carbob was unchanged at 1 cent.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Martinez refinery in Northern
 California  is operating normally after reporting an unscheduled
unit shutdown Aug. 4, Destin Singleton, a Shell spokeswoman in
Houston, said yesterday. The company’s 147,500-barrel-a-day
Puget Sound refinery in Washington state was also running “as
planned” after flaring gases Aug. 4, she said by e-mail today.  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)  expects its Wilmington plant,
which supplies hydrogen to refineries in the Los Angeles area,
to return to normal rates by tomorrow after a valve replacement,
Art George, a spokesman at the company’s headquarters in
Allentown,  Pennsylvania , said by e-mail yesterday.  Retail Price  Retail gasoline  in California dropped 0.4 cent to $3.949 a
gallon, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring organization, said today on its website.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles slipped
0.25 cent against ultra-low-sulfur diesel futures on the Nymex
to a premium of 4.25 cents a gallon. The same fuel in San
Francisco was unchanged at 4 cents a gallon above futures.  Low-sulfur diesel in  Portland ,  Oregon , a benchmark for the
U.S. Pacific Northwest, was also unchanged at 3 cents a gallon
over futures.  Conventional gasoline in Portland weakened for a fourth
day, losing 2.5 cents to a discount of 7 cents a gallon below
Nymex futures, its lowest level since April.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles narrowed for a
fifth day, losing $1.56 to $9.94 a barrel at 2:05 p.m.  New York 
time. The spread, a rough measure of refinery profitability, is
the smallest since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  