-- Moscow’s Steel Needs Aid Russia’s Lisin as Mittal Trims
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-08-07T14:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/moscow-need-for-steel-aids-billionaire-lisin-as-mittal-shutters.html
On a grassy plain an hour’s drive
southwest of Moscow,  Vladimir Lisin  has started producing steel
at a newly completed plant. That’s something rival metals
billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal  hasn’t achieved in Europe.  The mill Lisin’s  OAO Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK)  opened in Kaluga
July 23 can turn scrap into 900,000 metric tons a year of
products for construction, just as Moscow and the surrounding
regions build skyscrapers, homes and railroads and ready for the
2018 soccer  World Cup .  While ArcelorMittal’s chief executive officer has been
mothballing plants from  Poland  to  Spain , Russia is saving its
industry with projects that will underpin 4.4 percent growth in
steel demand this year, said Dmitry Kolomytsyn, a Morgan Stanley
analyst. That matches the bank’s estimate for Brazil and beats
the World Steel Association’s 2014 forecasts of 3.3 percent
growth for  Europe  and a 2.9 percent increase in the U.S.  “Russia is a unique place right now, where demand for
construction steel is heating up overall consumption because of
the boom in development,” Kolomytsyn said by phone last week.
“You don’t find it in Europe.”  Lisin has sought advantages for the plant by recycling
metal rather than smelting ore and locating it near some of his
biggest customers. Moscow almost doubled spending on housing for
its 12 million residents in the two years to 2012 and plans to
add more than 60 kilometers (37 miles) to the city’s metro
system by 2015, making an investment of 460 billion rubles ($14
billion), Deputy Mayor Marat Khusnullin said in February.  A spokesman for  ArcelorMittal (MT)  in  London  said the company
declined to comment.  New Houses  About 70.1 million square meters of newly built housing
will be registered for use this year in Russia, the most since
at least 2000, according to estimates from the economy ministry.
That’s a boost for Lisin’s company, known as NLMK, just as its
European counterparts lament a sluggish  construction industry .  Construction will account for a record 60 percent of
Russian steel use this year, compared with just 27 percent in
the European Union, according to Morgan Stanley. Spending on
homes and infrastructure will rise by 20 percent to $107 billion
this year and a further 16 percent to $124 billion in 2014, the
bank predicts.  Steel demand in the country is close to all-time highs,
Kolomytsyn wrote in a report on Aug. 5.  Construction Steel  Russian steelmakers are “starting new construction-steel
production capacity to replace imports and because demand for
such types of material is rising in Russia, while in Europe it’s
falling,” said  George Buzhenitsa , a Deutsche Bank analyst in
Moscow.  Russia consumed 53 percent more rebar, the steel product
used in construction, from 2010 to 2012, when use reached 7.8
million tons, said Oleg Korzhov, a senior vice president at OAO
 Mechel (MTLR) , a Moscow-based steel and coal producer. Demand for
shaped steel, also used in buildings, jumped by 24 percent. By
contrast, the European Union’s rebar and shaped steel
consumption fell 16 percent and 8 percent respectively,
according to Korzhov.  Like NLMK, Mechel and OAO Severstal are also betting on
Russia’s construction boom. Mechel last month started a new $700
million plant at Chelyabinsk in the Urals region, capable of
making about 1 million tons a year of railroad rails and steel
for commercial construction.  Severstal plans to open a $700 million plant with annual
capacity of 1 million tons in the southern Saratov region. The
area has a shortage of construction steel, said Elena Kovaleva,
a Severstal spokeswoman. “The key to the project’s success
should be its location near the client,” she said.  No Return  Some of the plant openings have more to do with decisions
made before the European financial crisis began in 2008 than
with resurgent demand for the metal, said Deutsche Bank’s
Buzhenitsa. They’ll be saved by their relatively low production
costs and  Russia ’s need for construction steel.  “To be fair, they are starting new projects only because
they passed the point of no return in those investments, and
they are unlikely to recoup the spending within a decade”
Buzhenitsa said. “Still, given the current markets, NLMK and
Severstal are the last two to die should the prices collapse
further, which should make them more attractive for investors,”
Buzhenitsa said.  For NLMK, the Kaluga plant is the second major project it
has started within the last two years. It increased steel output
by 18 percent last year to 15.2 million tons after bringing on
line the first new blast furnace in post-Soviet Russia.  Largest Producer  The Lipetsk-based company has become the largest producer
domestically, with 20 percent of the Russian market. Locating
capacity near customers is a strategy that has spread through
the industry, said CEO Oleg Bagrin.  “Local consumption, including import substitution, is one
of the clearest trends that we see today,” Bagrin said July 24.
“This is steel companies’ reaction to a squeeze on margins.”
NLMK’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization margin fell to 11.1 percent in the first three
months of the year, the lowest quarterly figure since at least
2005.  NLMK’s Kaluga plant uses the company’s own scrap “and is
just 100 kilometers from the Kremlin, which will allow it to win
the Moscow market,” Morgan Stanley’s Kolomytsyn said.  NLMK has a market value of about $9 billion, less than half
that of ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, formed
when Mittal prevailed in a 2006 contest to acquire Arcelor SA.  Lisin, Mordashov  Lisin weighed, and decided against an offer for Arcelor SA
in 2006, Vedomosti newspaper reported at the time. Severstal CEO
Alexei Mordashov went further, making an offer for 30 percent of
Luxembourg-based Arcelor that was rejected by the target’s
shareholders, allowing Mittal to complete a $36 billion
takeover.  Lisin and Mordashov are unlikely to regret losing out,
given that steel prices have since fallen to the lowest since
2009 amid higher costs and weaker European demand, said Sergey
Donskoy, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in Moscow.  ArcelorMittal has lost about 85 percent of its value since
its June 2008 peak, while NLMK and Severstal have dropped about
60 percent each from their highs that month through yesterday.
NLMK’s shares were down 0.5 percent at 48.01 rubles at 5:57 p.m.
in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  