-- Asia Stocks Outside Japan Drop on Stimulus Cut Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-06T12:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/most-asian-stocks-drop-on-concern-fed-will-cut-stimulus.html
Asian  stocks  outside Japan fell as
stronger growth in U.S. service industries fueled speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will soon reduce economic stimulus.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  slumped 5 percent in Hong Kong after
earnings at Europe’s biggest bank missed estimates.  Sony Corp. (6758) 
slid 4.6 percent in Tokyo after its board rejected billionaire
 Daniel Loeb ’s call to spin off part of its entertainment
business. Fonterra Shareholders Fund climbed 1.3 percent in New
Zealand, recouping some of yesterday’s record decline after
China and Russia halted imports of milk powder from Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  retreated 0.5
percent to 440.98 at 8:18 p.m. in Hong Kong, as more than two
stocks fell for every one that rose.  “The ramp-up in the  U.S. economy  is not only gaining
momentum, but is accelerating,” Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based
market strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a provider of trading
services for equities, currencies and commodities, said by e-mail. “This is increasing the hawkish view of the Fed. This is
why the September taper talk will continue. The blueprint for
monetary stimulus tapering will be laid out in September with
the first wind-back in October.”  Japan’s Topix index gained 0.8 percent, erasing an earlier
decline of as much as 1.3 percent, after Reuters reported the
pension fund for Japan’s civil servants is considering investing
more of its $80 billion in stocks and less in domestic
 government bonds . The account quoted people Reuters said were
familiar with the matter.  Pension Fund  The report is “a sentiment boost,” said  Gavin Parry ,
managing director of Hong Kong-based brokerage Parry
International Trading Ltd. “This pension fund may turn around
and do what the Government Pension Investment Fund did. All
these things keep the trend on track and are positive” for
equities.  The GPIF, the world’s largest manager of retirement
savings, said on June 7 that it’s cutting local bond holdings to
buy more stocks and foreign securities.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  fell 0.1 percent, maintaining
losses after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record-low 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent.
Growth in the economy has weakened over the past year as China
slows, curbing demand for natural resources.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  dropped 0.5 percent and  New
Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index declined 0.3 percent. Singapore’s Straits
Times Index slid 0.5 percent and Taiwan’s Taiex index lost 1.2
percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index retreated 1.3 percent, and
China’s Shanghai Composite added 0.5 percent.  Asian shares last week capped a sixth week of gains and the
S&P 500 Index climbed above 1,700 for the first time as a report
showed that U.S. economic growth beat projections in the second
quarter.  Stimulus Outlook  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slipped 0.2
percent today. The U.S. benchmark gauge fell yesterday from a
record as investors weighed data showing stronger growth in
services and Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
cautioned not to rely on $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.
The central bank has said reduction of stimulus will be tied to
sustained improvement in the economy.  “Financial markets may have become too accustomed to what
some have depicted as a Fed put,” or the idea that the central
bank will loosen credit after a market decline, Fisher said
yesterday in a speech in Portland, Oregon. “Some have come to
expect the Fed to keep the markets levitating indefinitely. This
distorts the pricing of financial assets” and can lead to
“serious misallocation of capital.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes Japan, rose 0.2
percent to 135.54 today. The gauge trades at 13.2 times
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Season  Of the 442 members of the Asia-Pacific gauge that have
posted earnings since July 1, 50 percent have exceeded analysts’
estimates for profit and 49 percent for sales.  HSBC lost 5 percent to HK$85.10 in Hong Kong. First-half
net income rose 22 percent to $10.28 billion, missing the $10.57
billion estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  a slowdown in  emerging markets 
is hurting profit.  Sony retreated 4.6 percent to 2,039 yen in Tokyo. Activist
investor Loeb’s push to sell as much as 20 percent of the
company’s entertainment assets in an initial public offering was
rejected unanimously by the board.  Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697)  retreated 2.7 percent to 9,650
yen as Credit Suisse Group AG advised selling shares of the
bourse operator. The analysts said there is “still a relatively
large scope for a correction” in the share price, citing weaker
trading volumes for equities and derivatives.  Fonterra advanced 1.3 percent to NZ$6.95. The stock
yesterday fell the most on record after contamination concerns
led China to halt imports of whey protein and a dairy base
powder from Fonterra used in  infant formula . Russia temporarily
suspended purchases of all New Zealand dairy products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  