-- OTP Extends Drop as Moody’s Keeps Negative View: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-08-06T12:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/otp-extends-drop-as-moody-s-keeps-negative-view-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, headed for a fourth day of declines after Moody’s
Investors Service kept its negative outlook on the country’s
banking sector, citing further pressure on profitability.  OTP fell as much as 2 percent and traded 0.2 percent lower
at 4,340 forint by 2:16 p.m. in Budapest, bringing its four-day
loss to 4.3 percent. Volume was 18 percent of the 3-month daily
average.  Moody’s said its outlook reflects a “weak operating
environment, which will result in pressures on asset quality and
capitalization.” Hungary’s bank tax, the highest in  Europe ,
will suppress profitability, the ratings company said in the
report late yesterday.  “Moody’s emphasized the negative risks, which comes as no
surprise,” Jozsef Miro, an equity analyst at Erste Group Bank
AG’s Budapest-based brokerage, Erste Befektetesi Zrt., said by
phone.  OTP slumped 4.7 percent in July when the government
announced plans to convert foreign-currency mortgages to forint,
with banks bearing part of the burden. The government is
discussing the process with lenders and will take steps
unilaterally if no agreement is reached by Sept. 30, Economy
Minister  Mihaly Varga  told commercial broadcaster TV2 in an
interview aired Aug. 4.  Chief Executive Officer Sandor Csanyi fueled OTP’s slide
last month when he sold part of his holding at average prices
near 4,600 on July 19 and 4,200 forint on July 22.  “Csanyi has signaled that he could sell further shares,
and at the 4,500 forint per share level it comes to mind that he
could re-emerge on the market,” Miro said.  The declines have cut OTP’s valuation to 0.8 times book
value, less than half the ratio of 1.9 for PKO Bank Polski SA,
Poland’s largest bank by market capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  