-- Oyster Bay Slipping as Cash Dries Up in Mall Fight: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-06T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/oyster-bay-slipping-as-cash-dries-up-in-mall-fight-muni-credit.html
Long Island’s Oyster Bay, New York’s
sixth-largest bond issuer, is trying to balance its finances
after seven years of deficits. A battle between two of the
biggest U.S. mall developers may wreck those plans.  The municipality, whose bond yields jumped to a two-year
high last month, has budgeted $17 million from the proposed sale
of a 54-acre parcel. In May, the town council approved the deal
with a buyer backed by  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the biggest
U.S. mall real-estate investment trust by market value. The
company is trying to prevent competitor  Taubman Centers Inc. (TCO) 
from building a mall on an adjacent site.  Taubman, in turn, is seeking to block the land sale to the
Simon affiliate and filed petitions forcing an Aug. 20
referendum on the deal. If voters reject the Simon-backed plan,
Oyster Bay, with a median household income almost double the
state’s, may not have enough cash to pay its bills by Nov. 1,
said Lindsay Wilhelm, a Standard & Poor’s analyst.  “The town fully expects the referendum to pass,” Wilhelm
said by phone from New York. “If it doesn’t, it’ll go into
crisis mode.”  Rough Ride  Oyster Bay, the former home of U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt about 34 miles (55 kilometers) east of New York,
joined municipalities nationwide in seeing revenue trail
spending obligations following the 18-month recession that ended
in 2009. S&P has lowered the town’s grade five levels since
2011, to A, sixth-highest, and is threatening to do so again
because of deficits exacerbated by the same rising pension
obligations burdening localities from  California  to New York.  From 2007 to 2011, Oyster Bay’s pension and health-care
obligations climbed 21 percent, according to data from state
Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli. By contrast, mortgage-tax revenue
fell by two-thirds, said John Venditto, supervisor of the town,
whose 293,000 residents make it bigger than Buffalo, the state’s
second-most-populous city.  The town spans almost 115 square miles and touches both the
north and south shores of Long Island. Its 18 villages, all of
which have independent governments, are still subject to the
town’s property taxes. Oyster Bay’s median household income of
about $107,000 from 2007 to 2011 compared with the statewide
level of about $57,000.  Debt Drive  To maintain services and continue an infrastructure
overhaul, Venditto increased Oyster Bay’s debt to $751 million
in 2011 from $410 million in 2007, making it the state’s fifth-largest issuer other than New York City, according to DiNapoli’s
data. Those spending decisions led to S&P’s rating cuts.  The company said July 25 it may lower the town’s credit
grade within 90 days if voters block the property sale. Oyster
Bay general-obligation bonds maturing in February 2017 traded
July 31 with an average yield of 1.93 percent, close to the
highest since 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra
yield investors demanded on the debt, about 0.92 percentage
point, was more than double levels on some trades in May.  Venditto, who opposes the Taubman project because he
doesn’t want a mall on the site, said in an interview that he
has a plan to maintain cash flow if the sale to the Simon group
fails, though he declined to provide details.  Investor’s Decision  Howard Cure, who heads municipal research at New York-based
Evercore Wealth Management LLC, said he’s no longer buying
Oyster Bay debt.  “You don’t associate multistep downgrades with a township
of this size and wealth,” said Cure, whose company manages
about $4.7 billion. “What gets me nervous is when you’re
relying on voters to make a fiscal decision.”  In 2012, with the town’s reserves drained, Venditto, a 64-year-old Republican in charge since 1998, negotiated union
concessions, cut discretionary spending and established a
retirement-incentive program that he said collectively saved $26
million in a budget of about $265 million. The balancing effort
is now facing pressure, according to Venditto.  “We mapped out this course for economic recovery, with a
view toward avoiding cash-flow problems,” he said by phone.
“That phase of recovery has become enmeshed in a battle royale
between two colossal economic forces: Taubman and Simon.”  The two mall giants, both run by sons of the billionaire
founders, have been squaring off in public hearings and courts
for decades. The friction reached a peak in 2003, when
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based Taubman, backed by  Michigan ’s
governor, successfully fought off a takeover bid by
Indianapolis-based Simon and Sydney-based Westfield Group.  Dueling Projects  In 1994, Taubman purchased an industrial lot in Oyster Bay
with plans to build a mall. When the council approved selling
public-works department property in May to Simon-backed Oyster
Bay Realty LLC, Taubman said it didn’t get a chance to bid.
Venditto said he was in talks with both companies, though he
said selling to Oyster Bay Realty would help him achieve his
goal of blocking Taubman’s project.  Taubman wants the neighboring land, because it has a better
chance of clearing environmental hurdles for its mall project if
it owns the parcel, which is only about 12 miles from Simon’s
Roosevelt Field mall. Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Oyster Bay
Realty, said the firm plans to build a mixed residential and
commercial development. Venditto said the contract doesn’t
require the buyer to do anything for as long as eight years.  Opportunity Knocks  Robert Taubman, chief executive officer of Taubman Centers,
said in a July 26 earnings call that he has no plans to back
down.  “We continue to believe, as we have for 20 years, that
this is perhaps the best opportunity to build a shopping center
in the United States,” Taubman said.  In the local-debt market this week, issuers including
Puerto Rico’s electric utility will borrow at the lowest
municipal interest rates since July 24. At  2.86 percent , yields
on benchmark 10-year munis compare with  2.64 percent  for
similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 108 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The greater the figure, the cheaper munis are compared
with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  