-- Palm Oil Reserves in Malaysia Seen Level at Two-Year Low
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-08-06T10:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/palm-oil-reserves-in-malaysia-seen-level-at-two-year-low.html
Palm oil  inventories in  Malaysia , the
largest producer after  Indonesia , were probably unchanged in
July at the lowest level in more than two years, according to a
Bloomberg survey of growers and analysts. Futures climbed.  Reserves held at 1.65 million metric tons, the median of
estimates from two plantation companies and three analysts
showed. That would match inventories in June, the lowest since
March 2011, according to data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board.
Output expanded 10 percent to 1.56 million tons, while  exports 
gained 2.7 percent to 1.45 million tons, the survey showed.
Imports rose 25 percent to 40,000 tons, according to the median
of three estimates.  Palm oil tumbled to the lowest level in more than three
years last month after declining for five quarters, the worst
run since at least 1995, as global supply of the world’s most-consumed cooking oil beat demand. While palm is produced year-round, supply typically accelerates in the second half because
of growing cycles, with the highest output usually in September
or October. Official board data for July are due Aug. 14.  “Production will get stronger as we head to the peak
season,” Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., said
from  Kuala Lumpur . “Although stocks look pretty low, we don’t
see prices reacting much because investors are looking to those
peak months and are getting worried.”  Palm oil for delivery in October gained 0.3 percent to
close at 2,246 ringgit ($693) a ton on the Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives. Prices touched 2,137 ringgit on July 26, the lowest
for the most-active contract since October 2009.  Global Reserves  World  stockpiles  of the oil that’s used in everything from
candy to biofuel will surge 21 percent to a record 9.5 million
tons by the end of 2013-2014, while  demand  expands 4.4 percent,
the least in 12 years, U.S. Department of Agriculture forecasts
show. Rising supplies of  soybean oil , an alternative, will add
to the glut, with U.S. growers set to reap their biggest-ever
crop of soybeans from September, according to the USDA.  The median estimate in the survey for output in July was
about 8 percent lower than the 1.69 million tons a year ago,
according to data from the board. Last year, production jumped
15 percent in July from a month earlier.  “I expect stocks to rise, but not at a fast pace because
the seasonal uptick in production seems a bit slow this time
around,” Alvin Tai, an analyst at RHB Investment Bank, said in
Kuala Lumpur. “The young trees, which are fruiting heavily,
will hit their peak as usual in September, but the old ones are
not doing so well.”  With  China  purchasing a record amount of soybeans, that
could damp demand for palm oil, Tai said. China, the largest
buyer of the tropical oil after  India , was set to import 7.35
million tons of soybeans in July from 6.5 million tons in June,
state-owned researcher Grain.gov.cn said July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  