-- Mexico Leader Said to Seek Changes to Break Oil Monopoly
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-08-06T21:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/pena-nieto-said-to-seek-amendment-to-share-mexico-oil-production.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
will seek to amend several articles of the constitution to break
 Petroleos Mexicanos ’s monopoly in the state-run oil industry,
ruling party President Cesar Camacho said.  Pena Nieto will propose production-sharing contracts for
oil exploration and output, Camacho said in a phone interview
today. The proposal will seek to change articles 25, 27 and 28
of the constitution, and tenders for the most part would be
managed by government regulators, and not by the state-company
known as Pemex, two people with direct knowledge of the bill
said yesterday. They asked not to be named because the bill will
be officially presented later this week.  The overhaul would be the biggest change for the industry
since 1938, when President  Lazaro Cardenas  seized  oil fields 
from British and U.S. companies and changed  Mexico ’s charter to
assert control over its energy resources. Pena Nieto’s proposal
also would break the electricity distribution monopoly held by
state power company Comision Federal de Electricidad, or CFE,
according to one of the people.  The oil reform “will create a world-class company,”
Camacho said. “It won’t privatize” Mexico’s oil.  Pena Nieto has pledged to push changes to double Mexican
economic growth that’s trailed the regional average in  Latin
America  over the past decade. He made overhauling the nation’s
oil laws a centerpiece of his campaign for president last year,
saying opening the  energy industry  to more private investment
would be the signature issue for judging his success.  ‘Historical Magnitude’  “When you talk about changing the constitution, the
historical magnitude of that phrase is going to make a lot of
people in a lot of places pay more attention,” Jeremy Martin,
an oil specialist at the Institute of the Americas in  La Jolla ,
 California , said yesterday. “This is the big ticket. This is
very close to the whole enchilada.”  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 12.6223 per dollar. The yield
on fixed-rate government peso bonds due in 2024 rose seven basis
point to 5.84 percent.  The president’s office declined to comment on the content
of his proposal or say when it would be presented. Pemex didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone calls requesting comment.  Members of Pena Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party ,
or PRI, in March voted to end their opposition to constitutional
changes that would ease the state’s grip on the oil industry.  ‘Opposition’  “It was difficult to imagine a proposal like this” before
Pena Nieto began pushing for it,  Jorge Chabat , a political
scientist at the Center for Economic Research and Teaching, a
Mexico City-based university, said in a phone interview last
night. “It hasn’t been easy and there was much opposition
within the PRI itself” for similar reforms in the past.  The proposal would be the second in the last week to call
for opening oilfields to private companies, after the opposition
 National Action Party , or PAN, on July 31 presented its own
bill. Pena Nieto’s proposal, like the PAN’s, won’t limit foreign
ownership of crude projects and would allow competition for
electricity sales against CFE, according to one of the two
people familiar with it.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest energy company by
market value,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Spanish oil producer  Repsol SA (REP) 
are among the companies that have expressed interest in Mexico’s
oil fields.  Strategy  Pena Nieto’s plan is part of a strategy to reverse an
eight-year drop in crude output and push through a tax
initiative to wean the government off revenues from Pemex. The
company funds about a third of the  federal budget .  Pemex production has plummeted as output from its Cantarell
field, the world’s third-largest deposit when it was discovered
in 1976, plunged more than 80 percent since 2004 to last month’s
380,000 barrels a day. Pemex is the world’s fifth-largest crude
oil producer and third-biggest exporter to the U.S., behind
 Canada  and  Saudi Arabia .  The PAN and PRI proposals may face opposition from the
Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD, the nation’s third-biggest
party. Jesus Zambrano, the PRD’s president, has promised the
party will oppose any drive that it sees as privatization.
 Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , the party’s candidate who came in
second to Pena Nieto in last year’s presidential election, said
he’ll call supporters to Mexico City’s Zocalo, or main square,
in early September to rally against such proposals.  ‘Significant Investment’  While energy companies prefer the certainty of concessions,
profit and production-sharing contracts can attract
“significant investment” if favorable conditions exist, Dallas
Parker, a Houston-based partner at Mayer Brown LLP, said in an
interview last week.  Pena Nieto already has achieved legislative success with
the Pacto por Mexico, or Pact for Mexico, an accord signed
between the three biggest parties on Dec. 2, the day after he
took office. The accord has helped usher in an education bill to
make teachers more accountable for performance and a law to spur
increased competition in the telecommunications industry. It
also set a goal of improving tax collection and transparency in
spending.  “Although we’d like to have the reform approved as is,
it’s obvious that won’t occur,” said Camacho, the PRI’s
president. “It’s necessary to listen to many voices and for the
legislators to come to an agreement on the essential topics.”  Reach Agreement  In the end, opposition from within the PRD is unlikely to
derail the energy-overhaul drive if the PAN and PRI reach an
agreement, Shannon O’Neil, a senior fellow at the  Council on
Foreign Relations  in  New York , said by phone last week. The two
parties, with the PRI-allied Green Party, would control more
than the two thirds needed to pass a constitutional change in
each of the lower house and Senate.  “Legislators in all parties can count, and they know what
a two-thirds majority is and that it doesn’t have to have all
three parties,” O’Neil said. “The PRI has known all along that
this could be the reform to break the Pacto. There are at least
some people in the PRI who think the energy reform is worth it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  