-- Pena Nieto Opts for Oil Sharing Pacts, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-08-06T02:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/pena-nieto-opts-for-oil-sharing-pacts-lawmaker-says-correct-.html
(Corrects 11th paragraph to show the figure in dollar
amounts and not as a percent from story published Aug. 2.)  Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
will probably seek to amend key articles of the constitution to
break the nation’s state monopoly on oil exploration and
production, ruling party lawmaker Javier Trevino said.  Trevino, a secretary on the lower house’s energy committee,
said in an interview the bill will likely change articles 27 and
28 of the charter to allow either production or profit sharing
contracts between private companies and  Mexico ’s state-owned oil
interest. The proposal probably won’t offer concessions to
companies, said Trevino, who has knowledge of the government’s
bill scheduled to be presented next week.  Pena Nieto is pledging to open the  energy industry  to
private investment to double growth that’s fallen behind the
regional average over the past decade. The government’s bill
will likely require oil sharing contracts be managed by
regulators and the government, instead of by the state-owned  oil
company   Petroleos Mexicanos , Trevino said.  “We expect a reform to strengthen and transform Pemex,”
Trevino said. The bill will also likely “strengthen the role of
the regulatory body.”  Mexico’s peso rose 1.5 percent to 12.6311 against the
dollar at 12:24 p.m. in Mexico City, extending its gains after
Trevino’s comments, according to Alejandro Urbina, a  money
manager  at Silva Capital Management, which oversees $800 million
in emerging-market assets.  Production Sharing  The bill by Pena Nieto and his  Institutional Revolutionary
Party  will be presented next week and first be debated by the
Senate. The government’s proposal will follow a bill presented
July 31 by the opposition  National Action Party  that seeks
concessions for private companies to explore and produce oil.  Congress is in recess until September, although a special
session is expected for the last week of August.  Under a typical concession regime “hydrocarbons
underground will belong to the State, but when it reaches the
wellhead it automatically passes to” the international oil
company, Michael Bunter said in his book “The Promotion and
Licensing Of Petroleum Prospective Acreage.” In production
sharing accords, crude is the property of the state until the
country sells the petroleum, he said.  Devilish Details  While energy companies prefer the certainty of concessions,
profit and production-sharing contracts can attract
“significant investment” if favorable conditions exist, said
Dallas Parker, a Houston-based partner at Mayer Brown LLP.  “The devil’s in the details,” Parker said in a telephone
interview. “We need to look at the structure of the fiscal
system in each of these offers, the royalty rate, the
government’s take, the tax system, how cost recovery is
permitted and the flexibility on pricing. It certainly appears
to us that both the PAN and the PRI are committed to a world-class arrangement.”  Mexico’s government received $69 billion of Pemex’s revenue
last year, the most since at least 2005, the Mexico City-based
company said in a presentation this month.  Oil companies  will want to know if Mexico plans to
eliminate a legal ban against booking reserves on their
financial statements, Parker said.  Production-sharing contracts will probably require
companies to pay royalties, taxes and licenses, Trevino said.
The president’s bill will probably seek the gradual removal of
Pemex from the government budget, giving the company greater
investment autonomy, he said.  The Energy Ministry’s press office didn’t respond to phone
calls and an e-mail requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  