-- Penn Picked for Fourth Ivy League Football Title in Five Years
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-06T15:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/penn-picked-for-fourth-ivy-league-football-title-in-five-years.html
The  University of Pennsylvania  is the
preseason favorite to win its fourth Ivy League football title
in five seasons, according to a poll of media representatives
who regularly cover the eight-team conference.  The Philadelphia university received 11 of the 17 first-place votes and 129 points in the balloting, which the league
released today in an e-mail.  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , is second with 121 points and five first-place
votes, followed by  Brown University  in Providence,  Rhode Island ,
with 88 points and one first-place ballot.  Winners of 16 Ivy League titles since 1956, the Quakers
return a core of players from last year’s championship-winning
team, including quarterback Billy Ragone and running backs Lyle
Marsh and Brandon Colavita.  Harvard, which finished second last year after winning the
title in 2011, also returns key players, including tight end
Cameron Brate, a unanimous All-Ivy selection in 2012, and
defensive back Chris Splinter, who had a league-high five
interceptions last year. The Crimson have finished third or
higher every year since 1999.  Dartmouth College , led by quarterback Dalyn Williams, last
year’s Ivy League Rookie of the Year, finished fourth in the
voting. Winners of a league-record 17 Ivy titles, the Big Green
last won the conference championship in 1996.  Princeton finished fifth in the voting, followed by
Cornell, Yale and Columbia. Cornell quarterback Jeff Mathews
averaged a league-high 355.1 yards passing per game in 2012, 99
yards per game more than the next quarterback, Colton Chapple of
Harvard.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  