-- Pension Revamp Should Spur Upgrade in PZU’s View: Poland Credit
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o   a n d   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-08-06T15:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/pension-revamp-should-spur-upgrade-in-pzu-s-view-poland-credit.html
Poland ’s rating should be raised if a
planned overhaul of the nation’s pension industry results in the
firms’ government bond holdings being canceled, the chief
investment officer of the nation’s largest mutual fund said.  Under such a scenario, “public debt to gross domestic
product will fall 10 percentage points and match the Czech
Republic’s in two-to-three years,” Tomasz Stadnik, who oversees
the equivalent of $6.6 billion at state-owned money manager PZU
TFI SA, said in an interview on July 31. “This will create
pressure for a rating upgrade.”  A drop of that magnitude in debt-to-GDP would give Prime
Minister Donald Tusk room to stimulate the economy as it remains
mired in a slowdown the central bank forecasts will be the worst
in at least 17 years. While canceling pension fund bond holdings
would curb market liquidity and increase the percentage of
foreign investors holding zloty bonds in the short run, the
longer-term benefits overshadow such concern, Stadnik said.  The yields on Poland’s 10-year bonds fell 14 basis points
to 4.17 percent since the announcement of the pension system’s
overhaul on June 26, with the spread over German bunds falling
seven basis points over the period. The rate on similar Czech
notes declined nine basis points to 2.27 percent.  Czech Target  Poland, ranked A- at both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings and at A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, has last seen
its grade changed six years ago. The  Czech Republic ’s rating is
three grades higher at S&P, two higher at Fitch and one higher
at Moody’s. Poland’s debt reached 53.8 percent of GDP at the end
of last year, while the Czech’s amounted to 43.9 percent.  “We still can’t comment on hypotheticals,” Jaime Reusche,
a Moody’s assistant vice president in  New York , said by e-mail
on Aug. 2. Fitch is unable to respond for the time being, Janice
Gayle, assistant to the head of global sovereigns and
supranationals ratings, said in an e-mail yesterday. S&P didn’t
reply to e-mailed questions from  Bloomberg News  yesterday.  The government plans to transfer assets held by pension
funds to the state’s pay-as-you-go system amid efforts to
bolster public finances. Among the proposals under consideration
by Tusk is the cancellation of  government bonds  held by the
funds. This amounted to 117.7 billion zloty, or 20.5 percent of
outstanding bonds, as of June 30,  Finance Ministry  data show.  System Stability  The cancellation of debt held by pension funds will
increase the country’s exposure to foreign investors, which may
destabilize markets and work against rating upgrades, according
to Dariusz Lasek, the head of debt investments at mutual fund
Union Investment TFI SA in Warsaw.  “The stability of the financial system will deteriorate,”
Lasek, who helps oversee 7 billion zloty in assets, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “From the point of view of rating
agencies, this may be a factor increasing risk for the rating.”  Foreign investor holdings fell 2.6 percent to 201.9 billion
zloty at the end of June from a month earlier, the Finance
Ministry said on July 31. The sell-off came as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the U.S. central bank
may reduce $85 billion of monthly bond purchases later this year
and phase them out by the middle of 2014.  While Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said in a May 22
interview that Poland shouldn’t pay “a penny more” on its debt
than the Czech Republic, the  premium  investors demand to hold
10-year zloty bonds over similar koruna notes reached 197
yesterday, the most since July 17. It fell to 193 today.  ‘Gigantic Burden’  The current structure of the privately-managed pension
funds is a “gigantic burden on public finances,” Rostowski
said on June 26. The cabinet will decide on the shape of the
changes by the end of August, Tusk said on July 2.  The zloty gained 0.2 percent to 4.2054 against the euro at
5:43 p.m. in Warsaw, extending this quarter’s 2.9 percent rise,
the best performance among the 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The extra yield on Poland’s dollar bonds over
Treasuries declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage points,
to 142, according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Poland’s credit-default swaps, contracts insuring the
nation’s debt against non-payment, fell two basis points to 85,
while Czech CDS stood at 64, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  If Poland cancels bonds held by the funds, an upgrade
“seems warranted in 12 to 24 months,” PZU’s Stadnik said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net 
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa in Warsaw 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  