-- Pentagon Said to Reduce Civilian Furloughs to Six Days
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-08-06T17:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/pentagon-said-to-reduce-civilian-furloughs-to-six-days.html
The Pentagon is reducing to six days
from 11 the furlough days that 651,542 of its civilian employees
must take this fiscal year because of automatic  budget cuts ,
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said.  “The military services have been aggressive in identifying
ways to hold down costs, and we have been successful in shifting
savings (including furlough savings) to meet our highest
priority needs,” Hagel said today in a memo to service chiefs.
He said some “modest improvements” in training and readiness
also will be made.  The Defense Department has found $1 billion in savings it
is using to reduce the unpaid leave, which is affecting 85
percent of civilian defense workers, according to a defense
official who asked not to be identified discussing the budget
details. Sources for the savings include money that Congress is
allowing the Pentagon to reprogram, or shift, and costs of
removing equipment from  Afghanistan  that have been less than
expected, the official said.  The civilian furloughs, which started July 8, were intended
to save $1.8 billion of $37 billion in defense budget cuts
required through Sept. 30 under the automatic reductions called
sequestration.  When Hagel announced plans for 11 days of furloughs in May,
he said efforts would continue to reduce the number of days if
possible. The 11 days, equal to one a week from July through
September, was a reduction from earlier projections of 14 days
to 22 days of unpaid leave.  On July 31, Hagel warned that Pentagon programs would have
to absorb much deeper cuts if sequestration remains in effect,
requiring reductions of at least $50 billion annually through
2023.  Strategic Review  Outlining the results of a strategic review he ordered,
Hagel told reporters that the Pentagon would have to choose
between a decade-long “modernization holiday” and a “much
smaller” force.  Charts shown to congressional aides and defense analysts
listed among potential cuts the cancellation of  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter, the costliest weapons system, as well as
the  Air Force ’s plans for a new long-range bomber.  Military leaders indicated they’re inclined to protect the
development of new weapons capabilities at the cost of accepting
much smaller forces if it comes to that.  “We will edge slightly probably toward capability, because
we have to keep our industrial base alive, we have to keep
focusing on new technologies,” Admiral James Winnefeld, vice
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters last week.  Pay, Benefits  Hagel also is looking at pay and benefits for troops,
directing Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, to lead a study examining how to save $50
billion in personnel costs over the next decade. He acknowledged
Congress has opposed such cuts in the past.  Options for savings include requiring military retirees to
make more use of private health insurance, having troops pay
more toward housing costs, reducing cost-of-living adjustments
for troops stationed overseas and continuing to limit military
and civilian pay raises, Hagel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  