-- Pilots of Southwest Plane Switched Command Before Crash
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/pilots-of-southwest-jet-switched-command-before-crash.html
The captain of a  Southwest Airlines
Co. (LUV)  plane took the controls from the first officer shortly
before it slammed down nose-first at  New York ’s  LaGuardia
Airport , breaking the landing gear and skidding down the runway.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board in an e-mailed  release  yesterday said it hasn’t found any evidence of a
mechanical failure on the plane during the July 22 accident.  The absence of an equipment malfunction combined with the
switch of command a few seconds before touchdown points the
investigation toward the actions of the crew. The NTSB hasn’t
concluded the cause of the crash.  Nine people received minor injuries in the accident.  Why the command changed between the first officer and
captain “is what we hope to understand as our investigation
with the NTSB continues,”  Brad Hawkins , a spokesman for Dallas-based Southwest, said in an interview.  “Our Southwest pilots manual and training includes
scenarios which cover how to handle change of control of
aircraft, including on final approach,” Hawkins said.  A change in control may occur for reasons that range from
the routine to a response to an emergency, according to NTSB
accident records. No reason was given for the switch, which
occurred after the plane went below 400 feet in altitude.  The pilots of Flight 345, which originated in Nashville,
 Tennessee , are on leave during the investigation in accordance
with Southwest’s normal procedures, Hawkins said.  Nose-Down Landing  The  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-700 landed with its nose pointed three
degrees downward, hitting the runway with its nose gear first
instead of the larger main landing wheels located beneath the
wings, the NTSB said in a July 25  release . The forward gear
broke, snapping rearward and damaging an electronics bay.  “A preliminary examination of the nose gear indicated that
it failed due to stress overload,” investigators said in the
release yesterday.  The nose-wheel landing was “not in accordance with our
operating procedures,” Hawkins said in an interview on July 25.  While a change in command shortly before landing is
unusual, it shouldn’t by itself cause an accident, John Cox, a
former pilot and president of Safety Operating Systems, a
Washington consulting firm, said in an interview.  “It raises more questions than it answers,” Cox said.  Airlines train pilots how to switch command in the cockpit
and how to communicate during unusual events. Investigators will
attempt to determine how the pilots performed on these tasks, he
said.  LaGuardia Experience  The NTSB also will pay close attention to how well the
pilots lined up the plane with the runway, he said. In order to
prevent landing accidents, pilots are trained to abort a
touchdown if a plane is off its target speed and altitude.  The captain has been a pilot at Southwest for almost 13
years, six of which as a captain, according to the release. The
pilot, who wasn’t identified, had more than 12,000 flight hours,
including 7,900 in the 737.  The co-pilot, who has been with the airline for about 18
months, had about 5,200 flight hours, including 1,100 in the
737, according to the NTSB, which issued its second update on
the accident yesterday.  While the first officer had experience flying to LaGuardia,
including six flights there this year, it was the captain’s
second landing there. On the previous touchdown, he had been
monitoring another co-pilot instead of commanding the plane,
according to the NTSB.  The crew told investigators they encountered a wind shift
as they approached the runway at LaGuardia, according to the
release. Below 1,000 feet altitude, they said they had a
tailwind of 13 miles (21 kilometers) an hour. On the ground, the
wind was at the same speed in the opposite direction, they said.  The crash forced the airport to shut down during the
evening of July 22, triggering flight delays and cancellations
across the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  