-- Post’s Graham First Turned to Bezos for Advice Before Sale
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-08-07T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/post-s-graham-first-turned-to-bezos-for-advice-before-sale.html
For years,  Washington Post Co. (WPO) 
Chairman Don Graham turned to  Jeff Bezos  for advice about
technology and the news business. Their conversations gave him
the conviction to place the future of his family’s storied
newspaper into the hands of Amazon.com Inc.’s founder.  “I know Jeff, I know about his personal qualities and
technology ability,” Graham said in an interview at the Post on
 Washington ’s 15th Street. “We had talks that centered on the
well-known problems of the newspaper industry. We ended those
talks and he said, ‘Well I’m still interested.’”  The decision to sell the Post to Bezos for $250 million,
eventually clinched over sandwiches in an Idaho resort
condominium and announced Aug. 5, was rooted in frank talks
between Graham and Post publisher Katharine Weymouth over
several weeks late last year. The pair -- uncle and niece --
focused on whether their family was the best owner for the Post
as the Internet was forcing rapid changes in the industry.  “To our surprise -- we asked each other whether there
might be some person or company out there who could bring
something different,” Graham said in the interview on the day
of the sale. While no one in the family really wanted to sell,
he said they wanted to give the Post “the maximum chance for
success.”  To seek buyers for the newspaper assets quietly, Washington
Post Co. hired Allen & Co., which it also had enlisted in 2010
to sell money-losing Newsweek magazine.  Contacting Bezos  As happened back then, the task was entrusted to Nancy Peretsman, an Allen & Co. managing director who also serves on
the boards of Princeton University and  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  The
family drew comfort that she was a friend of Graham’s late
mother, Katharine, who led the company during the tumultuous
1970s as Post reporters helped expose the Watergate scandal that
ultimately toppled U.S. President Richard Nixon.  Graham said Peretsman had several phone conversations with
Bezos early this year and then -- the billionaire went silent.
For two months, talks continued with other potential buyers whom
Graham won’t name.  Bezos emerged again last month with an e-mail to the media
executive. The talks were on.  “I was fascinated that he was interested,” Graham said.
“Obviously he’d been thinking about it. This wasn’t a sudden or
impulsive decision.”  Graham, 68, and Bezos, 49, have known each other for more
than a decade. They had worked closely during the introduction
of the Kindle and the Post’s Kindle edition.  Family Realization  While the Post’s digital business was growing, it wasn’t
enough to offset declines in print advertising at the paper,
where revenue had been shrinking for  seven years . The company’s
total revenue declined almost 3 percent last year to $4 billion
as operating income dropped 56 percent.  Efforts to draw new readers and cut costs didn’t offset the
declines in print advertising, Graham said. Family members came
to realize there wasn’t much they could do to save the paper
they had nurtured for four generations.  “We’ve tried,” the chairman said. “We have innovated
very successfully in terms of building audience, in terms of our
reputation and in terms of our products, but not in terms of
offsetting the decline in revenues.”  The deal was eventually reached in two one-on-one meetings
between Graham and Bezos in mid-July at Allen & Co.’s annual
media conference in Sun Valley,  Idaho .  They first met on a back porch at the conference center and
spoke for about an hour, Graham said. The second encounter was
in a condo at the Sun Valley resort. Graham bought sandwiches
and drinks and the two men gathered at the dining room table.  Sun Valley  As Graham munched on turkey and cheese, the men had a
meeting of the minds and agreed to what Graham considered “a
fair price” based on talks with other potential buyers. Drew
Herdener, a spokesman for Amazon, didn’t immediately respond to
a request for comment. Bezos is buying the Post through a
separate company.  Graham said he and Weymouth repeatedly consulted board
members and billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , the largest
shareholder, asking, “Does this make sense?” Once Graham
recommended the deal, the board agreed unanimously.  Graham and Weymouth broke the news to employees on the
afternoon of Aug. 5, at a crowded meeting in a ground floor room
off the lobby of the 15th Street building.  Their reaction was “sad, because of the affection and
respect they have for Don and the Graham family,” Weymouth said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “And shocked. But also
appreciative that it’s Jeff Bezos and that he shares the values
of the Graham family and the track record he has. And that we
were not on the auction block.”  Bezos’ Challenge  Bezos, who has asked Weymouth, 47, and her staff to
continue to run the paper, said he will keep his focus on
 Amazon.com. (AMZN)  At the same time, he will be thinking about how to
revitalize the news business, Graham said.  “He knows how to get people together to develop successful
changes in what we do,” Graham said. But first, “he’s going to
have to get familiar with why we aren’t growing in the first
place, where news comes from, what our readers want.”  Bezos yesterday told employees the Post’s values don’t need
changing and its duty “will remain to its readers.”  Graham said he was heartened by the new owner’s tone and
that “one of the wonderful things he said is that it’s all
going to begin with readers.”  After all, Graham said, it’s the same message his
grandfather, Eugene Meyers, imparted when he bought the paper in
1933.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  