-- TransCanada to Face Hurdles in Quest for Eastern Pipeline
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-08-06T14:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/transcanada-to-face-hurdles-in-quest-for-eastern-pipeline.html
TransCanada Corp., (TRP)  facing opposition
to its Keystone XL pipeline in the midwestern U.S., is
encountering challenges at home from environmental groups and
provincial lawmakers over a proposed C$12 billion ($11.6
billion) line to ship oil to the Atlantic Coast.  The country’s second-biggest pipeline operator plans to
move as much as 1.1 million barrels a day from the oil sands in
 Alberta  to New Brunswick by 2018.  Environmental groups and native leaders may push to block
the  pipeline , emboldened by the work of Keystone XL opponents
who’ve fought that project for more than four years. The 4,400
kilometer (2,734 mile) Energy East line would need support from
provincial governments in Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba,
Ontario,  Quebec  and New Brunswick.  Some of the strongest opposition will be in Quebec, said
political scientist Peter Stoett. The government of Premier
Pauline Marois has halted natural gas exploration by hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, while crews continue to clean up the
disaster in Lac-Megantic, where a runaway train filled with
crude exploded in the center of town, killing 47 people last
month.  “We can expect a serious debate to emerge in Quebec over
this,” said  Stoett , director of the Loyola Sustainability
Research Centre and professor of political science at  Montreal ’s
Concordia University, in an e-mail. “The train tragedy might
increase support for pipelines in some places, but overall my
impression is that it will further deepen water-rich Quebec’s
concerns about crude in general.” The province produces much of
its energy through hydro-electricity.  Marois Response  Julien Lampron, a spokesman for Marois, said the premier is
on vacation and no one in the government will be making comments
on Energy East.  Marois told reporters on July 26 that she was still
considering supporting an eastern pipeline. “We built a working
group between Alberta and Quebec -- with ministry of finance and
various ministries in Quebec that are concerned -- to assess the
future of this project, the risk associated with it and the
mitigation measures that we should have if it happens,” she
said, according to the Globe and Mail.  “Politically, TransCanada’s challenge in Quebec is so big
that this project just won’t happen,” said Pierre-Olivier
Pineau, a management professor at the HEC Montreal business
school who specializes in energy. “It will be perceived as
risky, with negative consequences for the environment.”  TransCanada Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said his
Calgary-based company has experience building pipelines in
Quebec and will reach out to residents for input.  Keystone Delays  “We’re very familiar with the Quebec environmental and
regulatory review process,” he said, during a televised press
conference announcing the project on Aug. 1. “We’re going to
make sure that we set up a process where everyone will have an
opportunity to have input.”  TransCanada’s $5.3 billion Keystone project has been stuck
in regulatory limbo as the U.S. government weighs approval.
Opponents have argued the project will increase greenhouse gas
emissions by aiding the expansion of the oil sands, which have
higher emissions than conventional crude.  Energy East can expect more of the same opposition, said
Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for 350.org, a U.S. group that is
helping organize the battle against Keystone.  “We plan to fight it with our friends in  Canada ,” said
Kessler, referring to the Energy East proposal. “Our goal is to
not play whack-a-mole with these projects, but to slow them down
long enough until policy makers come to their senses and adopt
policies to keep fossil fuels in the ground.”  Native Consultations  Energy East will create thousands of jobs along the
pipeline route and at the refineries it serves, said Alex Pourbaix, TransCanada’s president of energy and oil pipelines.  “The Energy East pipeline could eliminate eastern Canadian
refineries’ reliance on crude oil imported from overseas and
ensure Canadians receive greater value for their domestically-produced oil,” Pourbaix told reporters on Aug. 1.  TransCanada will also consult with the estimated 150
aboriginal communities along the proposed route, Pourbaix said.
Native opposition to  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Northern Gateway pipeline
to the Pacific Coast has contributed to delays in that project.  “TransCanada fully respects their legal and constitutional
rights,” Pourbaix said.  TransCanada rose 2.3 percent on the day of the Energy East
announcement, as some investors bet the project will boost
earnings. Analysts from Royal Bank of Canada, Canaccord Genuity
Corp. and Desjardins Securities Inc. said the project would have
a net benefit for TransCanada. Seven analysts raised their
target prices on the stock on Aug. 1 and 2.  All-Canadian  TransCanada shares fell 2 percent to C$47.25 at 10:32 a.m.
in Toronto and have risen 0.5 percent his year compared with a
3.2 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Energy Index. The
company reported  earnings  of 52 Canadian cents in the second
quarter, up from 39 cents in the same quarter of 2012. The
company reported revenue of C$2 billion this quarter compared
with C$1.85 billion for the same quarter last year.  While pipeline approvals are becoming increasingly
difficult to obtain, TransCanada’s new line may win more support
at home than Keystone has received, said Steven Paget, a
Calgary-based analyst at FirstEnergy Capital Corp.  “Building oil pipelines, particularly Canadian oil
pipelines, carries more political risk than the construction of
nuclear reactors” Paget wrote in an Aug. 2 note. “The all-Canadian reach of this pipeline may satisfy this part of the
opposition.”  Suncor Support  Demand for the line is firmly in place, said Pierre Lacroix, a Montreal-based analyst at Desjardins. TransCanada has
900,000 barrels of oil a day in long-term contracts from
producers in Western Canada, the company said in the project
announcement.  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , the fourth-largest Canadian oil
producer, expects to ship 200,000 barrels a day on the new
pipeline to New Brunswick, said Calgary-based Rhona DelFrari, a
Cenovus spokeswoman in an interview. Some of that oil may be
exported overseas, she said. “This pipeline just makes sense,”
she said. “It gets Canadian oil to Canadian customers.”  Steven Williams, CEO of  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s
biggest oil producer, said his company is “actively engaged”
in the new pipeline, during a conference call with analysts Aug.
1.  “Suncor is absolutely aligned with its industry partners
about the need to get oil sands and western crudes to as many
markets as we can,” he said.  The federal National Energy Board is in charge of approving
and regulating pipelines that cross provincial borders, though
provinces can have their say during public hearings, said
Whitney Punchak, a spokeswoman for the NEB.  ‘In Principle’  “Safety is our top priority,” said Ontario Energy
Minister Bob Chiarelli, in an e-mail. Ontario “will participate
in the hearing process to ensure that the environment, health
and well being of Ontarians are protected.”  The federal government has already signaled support for the
Energy East pipeline.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper told reporters in Quebec on
Aug. 2 that his government backs the project “in principle.”  Canada “strongly supports constructing energy
infrastructure that will help transport Western Canadian oil to
the east,” Harper wrote in an April 29 letter to Conservative
lawmakers in New Brunswick.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  