-- RBA Shifts Toward Neutral After Cutting Rate to Record: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-06T07:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/rba-cuts-key-rate-to-record-2-5-in-boost-to-rudd-in-australia.html
Australia ’s central bank damped
expectations of further interest rate cuts after reducing its
 benchmark  to a record low, sending the local dollar higher.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut the overnight cash-rate target
by a quarter percentage point to 2.5 percent and said the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s board “has previously noted that
the inflation outlook could provide some scope to ease policy
further.” That contrasted with last month’s view the outlook
for prices “may provide some scope for further easing.”  “The RBA sounded pretty neutral,” said Alvin Pontoh,
Singapore-based strategist at TD Securites. “There’s no hint
here that they are in any position to follow this cut with
another cut next month, so I take it as a signal they’re happy
to keep rates on hold for the near term.”  Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who called an election for Sept.
7, may benefit politically from the reduction in a nation where
about 90 percent of mortgagees have variable-rate loans. The
easing reflects  contained inflation  and falling commodity
prices, and follows a four-month slide in the Aussie.  The local currency rose, trading at 89.79 U.S. cents at
5:50 p.m. in Sydney, from 89.22 cents before the decision.  “The Australian dollar has depreciated by around 15
percent since early April, although it remains at a high
level,” Stevens said. “It is possible that the  exchange rate 
will depreciate further over time, which would help to foster a
rebalancing of growth in the economy.”  Lower Growth  Treasurer  Chris Bowen  last week lowered the government’s
growth forecast and predicted the jobless rate will rise to an
11-year high by July. Today’s cut is the second this year and
extends an easing cycle that began in November 2011, when the
benchmark was lowered from 4.75 percent.  “The easing in monetary policy over the past 18 months has
supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values, and
further effects can be expected over time,” Stevens said today.  Home prices  across the nation’s eight biggest cities rose
2.4 percent in the three months to June 30 after a revised 0.8
percent increase in the first three months of the year,
according to the statistics bureau today. The gain was the
biggest since the first quarter of 2010, and beat the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  of a 1 percent
increase.  Today’s rate cut was forecast by 26 of 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Traders pared bets on a September
rate reduction to 19 percent odds, from 32 percent before the
RBA decision, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Changing Stance  “They haven’t said that they have more room to cut
rates,” said David Forrester, a Singapore-based senior vice
president for Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie
Bank Ltd. “It’s considered more of a neutral bias than an
easing bias. I think we’ll see a squeeze” higher in the Aussie,
he said.  The central bank is seeking to boost non-mining industries
of the economy that struggled with an elevated currency,
underscored by Ford Motor Co.’s plan to close its local plants,
resulting in 1,200 job losses. The nation’s mining investment
expansion is predicted to wane as demand from nations including
 China  slows.  The value of planned projects and those under consideration
or possible fell 14.3 percent as of June 30 from the prior
quarter, a Deloitte Access Economics report showed last month.
The report predicted a “plateau” in investment as projects
already in the pipeline roll out and warned that non-residential
construction is unlikely to drive growth in Australia as
spending by resource firms declines.  Rising Unemployment  The nation’s  unemployment rate  probably rose to 5.8 percent
in July, matching the highest since June 2009, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey before an Aug. 8
report. The RBA will update its growth and inflation forecasts
the next day.  Elsewhere, Philippine inflation eased to a four-year low in
July, while  Italy ’s economy probably contracted for a seventh
straight quarter in the three months through June from a year
earlier, economists predict. The U.K. and Italy will report June
industrial production data, and factory orders for the same
month in  Germany  are due. The  U.S. trade deficit  probably
narrowed in June.  Australia’s government on Aug. 2 cut its growth estimate
for this fiscal year to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent seen in
May and said the  unemployment rate  will rise to 6.25 percent by
the middle of 2014, emphasizing Rudd’s challenge as he tries to
win elections after the governing  Labor party  trailed the
opposition in opinion polls for most of the past year.  Political Battle  Rudd is framing the vote as a battle between David Cameron-style austerity from the opposition and his own program that
allows the deficit to widen as it prioritizes jobs and economic
growth. Labor trailed the opposition by 4 percentage points on a
two-party preferred basis in a Newspoll published yesterday.  “All Australian families, working families in particular,
are under cost-of-living pressure,” Rudd told reporters in
Brisbane today, saying his government was committed to “making
sure that our  interest rates  are as low as possible.” The
opposition said a cut would reflect a weakening economy.  The political implications of the reduction “depend partly
on how you view it,” said Su-Lin Ong, Sydney-based head of
Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of
 Canada . “A rate cut generally occurs when rate-sensitive
sectors need some assistance. You’d have to conclude that growth
is disappointing to the downside as are revenues and there’s
downward pressure to the labor market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  