-- Riley Cooper Rejoins Eagles After Counseling for Racial Slur
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-06T20:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/riley-cooper-rejoins-nfl-eagles-after-counseling-for-racial-slur.html
Riley Cooper rejoined the
 Philadelphia Eagles  at training camp, four days after being
excused from team activities for counseling sparked by a video
in which he used a racial slur.  Cooper, a 25-year-old wide receiver, said on Aug. 2 that
his actions were inexcusable and he was leaving the National
Football League club to seek professional help. The Eagles last
week fined Cooper an undisclosed amount after a video of him
using the slur at a Kenny Chesney concert last month circulated
on the Internet.  “I’m going to live with this every day for the rest of my
life,” Cooper told reporters after practice today. “It’s one
of those things you can’t let it affect your play on the field
and that’s what I’m going to strive to do.”  Cooper participated in a joint practice today between the
Eagles and  New England Patriots  in Philadelphia and caught
several touchdown passes during 11-on-11 drills. The Eagles are
scheduled to host the Patriots on Aug. 9 in their first
preseason game.  “It felt great being out there and running around and
making plays, that’s what I live to do,” said Cooper, a former
fifth-round draft pick who’s entering his fourth year with the
Eagles. “I’m just going to try to move forward and hopefully
people judge me from here on out.”  Bigger Role  Cooper may have a more prominent role in new coach Chip Kelly’s fast-paced offense following a season-ending injury to
 Jeremy Maclin , who led the team in receptions last year. Cooper
said addressing and apologizing to his teammates after the video
became public was the hardest thing he’s ever done.  While Kelly said Cooper will play in the preseason opener
if he continues to practice well, he added that the team
recognizes the seriousness of what he did.  “This isn’t something that we just put in the back seat
and then get moving forward,” Kelly told reporters after
practice. “We’ll make sure we keep our eyes and ears open and
continue to monitor the situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  