-- Rohani Says Iran Is Determined to Resolve Nuclear Dispute
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-08-06T16:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/rohani-says-iran-seriously-determined-to-resolve-nuclear-dispute.html
Iranian President Hassan Rohani said
his country is “seriously determined” to resolve the dispute
over its nuclear program with Western powers without
compromising its right to nuclear power for peaceful purposes.  “We are for negotiations,” Rohani said in his first news
conference after taking office this month. “We are ready to
enter without wasting time in negotiations that are substantive
and serious.”  Rohani succeeds Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who took office in
2005. The Scottish-educated cleric was elected in June on
pledges to improve  Iran ’s economy and world standing, and enters
office as the country experiences its worst political and
economic isolation in two decades. The economy is hampered by
accelerating inflation and a weakened currency resulting from
sanctions spearheaded by the U.S. in an effort to curb Iran’s
nuclear program.  The U.S. and Israel accuse Iran of secretly seeking to
develop nuclear weapons, a charge the Islamic republic denies,
saying it needs to secure power for its growing population.  “The Islamic establishment is seriously determined to
resolve the nuclear issue while at the same time the rights of
people are preserved and simultaneously the concerns of the
other side will be considered,” Rohani said. “We hope the
other side also possesses this determination.”  Contradictory Messages  In a statement released after Rohani’s Aug. 4 inauguration
address, the White House said it would be “a willing partner”
if Iran decides “to engage substantively and seriously” in
honoring its international obligations and works toward a
peaceful solution on the nuclear issue.  A bipartisan group of 76 senators urged President  Barack Obama  in an Aug. 2 letter to “toughen sanctions and reinforce
the credibility of our option to use military force at the same
time as we fully explore a diplomatic solution to our dispute
with Iran.”  “What matters to us is a practical response from the U.S.
government, not the statements,” Rohani said. “We will
evaluate all actions taken by the U.S. government carefully. If
there are any constructive or meaningful acts we will respond
prudently and proportionately.”  ’Carrots and Sticks’  The new president rejected “contradictory messages” and
the dual-track of sanctions and diplomacy adopted by the U.S.
administration.  “We don’t like the carrots and sticks approach,” Rohani
said. “If logic is the basis of negotiations, the doors are
open.”  Rohani, who held Iran’s nuclear portfolio a decade ago,
when tensions were lower, takes over after several rounds of
talks with world powers that produced little progress. Failure
to reach an outcome risks exposing the Persian Gulf nation to a
military attack by  Israel , which says it sees a nuclear-armed
Iran as an existential threat.  Rohani, 64, is seeking to create a clear distinction from
the era of Ahmadinejad, whose hostile rhetoric to Israel helped
fuel Western concerns about Iran’s intentions.  “Politely, prudently we will talk with the world to make
sure the world understand that Iran wants to follow its
inalienable rights, but we’re not threatening anyone.”  The economy will shrink 1.3 percent this year, extending a
1.9 percent decline in 2012, the International Monetary Fund
predicts. Inflation is above 30 percent and unemployment about
12 percent, twice that among young people. Rohani and his aides
are accusing Ahmadinejad of massaging the data, saying those
official figures mask a more dire reality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  