-- Rohani’s Nuclear Talks Offer Stops Short on Enrichment
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-08-06T23:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/rohani-s-nuclear-talks-offer-stops-short-on-enrichment.html
Iranian President Hassan Rohani’s
offer to participate in nuclear negotiations stops short of
halting his nation’s uranium enrichment program as demanded by
countries that imposed sanctions crippling its economy.  “We are ready to engage in serious and substantial talks
without wasting time,” Rohani said yesterday in his first news
conference as president two days after being sworn in. He
offered no new proposals and called on the U.S. to take
“practical steps” at the start. “We seek a win-win game and
this is possible,” he said.  Rohani, who replaced  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  as president, won
in June after promising to end Iran’s isolation and improve the
country’s economy, which has seen oil revenue drop by 50 percent
under U.S. and European Union sanctions. Those countries and
Israel say Iran is pursuing the capacity to develop a nuclear
weapon. Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian purposes.  “Iran’s peaceful nuclear program is a national issue,”
Rohani said. “We will not give up the rights of the Iranian
people.”  The final authority on the nuclear issue is Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei . Although Rohani, a former nuclear
negotiator, has said he will make it a priority to get the
sanctions against Iran lifted, its enrichment program remains a
sticking point.  “Rohani’s pronouncements were a reminder that Iran’s
bottom-line positions -- insistence on the right to develop a
peaceful nuclear energy program, including the right to an
indigenous enrichment capacity -- almost certainly will not
budge in the foreseeable future,” Ali Vaez, a senior analyst at
the  International Crisis Group  in  Washington , said in an e-mail.  Five Rounds  Five rounds of negotiations starting in April 2012 failed
to reduce the gulf between Iran and six powers, made up of the
U.S.,  Russia ,  China , the U.K.,  France  and  Germany .  In a statement released after Rohani’s Aug. 4 inauguration
address, the Obama administration said it would be “a willing
partner” if Iran decides “to engage substantively and
seriously” in honoring its international obligations and works
toward a peaceful solution on the nuclear issue.  In his news conference, Rohani criticized the U.S.
government’s dual-track policy of diplomacy and sanctions.  “We don’t like the carrots-and-sticks approach,” Rohani
said. “Unfortunately the warmongering pressure groups in the
U.S. are against constructive dialogue.”  Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed new
sanctions which, if signed into law, would make it even more
difficult for  Iran  to access foreign oil revenue.  U.S. Lawmakers  A bipartisan group of 76 senators urged President  Barack Obama  in an Aug. 2 letter to “toughen sanctions and reinforce
the credibility of our option to use military force” at the
same time as the U.S. explores a diplomatic solution.  “Some combination of diplomacy and sanctions is the way to
get Iran to take concrete steps away from their nuclear
program,” Representative Charlie Dent, a Pennsylvania
Republican, said in a telephone interview. “We want the
complete cessation of their nuclear program. We want them to
pull back completely.”  The groups that advocate greater pressure on Iran say they
have no intention of slowing their efforts.  “Sanctions are the reason Rohani got elected,” said  Mark Dubowitz , the executive director of the Foundation for Defense
of Democracies, a Washington group that supports stronger
sanctions. “Our research shows that sanctions have provided the
U.S. with enhanced leverage that Iran is taking very
seriously.”  The U.S. has an interest in ending the standoff over  Iran’s
nuclear program  and Rohani’s presidency offers the best chance,
said Lawrence Korb, a former assistant secretary of defense and
a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress.  “The worse thing you can do is increase the sanctions
because that will undermine Rohani,” Korb said. “Rohani’s
election gives us an opportunity to make a deal that we can all
live with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  