-- Rostelecom to Undercut Mobile Rivals to Enter St. Petersburg
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-08-06T14:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/rostelecom-to-undercut-mobile-rivals-to-enter-st-petersburg.html
OAO Rostelecom (RKMD) , Russia’s state-run
telecommunications company, is offering St. Petersburg mobile-phone users the lowest rates as it enters the market for the
first time in the country’s second-biggest city.  The company, which already offers fixed-line services in
the northwestern port city to 1.5 million users, is competing
with four existing mobile operatins by offering contracts at 9
kopeks (less than $0.003) a minute, compared with 60 kopeks
offered by Tele2 Russia. The other rivals are  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , OAO
Mobile TeleSystems and  OAO VimpelCom. (VIP)   The St. Petersburg region is Russia’s most saturated mobile
phone market, with 205 percent penetration and 13.5 million
customers, according to Moscow-based AC&M Consulting. Rostelecom
plans to have as many as 800 base towers working this year to
cover at least 90 percent of the city and suburbs, said Senior
Vice President Larisa Tkachuk in an interview.  “The St. Petersburg market is the most complicated in the
country having four strong peers,” said  Anna Lepetukhina , a
senior analyst at Sberbank CIB. “Rostelecom has to offer the
lowest prices to acquire as much as 10 percent of the market for
next five years.”  Tkachuk declined to disclose the amount Rostelecom will
invest in the service. It is spending as much as 25 percent of
its total annual investments, which amounted to 90 billion
rubles $2.73 billion) in 2013, for nationwide mobile
development, she said.  Mobile Investments  The company may spend at least $100 million to set up the
network and may see a return on the investment no earlier than
five to 10 years, Lepetukhina said.  Rostelecom fell 0.34 percent today as of 5 p.m. at the
Moscow Stock Exchange.  Rostelecom is in talks about cooperating with Tele2  Russia ,
which state-run VTB Group’s investment banking arm bought in
April, and other mobile operators, Tkachuk said on July 10. VTB
plans to sell Tele2 Russia within a year and has looked at
Rostelecom among potential buyers, Prime newswire reported in
June, citing the bank’s Chairman Andrey Kostin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  