-- Russia Stocks Drop 3rd Day on Bets Central Bank Won’t Cut Rates
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-08-06T09:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/russia-stocks-drop-3rd-day-on-bets-central-bank-won-t-cut-rates.html
Russian stocks fell for the third day
as investors bet the nation’s central bank may refrain from
cutting rates as inflation remains above target.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 0.7 percent to 1,382.20
by 12:09 p.m. in Moscow, bringing the three-day decline to 1.2
percent. OAO Uralkali, the world’s biggest potash producer by
output, lost 1.3 percent to 149.83 rubles.  Bank Rossii will hold a rates meeting on Aug. 9 after
keeping its main lending rates unchanged for a 10th month in
July, as policy makers wait for inflation to drop within the
target range of 5 percent to 6 percent. Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said yesterday the U.S. central
bank is closer to slowing its bond buying program and warned
investors not to rely on the stimulus that triggered a rally in
emerging assets.  “The majority of market players don’t expect a rate cut on
Friday since we’re still above the inflation target,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , Moscow-based head of research at Deutsche Bank AG,
said by phone. “It’s still too early to cut rates and the
market also fears that the Fed will start curbing its stimulus
program.”  Bank Rossii will leave the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
at this week’s meeting, according the median estimate of 19
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Russia ’s inflation rate
dropped to 6.5 percent in July from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in eight months and compared with 6.9 percent in June, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said yesterday.  Longer, Cheaper  Elvira Nabiullina, who took over as head of the central
bank on June 24, is offering banks longer and cheaper funds to
help funnel cash into the economy and boost growth. Above-target
increases in the cost of living have hampered the bank’s ability
to head off the slowdown, even as economic growth slumped in the
first half to a four-year low of 1.7 percent.  The Micex tumbled the most in a year on May 23, the day
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank could
reduce the pace of its asset purchases if officials see signs of
sustained improvement in growth. The Fed buys $85 billion of
debt a month to support the economy by putting downward pressure
on  interest rates . The U.S. non-manufacturing index beat
estimates for July, data released yesterday showed.  Russia’s July Services Purchasing Managers’ Index retreated
to the lowest since Aug. 2010, HSBC Holdings Plc said in a
report yesterday. Russia receives about half of its budget
revenue from oil and natural gas sales.  Uralkali Tumbles  Uralkali dropped 1.1 percent to $22.69 in  London , the
second day of declines. The company said on July 30 it would
halt a venture with a Belarusian potash miner that controlled
exports from the former  Soviet Union , ending production
restrictions that underpinned global prices and triggering a
selloff in fertilizer producers’ shares. The stock has slumped
41 percent in London this year.  M.video, Russia’s largest electronics retailer, tumbled 3.9
percent to 275 rubles after jumping the most in more than a year
yesterday. OAO Inter RAO Ues retreated 1.7 percent to 1.27
kopeks, while OAO RusHydro lost 1.6 percent to 56.87 kopeks. EON
Russia, controlled by  Germany ’s biggest utility, fell 3.1
percent to 2.6229 rubles.  Utilities were the biggest declining group on the broader
gauge, losing 1.7 percent on average.  Russian equities have the cheapest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging economies tracked by
Bloomberg. The measure trades at 5.2 times its 12-month
estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 10 for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index.  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  dropped 0.9 percent to
1,321.40, the second day of declines. The volume of shares
traded on the Micex was 41 percent below the 30-day average,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  