-- RYA Welcomes Royal Yacht Squadron Vote to Allow Women
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-08-06T16:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/rya-welcomes-royal-yacht-squadron-vote-to-allow-women.html
The  Royal Yachting Association , U.K.
boating’s governing body, welcomed a move by the  Royal Yacht
Squadron  to admit women as members for the first time since it
was founded almost two centuries ago.  The yacht club, based in Cowes Castle on the Isle of Wight
off southern  England , voted Aug. 4 to admit female members. It
said today that it’s “delighted” to confirm that “following
extensive consideration and consultation” its members
unanimously passed a resolution to let women join.  The men-only rule had been so strict that even Queen Elizabeth II, the club’s patron, was once refused entry by the
main door, the  Daily Telegraph  reported today. The Royal
Yachting Association supports the rule change.  “Sailing is an all-inclusive sport that is enjoyed by
millions of people, young and old, men and women; it’s a sport
for all the family,” Jon White, the association’s sport
development manager, said in a statement. “There are over a
thousand sailing clubs across the country providing facilities
for all and making the sport accessible, so we very much welcome
the decision by the Royal Yacht Squadron.”  Calling itself “one of the most prestigious and exclusive
yacht clubs in the world,” the RYS was founded in  London  in
1815. Membership was open for “a gentleman” who “owned a
vessel not under 10 tons,” according to its website. That’s
been interpreted in recent times as “a gentleman actively
interested in yachting,” it says.  All-Male Golf Clubs  The move to allow female membership “further confirms the
commitment the Royal Yacht Squadron has had since the early
1960s, when lady associate members were introduced, to
integration of ladies in all its activities and in the use of
its facilities,” it said in an e-mailed statement today.  The RYS committee “will bring forward rule changes to the
spring meeting next year,” it added.  The vote comes a month after the Royal & Ancient Golf Club,
which governs golf outside the U.S. and  Mexico , said it would
look into the issue of all-male clubs after controversy about
Muirfield hosting this year’s British Open.  The Gullane, Scotland-based club is one of three in the
Open rotation with no women members. Scottish First Minister
Alex Salmond didn’t attend the event to protest Muirfield’s
stance on female members.  Augusta National Golf Club, which hosts the Masters
Tournament each April in Augusta,  Georgia , admitted its first
female members last August, ending almost a decade of scrutiny.  The U.S. Golf Association and the PGA of America, which run
the U.S. Open and PGA Championship, respectively, don’t allow
those majors to be played at all-male clubs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 