-- SAC Insider-Trading Investigation Continues, Bharara Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-08-06T16:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/sac-insider-trading-investigation-ongoing-bharara-says-1-.html
The U.S. probe of SAC Capital
Advisors LP and its founder Steven A. Cohen is “ongoing” and
the indictment of the fund addresses “pervasive” criminal
conduct there, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said.  SAC Capital was indicted July 25 in what Bharara called an
unprecedented, decade-long insider trading scheme that helped
the  Stamford , Connecticut-based fund earn hundreds of millions
of dollars in illicit profits. Prosecutors cited separate
alleged insider-trading schemes by at least eight current and
former fund managers and analysts.  In an interview today on “CBS This Morning,” television
news program host Charlie Rose asked Bharara if his office
didn’t have enough evidence to charge Cohen.  “As I said when we announced the charges, the
investigation is ongoing, it is not closed,” Bharara said.
“And at this point, we indicted the hedge fund as I said, at
the time that we announced the case, because of the degree and
nature and scope of the misconduct that had gone on there for a
number of years as laid out in great detail.”  While Cohen, 57, wasn’t charged, prosecutors described him
in the indictment as “the fund owner” and said he
“encouraged” SAC employees to obtain trading information from
company insiders while ignoring indications that it was illegal.
Bharara’s office also filed a related money-laundering suit
against the fund on July 25. Cohen has denied any wrongdoing.  Former Employees  Six current or former SAC employees have pleaded guilty to
insider trading charges including Noah Freeman, Donald Longueuil, Jon Horvath, Wesley Wang, Richard Choo-Beng Lee and
Richard Lee. All except Longueuil are cooperating with the U.S.  Two others, former fund manager Mathew Martoma, accused
last year in the most lucrative insider-trading scheme in U.S.
history, and SAC portfolio manager Michael Steinberg, who was
charged in March with insider trading on technology companies,
have pleaded not guilty and are scheduled for trial in November.  The cases are: U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-CR-00541; U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors, LP 13-CV-5182, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 