-- Failed Apple Ban Could Still Be a Win for Samsung
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-08-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/samsung-loss-in-apple-ban-seen-as-victory-over-ericsson.html
One of the biggest beneficiaries of
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s failure to block U.S. imports of older
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones might very well be Samsung.  While Samsung lost that case, the ruling could help the
Korean smartphone maker ward off a U.S. import ban on its own
mobile phones in two other patent cases.  U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman ’s Aug. 3 decision
on Apple found that a product ban wasn’t appropriate because the
patent at the heart of the dispute was part of an industry
standard and was supposed to be licensed at reasonable terms.
Froman’s conclusion is expected to affect several pending cases
at the U.S. International Trade Commission, including Ericsson
AB and  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC) ’s claims against Samsung for infringing
patented network standards technology.  “A huge swath of everybody’s patent portfolio has just
been rendered impotent,” said Rodney Sweetland, a patent lawyer
with Duane Morris in Washington. Standards patents “are dead on
arrival” at the commission now, he said.  Other cases at the trade agency that could be swayed
include InterDigital’s cases against Huawei Technologies Co. and
 LSI Corp. (LSI) ’s against  Realtek Semiconductor Corp. (2379)   It also means companies holding many patents used in mobile
technology standards like  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  could find it harder in
licensing negotiations, Nick Rodelli, head of Legal Edge
Research at the Center for Financial Research and Analysis in
Rockville,  Maryland , said in a note to clients.  Qualcomm, InterDigital  The intervention of President  Barack Obama ’s administration
in issuing a reprieve for some models of the iPhone 4 and iPad 2
3G marked the first time the executive branch overturned a trade
ban since 1987, when President  Ronald Reagan  did so for Samsung
memory chips.  The Innovation Alliance, a Washington lobbying group whose
members include Qualcomm and InterDigital, was critical of the
Obama administration’s move.  “This marketplace has operated pretty successfully for a
long time, since the 1980s, when the technologies we use today
were first being developed,” said Brian Pomper, executive
director of the Innovation Alliance.  Pomper blamed the “kerfuffle” over standards patents on
companies that are newer to the mobile communications market and
weren’t involved in some of the standards setting.  Qualcomm General Counsel Donald Rosenberg told a Senate
Judiciary subcommittee July 30 that the standard-setting process
“encourages all participants to choose cooperation over
litigation.” Qualcomm, based in  San Diego , is the world’s
biggest maker of chips for mobile phones and gets a third of its
revenue from licensing, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Both Sides  In the dispute between Ericsson, the world’s largest maker
of wireless networking equipment, and Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, each company has asserted that the other has infringed
both patents that relate to industrywide standards and patents
for unique features.  Froman said the administration wants to keep some patent
owners from using the ITC to engage in “hold-up,” meaning they
would demand high rates from a competitor under the threat of
withholding use of industry standard technology. The commission
doesn’t have the power to award damages, which can be sought in
district court, he said.  William Merritt, chief executive officer of Wilmington,
Delaware-based InterDigital, said in a blog posting that “a
full factual record was developed in connection with these very
issues” and said he was confident the company would win its
cases. The ITC is scheduled to announce Aug. 9 whether it would
review a judge’s findings that said  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and
Huawei didn’t infringe InterDigital patents. Samsung was named
in a second InterDigital case at the agency.  Overturn Bans  The administration policy only affects cases at the ITC,
because the president has the power to overturn any import bans
imposed by the agency. It’s similar to positions taken by
district courts in civil suits. Froman, whose decision cannot be
challenged in court, said the overarching issue needs to be
addressed by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit,
which handles all patent appeals.  The Federal Circuit will hear arguments in one case,
involving  Google Inc. (GOOG)  against Cupertino, California-based Apple,
in September. A federal judge in  Chicago  ruled that Google’s
Motorola Mobility unit wasn’t entitled to block Apple products
when it came to standard-essential patents. Likewise, a federal
judge in  Seattle  barred Motorola Mobility from enforcing any
sales ban on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  products.  Apple, Microsoft  Even without the court rulings, Google is handcuffed in its
ability to use Motorola Mobility’s standard-essential patents
under a settlement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.  Companies cooperate in setting standards so products can
work together, such as how images are compressed and
transmitted. Since they get the advantage of ensuring their
inventions are included in the standard, participating companies
pledge to license any relevant patents on fair, reasonable and
non-discriminatory terms.  Froman’s guidelines don’t apply to companies that didn’t
take part in the standard-setting bodies, nor do they affect
patents on non-essential features.  Apple’s patents against Samsung, which could be ruled on by
the commission on Aug. 9, don’t relate to any standards, and
Samsung can appeal the portion of the case it lost at the ITC,
which related to touch screens and detecting phone numbers.  Apple and Microsoft have lobbied in the U.S. and Europe to
limit the use of standard-essential patents in litigation. The
Froman decision marks a victory for them in an issue splitting
technology companies between what Jorge Contreras, an associate
professor at American University in  Washington  called “the
product-based companies versus the patent-based companies.”  Samsung may have been arguing the wrong side in the Apple
case, given that it sells a variety of products, Contreras said.  “This is not the expected role for Samsung,” he said.
“It found itself in this weird reverse role because that’s all
it had against Apple.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  