-- HSBC, Oppenheimer, US Airways-AMR, EU Banks: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-06T12:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/hsbc-oppenheimer-us-airways-amr-eu-banks-compliance.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest
lender, said possible damages from a lawsuit filed by a U.S.
regulator over improperly sold mortgage-backed securities could
cost the bank as much as $1.6 billion.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency “alleges that the
defendants caused hundreds of millions of dollars in damages to
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac ,” the London-based bank said
yesterday in its first-half earnings report. “Based upon the
information currently available, it is possible that these
damages could be as high as $1.6 billion.”  The FHFA filed a suit in September 2011 over residential
mortgage-backed securities sponsored by HSBC. The FHFA sued 17
other banks that year, seeking to recover losses on $196 billion
in mortgage-backed bonds sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
which have operated under U.S. conservatorship since they were
seized amid subprime losses in 2008.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  reached a settlement with the FHFA in May on
a lawsuit over $3.5 billion in bonds the bank sold to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac.  UBS AG (UBSN)  said last month it’s close to an
agreement.  Compliance Action  Oppenheimer Fined by Finra Over Anti-Money Laundering Rules  Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. (OPY)  will pay $1.4 million to settle a
brokerage industry regulator’s claims that it had an inadequate
anti-money laundering program and failed to detect and report
suspicious penny stock transactions.  The company’s brokerage unit failed to identify as “red
flags” sales of more than 1 billion shares of 20 low-priced,
highly speculative unregistered securities from August 2008 to
September 2010, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said
in a statement yesterday. The firm also failed to conduct
adequate due diligence on a correspondent account of a broker in
the Bahamas, Finra said.  “Broker-dealers are required by federal securities laws
and Finra rules to monitor customers’ accounts so that those
accounts are not used for illegal activities, such as money
laundering and penny-stock schemes that can cause considerable
harm to investors,” Brad Bennett, enforcement chief for
Washington-based Finra, said in a statement.  Oppenheimer said in an e-mailed statement that it has
significantly tightened its policies relating to the sales of
low-priced shares and enhanced its review of clients’ sales with
respect to anti-money laundering oversight. The firm agreed to
settle without admitting or denying wrongdoing, Finra said.  Bafin Reviews German Banks’ Role in ISDAfix Rigging Allegations  German financial regulator Bafin is reviewing allegations
the country’s banks may have participated in manipulating a
benchmark for interest-rate derivatives.  Bafin is in contact with the German lenders taking part in
the ISDAfix benchmark,  Ben Fischer , a spokesman for the
regulator, said in an interview today. Bafin started looking
into the issue several months ago, said Fischer, who declined to
identify the companies involved.  According to the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association’s  website ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s HypoVereinsbank unit are contributors to ISDAfix
euro rates.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is probing Wall
Street banks over the issue, people familiar with the matter
said in April. Last week, Bloomberg News reported that U.S.
investigators uncovered evidence that banks reaped millions of
dollars in trading profits at the expense of companies and
pension funds by manipulating the benchmark, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert and Commerzbank
spokesman Nils Happich declined to comment. HypoVereinsbank’s
press office didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported Bafin’s involvement earlier
today.  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association created
ISDAfix in 1998 along with the predecessors of Thomson Reuters
Corp. and  ICAP Plc. (IAP)   The benchmark is used to value derivatives trades known as
swaptions, which are options on rate swaps.  For more, click here.  Tourre Case Buoys SEC’s Credentials as Congress Weighs Funding  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s courtroom
victory over ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  employee Fabrice Tourre
is helping the agency turn the page on years of criticism that
it isn’t holding Wall Street to account.  The win adds weight to pledges by SEC Chairman Mary Jo
White to reinvigorate the regulator, seeking more onerous
settlements in some cases and, if necessary, taking them to
trial. It also could bolster support for a 27 percent budget
increase for the agency that Congress is considering.  The SEC has struggled to repair its image after a decade of
debacles that began with accounting fraud at Enron Corp.,
analyst and mutual-fund scandals unearthed by New York’s
attorney general, and  Bernard Madoff ’s multibillion-dollar ponzi
scheme, which the SEC missed despite repeated warnings.  While the trial could be a bellwether for a more aggressive
SEC, the agency is still struggling to build a stronger bench of
litigators to strengthen its hand in settlement negotiations.
White, who became the regulator’s chairman in April, told
lawmakers last week that she’s seeking additional resources to
hire trial attorneys.  “The SEC needed at least one scalp from the financial
crisis, or they were going to face a lot of heat from
Congress,” said  Adam Pritchard , a University of Michigan law
professor who previously worked as a lawyer for the regulator.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  US Airways-AMR Wins EU Nod to Create World’s Largest Airline  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  won
European Union approval for their merger creating the world’s
largest carrier after they allayed concerns they would
monopolize the London-Philadelphia route.  The duo agreed to give up the right to a daily round trip
between London’s Heathrow, the EU’s busiest hub, and the U.S.
city, the European Commission said in an e-mailed  statement .  “In light of these comprehensive commitments, the
commission concluded that the transaction would not raise
competition concerns,” according to the statement.  The two carriers agreed to merge in February, and will keep
American’s name and Fort Worth, Texas, headquarters, while US
Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker will run the
company. American Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  will serve
as chairman of the merged airline for a limited time.  The merger still must be approved by the court overseeing
AMR’s bankruptcy and U.S. antitrust regulators. US Airways
shareholders and creditors in AMR’s bankruptcy earlier endorsed
the merger.  FERC Seeks $28.8 Million From BP for 2008 Natural Gas Trades  Federal energy regulators proposed a $28 million civil
penalty against  BP Plc (BP/)  for allegedly manipulating natural gas
prices in Houston five years ago. BP said it will challenge the
proposed penalty.  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission yesterday ordered
BP to show why it should not be assessed the penalty, along with
disgorging $800,000 plus interest, according to a document on
the agency website. The FERC gave BP 30 days to respond to
accusations it manipulated the next-day, fixed-price gas market
at the Houston Ship Channel from mid-September through Nov. 30,
2008.  “These allegations are without merit,”  Geoff Morrell , a
BP vice president and head of U.S. communications, said in an e-mailed statement. “BP is disappointed that the FERC has brought
this action and we will vigorously defend against these
allegations.”  Congress in 2005 gave the energy regulator additional
powers to police energy markets, following the collapse of
trader Enron Corp. The agency has expanded its enforcement
offifce to about 200 people whose tasks include policing markets
for manipulation.  Since January 2011, the FERC has disclosed more than a
dozen investigations of alleged market gaming, including probes
of traders for  Barclays Plc (BARC)  of London,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  of
New York and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG.  BP disclosed the probe in a filing with regulators in 2011
and said it didn’t engage in market manipulation.  Compliance Policy  EU Banks’ Calculations of Asset Risk Inconsistent, EBA Says  The European Union’s top banking regulator said it found
inconsistencies in the way lenders calculate how much capital to
hold on their balance sheets against potential losses, adding to
the clamor from global supervisors to increase transparency.  Banks may face requirements to publish more information on
what’s in their portfolios, how they calculate the risk of a
borrower defaulting and how much they could lose as a result,
the  European Banking Authority  said in a report yesterday. The
EBA, set up in 2011 to harmonize banking rules across the 28-member bloc, surveyed 35 banks from 13 EU countries for the
review.  “This is an important step in a series of exercises the
EBA is conducting with the aim of ensuring consistency in the
calculation of risk-weighted assets across the EU,” Andrea
Enria, chairman of the EBA, said in a statement.  Concerns about banks’ ability to reduce their capital
requirements by changing how they measure the risk of losses on
their assets have prompted investigations by regulators and
calls from some supervisors for more reliance on simpler, non-risk-sensitive capital rules, known as leverage ratios.  The EBA found that the definition of default varied between
banks. Two-thirds of the lenders classified a defaulting
borrower as one who fails to repay a loan 90 days after it is
due, whereas the rest use different calculations.  The regulator said it may use its powers to harmonize the
definition of default across the EU bloc to provide “additional
clarity.”  For more, click here.  In the Courts  SAC Manager Steinberg Asks to Question Witnesses in SEC Case  SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Michael
Steinberg, who faces a criminal insider-trading trial in
November, wants to question witnesses in a related civil lawsuit
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Steinberg is defending both a criminal case brought by the
U.S. Attorney in New York and a civil lawsuit by the SEC. In a
court filing yesterday in the SEC case, Steinberg asked a judge
for permission to question witnesses and review documents.
Gaining access to witnesses and evidence in the SEC’s case may
help Steinberg defend himself against criminal charges.  “The U.S. Attorney’s Office and the SEC chose to
simultaneously charge Mr. Steinberg with serious criminal and
civil violations of the federal securities law,” his lawyer,
Barry Berke, said in a filing yesterday in the SEC’s lawsuit.  Steinberg, a long-serving SAC portfolio manager, is accused
of trading in shares of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  based on
illegal inside tips. He denies wrongdoing.  Prosecutors previously asked U.S. District Judge Harold
Baer in Manhattan, who is presiding over the SEC suit, to halt
proceedings in that case until after the criminal trial is
concluded.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  John Hancock Loses Lawsuit Over $560 Million in U.S. Taxes  John Hancock  Life Insurance Co.’s bid for deductions on a
series of leveraged lease transactions was denied by the U.S.
Tax Court in a decision addressing a $560 million tax dispute.  Judge Harry Haines accepted arguments by the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service and denied claims for depreciation, rental and
interest expense and transaction costs.  “John Hancock did not acquire the benefits and burdens of
ownership” Haines wrote of one of the disputed transactions.  The ruling yesterday is the latest court victory for the
IRS in challenges to lease-in-lease-out and sale-in-lease-out
transactions, commonly called LILO and SILO, which the tax
agency has determined are vehicles for improper tax avoidance.  “There have probably been six or seven of them and they’ve
ultimately won all of them,” said Mark Allison, a tax attorney
with  Caplin & Drysdale Chartered  in Washington.  In 2008, the IRS gave companies a chance to terminate LILO
and SILO transactions in exchange for keeping 20 percent of the
savings and getting reductions in some penalties.  In LILO and SILO transactions, a bank or other company
purchases large assets, such as railroads or utilities, and
leases them back to governments or other operating entities.  The companies purportedly buying the assets claim tax
deductions such as depreciation on the equipment.  The IRS has argued the arrangements are shams designed to
produce tax benefits on assets the companies never actually
owned.  John Hancock, the U.S. unit of Toronto-based Manulife
Financial Corp., is considering an appeal of the decision, Roy
Anderson, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is  John Hancock Life Insurance Co. (MFC)  v. U.S.
Internal Revenue Service, 70830-10, U.S. Tax Court (Washington).  Deutsche Bank Sued by Royal Park Investments Over Securities  Deutsche Bank AG, continental Europe’s biggest bank, was
sued by Royal Park Investments SA/NV in New York state court
over $535 million worth of residential mortgage-backed
securities.  The suit accuses Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank of failing
to disclose that it was betting that similar investments would
default at “significant rates” while using “false and
misleading” offering documents that Royal Park relied upon in
purchasing the securities, according to a court filing.  Royal Park Investments was set up in May 2009 by Belgian
bank Fortis, the Belgian government and French bank  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  as a special purpose vehicle to manage a pool of distressed
debt securities.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Texas-based Lone
Star Funds agreed to pay 6.7 billion euros ($8.7 billion) for
Royal Park’s assets in April.  Royal Park has filed similar suits against other banks in
the same court over residential mortgage-backed securities,
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Renee Calabaro, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank in New
York, declined to comment on the suit.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The case is Royal Park Investments SA/NV v. Deutsche Bank
AG, 652732/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Speeches and Interviews  Fed Should Reverse Commodity Policy, CFTC’s Chilton Says  The Federal Reserve should reverse a decade-old ruling that
lets banks trade physical commodities, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission member Bart Chilton said.  “I don’t want a bank owning an electric service, or
cotton, corn or feedlots,” Chilton, a Democrat, said in remarks
prepared for a conference of U.S. cotton growers in Lake Tahoe,
California. “I don’t want banks owning warehouses, whether they
have aluminum, gold, silver or anything else in them.” The Fed
“can and should reverse” the policy, he said.  Banks including Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , all based in New York, have been permitted to
expand into commodities markets under a 2003 Fed decision and
subsequent ones. The central bank said last month that it’s
reviewing the policy amid Senate scrutiny of whether such
involvement allows Wall Street firms to control prices.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, said days after
a congressional hearing on the matter last month that it’s
weighing whether to sell or spin off holdings in physical
commodities. The 10 largest Wall Street firms reaped about $6
billion in revenue from commodities in 2012, including dealings
in physical materials as well as related financial products,
analytics company Coalition Ltd. said in a Feb. 15 report.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 