-- Schneider Said to Plan Syndication of $3.9 Billion Invensys Loan
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-08-06T13:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/schneider-said-to-plan-syndication-of-3-9-billion-invensys-loan.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU)  will begin
marketing a 2.56 billion-pound ($3.9 billion) loan next month
backing its proposed acquisition of  Invensys Plc (ISYS) , according to
three people with knowledge of the situation.  The one-year financing, which can be extended by 364 days,
will be syndicated at the start of September, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the deal is private.
Schneider, based in Rueil-Malmaison near Paris,  hired  Bank of
America Corp., BNP Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG to arrange
and syndicate the facility, according to  documents  on the French
company’s website.  The world’s biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage power
gear agreed to pay 3.4 billion pounds to acquire Invensys, a
U.K. provider of software and control systems used by chemicals
makers, oil refineries and mining companies. It has offered the
equivalent of 502 pence a share in cash and new Schneider
shares.  Officials at  Schneider Electric  based in Rueil-Malmaison
didn’t respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment on
the loan syndication.  The bridge financing, a type of debt often replaced with
bond offerings or longer-dated bank loans, will pay an initial
interest margin of 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage points,
more than benchmark rates, rising every three months to 1
percentage point after one year, and then to 1.25 percentage
points after 18 months, the  facility agreement  shows. The margin
will increase further if the company’s ratings  fall .  Schneider obtained a 1.2 billion-euro ($1.6 billion) five-year  credit line  in June that pays an initial margin of 40 basis
points more than the euro interbank offered rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  