-- SDL Sees Improved Sales From Services Focus After Reporting Loss
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-06T12:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/sdl-sees-improved-sales-from-services-focus-after-reporting-loss.html
SDL Plc (SDL) , a U.K. technology company
known for translation software, predicted it will return to
profit next year after increased investment in other services
led to a loss in the first six months of 2013.  “The momentum towards our investments is very much on
track and even possibly slightly ahead,” Chief Executive
Officer Mark Lancaster said in an interview today. “This is a
year of building and we’re focusing very hard on that so we can
return to profitability and growth in 2014.”  Spending on sales and marketing, as well as lower revenue,
led to a loss of 1.4 million pounds ($2.2 million), compared
with profit of 12.4 million pounds a year earlier, the
Maidenhead, England-based company said today in a statement.
Sales declined 2 percent to 131 million pounds, in line with
SDL’s revised forecast.  SDL is increasing its emphasis on web content management
and offerings for customer experience management online and on
mobile devices. The company has added 65 people in sales and
marketing this year and Lancaster said SDL’s investments will
boost earnings in the second half, with the aim of achieving 12
million pounds of adjusted pretax profit, compared with 2.8
million pounds in the first half.  Share Performance  SDL shares rose as much as 4 percent and were up 2.5
percent at 331 pence as of 1:10 p.m. in London. The company has
about 3,200 employees and a market value of 266 million pounds.  The push in so-called customer experience services “takes
SDL into a market unlike its background in translation,”  George O’Connor , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co., wrote in a note.
First-half results were “better than expected at revenue, worse
at profit,” said O’Connor, who maintained a hold recommendation
on the stock.  “I expected to see more momentum from the previous year
but there was about 6 million-pound gross margin decline where
we haven’t been doing as well as we could do,” Lancaster said.  SDL has recently had execution difficulties in the U.S.,
and revenue declined 6 percent in the Americas is the first
half, the CEO said. Last year, SDL got 31 percent of its sales
from the U.S., its largest market, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  SDL shares fell 30 percent on June 18, when the company
revised its forecast for profit before taxes and amortization to
15 million pounds to 20 million pounds, down from 35.5 million
pounds in 2012. The company said at the time that earnings from
both the technology and services units were below its
expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in  London  at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  