-- Shell Fails to Sell Urals Crude; Forties Pipeline System Resumes
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-08-06T16:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/shell-fails-to-sell-urals-crude-forties-pipeline-system-resumes.html
Vitol Group failed to buy North Sea
Forties crude for a third session, while  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
didn’t manage to sell Russian Urals blend in northwest Europe
even after lowering its offer.  Throughput via the Forties Pipeline System was resumed
after five days of maintenance work that started Aug. 1, BP Plc
said. More than 80 North Sea oil fields feed into the link.  North Sea  Vitol bid for Forties loading on Aug. 21 to Aug. 25 at a
premium of 90 cents a barrel to Dated Brent, or Aug. 24 to Aug.
28 at plus $1, a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window showed.  No bids or offers were made for Brent, Oseberg and Ekofisk.
Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time.  Brent for September settlement traded at $107.84 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $108.85 in the previous session. The October
contract was at $106.86, a discount of 98 cents to September.  Flows through the BP-operated Forties Pipeline System are
gradually rising after the link was shut on Aug. 1 for planned
maintenance, Stephanie Millar, a company spokeswoman in Aberdeen
said by phone today. Throughput will remain below normal levels
until mid-September because of scheduled work on train 1 of the
Kinneil oil and gas processing plant.  Shipments from Dansk Undergrunds Consortium, the producer
part owned by A.P. Moeller-Maersk will drop to five cargoes in
September, down from seven this month. Exports of Alvheim crude
are scheduled at five consignments, compared with a revised
August loading program of three lots.  Mediterranean/Urals  Shell failed to sell 100,000 metric tons of Urals for
loading Aug. 21 to Aug. 25 from the port of Primorsk at a
premium of 55 cents a barrel to Dated Brent, the survey showed.
That’s 25 cents less than an offer yesterday for an earlier
loading cargo.  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS’s tender to buy
85,000-135,000 tons of CPC Blend for Aug. 25 to Sept. 5 delivery
closed today, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Saudi Arabian Co., also known as Saudi Aramco, boosted its
September official selling price for all its crudes from the
Egyptian port of Sidi Kerir, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Prices of all four grades from Sidi Kerir were 55 cents a
barrel more than those shipped from Ras Tanura in the Persian
Gulf. Saudi Aramco raised the differential for Arab Extra Light
the most, by $1.30 a barrel, to a premium of $2.30 to the Brent
futures weighted average, or Bwave, published by the
Intercontinental Exchange.  West Africa  Bharat Petroleum Corp. Ltd. bought 1 million barrels of
Nigerian Akpo crude for September loading through a spot tender,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be identified because the information is confidential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  