-- Simpson Thacher, Ropes & Gray: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-08T15:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/simpson-thacher-ropes-gray-business-of-law.html
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is
advising Hellman & Friedman LLC, the buyout firm co-founded by
Warren Hellman, which agreed to buy Hub International Inc. in a
transaction that values the insurance broker at about $4.4
billion. Kirkland & Ellis LLP represents  Apax Partners  and Hub
in the sale.  The Simpson Thacher team includes  Andrew Smith  and Richard Capelouto, mergers and acquisitions; Chad Skinner, equity co-investment; Brian Steinhardt, credit; Rise Norman and Daniel
Webb,  capital markets ; Tristan Brown, executive compensation and
employee benefits;  Tom Wuchenich , funds; and Katharine Moir,
tax.  The Kirkland team includes corporate partners  Srinivas
Kaushik  and Leo Greenberg.  The deal is the largest takeover of a U.S. insurance broker
on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Funds
managed by Hellman & Friedman will own a majority stake, while
management of Chicago-based Hub will maintain a “significant
equity position,” the broker said in a statement today.  Private-equity firms including  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. have been striking deals in insurance services to
benefit from steady  cash flow  and low capital expenditure. Hub
has more than 6,500 employees in the U.S., Canada and Brazil,
the company said. It’s projecting revenue this year of about
$1.2 billion.  Hub was taken private in 2007 by London-based private-equity firm Apax Partners LLP and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s private
investment unit in a $2 billion transaction. The owners built
the company into the largest insurance brokerage in the Canadian
market and expanded its business to Brazil, Apax said in an e-mail yesterday.  Hellman & Friedman, based in San Francisco, was started in
1984 and is led by Philip Hammarskjold. The firm was founded by
Hellman, who died in 2011, and Tully Friedman, who runs Friedman
Fleischer & Lowe LLC, a San Francisco-based firm that invests
$50 million to $500 million in companies.  Boston Globe to Be Sold to Red Sox’s Henry for $70 Million  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP advised the  New York Times Co. (NYT) ,
which put its Boston Globe newspaper up for sale this year, and
agreed to sell the publication to  John Henry , owner of the
Boston Red Sox baseball team, for $70 million in cash. Shearman
& Sterling LLP is representing John W. Henry.  Morgan Lewis’ deal team was led by business and finance
partners Robert Dickey and Howard Kenny and included partners
Richard Zarin, tax; Ron Dreben, intellectual property; Judith Walkoff, business and finance; Gary Rothstein, employee benefits
and executive compensation; and Harry Robins, antitrust.  The Shearman & Sterling team includes partners David
Connolly and Creighton Condon, mergers and acquisitions; John Cannon, executive compensation and employee benefits; and
Michael Shulman, tax.  The deal is $40 million short of the $110 million in
pension liabilities said to be owed by the Globe properties
collectively known as the New England Media Group, and is
expected to close in 30 to 60 days. The sale also includes the
Globe website, the Boston.com site, the Worcester Telegram &
Gazette, a 49 percent stake in Metro Boston, and the direct-mail
marketing company GlobeDirect, the New York Times said in a
statement yesterday.  Times Co. put the Globe up  for sale  in February and hired
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to manage the process, part of an effort
to focus on its flagship New York Times media brand. New York
Times, which bought the Globe for $1.1 billion 20 years ago,
mostly in stock, is coping with an industrywide decline in
advertising that has caused a drop in sales and stock prices.
Bids for the Globe were expected to be in the range of $100
million, people familiar with the matter said this year.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Hunton & Williams Names Co-Heads of Real Estate Practice Group  Howard E. Schreiber and Carl F. Schwartz were named head of
Hunton & Williams LLP’s global real estate practice group.
Schreiber, who has led the practice in Dallas, and Schwartz, who
has led the practice in New York, succeed William A. Walsh, Jr.,
who will continue focusing on his real estate planning, urban
investment and redevelopment, private-public ventures and
commercial leasing practice, the firm said in a statement.  “We are taking the reins of a prominent practice comprised
of 55 lawyers and 16 paralegals with a presence across the U.S.
and in Europe,” Schwartz said in a statement. “We expect to
expand in new markets and replicate our New York model, where we
grew from zero to more than 20 real estate lawyers in about a
year.”  Schreiber, who joined the firm in 2007 from Jenkins &
Gilchrist, where he headed the national real estate department
for seven years, led Hunton & Williams’ legal team in the
acquisition and related credit tenant lease financing of 111
drill sites in the  Barnett Shale , the firm said.  Schwartz joined the firm from Herrick, Feinstein LLP in
2012, where he headed the real estate department for 10 years.
He led a legal team that advised EBNB 70 Pine Owner LLC in
connection with a $300 million construction loan with respect to
Manhattan’s 70 Pine Street, the former headquarters of AIG, the
firm said.  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers at 19 offices
in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Moves  Funds Partner and Corporate Partner Joins Ropes & Gray  Ropes & Gray LLP announced that Michelle Moran has joined
the London office as a partner in the investment management
practice. She was previously a financial services and investment
management partner in the London and Dublin offices of Decherd
LLP.  Jaewoo Lee has also joined the firm as a partner in its
corporate department. Lee, who was previously with  Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP , will initially be based in New
York and Hong Kong and will relocate to Seoul after his Korean
law license is approved, the firm said.  Moran’s practice focuses on the management and regulation
of retail and institutional funds, including  investment trusts ,
 hedge funds  and real estate funds, the firm said.  Lee has experience representing clients, including Korean
companies and financial institutions, in cross-border corporate
transactions, particularly private and public M&A transactions
as well as global offerings of equity and debt securities.  Ropes & Gray has more than 1,100 lawyers and professionals,
in 11 offices in the U.S., London and Asia.  Private Equity Partner Joins White & Case in London  White & Case  LLP has added to its U.K. and European private
equity practice with the hire of partner Ross Allardice in the
London office.  He joins from Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  Allardice has 11 years of experience working with private
equity funds on their transactions across Europe and the U.K.  “White & Case has strong private equity practices in
France, Central and Eastern Europe and in Stockholm and
Helsinki, and is growing quickly in Germany,” White & Case
partner and head of the M&A practice in EMEA Jan Matejcek said
in a statement. “Our London office has also been involved in a
number of high profile private equity transactions, including
recently the acquisition of Allflex by  BC Partners . The firm
already has sizable acquisition finance, high yield and employee
& management incentives practices in London. We are now going to
concentrate on growing out our London-based private equity
practice.”  During the first six months of 2013, White & Case’s global
M&A team advised on 102 deals with an aggregate value of $95
billion, ranking fifth among all law firms, according to a firm
statement.  White & Case has lawyers in 39 offices in 27 countries.  Three Lawyers Join K&L Gates Employment, Corporate Practices  K&L Gates LLP added three partners in its Australian
offices in Melbourne and Sydney. Nick Ruskin, previously at DLA
Piper LLP, joins the labor, employment and workplace safety
practice in Melbourne. Edward Nixey and Glenn Hughes join the
firm’s Sydney office as partners in the corporate and
transactional practice. Nixey was at Ashurst LLP, while Hughes
joins from Henry Davis York.  Ruskin is a labor and employment lawyer with public
speaking experience on workplace relations. Nixey advises
domestic and international clients on public/private mergers and
acquisitions,  equity capital markets , and securities regulation.
Hughes concentrates his practice on mergers and acquisitions
with a particular focus on private equity, the firm said.  “With the addition of these three outstanding lawyers, we
are pleased to build on our labor, employment and workplace
capabilities along with our significant corporate and
transactional offering in the growing Asia Pacific market,”
Nick Nichola, K&L Gates’s managing partner, Australia, said in a
statement.  K&L Gates has 48 offices in the U.S., Asia, Australia,
Europe, the Middle East and  South America .  Jackson Lewis Hires in Washington and California  Jackson Lewis LLP announced that Jewell Lim Esposito and an
associate, both formerly with Constangy Brooks & Smith LLP, have
joined the firm’s Washington office. Esposito, a partner at
Jackson Lewis, was co-chairwoman of Constangy’s Erisa practice.  Michael A. Hood, previously of Paul Hastings LLP, has also
joined the firm as a partner in the Orange County office.  Esposito has more than 20 years of employee benefits and
tax law experience, including fiduciary compliance, tax
qualification of  retirement plans , executive compensation and
payroll taxes for public, tax-exempt and government contractor
clients, the firm said.  Hood counsels and represents employers in wage and hour
class actions, wrongful termination cases, employment
discrimination charges and lawsuits, labor relations, employee
benefits counseling and litigation, trade secret disputes and
other matters.  Jackson Lewis has 750 attorneys at 54 locations nationwide.  Michelman & Robinson Expands Commercial & Business Practice  Michelman & Robinson LLP announced that partners William E.
Adams and David C. Lee have joined M&R’s San Francisco office in
the commercial and business litigation department. Adams was
previously at Hanson Bridgett LLP and Lee at Fitzgerald Abbott &
Beardsley LLP, where he was the co-chairman of its litigation
department.  Adams has more than 23 years of experience representing
individuals and corporations in business and real estate
litigation matters including claims of commercial fraud,
misappropriation of  trade secrets , unfair business practices,
breach of contract and other matters.  Lee has over 16 years of experience handling complex
business and corporate litigation matters. He has a particular
focus on intellectual property and contractual disputes.  Michelman & Robinson has offices in California and New
York.  Wilson Elser Adds Litigation Partner in West Palm Beach Office  Richard A. Jarolem has joined Wilson Elser Moskowitz
Edelman & Dicker LLP as a partner in the West Palm Beach office.
He was previously a partner at Ciklin Lubitz Martens &
O’Connell.  Jarolem has more than 15 years of experience and focuses
his practice on commercial litigation including business and
real estate disputes;  land-use  issues; governmental issues
including zoning, land use and election issues, among other
matters.  Wilson Elser has almost 800 attorneys in 24 offices in the
U.S. and one in London.  Litigation  Bulger Being Blamed for Others’ Crimes, Lawyer Tells Boston Jury  James ‘Whitey’ Bulger, the former Boston crime boss on
trial for 19 murders, is being blamed for killings carried out
by the government’s star witnesses, his lawyer told the jury
that will begin deciding his fate.  The testimony of the 83-year-old’s one-time associates,
including a former gunman who admitted to killing 20 people,
can’t be trusted because they cut deals with prosecutors to
avoid lengthy prison terms or death sentences, J.W. Carney,
Bulger’s lawyer, said yesterday in federal court in Boston.  “The government is buying their testimony; the witnesses
are selling their testimony; the currency that’s used here is
how much freedom is the person going to get,” Carney told the
jury in his closing statement.  Bulger, who’s also accused of running a widespread
racketeering scheme, was captured in 2011 in Santa Monica,
California, after hiding from authorities for 16 years. The jury
must decide whether he’ll spend the rest of his life behind bars
for crimes committed while he ran an Irish-American criminal
gang in South Boston from the 1970s to the early 1990s.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Fred Wyshak told the jury yesterday
that the evidence showed Bulger” is one of the most vicious,
violent, calculating criminals to ever walk the streets of
Boston.”  The jury began deliberations today after U.S. District
Judge Denise Casper gave additional instructions.  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 