-- Sky Deutschland Stock Jumps as Profit Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-08-06T14:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/sky-deutschland-stock-jumps-as-profit-exceeds-estimates.html
Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  jumped to the
highest in almost five years as additional customers helped
profit beat estimates at the German pay-television provider
controlled by Rupert Murdoch’s  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)   Second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization climbed 60 percent to 36.8 million
euros ($48.8 million), the Munich-based company said today.
Profit exceeded the 32.6 million-euro average of 10 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The stock gained as much as 7.9
percent to 6.66 euros in Frankfurt trading, the highest intraday
price since October 2008.  “The company is building up a positive track record,”
Frankfurt-based DZ Bank analyst Harald Heider, who recommends
buying Sky Deutschland shares, said in a note to clients. “We
expect an acceleration of the growth in the second half.”  Sky Deutschland reiterated today that it expects to post
its first positive Ebitda since Murdoch began investing almost
six years ago. Trailing 12-month Ebitda was 9.3 million euros.
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Sullivan  is trying to lure
customers with higher-capacity hard-drive recorders and content
that can be accessed via mobile devices. The number of customers
increased by 47,900 subscriptions from the first three months of
2013 to 3.45 million, the company said today.  “We have done a pretty good job on improving the service
so that it meets the standards that German subscribers expect,”
Sullivan said on a conference call. “We want and need to be in
more homes and we are constantly fighting inertia.”  Sky Deutschland  was trading up  6.6 percent at 6.58 euros as
of 4:35 p.m. The volume of trading was more than twice the
three-month daily average. The stock has jumped 59 percent this
year, valuing the company at about 5.8 billion euros.  Advertising Growth  The company, known as Premiere AG until its 2009
rebranding, plans to continue increasing the proportion of
revenue from advertising, Chief Financial Officer Steven Tomsic
said in a telephone interview.  Advertising revenue  climbed 45
percent to 8.7 million euros, or 2.3 percent of the total, in
the second quarter.  Web-streaming film services such as Amazon Inc.’s LoveFilm
aren’t yet affecting Sky’s business, according to Tomsic. “Our
business hasn’t really seen the impact from the proliferation of
over-the-top providers in terms of subscribers switching from
Sky,” he said, adding that growth in revenue per customer will
accelerate in 2014 from the 4.9 percent year-on-year increase to
33.74 euros last quarter.  “This should be seen as a moderate rather than dramatic
increase in growth profile,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  