-- Sodic Surges as Eastown Unlocks 4 Billion Pounds: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-08-06T14:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/sodic-surges-as-eastown-unlocks-4-billion-pounds-cairo-mover.html
Six of October Development &
Investment Co.  climbed to a five-month high as the luxury
property developer started construction on a Cairo residential
project that was delayed by a dispute with the government.  Shares of the company, also known as Sodic, rose 3.1
percent to 21.87 Egyptian pounds at the close in Cairo, valuing
the company at 2 billion pounds ($286 million). That takes its
increase over a four-day winning streak to 15 percent, compared
with 5.7 percent for  Egypt ’s benchmark EGX 30 Index. Trading
volume today was about two times the three-month daily average.  Sodic said this week it’s starting to build the first phase
of  Eastown , an 860,000 square-meter (9.3 million square-foot)
residential and commercial development east of the capital,
after securing permits. The project, which the company forecasts
will generate 4 billion pounds of sales, had been halted after
the government withdrew the land in March 2012 on alleged
contractual violations. The dispute was resolved in February
when Sodic was handed back the land with a three-year deadline
to complete construction.  “Eastown is one of the reasons Sodic is attracting
investors’ attention now, because it extends the company’s
construction pipeline beyond the end of 2014,” said Alaa Ghanem, lead analyst at Beirut-based Audi Saradar Investment
Bank. “Unlike other real estate companies, they made the
decision to increase their investments in construction, even
amid the instability since 2011, and make their deliveries on
time.”  Second-quarter profit  may jump  59 percent from a year
earlier to 79 million pounds, according to the median estimate
of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said this week it sold 900 million pounds of
units in Eastown. Sales from all of its projects reached 1.6
billion in the first half of the year. Ghanem, who has an
accumulate recommendation for the shares with a share-price
estimate of 26.5 pounds, expects deliveries through the end of
2014 to reach 3.9 billion pounds.  Ten analysts including Ghanem have a buy recommendation on
the stock, while four say hold, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  