-- Some Southern Alberta Crops Destroyed by July Hail Storms
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-08-06T19:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/some-southern-alberta-crops-destroyed-by-july-hail-storms.html
Hail storms last month damaged some
specialty crops including dry beans, potatoes and hybrid canola
seed in southern  Alberta ,  Canada ’s second-largest grower of
spring wheat and canola.  Almost 6,000 hail-damage claims have been filed this year
after thunderstorms dropped hail, some the size of golf balls,
across the province, Chris Dyck, senior manager of research and
corporate-data management for Alberta’s insurer,  Agriculture
Financial Services Corp. , said in a telephone interview from
Lacombe, Alberta.  The number of claims match the total for the same date in
2012, before Alberta went on to pay out about C$450 million
($435 million) for 11,000 claims by the end of last year on 4.2
million acres, the worst hail damage since the insurer started
keeping records in 1938, AFSC said in an e-mailed statement.  Southern Alberta was hardest hit, and some fields are a
total loss, Dyck said. Hail storms typically hit Alberta, he
said.  “There were some crops that were completely decimated,”
Yves Dooper, coordinator of farm inspections for AFSC, said in a
telephone interview from Lacombe. “In the heavy-hit areas,
they’re just stripped, so you might be left with the stalk. In
some cases, even the stalks are cut off. It’s almost like
stubble field.”  Hail claims in Alberta are much higher than normal for this
time of year, the Canadian Crop Hail Association, a group that
represents insurers, said today in an e-mailed report. Two
storms in the last two weeks of July resulted in 500 claims and
damage has ranged from light to heavy, the report said.  Below Average  Claims in Saskatchewan were below average even after many
storms, and Manitoba hail damage was light to moderate, the
association said. Storms in Manitoba have been less severe over
the past two weeks, the report said.  While July is usually the peak month for hail storms,
severe weather hit Alberta in August 2012, Dyck said. Production
of canola fell 8.9 percent in 2012, and farmers reported that
hail during the harvest had an adverse affect on yields,
 Statistics Canada  said in a  report .  “The reality is the damage varies from extremely light to
100 percent where there is no yield left,” Dyck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  