-- Sony Rejects Loeb Push to Sell for Entertainment IPO
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-08-06T05:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/sony-rejects-loeb-push-to-sell-for-entertainment-ipo.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  rejected billionaire
Daniel Loeb’s call to sell a portion of its entertainment
business, saying 100 percent ownership of the film and music
units is crucial to the company’s success.  The board decision was unanimous, Tokyo-based Sony said
today in an e-mailed  statement . The company will begin providing
additional disclosure about the entertainment business starting
with the current second quarter. Loeb’s Third Point LLC hedge
fund said it was “disappointed” with Sony’s decision and
intended to “explore further options to create value for Sony
shareholders.”  Chief Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai is backing a unified
business that spans the production of TVs and mobile devices
that can combine with music and film content to drive earnings
after years of losses from electronics. Third Point built a
6.9 percent stake in Sony and pushed the board to sell as
as much as 20 percent of its entertainment assets in an initial
public offering.  “In the last 15-20 years that they’ve owned those
businesses, they’ve yet to show any meaningful synergy with
electronics,” said Daniel Ernst, an analyst at Hudson Square
Research in New York, who has a buy rating on the shares. “The
beauty of the entertainment spin plan was that it wouldn’t stop
them from keeping trying.”  Third Point  Third Point said Sony management should communicate more
specific plans for improving the results of its entertainment
units.  “Sony has clearly recognized the performance issues we
identified,” New York-based Third Point said in the e-mailed
statement. “A renewed focus on profitability and better margins
should reduce bureaucracy and thus free up resources.”  Sony  fell  5.4 percent to 2,021 yen as of 2:07 p.m. in Tokyo,
the biggest drop since May 27. The stock has more than doubled
this year on optimism that Hirai can turn around the company’s
struggling electronics business.  Sony’s financial advisers met with Third Point within the
past month and studied at least 30 cases of initial public
offerings that began as partial spinoffs and wound up either
fully separate or being bought back, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  Fox Spinoff  One of the examples was News Corp.’s spinoff of Fox
Entertainment Group, which was bought back about six years later,
one of the people said, asking to not be identified because the
discussions were private. The advisers also disputed some of
Loeb’s comments about the entertainment business, the person
said.  “Sony’s entertainment businesses are critical to our
corporate strategy and will be important drivers of growth,”
Hirai said in the statement. “I am firmly committed to assuring
their growth, to improving their profitability, and to
aggressively leveraging their collaboration with our electronics
and service businesses.”  The new disclosures will include quarterly revenue figures
for unspecified categories within the movie and music units and
other metrics that would help investors calculate adjusted
earnings before items, Hirai said.  Film Flops  Loeb said in May that an IPO of entertainment would improve
the performance of Sony’s film studios and raise cash to revive
electronics.  “President Hirai has been emphasizing his ‘One Sony’
policy and saying the company’s entertainment operation and
electronics operation cannot be separated,” said Koki Shiraishi,
a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “So I think
this investor proposal issue is mostly over with Sony’s response
today.”  Sony last week raised its full-year sales forecast as a
weaker yen boosts the value of exports as the company gets
almost 70 percent of revenue from overseas. The improved outlook
came even as it cut expected shipments of TVs, digital cameras
and personal computers as it tries to match  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)   In U.S. dollar terms, sales for Sony’s pictures unit fell
16 percent in the June quarter. After topping the U.S. box-office last year, Sony’s films have fallen to sixth in 2013
after flops “White House Down” and “After Earth,” starring
Will Smith.  Samsung, Apple  The box-office duds prompted Loeb to devote more than half
of Third Point’s quarterly investor newsletter to Sony, as he
slammed the flops and “high salaries for underperforming senior
executives.” He said Sony’s entertainment profit margins lag
behind peers, and the unit needs closer supervision amid a lack
of franchises and bloated costs.  A combined entertainment unit, including music and pictures,
would be the second-biggest source of earnings based on the
company’s June quarter results. Sony’s largest business by
earnings is financial services.  Hirai cited growth in Sony’s Xperia smartphones in his
letter to Loeb as the company posted a June quarter profit in
the business after losing money a year earlier.  Smartphone shipments in the quarter rose to 9.6 million
from 7.4 million a year earlier. Sony expects to sell 42 million
smartphones this year.  Hirai is preparing to release the PlayStation 4 console
this year to drive game earnings as consumers migrate to playing
games on mobile devices from Samsung and Apple Inc.  Loeb praised Sony’s rollout of the PS4, which is due to be
released for the Christmas shopping season starting at $399.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  