-- South American Farmers Seen by Oil World Favoring Soy
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-08-06T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/south-american-farmers-seen-by-oil-world-favoring-soy.html
South American farmers deciding now
about what to plant for the next season probably will favor
soybeans over corn as profit prospects are better for the
oilseed than for grain, Oil World said.  While prices have declined for both crops, lower profit
outlook “was more pronounced in corn than for soybeans,” the
Hamburg-based researcher said today in an e-mailed report.
 Brazil ’s soybean production may be a record 87 million to 89
million metric tons, compared with a five-year average of 70.1
million tons, Oil World said, citing private estimates. Brazil
is the second-biggest soybean producer after the U.S., according
to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “Farmers in  South America  will favor soybeans at the
expense of corn plantings,” Oil World said. “This is based on
current futures prices and current estimates of costs for
production and harvesting.”  Soybean futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, have tumbled 16 percent this year, less than the 34
percent decline for the most-active corn contract. Production in
the U.S., historically the largest grower of both crops, is
projected to rebound to records as fields recover from last
year’s drought, which slashed output and sent prices to all-time
highs.  Profits for Argentine farmers “are under even greater
pressure” amid export taxes, unfavorable exchange rates and
high energy costs, Oil World said. Production costs are higher
for corn, so farmers may plant more soybeans or sunflower seeds
instead, according to the report.  Profit Margins  Profit margins for farmers in South Cordoba in  Argentina 
are about $75 a hectare (2.47 acres) for corn, compared with
$507 a hectare in November 2012, while farmers who rent land
might lose about $50 a hectare, Oil World said. Farmers might
make $148 and $139 a hectare on first-crop and second-crop
soybeans, less than half the amount a year earlier.  Farmers usually start planting soybeans in October and
November in  Brazil  and  Argentina , while corn is often sown
beginning in August and September. Harvesting of wheat crops
begins in September.  Cold weather and frost during the last 10 days of July
caused “considerable damage” to wheat, rapeseed, olives and
coffee, Oil World said. Frost in Brazil’s Parana state destroyed
300,000 to 500,000 tons of wheat out of production previously
estimated to reach 2.7 million tons. Farmers in Argentina were
unable to plant as much wheat as originally intended, and some
crops in  Paraguay  also were damaged, which will cut the
country’s wheat output below 1.3 million tons.  Frost conditions “at several locations were the worst in
more than 40 years,” Oil World said. “The extent of the impact
from recent frost is still uncertain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  