-- Spain Bond Returns Double Italy’s on Rebound: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-08-07T14:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/spain-bond-returns-double-italy-s-on-rebound-euro-credit.html
Spanish government bonds have
returned almost twice as much as  Italy ’s this year, reflecting
investor bets that Spain’s recovery from recession will outstrip
the moribund Italian economy.  What’s more, with both countries’ governments embroiled in
political turmoil, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s
parliamentary majority probably will enable him to ride out
corruption allegations, according to analysts, including Elwin de Groot of Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht, the Netherlands.  Ten-year  Spanish bond yields  dropped to the lowest level in
six weeks on Aug. 5 as evidence of a nascent recovery in the
euro region bolstered demand for higher-yielding assets. The
bonds also rallied after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said last month that interest rates will remain low for
an “extended period” to support the economy.  “We currently favor Spain over Italy and we think the
outperformance can continue,” said Russel Matthews, a money
manager at BlueBay Asset Management in  London , which oversees
$56 billion. “The fundamental picture in Spain is likely to
improve more than in Italy. The economy is slightly more dynamic
and has a better chance of taking off.”  While BlueBay holds more Spanish and Italian bonds than the
benchmark it uses to track performance, the firm prefers to
express its positive views on Europe’s high debt and deficit
nations by buying Spanish securities, Matthews said.  Index Comparisons  The  Bloomberg Spain Sovereign Bond Index (BEUR)  was up 6.8 percent
this year as of yesterday, compared with 3.9 percent for an
equivalent index of Italian bonds. German securities, the
region’s benchmark, lost 1.5 percent.  Spain’s 10-year rate was little changed at 4.57 percent as
of 3:45 p.m. London time after sliding to 4.54 percent on Aug.
5, the lowest level since June 19. The yield was 5.27 percent at
the start of the year. Italy’s 10-year yield is 4.26 percent,
while  Germany (GDBR10) ’s is 1.68 percent.  The 10-year Spanish yield is down 70 basis points, or 0.7
percentage point, this year, compared with a 24 basis-point drop
for the rate on similar-maturity Italian bonds.  Spanish  borrowing costs  slid as Rajoy defended himself in
parliament last week against demands he resign over allegations
he received undeclared funds from a party slush pool.  Rajoy denied any wrongdoing, telling parliament in an
extraordinary session in  Madrid  on Aug. 1 that he’d “made a
mistake in continuing to trust someone who we now know didn’t
merit it.” He was referring to the former treasurer of his
People’s Party, Luis Barcenas, who has named Rajoy among
officials who allegedly received payments from a secret fund.  ECB Rates  “The market is reacting to the political uncertainties,”
said de Groot, who’s a senior market economist at Rabobank.
“What it is signaling is that they still have quite some
confidence that the current government will stay in place. In
that case, the government can continue the reforms and stabilize
the economic situation.”  With the ECB’s  benchmark rate  at an all-time low of 0.5
percent, economic data suggest the currency bloc is starting to
emerge from a record-long recession. Draghi said last week that
recent indicators signal the region is past the worst of the
slump and data “tentatively confirm the expectation of a
stabilization in economic activity.”  In Spain, data released two days ago showed services output
shrank at a slower pace than initially estimated in July, while
a report last month showed the nation’s  recession  eased in the
second quarter. Gross domestic product fell 0.1 percent in the
first quarter, the Madrid-based National Statistics Institute
said. Italy’s GDP contracted 0.2 percent in the three months
through June, according to a report released yesterday.  ‘Period of Recovery’  “The Spanish economy is leaving the recession behind,”
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told lawmakers in the Spanish
capital on July 25. “We are close to a period of recovery in
which it’ll be key to deepen reforms in order to avoid a false
recovery as happened in 2010.”  Spain’s economy will probably contract 1.6 percent this
year, while Italy’s will shrink 1.8 percent, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Euro-region GDP will
decline 0.6 percent, a separate survey shows.  Challenges remain, Rabobank’s de Groot said, including the
risk that growth may disappoint investors and that the political
turmoil may intensify. Spain must go further to increase the
flexibility of its labor market to put a dent in its 26 percent
unemployment rate, the International Monetary Fund said last
week.  Debt Sale  Investors snapped up Spanish securities as the nation sold
more bonds last week than its maximum target as borrowing costs
fell. The nation’s Treasury said it has covered 73 percent of
its mid- and long-term gross funding needs for this year.  “Spain has taken care of its funding plan, and that
reassures investors that if it does reach a hard patch, it will
be able to cope,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in New York. Ten-year Spanish
yields may slide to 4.40 percent by the end of August, he said.
The rate was last at that level on May 31.  “There are signs the economic situation is getting
better,” Schnautz said. “Yields have the potential to go
lower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  