-- Spirit Delays Earnings, Starts Sale of Oklahoma Assets
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-08-06T22:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/spirit-delays-earnings-starts-sale-of-oklahoma-assets.html
Spirit Aerosystems Holdings Inc. (SPR) , the
Boeing Co. supplier that’s been a focus of takeover speculation,
said it’s selling its production sites in  Oklahoma  and is
reviewing other potential divestitures.  Spirit has held talks with potential buyers for the sites
in Tulsa and McAlester, Oklahoma, and will consider all offers,
executives said today on a conference call, without naming them.
The company also hired a banker it didn’t identify, according to
a statement today.  The shares pared  declines  of as much as 8 percent after
executives on the call said they’re looking at other facilities
to sell. In May, Chief Executive Officer Larry Lawson said
Spirit would review programs in Tulsa as well as Wichita,
 Kansas , where the company is based; Kinston, North Carolina; and
St. Nazaire in  France .  The Tulsa site is “a very attractive asset and we expect
some really good dialogue with a number of potential buyers,”
Chief Financial Officer Philip Anderson said on the call. The
Tulsa facility represents as much as 14 percent of the company’s
$3 billion year-to-date  revenue , he said.  Earlier today, Spirit delayed its quarterly earnings report
because auditors haven’t completed their review.  Spirit dropped 
3 percent to $25.01 at the close in New York, paring its gain
for this year to 47 percent.  Spirit’s Charge  Spirit has struggled with its own suppliers on capacity and
costs as planemakers worldwide boost output. The company said it
will record a pretax charge of $350 million to $400 million tied
to work for  General Dynamics Corp.’s (GD)  Gulfstream business-jet
unit, and is limiting draws on its credit facility until 2014’s
last three months. No default event has occurred, Spirit said.  Standard & Poor’s cut its outlook for Spirit to negative
from stable, saying the costs for the Gulfstream planes will
keep credit ratios from improving this year. Spirit’s BB debt
rating, two steps below investment grade, was left unchanged,
S&P said.  The stock jumped 5.7 percent on July 25 after the U.K.’s
Daily Mail said  GKN Plc (GKN)  was readying a takeover bid for about
$35 a share. No such offer has been made public, and CEO Nigel Stein declined on a conference call last week to comment on any
interest in the U.S. company.  Spirit makes components for all of Boeing’s current lineup
of commercial jets, including the 787 Dreamliner, according to
the company’s website. While Spirit also supplies Airbus SAS,
Boeing accounts for about 84 percent of sales,  data compiled  by
Bloomberg show.  Supply Chain  Divesting Spirit’s Oklahoma assets won’t affect the supply
chain at Boeing, said  Howard Rubel , an analyst at Jefferies LLC.
He rates Spirit as buy.  “One would believe that Boeing is very much involved with
strategic decisions of a major supplier,” Rubel said by phone
from New York. “They would be very much focused on ensuring a
smooth transition from one owner to another owner.”  Spirit said it plans to reschedule its second-quarter
filing, where it will report revenue of $1.52 billion, an
increase of 13 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  