-- Standard Chartered First-Half Net Income Drops 24 Percent
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-08-07T09:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/standard-chartered-first-half-profit-rises-4-.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K. bank
that makes about three-quarters of its earnings from  Asia ,
posted a 24 percent drop in first-half profit after writing down
the value of its Korean business by $1 billion.  Net income fell to $2.18 billion from $2.86 billion a year
earlier, the London-based lender said in a statement yesterday.
Revenue rose 6.6 percent as growth in Hong Kong and India
mitigated declines in Korea,  Singapore  and  China .  Standard Chartered and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which also makes
most of its profit in Asia, are being hurt by China’s economic
slowdown. London-based HSBC on Aug. 5 posted a revenue decline
and said expansion in its fastest-growing markets was slowing.
 Standard Chartered , which dropped its target to increase income
by 10 percent annually, said it has “good momentum” in the
second half.  “We’re clearly not targeting double-digit income this
year, but still expecting to grow our business at a good pace
this year,” Finance Director Richard Meddings said on a
conference call with journalists yesterday.  The stock rose 0.9 percent to HK$184.40 as of 9:41 a.m. in
Hong Kong trading. Standard Chartered climbed 2.9 percent in
London yesterday to 1,567.50 pence, narrowing its year-to-date
decline to 0.4 percent.  ‘Reassuring’ Outlook  “Both the first-half results and the outlook were
reassuring relative to market concerns on  credit quality  and the
revenue environment,” Sharnie Wong, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Barclays Plc, wrote in a research note yesterday.  Impairments on loan losses rose 27 percent to $730 million,
less than the $756 million estimate by Deutsche Bank AG’s Jason Napier in a July 10 note to clients. He rates the stock a hold.  Corporate banking operating profit climbed to $3.23 billion
from $3.03 billion, lifted by increases in Hong Kong, India, the
Middle East, Americas, U.K. and Europe and  Africa . The division,
run by  Michael Rees  includes trade finance, payment processing
and some investment-banking activities such as merger advisory
and equities.  Operating profit in the consumer bank, led by Steve Bertamini, fell 5.5 percent to $858 million from $908 million as
Singapore and the Asia Pacific region, which includes China,
offset increases in Hong Kong, Africa, India, and Mid East.  Difficult Market  China’s economy  has slowed for two straight quarters,
extending its longest period of expansion below 8 percent in at
least two decades.  Standard Chartered said South Korea is the bank’s “most
difficult market” and a source of bad debts as the country’s
personal debt rehabilitation scheme spurred a jump in loan
impairments.  The lender’s Korean consumer unit posted an operating loss
of $6 million after a $100 million profit a year ago.
Impairments climbed to $176 million for the first half from $96
million in the year-earlier period.  When it acquired Korea First Bank in 2005, the industry’s
return on equity was 18 percent compared with about 4 percent
now, Standard Chartered said.  “It will not be a quick fix, but we are committed to doing
what we have to do to make it work,” the bank said.  HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, on Aug. 5 reported first-half
earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  HSBC said pretax profit in Hong Kong rose 12 percent to
$4.21 billion. Earnings at its Asia-Pacific unit, which includes
China, India, Singapore and  Malaysia , increased 16 percent to
$5.06 billion. Pretax profit rose 18 percent in the  Middle East 
and North Africa and fell 80 percent and 59 percent in North
America and Latin America respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  