-- Summers’s Critics Distort His Regulatory Views
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-06T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/summers-s-critics-distort-his-regulatory-views.html
A lot of public discussion takes
place before the president nominates a new  Federal Reserve  Board
chairman. This time, that  discussion  has gotten unusually
heated.  Continuing economic difficulties are one reason. Another is
that  Lawrence Summers , a top candidate, is a larger-than-life
figure -- unusually well-known and widely admired, but in some
circles controversial. The paradox is that those who know him
best, and who have worked with him most closely, are his biggest
supporters -- and that the objections are coming largely from
those who know him little or not at all. (Disclosure: Summers is
a colleague and a friend, and I co-taught a course with him last
spring.)  No one doubts Summers has the right background and
credentials. One of the nation’s best macroeconomic theorists,
he produced a series of influential academic papers that helped
him win the 1993 John Bates Clark Medal, known as the “baby
Nobel.” Although his full-time academic career was short, he
remains among the most-cited economists in the world.  Unlike most academics, Summers has a wealth of practical
experience, having served as U.S. Treasury secretary under
President  Bill Clinton  and as head of the National Economic
Council under President  Barack Obama . In the latter position, he
helped to design the central responses to the economic crisis,
including the stimulus package, the rescue of both  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, and the “cash for clunkers”
program.  Some of Summers’s critics  think  that he is anti-regulatory
and reflexively pro-business, and that he would undermine the
important regulatory mission of the Federal Reserve. Nothing
could be further from the truth.  Regulation Advocate  I worked with Summers in the Obama administration, and I
can report that in internal discussions, he was one of the most
uncompromising advocates for financial regulation. Of course, he
supports the free-market system and wants to avoid unnecessary
regulatory burdens. But time and again, he insisted that the
events of 2008 required everyone, including him, to re-evaluate
their  views  about regulating the financial industry. He
contended that banks can’t police themselves any more than
polluters can be trusted to protect the environment or
pharmaceutical companies can be trusted to ensure that drugs are
safe.  Building on these analogies, Summers vigorously argued on
behalf of a consumer financial protection agency, and he
supported strong safeguards designed to reduce the risk of
another economic meltdown. Intensely focused on the problem of
“too big to fail,” he was one of the earliest and most
forceful  advocates  of promoting financial stability by requiring
banks to have enough capital to withstand an economic downturn.  Summers never wears his heart on his sleeve. Would he take
steps to protect those who are struggling, including the
unemployed? If the past is any guide, the answer is unambiguous.
In the long discussions that led to Obama’s decision to save GM
and Chrysler, Summers was acutely concerned, at every stage,
with the human consequences. He asked: If those companies
failed, what would happen to the people who worked for them?
What would be the effects on workers in manufacturing?  In his two years in the Obama administration, there was
probably not a single day on which Summers wasn’t thinking about
the plight of the unemployed and what the government might do to
help. And in answering that question, he was  pragmatic  and
empirical, asking about what approaches would work, not about
slogans or dogmas or political affiliations.  Some of his critics fear that Summers would be unable to
work well with others. On the contrary: He is one of the best
colleagues one could imagine. True, he’s not exactly a charmer.
He’s a natural debater, and he can be tough, and he likes to
start a conversation by telling you that you are dead wrong. But
he is an excellent listener; he goes where the facts take him
and he is willing to change his mind.  Beloved Teacher  In many meetings, he would argue vigorously against the
position that was dominant in the room, insisting that his
counterarguments were overwhelming -- only to conclude, “OK,
you’re right, you should do what you think is best.” Because of
his  ability  to listen and to see the best in other people’s
positions, and because of his personal kindness, he’s a beloved
teacher.  It is true that when he was president of  Harvard
University , Summers made some  ill-considered remarks  about women
in science. Those remarks have followed him ever since -- an
irony given that he has been an unwavering opponent of sex
discrimination in all its forms, and a strong supporter and
loyal mentor of numerous women. To take just one example, he
chose a relatively young law professor as the first female dean
of  Harvard Law School . (Her name was  Elena Kagan .)  The mission of the Federal Reserve Board is to help to
increase employment, to promote economic growth and stable
prices, and to protect consumers. For its next chairman, Obama
has some extraordinary candidates, but no one knows more about
how to carry out that mission than  Larry Summers .  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at Harvard Law School, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 