-- Swiss Cantonal Bank Cut by S&P Amid Risk of U.S. Legal Costs
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-08-06T13:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/swiss-cantonal-bank-cut-by-s-p-amid-risk-of-u-s-legal-costs.html
Basler Kantonalbank (BSKP) , one of at least
12 banks being probed by the U.S. for allegedly helping
Americans dodge taxes, was downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s ,
which cited the risk of a “material” one-time legal cost.  S&P lowered its senior unsecured debt rating on the third-largest of  Switzerland ’s 24 regional banks to AA from AA+, the
New York-based firm said in an e-mailed statement today.  “We foresee ongoing elevated reputational and legal risk
at BKB from pending legal actions by the  U.S. Department of
Justice  against Swiss banks,” S&P said after meeting with the
management of the company. “We have factored into our
assessments a material one-time legal cost for BKB.”  The  Department of Justice  is investigating banks, including
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , after last
year indicting Wegelin & Co. UBS AG, Switzerland’s largest bank,
avoided prosecution in 2009 by paying $780 million, admitting it
aided U.S. tax evasion and handing over data on 4,500 accounts.
S&P didn’t disclose a figure for Basler’s legal costs, which the
ratings company said would be offset by earnings.  Basler rose 0.4 percent to 79.6 francs as of 2:53 p.m. in
Zurich trading, paring this year’s decline to 20 percent. The
44-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
climbed 10 percent over the same period.  Wegelin, Switzerland’s oldest private bank, pleaded guilty
in January, handing over $74 million.  The downgrade of Basler also comes after the bank set aside
50 million Swiss francs ($54 million) in its 2012 accounts for
client indemnities related to losses at its ASE Investment AG
unit, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  