-- U.K. Home Values Rise a Sixth Month in July, Halifax Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-08-06T07:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/u-k-home-values-rise-a-sixth-month-in-july-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rose for a sixth
month in July and will continue to increase as an improving
 economy  boosts confidence, according to a report by Halifax.  Home values increased 0.9 percent from the previous month
to an average 169,624 pounds ($260,212), the mortgage unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in a statement in London today.
From a year earlier, prices rose 5.7 percent.  Today’s report adds to evidence that Britain’s property
market is reviving as demand for homes picks up. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  has introduced plans to increase
mortgage availability, and the Bank of England has implemented a
program to boost credit. Policy makers are also trying to guide
investors that interest rates will stay low.  “Greater confidence is likely to have underpinned the
increase in housing demand,” said  Martin Ellis , housing
economist at Halifax. “Official schemes, such as the Funding
for Lending Scheme and the Help to Buy equity loan scheme, may
also be raising demand. House prices are expected to continue to
rise gradually through this year.”  Recent reports suggest Britain’s economy is continuing to
gain momentum after expanding more than forecast in the second
quarter, with surveys showing services, manufacturing and
construction industries grew faster than forecast in July.  Osborne’s plan to guarantee riskier mortgages to boost
growth, details of which were released last month, has drawn a
warning from the  International Monetary Fund  for its potential
to stoke  home prices .  House purchases were 6 percent higher in the first half of
2013 than in the same period last year, today’s report showed.  Nationwide Building Society  said on Aug. 2 that house
prices rose to the highest level in five years last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  