-- LMC Sees Western Europe Car Sales Picking Up on Economy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-08-06T14:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/u-k-2013-car-sales-gain-may-speed-up-on-economic-rebound.html
Western European car sales rose 4
percent in July as an additional selling day and a stabilizing
economy contributed to the second monthly gain in 2013,
according to date collected by LMC Automotive.  Registrations increased to an estimated 950,444 cars from
914,274 vehicles a year earlier, the research company said today
in a  statement . That narrowed the seven-month decline to 5.4
percent for a total of 7 million cars, with the annualized
selling rate at almost 11.5 million units, it said.  “As the underlying economy begins to improve, we forecast
that so too will the region’s car market,”  Jonathon Poskitt , an
analyst at LMC in Oxford,  England , said in the statement. “The
situation will slowly pick up over the remainder of the year.”  Industry executives are forecasting that the European car
market will shrink by about 5 percent this year, the sixth
annual drop, amid the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Daimler AG (DAI) 
and PSA Peugeot Citroen are among manufacturers saying that the
drop in demand may have bottomed out.  German factory orders increased by the most in eight months
in June, U.K. industrial production that month beat forecasts
and  Italy ’s economic contraction slowed in the second quarter,
according to figures released today, adding to evidence of a
nascent recovery.  U.K. Jump  Demand for cars in  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy,
increased in July while sales in  France , Europe’s third-biggest
auto market, rose for the first time since October 2011. U.K.
registrations jumped 13 percent in the 17th consecutive monthly
gain, the London-based  Society of Motor Manufacturers and
Traders  said today.  The U.K. automotive-industry group raised its forecast for
deliveries in the country, predicting growth of 8.4 percent to
2.22 million vehicles instead of the 3 percent increase foreseen
earlier.  “Strong business and  consumer confidence  in July saw the
new car market continue to rise, posting double-digit growth in
the month,” SMMT interim Chief Executive Officer Mike Baunton
said in a statement. “We’ve seen a range of economic indicators
point to improving conditions and our raised sales forecast
emphasizes how positively we view the rest of 2013.”  The country overtook France last year as Europe’s second-largest car market, and it has has been one of the few bright
spots for the region’s auto manufacturers, helped by zero-percent financing and vehicle-price discounts. Demand in the
U.K. continued to expand because of “solid improvements” in
both private and fleet sales in July, Poskitt said.  Selling Day  Western European car sales last increased in April. The
July figure was helped by an average of one additional selling
day in the region versus the year-earlier month, and demand may
stabilize as the economy improves, LMC said.  Car sales in  Spain  rose in July, supported by a government-backed program to trade in obsolete vehicles for scrapping for
purchases of new ones. The Italian market showed the smallest
contraction in almost two years, LMC said.  First-half registrations in Europe, including countries
that have joined the European Union since mid-2004, fell 6.7
percent from a year earlier to 6.44 million vehicles, industry
body  ACEA  said last month. The June figure was the lowest for
the month since 1996, and the six-month number was the least
since 1993, the Brussels-based group said.  The ACEA is scheduled to report July and August car-sales
figures in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  