-- U.K. June Industrial Output Rose as Manufacturing Surged
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-08-06T09:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/u-k-june-industrial-output-rose-as-manufacturing-surged.html
U.K. industrial production  rebounded
more than economists forecast in June as manufacturing surged
the most in a year, adding to signs of a strengthening recovery.  Industrial output increased 1.1 percent from May after
stagnating for three months, the Office for National Statistics
said today in London. Economists forecast a 0.7 percent
increase, according to the median of  33 estimates  in a Bloomberg
News survey. Factory output jumped 1.9 percent, also exceeding
economists’ forecasts.  After expanding 0.6 percent in the second quarter, the U.K.
economy is showing signs of gaining traction, with manufacturing
and construction and services all strengthening in July and
house-prices rising. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney will
tomorrow present the central bank’s new economic forecasts as
well as officials’ assessment of using forward guidance.  “The strength in manufacturing could be a sign that what
has so far been a sugar rush of low interest rates and rising
house prices is broadening out to more sustainable sources of
growth,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London  and a former U.K. central bank official. “The BOE’s job
is to ensure the stimulus is not withdrawn prematurely and this
recovery continues to blossom.”  The pound rose 0.1 percent to $1.5373 against the dollar as
of 10:45 a.m. in London. It was little changed versus the euro,
at 86.40 pence.  GDP Estimate  In the three months through June, total production
increased 0.6 percent from the previous quarter, matching the
estimate in the  gross domestic product report  on July 25. The
ONS said today’s data will have no impact on the GDP estimate.
Manufacturing rose 0.7 percent in the period, the most since
December 2010.  On a monthly basis, the  increase in manufacturing  was led
by transport equipment, up 5.3 percent, other manufacturing and
repair, and computer and electronic products. All 13 categories
within manufacturing recorded an increase in June. That’s the
first time that has happened since June 1992.  Within production, mining and quarrying increased 0.7
percent in June from May, while water supply and sewage
treatment rose 2.3 percent. Electricity and gas output fell 5.8
percent. From a year earlier, total industrial production
increased 1.2 percent in June and manufacturing rose 2 percent.  Economic Outlook  A report today from Halifax showed that U.K.  house prices 
rose for a sixth month in July. Home values increased 0.9
percent from the previous month to an average 169,624 pounds
($260,800), it said in a statement in London today.  The improvement in U.K. industry measures in the past week
prompted Royal Bank of Canada economist Jens Larsen to raise his
forecast for GDP growth this year to 1.4 percent from 1.2
percent. Macclesfield, England-based  Bodycote Plc (BOY) , a provider of
thermal processing services, said July 25 first-half revenue
rose 5 percent and that it expects “modest” progress for the
full year.  The BOE will publish its projections for growth and
inflation at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in London. It left its  bond-purchase plan  on hold at 375 billion pounds last week and its
key rate at a record low 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  