-- U.S. $32 Billion Three-Year-Note Auction Attracts Foreign Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-06T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/u-s-32-billion-three-year-note-auction-attracts-foreign-demand.html
A U.S. sale of $32 billion of three-year notes drew the most demand in two years from an investor
class that includes foreign central banks on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  won’t quickly raise  interest rates .  Indirect bidders purchased 41.4 percent of the notes
yesterday, the most since August 2011, at the offering
yesterday. That compared with an average of 26.1 percent at the
past 10 sales. The notes sold at a yield of 0.631 percent,
compared with a forecast of 0.636 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of eight of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers.  “The strong auction confirms a growing understanding by
the market that the fed funds rate isn’t going anywhere anytime
soon,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies
at GMP Securities LLC in  New York . “Non-primary dealers really
stepped up, led by indirect bidders. With inflation contained,
the Fed will not look to raise rates for at least two more
years.”  The yield on the current three-year note was little changed
at 0.60 percent in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
Prices. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.64 percent.  Fed Policy  The Fed has been buying $85 billion of bonds every month to
put downward pressure on borrowing costs in a policy known as
quantitative easing, or QE. The central bank has held its target
for the federal funds rate at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  Ten-year (USGG10YR)  yields rose after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said on June 19 policy makers may reduce bond purchases this
year and end them in mid-2014 if economic growth is in line with
their projections.  “The committee recognizes that inflation persistently
below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic
performance, but it anticipates that inflation will move back
toward its objective over the medium term,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said on July 31 at the conclusion of a two-day
meeting in  Washington .  The FOMC also said its fed funds target “will be
appropriate at least as long as the  unemployment rate  remains
above 6.5 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is
projected to be no more than a half-percentage point above the
Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation
expectations continue to be well anchored.”  Short Rates  “The current preference for short-end rates should be
primarily due to Fed policy,”  George Goncalves , the head of
interest-rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., a primary
dealer, wrote in a note to clients. “This part of the curve
falls outside the QE purchase buckets, thus are less affected by
the tapering of Fed QE purchase. We expect the front-end to
continue to be well supported in the near future.”  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 14 percent of
the notes at the sale, compared with an average of 19.9 percent
for the past 10 auctions.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.21,
compared with an average of 3.44 for the past 10 sales.  Three-year notes have lost 0.2 percent this year, versus a
drop of 2.9 percent by the broad Treasuries market, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The auction was the first of three note offerings this week
totaling $72 billion. The governments will sell $24 billion of
10-year notes tomorrow and auction $16 billion of 30-year bonds
on Aug. 8.  The sales will raise $2.4 billion of new cash, as maturing
securities held by the public total $69.6 billion, according to
the Treasury.  Investors bid $2.92 for each dollar of the $1.289 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  