-- U.S. Said to Charge Suspects in Deadly Benghazi Attack
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-08-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/u-s-said-to-charge-libyan-man-in-2012-benghazi-attack.html
U.S. prosecutors filed a sealed
criminal complaint against several suspects in the 2012 attack
on a U.S. mission in Benghazi, including a Libyan man suspected
of playing a leading role, according to two U.S. officials.  Ahmed Abu Khattalah, who investigators said is a leader in
in the group Ansar al-Sharia, was charged in connection with the
attack that killed four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador
Christopher Stevens, said the officials, who were briefed on the
case and asked not to be identified discussing the complaint.
They declined to specify the charges.  Khattalah is the first individual charged in an attack that
has become a political flashpoint between President  Barack Obama ’s administration and congressional Republicans. The
officials declined to say yesterday whether efforts had been
made to detain Khattalah.  Several other suspects have been charged along with
Khattalah in connection to the attack, one of the officials
said. The charges, all under seal, mark the first law
enforcement action in the U.S. investigation. The official
declined to how many people had been charged.  The FBI has been investigating the deadly attack and
released photographs of three men in May who the agency said
were at the U.S. post on the night of the attack.  Attorney General Eric Holder told lawmakers in May that the
results of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s inquiry would
be released in the near future.  ‘Top Priority’  “We are at a point where we have taken steps that I would
say are definitive, concrete and we will be prepared shortly I
think to reveal all that we have done,” Holder said in May 15
testimony in front of the House Judiciary Committee.  Andrew Ames, a Justice Department spokesman, said the
investigation is “ongoing” and declined to comment on any
charges. “It has been, and remains, a top priority,” he said.  The filing of the charge was reported earlier by  CNN .  Republican lawmakers have criticized Obama’s administration
over its handling of the Sept. 11, 2012, attack, saying it
didn’t adequately respond when the assault was under way, misled
the public afterward about the nature of the incident and then
attempted to cover up its failures.  House Republicans have conducted an investigation into the
attack and the administration’s response -- something Obama
dismissed in May as a “political circus.”  The Benghazi assault initially became an issue in the 2012
presidential campaign, and since then Republicans have accused
the administration of playing down links to terrorism for
political reasons.  House Probe  House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman
Darrell Issa is conducting a probe into the events surrounding
the night’s attack and Speaker John Boehner has continued to
push for more details. Republican Senators John McCain of
 Arizona  and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina have said the
administration’s account of the attack has been intentionally
misleading.  Then U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice
appeared on Sunday talk shows five days after the attack using
talking points developed by the CIA in consultation with the
State Department and White House.  The talking points erroneously portrayed the assault on the
U.S. compound as beginning with a “spontaneous” protest
against an anti-Islamic video that was hijacked by extremists.
The administration later acknowledged the account was incorrect.  Rice Withdraws  Administration officials defended their actions, saying
that the talking points were crafted just four days after the
attack as intelligence agencies were still sorting through
information about its cause and perpetrators. They said they
wanted to be cautious in public comments to avoid influencing
the investigation that was under way.  In the face of Republican opposition, Rice withdrew her
name from consideration as Obama’s nominee for secretary of
state to replace Hillary Clinton. Rice was later named as
Obama’s national security adviser, a position that isn’t subject
to Senate confirmation.  Lawmakers have also criticized the perceived slow pace of
the criminal investigation into the attack -- something FBI
Director Robert Mueller acknowledged in congressional testimony
was at least in part due to the instability in Libya.  “The bottom line is to assure the security of our people
when we went in,” Mueller, whose term as FBI chief ends next
month, told lawmakers on the House Judiciary Committee in June.
“When we could assure the security of our persons, we did go in
and do our on-sight review.”  Issa, a California Republican, called on law enforcement
officials to detain Khattalah “without delay.”  “Delays in apprehending the suspected Benghazi killers
will only put American lives at further and needless risk,” he
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  