-- U.S. Embassy Warns of Yemen Threats, Urges Citizens Leave
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2013-08-06T17:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/u-s-embassy-warns-of-yemen-threats-urges-citizens-to-leave.html
The U.S. flew government personnel
out of Yemen and urged other Americans to leave immediately
after the interception of communications about a planned al-Qaeda attack heightened security concerns.  Britain took action to protect its Yemen-based personnel,
too, evacuating its embassy in the capital, Sana’a. While both
countries were withdrawing citizens, an air strike in Marib
province killed four suspected al-Qaeda members, Yemen’s state-run Saba news agency reported.  Two drones were seen in a rare flight over the capital
today. The U.S. has used drones in the past to hunt suspected
militants in the country.  On Aug. 4, the Obama administration shut down 22 embassies
and consulates from West Africa to South Asia after intercepting
a message from Ayman al-Zawahiri, Osama bin Laden’s successor as
al-Qaeda chief in  Pakistan , to the head of al-Qaeda’s Yemen
branch, Nasir al-Wuhayshi.  In response to a request from the U.S. State Department,
government personnel were flown out of Yemen today on a U.S. Air
Force transport plane, Pentagon Press Secretary George Little
said.  “The U.S. Department of Defense continues to have
personnel on the ground in Yemen to support the U.S. State
Department and monitor the security situation,” Little said.  ‘High Security Threat’  A  statement  on the website of the U.S. Embassy in Yemen
warned American citizens “of the high security threat level in
Yemen due to terrorist activities and civil unrest” and urged
them to get out as soon as possible.  Britain’s Foreign Office said all Yemen embassy staffers
were temporarily withdrawn “due to increased security
concerns,” according to an e-mailed statement. The U.K. mission
will remain closed until staff are able to return, it said. The
embassy has been shut since Aug. 4 and the U.K. has urged all
Britons to leave Yemen.  Yemen’s government said it has taken “all necessary
precautions to ensure the safety and security of foreign
missions in the capital Sana’a,” according to a statement e-mailed by Yemeni Embassy in  Washington .  “While the government of Yemen appreciates foreign
governments’ concern for the safety of their citizens, the
evacuation of embassy staff serves the interests of the
extremists and undermines the exceptional cooperation between
Yemen and the international alliance against terrorism,” it
said in the statement.  Assassinations Feared  The U.S. has stepped up its drone attacks on suspected al-Qaeda militants in the past few months, killing a top leader and
more than a dozen commanders, said Abdul-Ghani al-Iryani, a
development expert and researcher at the Khobara Center, a
research institute in Sana’a.  “With that kind of escalation, some reaction had to be
expected,” so U.S. precautionary measures are “not
surprising,” he said.  The U.S. measures are warranted given the threat from al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, as the group’s Yemeni branch is
called, said Theodore Karasik, director of research at the
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.  “It signals that al-Qaeda is likely to target American
citizens in a possible assassination or kidnapping,” Karasik
said.  Last September, Yemeni protesters in Sana’a breached the
U.S. Embassy compound’s security perimeter and set two cars
ablaze. The attack followed the killing of the American
ambassador to Libya, Chris Stevens, and three colleagues during
an assault on consular buildings in the eastern Libyan city of
Benghazi on Sept. 11.  Bomb Maker  Yemen’s Defense Ministry released the names of 25 al-Qaeda
militants plotting terrorist attacks in the country on its
website yesterday. Ibrahim Mohammed al-Asiri, a Saudi national,
who is the group’s chief bomb maker, was among those named.  U.S. officials have said the Saudi national designed the
underwear bomb worn by  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab  when he tried
to blow up a Northwest Airlines plane over  Detroit  on Christmas
Day in 2009. Abdulmutallab was arrested after the bomb
malfunctioned.  Asiri is also considered responsible for attempting to kill
a Saudi deputy minister that year by designing a device
implanted inside a suicide bomber’s body. The explosion killed
the bomber; his target survived.  Al-Qaeda’s Yemeni affiliate recently confirmed its co-founder, Saeed al-Shihri, was killed by a U.S. drone strike. Al-Shihri, a Saudi citizen, helped merge the Saudi and Yemeni
branches of the group into al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
following a crackdown in Saudi Arabia that led to the death or
imprisonment of many of its leaders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  