-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Increase; Berkshire to AIG Sell Debt
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-06T20:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/u-s-company-credit-swaps-rise-berkshire-to-aig-plan-bond-sales.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  may reduce its bond
purchases by the end of the year.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  issued bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.7 basis points to a mid-price of 74.5 basis points at 4:19
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed policy makers have been debating the reduction of $85
billion in monthly bond purchases that have bolstered credit
markets. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said today that the
central bank is likely to start tapering asset purchases later
this year and end them in mid-2014, reiterating the Fed’s
decision will be dependent on economic data.  “There’s a hyper sensitivity to the tapering,”  William Larkin , a fixed-income portfolio manager at Cabot Money
Management in Salem, Massachusetts, said in a telephone
interview. “It has an implication for the corporate  bond market 
because credit spreads are so narrow” that there is “not going
to be a shock absorber if rates increase.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Berkshire Offering  “We’ve seen good improvement in the labor market, there’s
no question in my mind about that,” Evans, who is a voting
member of the  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, said in
Chicago. “I’m still wanting to see greater evidence that it’s a
sustainable improvement.”  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway issued its first bonds
in three months with a $1 billion, two-part offering.  Berkshire sold $600 million of 0.95 percent, three-year
securities to yield 37 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and $400 million of 2 percent, five-year notes at a
relative yield of 65 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bonds are expected to be rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and proceeds will be used to  repay  debt.  AIG Bonds  AIG sold $1 billion in 3.375 percent, seven-year notes to
yield 135 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. Proceeds from the sale, expected to be
rated Baa1 by Moody’s, will be used to repay debt and for
general corporate purposes, the data show.  The cost to protect against losses on the debt of  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX)  increased to the highest level in more than two weeks
as  gold prices  slumped.  Five-year swaps tied to the Toronto-based miner widened
more than any other member of the CDX investment-grade index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts increased
14.7 basis points to 299.4 basis points, the highest since July
18, the data show.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 7.8 basis points to 371.4 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade corporate debt instead of similar-maturity
Treasuries widened 0.3 basis points to 127.7 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative grade, or junk-rated, securities widened 2.9 basis points to 563.1 basis
points.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  