-- U.S. Charges Two Men With Illegal Lobbying for Mugabe
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-06T20:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/u-s-charges-two-men-with-illegal-lobbying-for-mugabe.html
President  Robert Mugabe  of  Zimbabwe 
allegedly hired two Chicago men to lobby U.S. officials to lift
economic sanctions against him in violation of federal law,
according to a criminal complaint unsealed today.  In exchange for those services rendered in 2008 and 2009,
the men were to be paid $3.4 million, acting Chicago U.S.
Attorney Gary S. Shapiro said in a statement issued today.  While Mugabe wasn’t charged, Prince Asiel Ben Israel, 72,
and C. Gregory Turner, 71, were accused of violating the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act. Ben Israel appeared
today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Arlander Keys in Chicago, who
released him on $4,500 bond. A warrant has been issued for
Turner’s arrest.  “Ben Israel and Turner allegedly agreed to engage in
public relations, political consulting and lobbying to have
sanctions removed by meeting with and attempting to persuade
U.S. federal and state government officials” to oppose them,
Shapiro said.  Mugabe has led the southern African nation since 1980 and
was re-elected last week. Challenger  Morgan Tsvangirai , who was
credited with winning 34 percent of the July 31 vote, has
disputed the result. The U.S. has called the election “deeply
flawed.”  2003 Sanctions  Sanctions against Mugabe and other Zimbabweans were imposed
in 2003 by U.S. President  George W. Bush , a Republican, and were
continued under President Barack Obama, a Democrat.  While the sanctions do not ban travel to the nation or
prohibit public officials from meeting with “specially
designated nationals,” they do prohibit lobbying, public
relations and media consulting services for the Zimbabweans.  Ben Israel and Turner in November 2008 allegedly discussed
with Mugabe,  Reserve Bank  of Zimbabwe President Gideon Gono and
others Zimbabwean officials “their association with many public
officials who purportedly had close connections with then-President Elect  Barack Obama .”  Their lobbying effort included arranging for an
unidentified Illinois state senator to meet with Mugabe and for
the Zimbabwean leader to meet with unidentified federal and
state government officials in  New York , according to the
complaint. The men also lobbied three members of Congress,
including two who represented Chicago districts, according to
the complaint.  Violation of the statutory scheme known as the IEEPA is
punishable by as long as 20 years in prison and a $1 million
fine. The complaint against Ben Israel and Brown was filed last
month.  Ben Israel’s attorney, Viviana Ramirez, declined to comment
after the hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Ben Israel, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  