-- U.S. Commercial Property Prices Fall Amid Rising Rates
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-08-06T16:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/u-s-commercial-property-prices-fall-amid-rising-rates.html
U.S. commercial property prices fell
1 percent in July from the previous month as rising  interest
rates  increased the cost of financing deals, according to real
estate research firm Green Street Advisors Inc.  The Green Street Commercial Property  Price Index  was 4
percent higher than a peak reached in August 2007 even with the
decline, the  Newport Beach , California-based company said today
in a report. The gauge is based on Green Street’s estimate of
the value of real estate investment trust portfolios, which tend
to have high-quality properties.  “Property values have enjoyed a robust recovery over the
last four years, more than recouping all the ground that was
lost during the financial crisis,” the firm said in its report.
“That recovery has been put on hold for the time being as
increases in interest rates weigh on pricing.”  A surge in interest rates since May threatens to damp
demand for commercial real estate. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury  note  has  climbed  to 2.66 percent from a low of 1.63
percent in May, fueled by expectations that the  Federal Reserve 
will scale back the pace of its stimulus plan.  The Fed is buying $45 billion of Treasuries and $40 billion
of mortgage debt each month to put downward pressure on interest
rates, including as much as $5.75 billion in Treasuries maturing
between May 2018 and April 2019.  The Moody’s/Real Capital Analytics national all-property
index fell 0.6 percent in May from April, Moody’s Investors
Service said on July 10. The measure, which was up 6 percent
from a year earlier, is based on repeat-sale transactions that
take place two calendar months before the latest report.  “The results do not yet fully reflect the impact on prices
of the recent uptick in the 10-year Treasury,” Moody’s said in
the report. “We expect prices over the near term to remain flat
or decline, as improvements in occupancy and rent arising from
increased employment lag the drag on value resulting from higher
borrowing costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  