-- UBS to Pay $50 Million to Settle SEC Claim of Misleading CDO
-- B y   G r e g o r y   M o t t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-08-06T20:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/ubs-to-pay-50-million-to-settle-sec-claims-over-misleading-cdo.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
will pay almost $50 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims
that a brokerage unit improperly retained millions of dollars of
upfront cash it received while acquiring collateral for a
financial product.  The Zurich-based bank’s UBS Securities unit failed to tell
investors in 2007 that it was keeping $23.6 million in payments
rather than transferring it to the collateralized debt
obligation, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in an
administrative order filed today.  The upfront payments “under the terms of the deal should
have gone to the CDO for the benefit of its investors,” George S. Canellos, co-director of the SEC enforcement unit, said in a
statement. “UBS misrepresented the nature of the CDO’s
collateral and rendered false the disclosures about how that
collateral was acquired.”  The settlement comes as the SEC wraps up its investigation
of conduct and financial products that helped fuel the financial
market turmoil of 2008. Probes of how banks including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  structured and sold
CDOs linked to souring mortgages were the centerpiece of the
agency’s investigation of the credit crisis.  In mid-2007, UBS structured the CDO known as ACA ABS
2007-2, the collateral for which was primarily credit default
swaps on subprime residential mortgage-backed securities, the
SEC said. Instead of passing the upfront payments to the CDO as
was standard industry practice, UBS retained them as an extra
fee, according to the order.  UBS’s Payments  In the settlement, UBS agreed to disgorge the $23.6 million
in upfront payments and the disclosed fee of about $10.8
million, as well as paying prejudgment interest of approximately
$9.7 million and a $5.7 million penalty, the SEC said. The
company agreed to settle the agency’s claims without admitting
or denying wrongdoing.  “UBS is pleased to put this investigation behind us, which
involved a legacy business that was closed almost five years
ago,” Megan Stinson, a UBS spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We
believe this settlement marks the conclusion of all SEC
investigations relating to UBS’s structuring and marketing of
CDOs backed by residential mortgage-backed securities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Mott in Washington at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  