-- UBS Hires Pierson to Head Financial Technology
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-08-06T18:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/ubs-hires-pierson-to-head-financial-technology.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest lender,
has has hired investment banker Steve Pierson from  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  amid an effort to bolster coverage of financial-services firms.  Pierson, 46, is joining UBS as global head of financial
technology and services and co-head of the financial
institutions group for the Americas, according to an internal
memo confirmed by Megan Stinson, a company spokeswoman.  UBS has appointed experienced investment bankers in
financial services, energy and  Latin America  this year, Steve Cummings, head of Americas investment banking for the Zurich-based company, said in an interview. The firm plans to make more
select hires in those areas, he said.  Pierson, most recently vice chairman in Credit Suisse’s
financial institutions group, is at least the third senior
financial-services banker hired since late last year.  “Financial services is a global priority for us,” said
Cummings, 58. “It’s about advice, capital markets execution and
a connected global platform, all of which fit perfectly with the
UBS business model.”  UBS hired Jim Voorheis from Deutsche Bank AG as head of
Americas specialty finance in May, and named Greg Kennedy head
of the Americas financial institutions group in December.  Kennedy, who left London-based Barclays Plc and started at
UBS in March, will now oversee the financial institutions group
with Pierson.  Pierson specializes in advising financial technology, asset
management, brokerage and trust and private-equity firms. He
joined Zurich-based Credit Suisse in 2007 from Putnam Lovell NBF
Securities, where he led  investment banking .  Vik Hebatpuria, a colleague of Pierson’s at Credit Suisse
who advises similar clients, also is joining UBS as an  executive
director  in the financial institutions group, according to a
separate memo.  Hebatpuria joined Credit Suisse in 2006 and previously was
a vice president with Marsh & McLennan Cos.  Jack Grone, a Credit Suisse spokesman, declined to comment
on the moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  