-- UniCredit Profit Doubles on Debt Buyback; Shares Jump
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-08-06T14:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/unicredit-second-quarter-profit-rises-on-gains-from-debt-buyback.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
said second-quarter profit more than doubled after it cut costs
and bought back debt. The shares jumped to the highest level in
two months.  Net income  surged to 361 million euros ($479 million) from
169 million euros a year earlier, in line with the 360 million-euro average estimate of eight  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg.
The Milan-based bank posted a 254 million-euro gain from the
buyback of 4.2 billion euros of senior securities in April,
according to a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is cutting costs
and reducing risk as an economic recession in Italy and stricter
 capital requirements  weigh on earnings. The bank is reorganizing
its Italian branch network, as well as operations in central and
eastern Europe, as part of a five-year plan to increase profit
and strengthen finances.  “Cost cutting measures positively impacted on pre-provision profit,”  Carlo Tommaselli , an analyst at  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) , said in e-mailed comments to clients. The earnings
showed sound capital “with asset quality worsening less than
expectations.”  The company lowered second-quarter operating costs by 1.8
percent from a year earlier to 3.67 billion euros. It now plans
to reduce the costs by 1 billion euros more than targeted by
2015, according to the statement. In 2011, the bank announced
15.8 billion euros of cost reductions by 2015.  Shares Jump  UniCredit’s shares surged as much as 4.9 percent in Milan
trading to the highest level since June 3. They rose 3.4 percent
to 4.31 euros at 3:32 p.m., valuing the company at 25 billion
euros. Gains this year of 16 percent compared with an increase
of 10 percent for the Bloomberg  Europe  Banks & Financial
Services Index. Ten of 39 analysts recommend buying the shares,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “UniCredit recorded the first positive signs of turnaround
in Italy,” Ghizzoni said during a conference call with
analysts. “For the third quarter in a row there was a slowdown
of net new flows to impaired loans.”  Loan-loss provisions dropped to 1.67 billion euros in the
second quarter from 1.83 billion euros a year ago. The bank’s
core Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, rose to 11.4 percent as of June 30 from 11 percent at
the end of March.  Low Rates  Net interest income dropped to 3.3 billion euros in the
quarter from 3.6 billion euros a year earlier as the  European
Central Bank  kept  interest rates  at record-low levels, paring
returns, and the bank’s lending volume declined. Trading income,
boosted by the bond buyback, rose 79 percent to 953 million
euros in the period, while total revenue increased 2 percent to
6.4 billion euros.  UniCredit said that it paid back 2 billion euros in July
from the 26 billion euros it borrowed in the ECB’s long-term
refinancing operations. The company will consider further pre-payments of LTRO funds, depending on market conditions, it said.  Net income from eastern Europe grew an annual 3.6 percent
to 425 million euros in the second quarter, countering losses
from banking units in western Europe, the company said. It made
a loss in Italy and  Austria  and a profit in  Germany .  UniCredit, emerging Europe’s biggest lender with operations
in  Turkey  and 16 former communist countries, has struggled with
uneven growth and pockets of recession in those markets.
Operating profit in the region last year outstripped losses in
Italy and helped the group report a profit.  Bad debt provisions in eastern Europe rose by 49 percent,
driven by Ukraine and Croatia, UniCredit said. Delinquent loans
expanded to 8.2 percent of the bank’s loan book.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  