-- Munich Re Quarterly Profit Falls 35% on Disaster Claims
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-08-06T11:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/munich-re-quarterly-profit-falls-to-529-million-euro.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, said second-quarter profit fell 35 percent, missing
analysts’ estimates, as claims from natural disasters rose.  Net income dropped to 529 million euros ($702 million) from
808 million euros a year earlier, the Munich-based company said
in a  statement  today. That trailed the 557.1 million-euro
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Total claims from the June floods in central Europe were
about 230 million euros. Munich Re, led by Chief Executive
Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard, kept its full-year earnings target
of “close to” 3 billion euros after profit reached 1.5 billion
euros for the first six months of the year.  “It is likely that the group will deliver on its 3
billion-euro net income target, but this is mainly due to far
below long-term average natural catastrophe losses and tax
rates,” Thomas Seidl, an analyst at  Sanford Bernstein  in
 London , wrote in a note to clients. “The underlying performance
suggests group income will trend down the coming years.”  Munich Re fell as much as 4.7 percent and was down 4.3
percent to 146.1 euros at 1:38 p.m. in Frankfurt trading,
valuing the company at 26 billion euros. That pared this year’s
gain to 7.5 percent, compared with an 18 percent advance for the
Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index and a 23 percent increase
for  Swiss Re Ltd., (SREN)  the world’s second-biggest reinsurer.  Difficult Environment  “Unlike the first quarter of 2013, the second quarter was
significantly affected by major losses,” von Bomhard said.
“The business environment remains difficult, owing to the low
 interest rates .”  Reinsurers, which help primary insurers such as  Allianz SE (ALV) 
and  Axa SA (CS)  shoulder risks in return for a share of the premiums,
face challenges from low interest rates and an abundant supply
of capital. Even with the recent European flooding, catastrophe
claims remain below average, weighing on demand for reinsurance
coverage.  Munich Re said it released about 150 million euros of
reserves in the second quarter as funds set aside for projected
losses remained “significantly above” the level of claims.  “Reserves realized so far in the first half are 250
million euros and last year some 900 million euros were
realized,”  Fabrizio Croce , an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux wrote
in a note to clients. “No wonder management is confident on the
around 3 billion-euro net profit target.”  Major Losses  Flooding drove the reinsurer’s burden from major losses to
605 million euros in the second quarter, up from 452 million
euros a year earlier. For the first half, major losses were
still below Munich Re’s projections, falling to 711 million
euros from 716 million euros a year earlier.  Losses from natural catastrophes totaled 338 million euros
for the first half, with 314 million euros of that total
occurring in the second quarter.  Allianz said last week that the June floods cost  Europe ’s
biggest insurer about 330 million euros, with the burden beyond
that covered by its reinsurers.  Allianz also expects losses of about 200 million euros from
a hailstorm that hit parts of  Germany  at the end of July. Munich
Re said today that while it’s still evaluating claims from the
hailstorm, the figure isn’t expected to exceed the second
quarter’s flood claims.  While flooding in May and June was “by far” the most
expensive natural catastrophe in the first half, resulting in
insured losses of more than 3 billion euros, total insured
losses in the period of about $13 billion remained below the 10-year average of $22 billion, according to  estimates  by Munich Re
published last month.  Prices Decline  Munich Re, which renewed about 13 percent of its property-casualty reinsurance business on July 1, said prices declined
about 0.9 percent from a year earlier.  The rates reinsurers charge may remain under pressure
throughout the year because of an influx of capital to
alternative forms of disaster coverage, such as catastrophe
bonds, reinsurance broker  Guy Carpenter & Co.  said in a  report 
last month.  The reinsurance industry accumulated a record $515 billion
of capital by the end of the first quarter, up from $505 billion
at the end of last year,  according to  broker Aon Benfield.  Munich Re CEO von Bomhard said today that the reinsurer
will consider a share buyback and will comment further when it
reports third-quarter earnings in November. The reinsurer
scrapped its latest share buyback plan in 2011 after the record
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  triggered the firm’s first
quarterly loss  since  2003.  Combined Ratio  Profit at Munich Re’s reinsurance business declined 43
percent to 378 million euros in the quarter. The property and
casualty reinsurance unit’s combined ratio worsened to 99.3
percent from 96.9 percent a year ago. A ratio above 100 percent
means claims and costs exceed premium income, leaving a loss
from underwriting. Munich Re targets a full-year combined ratio
of about 94 percent of net earned premiums.  Profit at Munich Re’s primary insurance unit, which mostly
consists of Ergo Versicherungsgruppe, was 148 million euros in
the quarter, little changed from 150 million euros a year ago.
The unit’s claims from the floods totaled about 50 million
euros.  Munich Re’s income on its 209.4 billion euros of
investments dropped 14 percent to 1.56 billion euros in the
quarter. The return on investments of 3.2 percent for the first
six months of the year trailed its full-year target of about 3.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  