-- Murdoch Seeking to ‘Get Rid of’ Australian Government, Rudd Says
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-06T07:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/murdoch-seeking-to-get-rid-of-australian-government-rudd-says.html
News Corp. (NNC)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  is
determined to remove Australia’s Labor government and may see a
state-owned high speed broadband network as a threat to his
Foxtel cable television venture, Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  said.  Murdoch and opposition leader  Tony Abbott  have a “strange
coincidence” of views on the network being built by government-owned NBN Co., Rudd told reporters in Brisbane today. “Does he
sense it represents a commercial challenge to Foxtel, which is a
major cash cow for his company?” he asked.  Rudd is facing criticism from  News Corp .-owned newspapers
ahead of a Sept. 7 election that will decide whether the country
backs the government’s NBN proposal or a cheaper, lower-speed
model proposed by the opposition. The  Daily Telegraph , Sydney’s
biggest-selling newspaper, urged readers to “Kick This Mob
Out” in a front-page editorial yesterday, while the Australian,
a national broadsheet, wrote in an editorial that the
government’s defence of its economic record “ verges on the
delusional ”.  “He doesn’t really like us and would like to give us the
heave to, and would like to get rid of us and get his mate Mr.
Abbott in,”  said Rudd, according to a transcript e-mailed by
the  Labor party .  “Any suggestion that the editorial position of our
newspapers is based upon the commercial interests of Foxtel
demonstrates a complete ignorance of both our business and of
Foxtel,” Stephen Browning, a spokesman for News Corp.’s local
unit, said in an e-mailed statement. “The general News business
would benefit from faster national broadband speeds and Foxtel
will benefit as it will be able to offer more choice and new
services.”  Foxtel, a joint venture held 50:50 between News Corp. and
Australia’s largest phone company  Telstra Corp. (TLS) , has a “near-monopoly” on subscription television in Australia, according to
the country’s antitrust regulator.  Its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of $675 million in the nine months ended March were
greater than the $558 million recorded by News Corp. businesses
spun off from more-profitable television and film units that now
form  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) , according to a company
filing. Those earnings aren’t counted as News Corp.’s since it
doesn’t control Foxtel, according to the filing.  On his  Twitter Inc. feed  yesterday, Murdoch questioned
whether the government’s broadband plan was affordable.  “We all like ideal of NBN, especially perfect for Foxtel.
But first how can it be financed in present situation?” he
wrote, in his first published comment on Australian politics
since Rudd called the election Aug. 4.  Bloomberg LP competes with News Corp. units in the market
for financial information services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  