-- Vietnam Banking Fix Starts With $474 Million of Bad Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-07T15:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/vietnam-bank-fix-starts-with-474-million-debt-southeast-asia.html
Vietnam ’s state asset management
company, tasked with cleaning up bad loans, said it will acquire
as much as 10 trillion dong ($474 million) of spoiled debt over
the next two months as it considers possible foreign funding.  Vietnam Asset Management Co. will issue special bonds to
about 10 banks in exchange for as much as 10 trillion dong of
non-performing loans in the next two months, Chief Executive
Officer Nguyen Huu Thuy said in an interview in Hanoi yesterday.
The lenders will be able to use the bonds to secure funding from
the central bank, he said.  “We can start buying the first batch of bad debt in the
next two weeks,” Thuy said. “This will send a positive signal
to the market and investors, so they can see how quickly we can
move forward and how determined we are in resolving bad debt.”  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung is seeking to overhaul
almost $5 billion in bad debt at banks that has crimped lending,
and revive an  economy  that last year grew at the slowest pace
since at least 2005. Vietnam is emulating a model tested by
neighbors from  Malaysia  to  China  in forming an entity to acquire
loans from banks, as it seeks to rejuvenate investor confidence.  “This is a brand new development and it’s long overdue,”
Alan Pham, chief economist at VinaCapital Group in Ho Chi Minh
City, said in a telephone interview. “Any concrete action or
step by the VAMC will be welcomed by the market. The purchase of
debt is a new step on this long road to resolving bad debt.”  Lenders Lag  Shares in the country’s top lenders have underperformed the
benchmark stock index this year. Of the five banks traded on the
Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange, four have dropped in 2013.
Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam, or
Vietcombank, the country’s biggest listed bank by market
capitalization, has lost 0.4 percent, and slid 1.1 percent
today.  The benchmark VN Index rose 0.7 percent at close today, and
has gained about 21 percent so far this year. The dong weakened
0.1 percent to 21,120 per dollar.  The asset company will “prioritize” buying debt from
banks that have the highest non-performing loan levels and will
require these to be backed by property and other assets, Thuy
said. Asked whether these are real-estate loans, state-owned
company debt or other borrowings, he said there is a variety.
The majority of Vietnam’s bad debt is in local currency, he
said.  The central bank estimates bad debt at 7.8 percent of
outstanding loans at the end of last year. About 35 percent of
property loans were non-performing as of the end of 2012,
according to the National Financial Supervisory Commission. The
country’s outstanding property loans stood at 230 trillion dong
as of March 31, according to the central bank.  Vinashin Debt  “It’s not necessarily good for the banks to sell their bad
debt to VAMC,” said Pham Tri Hieu, deputy head of the money-market trading desk at Nam Viet Commercial Joint-Stock Bank in
Ho Chi Minh City. “One of the conditions to make this work is
that banks will need to know exactly how much they will be
charged for using the bonds to get refinancing from the central
bank.”  State-owned enterprises account for about 53 percent of the
banking system’s bad debt, according to the finance ministry.
Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group, the state-run company known
as Vinashin, almost collapsed in 2010 because it over-diversified and failed to manage its cash flow and debt,
according to the transport ministry. Vinashin was on the brink
of bankruptcy with about $4 billion of debt, the government said
that year.  Lenders with bad-debt ratios of 3 percent and above will be
required to sell their non-performing loans to the asset
management company, according to a May government statement.  Book Value  The VAMC will purchase debt at book value and sell it at
market value, and plans to propose the central bank allow it to
buy bad debt at market value after 2013, Thuy said. The company
has spoken to international banks with clients who have
expressed interest in buying bad debt, and wants to encourage
foreign investors to participate in buying the assets, he said.  “We will auction the debt at a discount and someone will
have to take a loss,” Thuy said. “The banks and their
borrowers will have to share the loss.”  The company may also tap overseas funding for its operating
capital, the CEO said. “International organizations have
expressed a lot of interest in giving loans, or providing
funding to VAMC,” he said.  TPG Growth, a unit of the private-equity investment firm,
and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  have contacted the asset management
company to discuss working with the VAMC, Thuy said. Both
companies declined to comment.  Credit Growth  International Finance Corp., a member of the World Bank
Group, met this week with the asset management company to
discuss how the IFC “may be able to support” the organization
to address non-performing loans in Vietnam’s banking sector,
said Simon Andrews, the IFC’s country manager for Cambodia,
 Laos ,  Thailand  and Vietnam.  The asset company, which is overseen by the State Bank of
Vietnam, began operations on July 26, and will have an initial
registered capital of 500 billion dong. It will resolve as much
as 70 trillion dong of non-performing loans this year, central
bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh has said.  The “very small” level of capital assigned to the asset
company, its lack of independence and its plan to acquire debt
at book value, are “not good practices,” Deepak Mishra, the
World Bank’s lead economist in Vietnam, said last month.  The central bank in July lowered the repurchase rate to 5.5
percent from 6 percent, and asked banks to accelerate lending to
help achieve its target of 12 percent loan growth by the end of
the year. Credit grew 5.02 percent as of July 25 from end-2012,
according to official data.  The central bank said last week it will direct lenders it
qualifies as healthy to buy stakes in weaker banks.  “I do believe that the VAMC will meet expectations in
terms of helping to resolve bad debt,” Thuy said. “It’s not
easy at all to resolve bad debt. With the determination of the
government and the central bank as well as the VAMC’s utmost
efforts, we will make positive progress and attract foreign
investors to participate.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  