-- Violence Post-Mursi No Bar to Yields at 2-Year Low: Arab Credit
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-08-06T06:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/violence-post-mursi-no-bar-to-yields-at-2-year-low-arab-credit.html
Egypt ’s borrowing costs, which slid
to a two-year low this week, are set to decline further as a cut
in  interest rates  and foreign aid stabilizes the pound in the
conflict-ridden country.  The average yield on  three-month treasury bills  plunged 91
basis points to 11.61 percent at the latest auction. The yields
have tumbled 276 basis points to the lowest since June 2011
since the military deposed Mohamed Mursi last month. The local-currency debt yields 30 percent more than in similarly rated
 Pakistan  and more than double that of Lebanon.  Egypt’s central bank cut the benchmark rates last week for
the first time since 2009 to boost growth. The move comes as the
government seeks to disperse thousands of pro-Mursi protesters
in Cairo, following deadly clashes with security forces last
month. The country is seeking to use the $12 billion of Persian
Gulf aid secured in July to  restart  an economy growing at about
a third of the 6.2 percent it averaged in the five years leading
to the first revolt in 2011.  “We’re seeing a lot of things fall into place in favor of
economic recovery in terms of aid, lower borrowing costs and
renewed confidence in the government, which all point to lower
yields ahead,” Nour Mohei-el-Din, assistant general manager for
treasury at BNP Paribas Egypt, said by phone Aug. 4.
“Politically, there’s a lot of optimism that sooner or later
protesters will pack up and go home because the decisions that
have been made are irreversible.”  Reserves Rise  At least $5 billion of the aid pledged by  Saudi Arabia ,
 United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait  have been transferred, according
to state-run media. That has helped boost  foreign reserves  to
$18.9 billion in July from $14.9 billion in June and stabilize
the pound, which has gained 0.5 percent since July 3. It had
lost almost 12 percent since the central bank started rationing
foreign currency in December.  The aid has put the country’s “external position in a much
better situation,” Jason Tuvey, assistant economist at London-based  Capital Economics , said by phone yesterday. “The economy
remains fragile with industrial production still contracting in
annual terms, so it would be too early to say things are
improving in Egypt.”  ‘Welcome Sign’  Local debt costs surged following  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster in
2011, taking the three-month average yield from 9.5 percent to
as high as 14.75 percent in June 2012. Banks have been the main
buyers of the debt as foreign investors, deterred by more than
two years of unrest and a weakening currency, dumped nearly all
of the 59.4 billion pounds they held in T-bills at the end of
2010.  The higher yields led interest payments to more than double
since June 2011 to 182 billion pounds ($26 billion) this year,
according to  Finance Ministry data . About a quarter of the
country’s budget is consumed by debt-service and another 55
percent by food and fuel subsidies and public worker wages.
Post-Mubarak governments have sought to change the structure
with little success.  “The drop in yields is a welcome sign and frees up some
room to spend elsewhere such as public investment to boost the
economy,” Tuvey said. “But if there’s no sign the government
is making progress on reining in spending over the next month or
so, we could see yields rise again.”  ‘More Optimism’  The government is seeking to raise a record 200 billion
pounds this quarter at domestic debt auctions, its primary
source of funding the  Middle East ’s highest budget deficit. That
gap probably widened to 12 percent of economic output in the
year that ended in June, according to the average of 11
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on Egypt’s benchmark $1 billion of 5.75 percent
eurobonds due in April 2020 has risen 32 basis points from a
post-Mursi low of 8.33 percent on July 12 as Mursi’s backers
vowed to remain on the streets until he’s reinstated. The yield
is down 212 basis points, or 2.12 percentage points, since his
ouster July 3.  “We expect borrowing costs to fall even more in the short
term because there’s more optimism now about the government’s
ability to make the necessary changes, even in unconventional
ways,” Mohamed Kotb, regional asset management director at
Cairo-based Naeem Financial Investments, said by phone
yesterday. “For that to continue in the medium term, we would
need to see consistency and progress on their part.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  