-- Vornado to Join Buyers for Madison Avenue Skyscraper Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-08-06T18:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/vornado-to-join-buyers-for-madison-avenue-skyscraper-sale.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  and Oxford
Properties Group are joining the partnership that’s buying 650
Madison Ave. in midtown Manhattan for a record price, Vornado
Chairman  Steven Roth  said today.  Vornado will invest $12.5 million in the 600,000-square-foot (56,000-square-meter) tower at Madison and East 59th
Street, Roth told analysts on a conference call. Crown
Acquisitions Inc. and Highgate Holdings Inc. agreed to pay $1.3
billion for the 27-story building in the heart of the upscale
Plaza district, Crown said in June.  The property is “a fine asset in a fine location,” Roth
said. “It’s a fairly modern building as opposed to the Madison
Avenue buildings which are a different kind of context.”  Crown and Highgate agreed to pay about $2,100 a square
foot, a U.S. office-building record. The buyers are seeking as
much as $800 million in debt from Wall Street banks to finance
the purchase, according to three people with knowledge of the
negotiations, who asked not to be identified because the talks
are private. The debt probably would be packaged into securities
and sold to bond buyers, the people said.  The buyers originally wanted a 10-year mortgage with a
fixed rate and switched to a shorter-term, floating-rate loan,
the people said, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said in late May that policy makers could scale back stimulus
measures within months, which led to a surge in  interest rates .
Lenders are offering the investors terms for a loan with a fixed
rate for seven years, according to the people.  ‘Capital Structure’  The investor group is “in the process of putting together
the  capital structure  for this deal,” Roth said today. The four
members of the partnership each have a 25 percent stake, he
said. He called it “premature” to say anything more.  Oxford Properties, based in Toronto, invests in and manages
real estate assets on behalf of the Ontario Municipal Employees
Retirement System.  A telephone call to Claire McIntyre, an Oxford spokeswoman,
seeking comment on the investment wasn’t immediately returned.  The building’s price was driven mainly by the expected
value of its 75,000 square feet of retail space in a prime
tourist and luxury shopping area, Haim Chera, managing principal
of Crown, said in a June 2 interview.  The purchase, from  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , would be the largest
for an entire building in the U.S. since Google Inc.’s $1.8
billion acquisition of 111 Eighth Ave., a huge former warehouse
in  Manhattan ’s Chelsea section, in 2010. It would exceed the
record $1,583 a square foot paid for 450 Park Ave. in 2007.  Retail Knowledge  Vornado, which has interests in about 28 million square
feet of Manhattan properties, would bring an expertise in New
York storefront retail to the partnership. It owns all or
portions of 50 Manhattan retail properties totaling 2.2 million
square feet, according to its  website.  Those properties include
the Manhattan Mall in Herald Square, near Macy’s Inc.’s flagship
store, and a 114,000-square-foot portion of the retail segment
at 666 Fifth Ave., which includes the U.S. flagship store for
Japanese clothier Uniqlo.  Vornado, which grew in the early 1980s around the suburban
retail holdings of the Two Guys discount-store chain, considers
Manhattan street retail development to be among “our real core
businesses and strengths,” Roth said at a June 5 presentation
to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts in
 Chicago .  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  