-- Warner Music Sues Fullscreen Over YouTube Video Use
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-06T17:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/warner-chappell-music-sues-fullscreen-over-copyrights.html
Fullscreen Inc., a YouTube content
provider, was sued by music publishers including Warner Music
Group over claims it promotes music videos without paying
royalties.  Fullscreen, based in  Culver City ,  California , has engaged
in “willful copyright infringement” by using music videos
without obtaining licenses or paying royalties, according to the
complaint filed today in federal court in  Manhattan  by the
National Music Publishers’ Association. The trade group
represents American music publishers and their songwriting
partners.  “Fullscreen’s success and growth as a digital business is
attributable in large part to the prevalence and popularity of
its unlicensed music videos,” David Israelite, NMPA’s president
and chief executive, said in an e-mailed statement. “We must
stop the trend of ignoring the law, profiting from someone
else’s work, then asking forgiveness when caught.”  Fullscreen is a multichannel network that operates and
aggregates thousands of YouTube channels, with content that is
comprised mainly of cover song videos, according to the
complaint.  Founded by former YouTube manager George Strompolos,
Fullscreen claims to have 200 million subscribers across 15,000
YouTube channels with more than 2.5 billion monthly views,
according to its website.  Among the songs allegedly infringed are hits by  Kanye West ,
Justin Bieber, Ke$ha, Lady Gaga and Katy Perry. The NMPA said
today the group settled similar copyright issues with Maker
Studios Inc., another multi-channel network.  Jen Lum, a spokeswoman for Fullscreen, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Warner/Chappell Music Inc. v. Fullscreen Inc.,
13-cv-5472, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  