-- Warsaw Exchange Says It’s in Talks to Buy 30% Stake in Aquis
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r ,   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2013-08-06T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/warsaw-exchange-says-it-s-in-talks-to-buy-30-stake-in-aquis.html
The Warsaw Stock Exchange said it’s
in talks to buy a 30 percent stake in Aquis Exchange Ltd., the
London-based trading system, as central Europe’s largest bourse
seeks to expand outside its home market.  The purchase would make the Polish company the biggest
shareholder in Aquis and give it a seat on the board, three
people familiar with the situation said before the Warsaw
exchange issued its  statement  last night. They asked not to be
identified as the talks were private. Aquis will remain an
independent company with its own trading system, they said.
Aquis would like to raise as much as 13 million pounds ($20
million) from the sale, according to two of the people.  The Warsaw bourse, founded two years after Poland’s
communist government collapsed in 1989, is expanding overseas as
Chief Executive Officer Adam Maciejewski seeks growth. The
exchange and the Vienna bourse said in April they will decide in
a few months whether to start advanced merger negotiations after
the Austrian operator proposed “friendly” consolidation.  The proposed investment “fits in the strategy of
diversifying the sources of WSE Group revenues and strengthening
its international position,” the Warsaw exchange said in the
statement.  A spokesman for Aquis earlier declined to comment on the
plans.  The Polish exchange lists 443 companies on its main market,
including PKO Bank Polski SA, the largest bank in  Poland , and
PZU SA, the country’s biggest insurer, with a combined value of
777 billion zloty ($246 billion). Trading volume has soared
almost fourfold over the past decade.  Index Boost  The Warsaw bourse said yesterday it will boost the size of
its benchmark index to 30 companies from 20 to help increase
trading volumes and attract new listings.  Alasdair Haynes, the former chief executive officer of
alternative trading venue Chi-X Europe Ltd., founded Aquis last
year. The platform plans to begin operations in October,
offering trading of stocks listed on Europe’s 15 biggest
markets, and is working to win U.K. regulatory approval. If the
sale to Warsaw proceeds, employees will own 25 percent of Aquis
and private investors will hold 45 percent.  Haynes led Chi-X Europe until rival Bats Global Markets
Inc. bought the company in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  