-- Washington Nationals Sue Insurer in Tiff Over Player’s Age
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-07T00:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/washington-nationals-sue-insurer-in-dispute-over-player-s-age.html
Major League Baseball ’s  Washington
Nationals  sued an insurance company for $1 million for declining
to provide crime insurance coverage for an alleged fraud scheme
involving a team executive linked to the signing of a player who
was four years older than he claimed.  The Westchester Fire Insurance Co., of Philadelphia, a unit
of ACE Group, denied the team’s claim and “repeatedly rebuffed
the Nationals’ good faith effort to resolve this coverage
dispute,” according to the complaint.  The disagreement turns on the Nationals payment in 2006 of
a $1.4 million signing bonus to a prospect, 16-year-old Esmailyn
Gonzalez, who turned out to be 20-year-old Carlos Alvarez Lugo.  Alvarez, in a sworn statement about the circumstances of
the bonus, acknowledged his fraud and said that he kicked back
$300,000 to Jose Rijo, who at the time was an assistant to the
Nationals’ general manager, according to the complaint. The case
was transferred today to U.S. District Court in  Washington  from
Superior Court of the  District of Columbia .  Had they known Alvarez’s true age and identity at the time,
the Nationals likely would not have paid any bonus at all, team
lawyers wrote. “The $1.4 million signing bonus thus represented
a complete loss resulting from the dishonesty, theft and fraud”
by Rijo, Alvarez and another former employee of the Nationals’
front office, they wrote.  Employee Dishonesty  The Nationals reported the incident to Westchester as
employee dishonesty falling under the terms of a $1 million
commercial crime insurance policy, according to the suit.  Carla Ferrara, a spokeswoman for Westchester’s parent, ACE,
declined to comment on the complaint.  John Dever, a spokesman for the Nationals, said he had no
contact information for Alvarez or Rijo, who pitched 14 years in
the Major Leagues, mostly with the  Cincinnati Reds .  Rijo maintained his innocence in a 2011 Washington Post
article, telling the newspaper he never received money from
Alvarez and didn’t know him before the Nationals signed him.  The case is  Washington Nationals  v. Westchester Fire
Insurance Co., 13-cv-1214, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  