-- Washington Post Sale Lets Company Face Education Challenges
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-08-06T20:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/washington-post-sale-lets-company-focus-on-education-challenges.html
Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s sale of its
flagship newspaper to billionaire  Jeff Bezos  rids the company of
its weakest division, letting it focus on a once high-flying
education business now beset by government scrutiny.  The Washington-based company draws about 55 percent of its
$4 billion in annual revenue from its education unit, including
its Kaplan chain of for-profit colleges, whose sales tumbled 9
percent to $2.2 billion last year.  Like its competitors in the education industry, the
business faces increased oversight into marketing, student-loan
defaults and job-placement claims. Still, the challenges weren’t
as daunting as those of the newspaper division, where revenue
has shrunk for seven straight years. There wasn’t anything more
the company could do to save the storied Washington Post from
the print-media industry’s decline, Chairman Don Graham said.  “We’ve tried,” Graham said in an interview after
announcing the sale of the newspaper yesterday. “We have
innovated very successfully in terms of building audience, in
terms of our reputation and in terms of our products, but not in
terms of offsetting the decline in revenues.”  The sale to Bezos will add $250 million to the company’s
coffers, and it spurred a share gain of 4.3 percent to $593
today. Even so, management won’t have an easy task as they turn
their attention back to education. Concern about escalating
student debt in a sluggish economy is hurting enrollment, and
the company is dealing with more competition from traditional
institutions.  Frank Discussion  The Washington-based company reported a total revenue
decline of almost 3 percent last year to $4 billion, while
posting a 56 percent drop in operating income.  At the end of 2012, Graham said he had a frank talk with
Post Publisher Katharine Weymouth, his niece. They discussed
whether they were the best owners for the Post at a time when
the newspaper industry was being forced to adapt to the rapid
changes brought on by the Internet.  “We asked each other whether there might be some person or
company out there who could bring something different,” Graham
said. “None of us -- me, Katherine -- in the family wanted to
sell.”  Even so, they wanted to give the Post “the maximum chance
for success,” according to Graham, and decided to go ahead with
a plan.  Bezos Interest  The company hired Allen & Co. to handle the sale process,
with the investment bank’s Nancy Peretsman leading the effort.
After reaching out to a handful of potential buyers, Bezos
expressed interest early this year, according to Graham, who
declined to name other suitors.  Graham said he’d known Bezos for at least a decade and a
half, consulting with him on technology questions facing the
company. As chief executive officer of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Bezos
has worked with publishers to develop the Kindle e-reader.  “I had thought early on that Jeff would be a wonderful
buyer, but I didn’t expect him to come forward because he’s so
single-minded about his company,” Graham said.  After a few months of silence, Bezos sent Graham an e-mail
last month to discuss the acquisition.  “Obviously he’d been thinking about it. This wasn’t a
sudden or impulsive decision,” Graham said. The deal was
eventually clinched in two face-to-face meetings in early July
between Graham and Bezos at Allen & Co.’s annual media
conference at  Sun Valley ,  Idaho .  Media Breakups  Washington Post Co. is just the latest newspaper company to
cut ties with the print-media business. Tribune Co. announced
plans last month to spin off its papers from the company’s TV
operations, and  News Corp . split up into publishing and
entertainment divisions in June.  Time Warner Inc., meanwhile, plans to spin off its Time
Inc. magazine empire this year. That will let it focus on its
cable networks, including  HBO , TNT and TBS.  Washington Post Co. also has tried to diversify its
business by expanding into wide-ranging markets. Last month it
agreed to buy Forney Corp., a maker of gas and oil igniters, and
invested in FaithStreet.com, a website that helps people find a
church. Last year, the company announced plans to buy a seller
of hospice services. Washington Post Co., which plans to rename
itself after the sale to Bezos, also will retain cable systems
and broadcast TV stations, as well as websites such as Slate.  Restructuring Ahead?  The education market still makes up the majority of the
company’s sales, leaving it vulnerable to a tougher regulatory
climate. Last year, Kaplan said it stopped signing up students
at nine campuses and was folding four others into nearby
locations.  Kaplan Higher Education’s revenue fell 12 percent in the
first quarter, and the company said it is evaluating its cost
structure and may incur more restructuring charges this year.  The Post sale at least takes some pressure off the rest of
the company, and Bezos is seen as a buyer who can preserve the
asset, said  Ross Levinsohn , CEO of Guggenheim Digital Media, who
sits on the board of Tribune Co.  “It’s a wonderful result for an institution like the
Washington Post,” Levinsohn said.  The Graham family’s decision to sell the Post puts a
spotlight on the Ochs-Sulzberger clan, which controls the  New
York  Times, said Ken Doctor, a media analyst with research firm
Outsell Inc.  New York Times Co. agreed to sell the Boston Globe to Red
Sox owner  John Henry  last week. The question now is whether it
tries to sell the flagship Times newspaper as well, given the
worsening landscape for print media, Doctor said.  “With the Post sale, you have to wonder about the
Sulzbergers,” he said. “Do the Sulzbergers have the financial
wherewithal and the emotional capacity to do what needs to be
done? Without that, the logical decision would be to find
someone like a Bezos for the Times.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  