-- Wilmar Profit Rises 87% on Higher Volumes, Oilseeds Unit Rebound
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-08-06T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/wilmar-second-quarter-profit-rises-87-as-oilseeds-recovered.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s largest palm oil trader, said second-quarter profit rose
87 percent on increased sales volumes and after its oilseeds
unit swung to a profit.  Net income was $218.5 million in the three months ended
June 30, compared with $117.1 million a year earlier, the
Singapore-based company said yesterday in a statement. That
missed the $286 million average estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales declined 5.4 percent to $10.4
billion, driven by lower palm oil prices.  Palm oil, the world’s most-used edible oil, tumbled to the
lowest level in more than three years last month and has
declined 7.9 percent this year. Wilmar said yesterday in its
outlook that while lower palm prices add to challenges, cheaper
costs for commodities will benefit the company.  “The current low crude palm oil prices and declining
refining margins in  Indonesia  add to an already challenging
operating environment,” Chief Executive Officer Kuok Khoon Hong
said in a separate statement. Lower raw material prices for its
downstream products and recent investments such as in sugar and
specialty fats, “will have positive contributions,” he said.  The  stock  fell 0.3 percent to S$3.15 yesterday in
 Singapore , before the announcement, bringing this year’s decline
to 5.7 percent.  Wilmar’s palm processing and trading unit, its biggest,
posted a 40 percent gain in pretax profit and a 10 percent
increase in sales volume as it added refining capacity in
Indonesia. The company buys more than 90 percent of the palm oil
for its refineries from third parties.  Its oilseeds unit, which processes soybeans in meal and
oil, posted a $15.3 million profit before tax in the quarter
compared with a $40 million loss a year earlier as margins
remained positive.  Volumes rose 22 percent at its consumer products unit and
64 percent at its sugar unit, Wilmar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  