-- Twitter Buzz Helps Boost TV-Show Ratings, Nielsen Finds
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/twitter-buzz-helps-boost-tv-show-ratings-nielsen-finds.html
Twitter Inc. users, sending status
updates in 140-character bursts on the social-networking site,
can increase television ratings by sharing their thoughts while
a show is on air, researcher Nielsen found.  After analyzing more than 200 episodes of prime-time
television programs, Nielsen determined that a surge in the
number of tweets about a show increased its ratings almost a
third of the time. The reverse is also true: The more people
tuning in, the more usage there is on Twitter.  The study marks the first time Nielsen has established a
direct link between Twitter activity and TV use, potentially
helping the social-networking site attract more marketing
dollars. While the ad industry continues to rely on TV viewers,
broadcasters are trying to keep consumers who are flocking to
the Internet. Twitter, as part of its bid to reach $1 billion in
sales by 2014, has already capitalized on its users’ overlap
with TV audiences.  Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  expanded a  service 
last month that lets companies target users who tweet about the
shows they’re watching. Advertisers also can augment their TV
commercials by reaching the same audiences via Twitter, helping
reinforce their message. Marketers typically look for ways to
reach consumers multiple times within a given period, a common
advertising tactic known as frequency targeting.  The study comes before Nielsen’s forthcoming “ Twitter TV
Rating, ” a new metric that will start showing up next to
traditional TV ratings in the second half of the year. The added
 figures  will show how many people were tweeting about a
particular program, helping both advertisers and programmers
understand Twitter’s effect on a show. Nielsen is already
providing data to some of its network clients.  Twitter Ratings  The Nielsen study found that Twitter chatter had a greater
impact on certain TV genres. Tweets around reality programming
influenced ratings for 44 percent of episodes. Comedy shows
benefited from Twitter usage 37 percent of the time. Sports
programs got a boost 28 percent of the time, while drama shows
were affected 18 percent of the time.  Even so, smaller dramas such as ABC Family’s “Pretty
Little Liars” have benefited from a Twitter-using audience. The
show garnered more than 1.6 million Twitter comments around last
year’s season finale, part of an effort by parent company  Walt
Disney  Co. to help  drive viewership .  Twitter, based in  San Francisco , has staked a large part of
its future growth on convincing advertisers and TV programmers
of its influence over common viewing habits, akin to a virtual
water cooler. As part of that strategy, Twitter acquired data
and analytics firm Bluefin Labs for about  $100 million  earlier
this year to analyze Web discussions generated by TV programs.  Rival Facebook  Twitter has also brokered partnerships with major TV
programmers, including Walt Disney’s ESPN;  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s MTV and
Nickelodeon; and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of TNT, TBS and  CNN .
The agreements let Twitter stream videos on its site and split
the resulting ad revenue with the networks, a person familiar
with the matter  said  earlier this year.  Twitter’s tack on television differs from that of  Facebook
Inc. (FB) , which is looking to siphon away some of the ad dollars
spent on TV networks by planning to offer  TV-style commercials ,
people familiar with the matter said last month.  Twitter is working directly with TV networks to help
increase viewing as well as brokering new ad partnerships in
which both the social network and TV programmers can benefit
from new promotions.  The Nielsen study goes beyond an  earlier  analysis from the
measurement firm that highlighted the significant correlation
between Twitter usage and TV viewing. The new study takes that
finding a step further by concluding Twitter can directly
increase a TV show’s audience.  “These results substantiate what many of our TV partners
have been telling us anecdotally for years: namely, that Twitter
drives tune-in, especially for live, linear television
programming,” Ali Rowghani, Twitter’s chief operating officer,
said in a statement accompanying the Nielsen study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  