-- Woods Ready to Duel With Mickelson for PGA Championship Title
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/woods-ready-for-pga-championship-duel-with-mickelson-at-oak-hill.html
Tiger Woods  and  Phil Mickelson  are
again atop golf’s hierarchy, renewing interest in their rivalry
for this week’s  PGA Championship , where Woods is seeking to end
a five-year major drought and Mickelson is looking for his
second straight win in a Grand Slam event.  Woods, No. 1 in the Official World Golf Ranking, enters
this week fresh off his eighth career victory at the Bridgestone
Invitational. Mickelson, No. 2, is three weeks removed from his
back-to-back titles at the British Open and the Scottish Open.
Ten years ago when the PGA Championship was held at  Oak Hill ,
Woods and Mickelson also entered the tournament as favorites.  While a lot has changed between golf’s two biggest names
since the event was last played at the Rochester,  New York ,
course, the potential for a showdown still looms large when
action begins tomorrow. Mickelson, with five major titles to
Woods’s 14, said he is ready for it.  “I’m as motivated as ever to compete and to play and get
the best golf out of me to hopefully play against Tiger when
he’s playing his best,” Mickelson, 43, said in a press
conference yesterday. “That would ultimately be the goal; if I
can play as well as I can at the same time he’s doing the same,
I would love that opportunity.”  Mickelson’s win at the British Open on July 21 moved him
past Rory McIlroy,  Justin Rose  and  Adam Scott  from No. 5 in the
ranking to No. 2. He and Woods hadn’t held the top two world-ranking spots since Sept. 26, 2010.  Trophy Focus  Woods said he’s worrying less about Mickelson and more
about the winner’s Wanamaker Trophy.  “Phil and I have certainly battled in a few majors and a
few tournaments here and there,” Woods said. “Not as much as
people think.”  Woods, 37, is a 4-1 favorite to win this week, according to
LVH Super Book assistant manager  Jeff Sherman . Mickelson is next
at 15-1, tied with Masters Tournament winner Scott of  Australia .  Woods had won four times heading into the 2003 PGA, where
he finished 39th, and would later add his fifth win of the
season at the American Express Championship. He ended that year
without a major for only the second time in his first seven full
seasons on the U.S.  PGA Tour . He has ended each of the past four
seasons without a win in a Grand Slam event, with his last major
title at the 2008 U.S. Open in  Torrey Pines  near  San Diego .  The drought appears to have forced Woods to adjust his high
standards. Even without a major win on his list of 2013
accomplishments, Woods said at a news conference yesterday that
it has been a “great year” for him, an assertion he had long
reserved only for seasons that included a major trophy.  Quality Wins  “Look at the quality of tournaments I’ve won,” Woods said,
referring to victories in two World Golf Championship events and
the Players championship, tournaments that attract the world’s
best golfers. “That’s pretty good.”  In 2007, when he was winless in the first three majors,
Woods said in his pre-PGA press conference that his season had
been “pretty good, but not great” without a major. At that
point, he had won four events, including two World Golf
Championships, and won the year’s major finale.  Individual records aside, one thing remains certain when it
comes to Woods and Mickelson.  “Every tournament, they are a threat to win,” said 31-year-old American  Hunter Mahan , who was paired with Mickelson in
the final group at this year’s British Open. “Especially right
now. It’s pretty impressive to see that their longevity is
continuing.”  Golf Rivals  Mahan cautioned against defining the duo as true rivals in
golf, a sport where players compete more against the course than
other players.  “People want them to be together for a rivalry’s sake,”
he said. “It’s hard to just have two guys battle it out each
week. Golf is not like that.”  Their differing personalities help make the matchup more
intriguing, even to Mahan.  “They are just so different in every way,” he said. “I
don’t know of a common thing other than they love to compete
when they play golf. How they go about it is just so different,
but they both get it done.”  Following a win at a tour event with a victory in a major
the next week hasn’t been easy for Woods. In 17 previous
opportunities, he has won four majors after winning a U.S. tour
event, most recently at the 2007 PGA.  The statistic wasn’t overlooked by Mickelson, who took the
chance to point out that he is playing as well, if not better,
than Woods coming into this week.  “Having Tiger win last week is great,” he said. “Because
I can’t remember the last time somebody won the week before a
major and then went on and won.”  That was an unspoken reference to his win at the Scottish
Open the week before his British Open victory last month.  “It’s great for the game,” Mickelson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Rochester, New York at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  