-- WTI Fluctuates as U.S. Crude, Fuel Stockpiles Seen Lower
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-06T12:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/wti-fluctuates-as-u-s-crude-fuel-stockpiles-seen-lower.html
West Texas Intermediate snapped a
two-day drop amid better-than-forecast economic data in  Europe 
and estimates that U.S. crude inventories probably dropped to
the lowest since January.  Futures reversed losses of as much as 0.6 percent after
reports showed German factory orders increased the most in eight
months and  Italy ’s recession eased in the second quarter. U.S.
crude stockpiles fell by 1.1 million barrels to 363.5 million
last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts
before tomorrow’s Energy Department report.  Libya ’s largest oil-export terminal remained shut amid protests, with output at some
fields at less than a 10th of previous rates.  “Crude rebounded just around the time of the Italian GDP
figures,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart,  Denmark . “The overall euro zone
outlook appears to improve, though with big regional variance.”  WTI for September delivery advanced as much as 71 cents to
$107.27 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $106.89 as of 1:31 p.m. London
time. It had dropped as much as 59 cents to $105.97. The volume
of all futures traded was 16 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for September settlement rose 31 cents to $109.01 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $2.14 to WTI.  Industrial Output  German  orders , adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 3.8 percent from a month earlier, driven by contracts
for bulk items, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a gain of 1 percent in June, according to
the median of 42 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Italian
gross domestic product contracted 0.2 percent in the first
quarter, beating forecast of 0.4 percent, national statistics
institute Istat said in a preliminary report in  Rome  today.  The Energy Department will release its report at 10:30 a.m.
Washington time tomorrow.  U.S.  gasoline stockpiles  fell by 500,000 barrels in the
week ended Aug. 2, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate inventories, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, are forecast to
have decreased by 400,000 barrels.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release separate supply data today.  Es Sider  Libya’s biggest export terminal,  Es Sider , can store crude
for 20 more days before filling up, Ibrahim Al Awami, the
director of the inspection and measurement department of the oil
ministry, said yesterday. The port closed on July 28 amid
protests by staff and armed guards.  Interruptions at ports and other installations across Libya
reduced the country’s  oil production  to 800,000 barrels a day
last month, the least since December 2011, a Bloomberg survey of
output from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
shows. That’s half the post-revolution peak of 1.6 million
barrels a day reached a year earlier, the data show.  WTI has technical support along the bottom of an upward-sloping trend channel going back around six weeks on the daily
chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This line is at
about $104.50 a barrel today. Buy orders tend to be clustered
close to chart-support levels.  -- Editors: Raj Rajendran,  Matthew Brown   To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  