-- WTI Crude Fluctuates Amid Signs U.S. Fuel Stockpiles Fell
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-07T12:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/wti-rebounds-after-three-day-drop-on-signs-supplies-fell.html
West Texas Intermediate swung between
gains and losses before government data forecast to show U.S.
crude inventories fell to a six-month low. London-traded Brent
slid for a fourth day.  Futures fluctuated after declining for three days in New
York. Stockpiles declined by 1.5 million barrels to 363.1
million last week, a Bloomberg News survey showed before the
report from the Energy Information Administration. That would be
the fifth drop in six weeks. Prices advanced earlier today after
a report showed German industrial production rose in June,
adding to signs that growth in Europe’s largest economy
accelerated in the second quarter.  “Stockpile withdrawals are normal for this time of year,”
said Hans van Cleef, an energy economist at ABN Amro Bank in
Amsterdam. “Draws in the past few weeks have supported prices
somewhat, but from a historical point of view we’re at
relatively high levels, meaning there shouldn’t be any panic.”  WTI for September delivery fell 14 cents to $105.16 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
as of 1:18 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures traded
was 16 percent below the 100-day average. Futures are up about
14 percent in 2013.  Brent for September settlement dropped 67 cents to $107.51
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark grade was at a premium of $2.35 to WTI, narrowing for
the first time in four days.  German Output  German industrial  output  increased 2.4 percent from May,
when it dropped a revised 0.8 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said today. Economists forecast a gain of 0.3 percent,
according to the median of 41 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Production climbed 2 percent from a year earlier when
adjusted for working days.  WTI surged 8.8 percent in July, the biggest monthly gain
since August 2012, on concern that political turmoil in  Egypt 
may disrupt oil supplies from the Middle East. U.S. crude
inventories also shrank in the four weeks through July 19 to
364.2 million barrels, the lowest level since January, according
to the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical unit.  Investors have been reacting to “the EIA numbers for the
last three or four weeks because of this substantial draw down
that we’ve seen,” said David Lennox, a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney. “We will be looking forward to less of a
draw down and a hint of a more negative impact on crude
prices.”  Crude Supplies  Crude supplies fell 3.7 million barrels, the industry-funded American Petroleum Institute said yesterday, according to
a person familiar with the data. The industry group in
 Washington  collects information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA for its
weekly survey.  The U.S. accounted for about 20 percent of global oil
consumption last year, compared with 11 percent for  China , the
second-largest user, according to International Energy Agency
data. Motor-fuel demand typically rises during the peak vacation
season from May to early September.  Gasoline inventories  probably fell by 500,000 barrels in
the week ended Aug. 2, according to the median estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Supplies dropped by 1 million,
said the person familiar with the API data, who asked not to be
identified because the report wasn’t publicly distributed.  WTI may rebound after reaching technical support within an
uptrend channel going back more than six weeks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday traded near the
bottom of this channel at about $104.51 a barrel. The channel’s
lower limit is about $104.90 today. Buy orders tend to be
clustered around chart-support levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  