-- WTI Crude Declines Third Day on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-08-06T18:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/wti-crude-declines-third-day-on-stimulus-speculation.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for a third day amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce stimulus and after Bank of America’s Francisco Blanch
said it will be difficult for WTI to rally much more.  Prices slid 1.2 percent as Fed Bank of Chicago President
 Charles Evans , who has been among the most vocal proponents of
record monetary accommodation, said he wouldn’t rule out a
September decision to taper the central bank’s bond-buying
program. WTI could drop $8 to $10, Blanch, head of commodities
research at Bank of America in New York, said in a Bloomberg
Radio interview with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee .  “People have been concerned about the Fed reducing its
stimulus and we seem to be closer to the point where it actually
happens,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “It could be
that people are seeing Blanch’s comments as a tipping point.
This is now the time to take some profit.”  WTI for September delivery decreased $1.26 to settle at
$105.30 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
have tumbled 2.5 percent since reaching a 16-month high on July
19. The volume of all futures traded was 9.9 percent below the
100-day average at 2:46 p.m.  Brent for September settlement slid 52 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $108.18 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was near the 100-day
average. The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $2.88
to WTI.  Crude surged 8.8 percent in July, the biggest monthly gain
since August 2012, as U.S. inventories dropped and on concern
that political instability in  Egypt  may disrupt exports from the
 Middle East .  WTI Forecast  “At this level, it will be hard for WTI to push higher
unless there is a major geopolitical event,” Blanch said.  The Fed is likely to end the $85 billion a month bond
buying program in mid-2014, Evans said at a meeting with
reporters in Chicago. He is a voting member of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  this year and has consistently supported
increased stimulus.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , one of the most
outspoken critics of quantitative easing, warned investors in a
speech yesterday in Portland, Oregon, not to rely on the central
bank’s monthly bond purchases.  Crude also dropped as flows through the BP Plc-operated
North Sea Forties Pipeline System rose gradually after the
system shut down on Aug. 1 for maintenance. Flows via the line
will remain below normal through mid-September, according to the
London-based company.  Libyan Output  Libya  will probably pump 800,000 barrels a day of oil next
month, up from 700,000, Oil Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi said
yesterday. The North African country reopened an oil port closed
by protests last week. All but one of Libya’s oil-export harbors
was shut last week because of a labor dispute.  “The resumption of shipping on the Forties Pipeline System
and expectations that Libyan oil output may be walking back up
toward more normal levels may have contributed to the
weakness,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York, in an e-mail.  Iranian President Hassan Rohani said his country, the
target of international sanctions over its nuclear program, is
“seriously determined” to resolve the dispute without
compromising its right to nuclear power for peaceful purposes.  “We are for negotiations,” Rohani said in his first news
conference after taking office this month. “We are ready to
enter without wasting time in negotiations that are substantive
and serious.”  Iran  holds 9.6 percent of the production capacity of the
12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  U.S. Inventories  Prices gained earlier on forecasts that U.S. inventories
dropped to a six-month low last week. Stockpiles decreased 1.5
million barrels to 363.1 million in the week ended Aug. 2, a
Bloomberg survey showed. The Energy Information Administration
reports weekly inventory data tomorrow.  “We are seeing a tightening fundamental picture in the
U.S.,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “If you continue to see draws
in crude stocks, I think the market is going to be firmer.”  U.S. crude production jumped to an average 7.5 million
barrels a day in July, the highest monthly level since 1991, the
EIA said today in its  Short-Term Energy Outlook . The agency
forecast U.S. output will average 7.4 million barrels a day in
2013 and 8.2 million in 2014, both about 100,000 barrels a day
higher than last month’s forecast.  U.S. Production  Crude output in July was “the highest for any month since
1991,”  Adam Sieminski , the administrator of the EIA, said in a
statement. “EIA expects that U.S. monthly crude-oil production
will exceed U.S. crude-oil imports as early as October, the
first time this will have happened since February 1995.”  The agency also boosted its 2013 forecast for WTI to $96.96
a barrel from $94.65 in July. The U.S. benchmark grade will
average $92.96 in 2014, up from the previous month’s estimate of
$91.96.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 21.5 percent, down from 22.1 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 482,847
contracts as of 2:46 p.m. It totaled 428,075 contracts
yesterday, 38 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.87 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  