-- Yen Rises to Seven-Week High Before BOJ Decision; Pound Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-08-07T21:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/yen-touches-6-week-high-as-boj-meets-before-current-account-data.html
The yen rose to a seven-week high
versus the dollar amid bets the  Bank of Japan  at its policy
meeting tomorrow will refrain from adding to stimulus that’s
helped weaken the currency 11 percent this year.  The pound advanced against the majority of its most-traded
counterparts as the  Bank of England ’s consideration of inflation
tempered speculation the central bank will keep borrowing costs
at a record low. The euro climbed for a second day versus the
greenback after a report showed German industrial production
rose in June more than analysts forecast. India’s rupee fell
toward an all-time low on concern the  Federal Reserve  will taper
stimulus that’s driven cash into emerging-market assets.  “ Japanese yen  strength is likely positioning related ahead
of the BOJ decision,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said via instant message. Other
Group of 10 central banks “have taken steps to further ease
conditions via either shifts in language or outright policy
action. The BOJ isn’t expected to join those banks in increasing
accommodation this week, and I think that might be contributing
to the stronger Japanese yen.”  The yen added 1.4 percent to 96.33 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
New York, the strongest level since June 20. Japan’s currency
climbed 1.2 percent to 128.47 per euro. The euro added 0.2
percent to $1.3336 after touching $1.3345, matching a six-week
high set July 31.  Rupee, Pound  India’s currency was the biggest decliner among the
dollar’s 31 most-traded peers after  Raghuram Rajan , who will
take charge of India’s central bank when Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao’s term ends Sept. 4, said yesterday more steps will be
taken soon to stabilize the rupee.  The  currency  fell 0.9 percent to 61.30 per dollar,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg,
after tumbling to an all-time low of 61.8050 yesterday.  The pound rebounded from the steepest decline in a month
versus the dollar after the Bank of England said the 7 percent
unemployment level is a threshold, not a “trigger,” for the
Monetary Policy Committee to reassess its policy stance. The key
rate is at a record-low 0.5 percent.  Sterling added 0.9 percent to $1.5489 after dropping as
much as 0.9 percent. It rose 0.7 percent to 86.10 pence per euro
after depreciating to 87.70 pence on Aug. 1, the weakest level
since March 12.  Mexico’s peso weakened for the first time in four days as
President Enrique Pena Nieto pushed back the announcement of a
proposal to overhaul the  energy industry . The peso slumped 0.8
percent to 12.7167 per dollar.  BOJ Forecasts  The BOJ won’t expand stimulus at the end of its meeting
tomorrow, according to all 25 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . The central bank currently buys more than 7 trillion yen
($72 billion) of  government bonds  every month as part of its
effort to increase annual inflation toward 2 percent in two
years.  The yen has gained 5 percent over the past three months,
the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro advanced 3.6
percent, and the dollar strengthened 2 percent.  Japan had a surplus of 400 billion yen in its June  current
account , the broadest measure of trade, according to a survey of
economists before the Ministry of Finance report tomorrow. The
 trade deficit  is likely to have narrowed to the least in a year
as a weaker currency typically makes exports more competitive.  ‘Under Pressure’  “We’ll see if there’s any revisions in the statements from
the BOJ to reverse course,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S.
currency sales in New York at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , said
in a phone interview. “The dollar has been under pressure a
little bit just overall on the ongoing tapering outlook. It’s
putting some pressure on the dollar, so that has something to do
with” the yen’s rise, he said.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans , among the
strongest proponents of the unprecedented efforts to stimulus
the  U.S. economy , said yesterday he “would clearly not” rule
out a decision to begin curbing the $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases next month.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of Asian shares dropped 1.7
percent while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPA)  declined 0.4
percent.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $28 billion, compared with $31 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $11.6 billion, the
largest share of trades at 41 percent. Options on the sterling-dollar rate totaled $4.5 billion, or 16 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 94 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Pound-dollar options
trading was 89 percent more than average.  The euro strengthened after the Economy Ministry in Berlin
said German  industrial production  rose. Output increased 2.4
percent from May, when it dropped 0.8 percent. Economists
forecast a gain of 0.3 percent, according to the median of 41
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany’s AAA credit ranking was affirmed as stable by
 Fitch Ratings , which said in a statement that the government
“has overachieved on some key fiscal targets.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week
economic indicators signal the currency bloc is past the worst
of its longest-ever recession, while reiterating that  interest
rates  will stay low for the foreseeable future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  