-- Zillow Tumbles After Posting Second-Quarter Loss on Costs
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-08-07T20:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/zillow-posts-second-quarter-loss-on-rising-expenses.html
Zillow Inc. (Z) , operator of the largest
real-estate information website, dropped the most in three
months after reporting a second-quarter loss on higher costs
related to advertising and acquisition-related compensation.  Zillow fell 7.7 percent to $83.73 at the close in New York.
The shares have more than tripled this year, compared with a 19
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The net loss for the period ending June 30 was $10.2
million, or 30 cents a share, compared with a profit a year
earlier, Zillow said in a statement yesterday. Excluding share-based compensation expenses, the company posted a profit of 1
cent, beating the average analysts’ forecast for a loss of 11
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zillow faces increased competition from  Trulia Inc. (TRLA)  and
other providers of real-estate listings amid a U.S. housing-market recovery. Zillow has bought other companies to maintain
growth and spending cash to diversify its products.  “They’re investing more aggressively in sales and brand
advertising,” said Aaron Kessler, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in San Francisco who rates the shares market
perform, the equivalent of neutral. “That’s partially holding
back better margins in the near-term, but these should improve
going forward.”  Revenue climbed 69 percent to $46.9 million, compared with
analysts’ prediction for $44.4 million on average. Zillow is
forecasting sales of $186 million to $188 million this year, up
from the previous outlook for $178 million to $182 million,
Chief Financial Officer Chad Cohen said on a conference call
yesterday.  Obama Meeting  The number of people visiting Zillow via its website and
mobile devices reached a record of 61 million unique users in
July, up 66 percent from a year earlier, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer Spencer Rascoff hosted a question-and-answer session with President  Barack Obama  on responsible
home ownership today. Obama called for private capital to take
the lead role in the nation’s mortgage market with the U.S.
government continuing to provide a backstop only against
catastrophic risk.  The president for the first time endorsed an approach to
remake the housing finance system as  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
are wound down. He said the government still must play a role to
preserve broad access to 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages that
underpin the market.  “You can’t have a situation in which the government is
underwriting and guaranteeing all the mortgage lending that’s
taking place around the country and big profits are being made
by these quasi-private institutions,” Obama said. Congress
should pass housing legislation by the end of the year, he said.  Obama has done similar town hall meetings with Internet
companies including  Facebook Inc.  and  LinkedIn Corp. , and he’s
also fielded questions submitted on the popular online forum
Reddit.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  