-- Mugabe Plans to Tranform Zimbabwe Through Wealth Transfer
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-08-06T08:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/zimbabwe-s-ruling-party-plans-unique-wealth-transfer-model.html
Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe ,
who won a disputed election last month, plans to transform the
economy by transferring more wealth to its citizens, the ruling
party said.  Mugabe and his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic
Front will boost the economy through its policies of
indigenization and economic empowerment, the party said in a
statement handed to reporters today in the capital, Harare.  “Over the next five years, Zimbabwe is going to witness a
unique wealth-transfer model that will see ordinary people take
charge of their economy,” it said. “The people of Zimbabwe
have given President Robert Mugabe and ZANU-PF a clear mandate
to transform the economy through indigenization and economic
empowerment.”  Mugabe, 89, extended his 33-year rule of the southern
African nation with 61 percent of the vote in the July 31
election and his party secured a two-thirds majority in
parliament. Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai , who won 34
percent, called on the  African Union  and the 15-nation  Southern
African Development Community  to back his demand for a rerun.
Zimbabwe’s benchmark stock index fell 11 percent yesterday, the
biggest fall since 2009.  Botswana’s Criticism  With its indigenization policy, Mugabe and Zanu-PF have
forced mining companies such as  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) 
and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  to cede majority stakes in
their local assets to black Zimbabweans or the government. The
southern African nation has the world’s second-biggest platinum
and chrome reserves, as well as diamond, gold and coal deposits.
Tsvangirai had promised to repeal the measure.  While African countries largely endorsed the vote as
credible, the U.S. called the vote “deeply flawed,” while the
U.K. said it had “grave concerns over the conduct of the
election.”  The government of Botswana, which borders  Zimbabwe , broke
ranks with other regional nations yesterday by calling for an
independent audit of the vote. The irregularities found by
observers indicate that the process “cannot be considered as an
acceptable standard for free and fair elections in SADC,”
Botswana’s government said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  