-- Zimbabwe Election Flaws Excused as SADC Closes Ranks
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-08-06T10:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-06/zimbabwe-election-flaws-excused-as-sadc-closes-ranks.html
Southern African leaders sealed
Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe ’s victory in elections the
opposition said was rigged, underscoring the limits of regional
efforts to uphold democracy.  The 15-nation  Southern African Development Community  and
the  African Union  glossed over complaints from  Morgan Tsvangirai , leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, that
the electoral roll and voting process were manipulated. The
U.S., U.K., European Union and domestic observers said
irregularities had compromised the credibility of the election.  South African mediators mandated by SADC forced Mugabe, 89,
into a unity government with two factions of the MDC after a
2008 vote that was marred by violence. SADC failed to enforce
key provisions of the power-sharing accord including ensuring
the impartiality of the security forces and the state media,
which gave ZANU-PF’s election campaign blanket coverage and
ridiculed the opposition.  “The MDC was outmaneuvered by Mugabe with the complicity
of SADC,” Phil Mtimkulu, a politics lecturer at the University
of South Africa in  Pretoria , said in a phone interview
yesterday. “SADC should have called Mugabe to order. As soon as
he stands up and shouts at them, they backpedal. They don’t want
to hang out their dirty linen in public.”  Mugabe secured 61 percent of the July 31 presidential vote
to extend his 33-year rule, while his Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front won a two-thirds parliamentary majority.  Urban Voters  ZANU-PF used the security forces to control the voting
process, thousands of people were turned away from polling
stations and voters were bussed in to cast ballots outside their
home areas, Tsvangirai, 61, told reporters in Harare on Aug. 3.  “Those who would like to wash their hands over this issue,
they will do so,” he said. “Zimbabweans will have to contend
with this situation on a daily basis.”  The  Zimbabwe Election Support Network , which deployed more
than 7,000 domestic observers to monitor the vote, said on Aug.
1 that 1 million urban voters were unable to cast ballots as the
registration process was biased against them. Mugabe barred
Western nations from observing the election.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  called the vote “deeply
flawed” that said it didn’t represent a “credible expression
of the will of the Zimbabwean people.” The European Union and
U.K. also raised concerns about irregularities.  ‘Stand Firm’  While a 442-member SADC observer team found the vote was
“free and peaceful,” it can only assess the fairness of the
election after 30 days, Tanzanian Foreign Minister Bernard Membe
said on Aug. 2. The grouping is likely to endorse the vote,  he
said.  Former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo, who headed a
69-member AU observer mission, described the election as free
and “fairly credible,” while South African President  Jacob Zuma  said on Aug. 4 that all Zimbabwe’s political parties should
accept the outcome of the vote.  “SADC and  South Africa  aren’t prepared to stand firm
against Mugabe,” Gilbert Khadiagala, an international relations
professor at the University of Witwatersrand, said by phone from
Johannesburg yesterday. “They talk the talk but they don’t
really do the walking. They have never been clear in
consistently applying their common standards on governance and
democracy that they set themselves.”  Botswana was the only SADC nation to break ranks, calling
yesterday for an independent audit of the election.
Irregularities revealed by observers “cannot be considered as
an acceptable standard for free and fair elections in SADC,”
the government said in a statement.  Election Delay  “SADC still rates stability and history higher than
fairness when it comes to elections, in part because it is a
cartel of incumbents and in part because it has little real
power to take or enforce more risky positions,” Mark Rosenberg,
an Africa analyst at Eurasia Group said in an e-mailed response
to questions yesterday.  “I don’t think SADC has much credibility as a promoter of
democracy,” he said. “It’s mostly a protector of the status
quo.”  In June, SADC urged Zimbabwean authorities to delay the
elections until conditions were created for the vote to be free
and fair.  Zimbabwe ’s  Constitutional Court  ruled against a
postponement and SADC backed down.  Mugabe had threatened to withdraw from SADC if it did
anything “stupid” during or after the election. He also showed
his disdain for the South African mediation effort when he
described Zuma’s foreign policy adviser Lindiwe Zulu as “a
street woman” after she called for a delay in the vote.  SADC’s failure to confront the election’s deficiencies
undermines democracy in the region, said Brian Raftopolous, a
Mugabe critic and director of research at the Solidarity Peace
Trust, a church-backed human rights group. Several regional
nations will hold elections next year, including South Africa,
 Namibia  and  Mozambique .  “SADC has not fulfilled its mandate,” he said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Provided there was no overt violence,
they were prepared to overlook all other administrative
electoral irregularities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  