-- 
Mainfreight Enters Europe on Purchase of Holland’s Wim Bosman

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-03-07T04:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/mainfreight-enters-europe-on-purchase-of-holland-s-wim-bosman.html
  Mainfreight Ltd. (MFT) , New Zealand’s
largest trucking company, agreed to buy Netherlands-based Wim
Bosman Group for 110 million euros ($153 million) in its first
European acquisition.  Mainfreight plans to buy the closely-held transport and
logistics provider with bank debt, the Auckland-based company
said in a statement. The acquisition is Mainfreight’s first
since July 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  Wim Bosman , based in ‘s-Heerenberg on the Dutch-German
border, owns branches in six European countries that include
more than 1,000 transport units as well as warehouse and docking
facilities, according to the statement. The acquisition is part
of the company’s ambitions to become a global business, Managing
Director Don Braid said in a telephone interview.  “They’re getting it at what looks to be a pretty
attractive price,” Marcus Curley, an Auckland-based analyst at
Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd., said in a telephone interview.
“Mainfreight trades on nine times EBITDA and they’re buying
this business on six.”  Mainfreight’s shares rose by 47  New Zealand  cents, or 5.8
percent, to NZ$8.59 in Wellington trading, lifting the company’s
market value to about NZ$846 million. It was the shares’ biggest
gain since November 2008.  Earnings Per Share  The company has “significant balance sheet capacity” for
the acquisition after agreeing to new bank facilities that allow
for borrowings of as much as NZ$415 million, according to
today’s statement. The transaction is likely to increase
Mainfreight’s earnings per share, it said.  “It should be earnings enhancing somewhere between 15 and
20 percent,” Curley said.  Mainfreight has existing businesses in New Zealand,  Australia ,  Asia  and the U.S., according to its website.  “The acquisition is a strong strategic fit for Mainfreight
and will provide an excellent platform for Mainfreight to expand
its business and service offering globally,” the company said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  