-- 
MALAYSIA DAYBOOK: Exports, Badar Raya, Gefung, Fajabaru, Sunway

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-03-06T21:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/malaysia-daybook-exports-badar-raya-gefung-fajabaru-sunway.html
  Malaysia ’s exports rose at the
slowest pace in three months in January as electronics
manufacturers shipped fewer goods to customers in the U.S. and
China.  Overseas shipments climbed 3 percent to 54 billion ringgit
($17.8 billion) from a year earlier after gaining 4.6 percent in
December, according to a trade ministry statement on March 4.
The median estimate of 16 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 4.5 percent gain.  EQUITY PREVIEW:
*  Sunway Holdings Bhd. (SGW)  : The developer won a 258
million-ringgit contract to help construct part of the Legoland
Malaysia Theme Park in the country’s southern Johor state,
according to a company statement.
*  Bandar Raya Developments Bhd. (BRD)  : The property developer
said it secured a 450-million ringgit loan facility with three
banks. The money will be used to repay inter-company borrowings,
fund its dividend payment and for working capital, according to
an exchange filing.
*  Fajarbaru Builder Group Bhd. (FBC)  : The builder said it won
two civil works contracts worth a total 150.1 million ringgit.
* Fotronics Corp. (FOT MK): The electronic components
manufacturer unveiled a restructuring plan under which it would
transfer its listing status to a new company called Urus Jaring
Sdn. Fotronics stockholders would receive one share in the new
company for every 10 existing shares held, it said in a
statement.
*  Gefung Holdings Bhd. (GFHB)  : The marble and granite
products maker proposed a par value reduction and rights issue
to raise funds to recapitalize the company.  MARKETS on MARCH 4:
* Malaysia’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index rose 1 percent.
* The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 1.1 percent.
* The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 0.7 percent.
* Palm oil May-delivery futures advanced 1.7 percent to 3,660
ringgit ($1,208) a metric ton.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  