-- 
Attacking Teachers Reveals Cost Less Than in ’81: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-03-06T16:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/attacking-teachers-shows-cost-less-than-in-81-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
The political battles raging in
states across America are cast as about whether big labor
retains its considerable clout.  Republican Governors  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin and  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey  say public employees are fleecing
taxpayers, causing fiscal chaos. It’s an inherent conflict,
critics contend, for public-employees’ unions to bargain with
government officials they helped elect with campaign support.  In a column in  Newsweek  last week, a former adviser to
President  George W. Bush  charged that the primary purpose of
public unions is to “work against” the interests of taxpayers.
“Public unions are big money,” the article boldly proclaims.
Most of the specifics are directed at unions representing
teachers, firefighters and nurses, yet the broadsides attack
labor generally.  The reality is the U.S. labor movement has steadily lost
influence, politically, socially and economically. Labor
believes President  Barack Obama  is taking it too much for
granted; he is.  Most of the workforce isn’t unionized, and labor
negotiations are less important than in the past. “There’s no
sector, other than professional sports, where unions actually
have a big impact on cost structure and productivity,” says  Andy Stern , the former head of the  Service Employees
International Union .  Declining Membership  Over the last 30 years, the number of private-sector
 unionized employees  has dropped from more than 20 percent of the
workforce to 7 percent today. The number of unionized public
employees has remained at about 35 percent.  Yet the impact of teachers and police unions are
exaggerated. Labor costs, including wages and benefits, are
actually a smaller share of state and local spending -- about 52
percent today, down from 63 percent 30 years ago, according to
the Commerce Department’s  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  The power of collective bargaining, critics charge, is a
cause of the states’ fiscal situation. Yet some states such as  Texas , which prohibits collective bargaining for public
employees, have a far greater budget shortfall than Wisconsin.
Most experts agree the real cause of the budgetary crisis on the
state and local as well as the national level is the 2008
financial crisis.  Regardless, some Republican governors insist public-
employee wages and benefits have to be brought in line with the
private sector. A  Bureau of Labor Statistics  report in December
found the average state-local government worker earns more than
$40.10 an hour in salary and benefits, or almost 50 percent more
than the $27.88 an hour earned by the average private worker.  Pay Differences  Upon closer examination, that’s misleading, as government
workers tend to be better educated; 60 percent of  Wisconsin 
public employees have college degrees, and a report last year by
the bipartisan Center for State and Local Government Excellence
found that when factoring in education levels, state and local
workers earned 11 percent to 12 percent less than comparable
private workers. That was true in Wisconsin, too.  Still, with huge budget shortfalls primarily caused by the
economic crisis, there’s no dispute that teachers, nurses and
cops have to make sacrifices. They complain, however, that
governors in Wisconsin, New Jersey and  Ohio , by taking any
higher taxes off the table, aren’t spreading the sacrifice. New
Jersey’s Christie vetoed a small tax increase for millionaires;
the average teacher in his state makes $65,000 a year.  ‘Rubber Rooms’  Teachers’ unions are the focus of the debate. Often they’re
their own worst enemies, not because of high salaries -- usually
teachers aren’t paid enough -- or lavish pensions, but because
of rigid work rules that protect inept teachers and stifle
innovation.  New York City  is still trying to phase out its
“rubber rooms,” where teachers accused of incompetence or
misconduct receive full pay for months as they sit in a room
awaiting adjudication.  Yet if America’s school problem was simply attributable to
unions, the education expert Diane Ravitch wrote recently in The
New York Review of Books, why is it that  Finland , with a widely
praised education system, has heavily unionized teachers?  Without question, states such as  California , New Jersey and  Illinois  have unsustainably high, unfunded pensions for public
employees and will have to significantly change those plans.
Also there are more than a few states where public employees can
retire at 55 with a full pension; by contrast, most Americans
have to be 66 today before qualifying for Social Security
benefits.  Koch Brothers  Public-employee unions do negotiate with politicians they
supported or helped elect with  campaign contributions . This,
however, is only a variation on the many special interests that
contribute massive amounts to candidates and then seek
legislative favors. A prime example is the Koch brothers,
billionaires who run a far-flung energy empire and contribute
millions, much of it undisclosed, to politicians with whom they
curry political favor.  “Why are public employee unions any different from the
Koch brothers seeking tax breaks?” argues Stern. “We have
situational ethics here.”  It’s also a canard that big labor is tantamount to big
money in U.S. politics. Unions are far outmatched by business
and corporate interests in every cycle, on the federal level,
and on most state levels, too.  “Whether in federal campaign donations, lobbying or
contributions to outside groups, unions are vastly outspent by
business in every category,” says Sheila Krumholz, executive
director of the nonpartisan  Center for Responsive Politics  in  Washington , which tracks political spending.  Democratic Supporters  U.S. labor mistakenly has put all its political eggs into
the Democratic basket, making it easier and more natural for
Republicans to attack them.  Not long ago, some unions, including the Teamsters and
building trades, principally supported Republicans; even the
largest teachers’ union, the National Education Association,
backed about as many Republicans as Democrats. Republicans such
as Senator Clifford Case of New Jersey and even President  Richard Nixon  received important labor backing.  Yet last year, more than 90 percent of union political
contributions and support went to Democrats. Of course, today’s
Republicans, the Christies, the Walkers, probably prefer making
a weakened union movement a target.    Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 