-- 
Australia ‘Getting Left Behind’ in Tackling Climate, Swan Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-06T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/australia-getting-left-behind-in-tackling-climate-swan-says.html
Australia risks falling behind
countries such as  China  in reducing greenhouse gas pollution
without a price on emissions that will ensure the “health and
prosperity” of the economy, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “The Chinese are taking dramatic action to reduce their
emissions through a variety of mechanisms,” Swan said yesterday
on Australia’s Channel Nine television. “It’s not true to say
other countries are not moving. We are getting left behind.”  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  wants to set a
carbon price starting in July 2012 in preparation for a trading
system that could begin as early as 2015. The opposition
Liberal-National coalition, led by  Tony Abbott , vowed to fight
the plan, saying it would add to household electricity bills.  Imposing a carbon price to encourage Australian businesses
to curb their emissions will drive investment in renewable
energy technologies, Swan said.  Australia , the world’s biggest
coal exporter, has set a target of generating 20 percent of its
power from renewable sources like wind and solar by 2020.  “There is no cost-free way to transform our economy and
reduce emissions,” Swan said in his weekly notes e-mailed
yesterday. “Putting a price on carbon through a market
mechanism is the least-cost and most effective policy option.”  Large polluters will pay a price to emit carbon, Swan said
in the television interview yesterday.  “That money will be used to assist households and
industry,” he said. “If you listen to Mr. Abbott, you would
think the government was going to go out there and take the
money out of people’s pay packets.”  Climate Debate    Climate change  is a “debate we can win,” Swan said.
Australian Infrastructure Minister Anthony Albanese, speaking on
Channel Ten’s “Meet the Press” program earlier yesterday, said
introducing a price on carbon is “critical.”    BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s biggest steelmaker, has
called the government plan “economic vandalism” and said it
would reduce the company’s competitiveness as it battles high
raw-material costs and the stronger Australian dollar.  Alcoa
Inc. (AA) , the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, said it supported a
“carefully designed” price that doesn’t damage the industry.    Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , developer of the A$14 billion
Pluto liquefied natural gas project in Australia, said its
“trade-exposed” exports should be excluded from any climate
change proposal because there isn’t an international accord on
pricing greenhouse gas emissions. The government plan should
reflect the role LNG plays in lowering emissions, the Perth-
based company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Support in Parliament  Gillard’s  Labor Party  needs the support of four non-party
lawmakers to pass laws in parliament. A multiparty climate
change committee, formed after a request from the Greens party,
released a framework document on reducing emissions on Feb. 25
which didn’t fix a carbon price or set a level of compensation
to be paid to companies and households.  Gillard vowed to revive the climate-change plan after she
replaced  Kevin Rudd  last year. Rudd’s popularity as prime
minister plummeted after he shelved his cap-and-trade proposal.  “There will be some difficult conversations to come,”
Gillard said on Feb. 24.  Abbott yesterday called Gillard’s plan a tax that “won’t
necessarily help the environment,” according to a transcript.
“But it certainly will hit everyone’s cost of living.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  