-- 
Axa, BP, EADS, Mapfre, Safran, Unilever: Europe Equity Preview

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K l e e g e
-- 
2011-03-06T23:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/axa-eads-hsbc-holdings-mapfre-safran-unilever-europe-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in European trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.6 percent to 281.90. The
Stoxx 50 Index slipped 0.8 percent to 2,661.42. The Euro Stoxx
50 Index, a benchmark for nations using the euro, declined 0.7
percent to 2,949.18.    Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  : The Dublin-based
government-controlled lender is proposing to Ireland’s central
bank that it be split into core and non-core operations, the
Sunday Business Post reported. The shares fell 2 percent to 24
euro cents.    Axa SA (CS)  : A unit of the insurer offered about 400
million euros ($560 million) for Milan-based fiber-optic company
Metroweb SpA,  Il Messaggero  said. The shares rose 0.4 percent to
15.01 euros.    BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  : Europe’s largest defense company
has offered to sell supersonic Typhoon jets capable of landing
on aircraft carriers to the Indian navy, the Mail on Sunday
reported. The stock declined 1 percent to 324.3 pence.  BP Plc (BP/ LN): The blowout preventer that failed to stop
the petrochemical company’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill last year
should undergo more tests by U.S. officials to identify possible
design flaws, according to one of the U.S. federal agencies
investigating the disaster. BP rose 0.5 percent to 493.90 pence.  TNK-BP’s board delayed a vote on replacing  BP Plc (BP/)  in an
alliance with OAO Rosneft for a second week, as directors from
the U.K. explorer and an independent member asked for more time
to study proposals, the venture said. Meanwhile, Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  said TNK-BP may be able to work on  Russia ’s Arctic shelf if it makes an appropriate proposal to OAO
Gazprom or OAO Rosneft. The shares rose 0.5 percent to 493.9
pence.  British Sky Broadcasting Plc (BSY LN): The U.K.-based pay
television operator’s biggest shareholders are negotiating an
increase in the price Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. may have to
pay for the 61 percent of the broadcaster it doesn’t control,
the Observer reported. The stock gained 0.2 percent to 825
pence.    Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  (DB1 GY): The operator of the Frankfurt
stock exchange may seek an Asian partner, Chief Executive
Officer Reto Francioni indicated in an interview with
Handelsblatt. The shares fell 0.2 percent to 55.75 euros.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD FP): The
aerospace company won’t appeal Boeing Co.’s victory in a tanker
contest and won’t bid for the U.S. presidential helicopter
fleet, Chief Executive Officer  Sean O’Keefe  said. The shares
dropped 0.4 percent to 19.695 euros.    Grifols SA (GRF)  : The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
approved revised labeling for the Spanish pharmaceutical
company’s Alphanate blood-clotting agent to show steps taken to
prevent the compound leading to infections of variant
Creutzfeldt Jakob Disease. The shares rose 0.4 percent to 11.79
euros.    HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  : Europe’s biggest bank prefers
to keep its headquarters in  London  and said reports of an
“imminent change” are speculative, Chairman  Douglas Flint  and
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said. The stock declined
1.5 percent to 652.5 pence.    Mapfre SA (MAP)  : The Spanish insurer is targeting sales
of 22.5 billion euros this year, compared with 17.2 billion
euros in 2010, and is in “very advance talks” with Caja Madrid
over the sale of its stake in a banking joint venture, Caa
Madrid said in a regulatory filing. The shares rose 0.5 percent
to 2.67 euros.    Parmalat SpA (PLT)  : Chief Executive Officer Enrico
Bondi met key shareholders to argue for the renewal of his
mandate, La Stampa said, citing bankers attending the meeting.
The shares rose 0.1 percent to 2.29 euros.    Safran SA (SAF)  : The French defense contractor said it
will scrap its executive and supervisory board structure and
create a single board. The shares fell 0.1 percent to 25.455
euros.    Societe Generale (GLE)  SA:  France ’s second-largest bank
received clearance from Lebanon’s central bank to buy Lebanese
Canadian Bank. The shares dropped 2.6 percent to 47.515.  Unilever (UNA NA): The consumer goods company’s forced sale
of the Sanex deodorant and body-wash business it acquired last
year is drawing bids and interest from rival consumer-product
companies such as  Procter & Gamble Co ., Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
(HEN3 GR) and Colgate-Palmolive Co., people familiar with the
matter said. The shares fell 0.3 percent to 21.72 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kleege in New York at 
 skleege@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  