-- 
Cameron Says U.K. Government Must Not Be Among the `Enemies of Enterprise'

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-06T15:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/cameron-says-u-k-government-must-not-be-among-the-enemies-of-enterprise-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said government officials need to change their attitude to
business if the economy is to grow.  “We are taking on the enemies of enterprise,” Cameron
told the conference of his  Conservative Party  in Cardiff, Wales
today. “The bureaucrats in government departments who concoct
those ridiculous rules and regulations that make life impossible
for small firms. The town hall officials who take forever to
make those planning decisions.”  Cameron’s coalition government is engaged in the country’s
biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II as growth faltered and
the economy shrank in the final quarter of 2010. With spending
cuts due to take effect from next month, Cameron is instead
trying to drive growth in the private sector by easing planning
restrictions, cutting business taxes and making it easier for
small companies to bid for public contracts.  “The road ahead will be hard, this year in particular,”
he said. “But the plan is right. Our  credit rating  has been
confirmed. Market interest rates are lower.”  Cameron said fiscal stimulus wasn’t an option. “When
people say spend loads more money, I say forget it -- Labour
spent it all,” he said.  He said he will hold banks to the business lending
commitments they made this year, as he tries to stimulate
private sector growth.  Watching Banks  "We’ve got another 10 billion pounds of lending out of
those banks,’’ he said. “And my guarantee to you is this: I’m
going to watch those banks like a hawk and make sure they
deliver for Britain’s small businessmen and women."  Cameron argued that enterprise is ‘‘a social good,” as
well as a means of making money. “It’s about morals too,” he
said. “The hunger to get on in life. The courage to make your
dream happen.”  Cameron said he wanted to see smaller companies winning at
least a quarter of government contracts, rather than "the same
old big players."  The prime minister said it was the right thing to take
business delegates on his recent trip to the Middle East,
arguing that other countries were "out there selling their
goods." He said Britain could "out-compete, out-perform, out-
hustle the best in the world.’’  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne yesterday
signaled he may cut fuel taxes in his March 23 budget, as the
rising cost of oil pushes the price of gasoline to record highs.  “I know how hard the rises in world oil prices are hurting
families in Britain,” Osborne told the conference. “I know
people feel squeezed. I hear you. I won’t take risks with
economic stability, or wreck the public finances. But I promise
you I am doing everything I can to find a way to help.”  In an interview with Sky News today, Osborne said that
abandoning his deficit reduction plan would cause a “panic the
next day” and “the markets would crash.”  “What we have bought for ourselves is a breathing space,
some stability,” Osborne said. “We have got a plan that is
credible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  