-- 
China Overseas Land Plans $500 Million Real-Estate Fund In Wager on Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-07T08:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/china-overseas-land-plans-500-million-real-estate-fund-on-demand-wager.html
  China Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd. (688) , the Hong Kong-listed developer controlled by the nation’s
construction ministry, plans to set up a real-estate fund of
$300 million to $500 million as it bets that government measures
won’t curb property demand.  The fund, which will invest in commercial and residential
properties in  China , may be ready in the first half, Chairman
Kong Qingping said in an interview in Beijing.  Kong is betting long-term property demand in China, where
January home prices rose in all but two of the 70 cities
monitored by the state, will outweigh the impact of curbs
imposed by a government concerned about an asset bubble.
Expansion by Chinese developers into smaller cities may hurt
their profit margins as land costs climb faster than home
prices, Credit Suisse Group AG said March 2.  “Any company that has a nationwide coverage is certainly
stronger than those in single cities,” Kong said when asked
about the Credit Suisse report. “They’re emerging markets with
low and healthy home prices.”  Cities including Jinan in the north, Nanjing in the east
and Kunming in the south have followed the capital Beijing in
introducing local curbs on home purchases. The government this
year raised down-payment requirements for second-home purchases
and imposed taxes on residential properties in Shanghai and
Chongqing.  Control Home Prices  China Overseas hasn’t been affected by property curbs
imposed by the government yet, Kong said. The measures will help
control home prices in the short term, though long-term demand
will continue to be strong, he said.  Vincent Lo, chairman of rival  Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , said
yesterday he expects home sales in China will fall “sharply”
this year because of government curbs. Lo’s Shui On Construction
and Materials Ltd. said today it closed a China real estate fund
to investors after raising $400 million.  Real Estate Group Co., the nation’s second-biggest
developer, said last week the current round of curbs won’t
change its bullish outlook in the medium to long term.  China Overseas was unchanged at HK$13.46 at the close in  Hong Kong . The stock lost 6.4 percent this year, compared with
the 1.2 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The Hang
Seng Property Index declined 3.1 percent.  Credit Suisse said developers including China Overseas,
which expanded heavily into the smaller cities, will be the most
affected by the government measures.  Commercial Projects  The company wants its commercial property to account for 20
percent of its net income in five years, Kong said. The
developer has more than 2 million square meters of commercial
property land bank, he said.  Its parent had HK$32 billion ($4.1 billion) in cash at the
end of last year, Kong said. Financing plans for the listed
company will depend on its business expansion plans, he said.    China State Construction International Holdings Ltd. (3311) , a
sister company, will take part in the government’s call to build
more affordable, public housing, including two projects in
Chongqing, said Kong, who is also chairman of China State
Construction.  The government plans to build 36 million low-income housing
units in its 12th Five-Year Plan. The plans won’t have a “big
impact” on the private residential market, Kong said.  “The return rates of building social housing is low, but
it also has low risks,” Kong said.  --Bonnie Cao in Beijing. Editors: Tan Hwee Ann, Paul Panckhurst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  