-- 
Chirac Stands Trial on Louis XIV Attitudes of Leaders

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-08T15:04:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/chirac-stands-trial-for-louis-xiv-attitudes-of-french-leaders.html
(Corrects Chirac’s age in second paragraph of story
published March 7.)    Jacques Chirac  will be the first
former French leader since World War II to stand trial when
hearings begin today on charges he abused his role as mayor of
Paris to reward party loyalists.  The heart of the claims against Chirac, 78, lies in a sense
of political entitlement many French leaders have felt since
long before mobs lopped off the heads of the elite, said anti-
corruption activist  Daniel Lebegue .  “Louis XIV said, ‘The state, it is me,’ and still today,
many political leaders in France think their functions let them
award privileges,” said Lebegue, president of  Transparency
International in France . Chirac “thought he was a sort of
sovereign, a monarch. He had no checks on him.”  The last French head of state to face trial was Vichy
leader Philippe Petain, who was convicted of treason. Chirac,
who is among 10 defendants in the case including his former
chiefs of staff and the grandson of the late president  Charles de Gaulle , has denied the allegations he gave jobs to political
supporters. The claims date back two decades to Chirac’s mayoral
term. The case was put on hold because French law blocks
investigation of a sitting head of state for anything less than
high treason.  Public prosecutors in Paris and nearby Nanterre, where the
matter was investigated, opposed a trial and the City of Paris
dropped its claim after reaching a settlement. In that deal, the
former president and the Union for a  Popular Movement , successor
to Chirac’s Rally for the Republic party, paid 2.2 million euros
($3 million) to the city. Neither admitted guilt.  1977-1995    Jean Veil , Chirac’s lawyer, declined to comment prior to
the trial.  Excluding a two-year hiatus as prime minister, Chirac
served as mayor of Paris from 1977 until he was elected
president in 1995. His legal troubles since leaving office in
2007 haven’t hurt his popularity. He was ranked  France ’s most
popular political figure by magazine Paris Match in the same
month he was ordered to stand trial on the job-contract claims
that earned him the moniker “Supermenteur,” or Super Liar, on
the nation’s most-popular television satire show while he was in
office.  If convicted, Chirac faces as long as 10 years in prison
and a 375,000-euro fine, as well as ineligibility for future
political posts. Prior, similar cases indicate he is unlikely to
receive jail time. A 2005 verdict convicting four former Chirac
aids in the jobs scandal resulted in suspended sentences,
limiting their punishments to fines and public service bans.  Juppe Comeback  Alain Juppe, a former prime minister who served as deputy
mayor to Chirac, was one of those found guilty. He received a
one-year ban on holding public office and a 14-month suspended
sentence. He returned to politics in 2006 and was elected mayor
of Bordeaux, and his comeback in national politics was cemented
last month when President  Nicolas Sarkozy  turned to him to
salvage the country’s foreign policy after Michele Alliot-Marie
resigned, in part for accepting private plane rides from
associates of deposed Tunisian leader Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Recent events in neighboring  Italy  have put the allegations
against Chirac into perspective.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is facing four
trials this year. He didn’t appear last month at one in Milan
for  tax fraud  and falsifying accounts involving his company
Mediaset Spa. Another hearing is scheduled on tax fraud related
to broadcasting rights purchased by Mediaset unit Meditrade-RTI.  Heartstealer  This week, Berlusconi is to face accusations he paid a U.K.
lawyer to lie under oath. And on April 6, the first hearing is
scheduled in the “Ruby Heartstealer” trial in which Berlusconi
was indicted on charges of paying for sex with an underage
Moroccan dancer, and abusing his power to cover his tracks.  “It would be quite hard to be quite as embarrassing as
Berlusconi,” said Helen Drake, a political science professor at
 Loughborough University  in Leicester, U.K. When Chirac was
mayor, “France was quite decentralized and there was more scope
for elected officials at the local level. Seeking to exploit the
rules is inherent to the political process.”  Politicians are perceived as corrupt for using their posts
to reward followers or for having multiple roles in both the
public and private sectors and conflicts of interest, Lebegue
said.  Transparency International ’s corruption perceptions index
showed 67 percent of French responded yes when asked if their
political leaders are corrupt or susceptible to corruption.  In France, politicians blur the “lines between the general
interest and the personal interest, that’s what citizens decry
when they say ‘Yes, our political leaders are corrupt,’”
Lebegue said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 