-- 
Denmark’s Bank Mergers May Reshape Industry by 2013

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-07T08:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/danish-fsa-says-merger-wave-may-reshape-bank-industry-by-2013.html
(Corrects spelling of Noedgaard in fourth, eighth
paragraphs.)    Denmark ’s financial industry faces
consolidation as small banks struggling to refinance debt before
a state guarantee ends in 2013 get absorbed by bigger rivals,
said Ulrik Noedgaard, head of the country’s financial regulator.  “Many banks will face challenges as they need to refinance
the individually guaranteed bonds,” said 41-year-old Noedgaard,
director general of the Financial Supervisory Authority, in a
March 4 interview in Copenhagen. “One of the tools they can use
is to strengthen by merging with other banks. It’s on the cards
that we’ll have fewer banks.”  Since Amagerbanken A/S failed on Feb. 6, setting a European
Union precedent by inflicting losses on depositors and senior
bondholders, Denmark’s lenders have faced higher funding costs
than rivals outside the Nordic country. Moody’s Investors
Service 10 days later cut its ratings on five Danish banks,
including Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest, as it factors
out the likelihood of government support.  Some of the banks that don’t opt for mergers will be forced
to “scale down the number of loans,” Noedgaard said. “Share
sale is another tool; that will boost solvency, which is crucial
if the banks want to raise funds in the  bond market .”  Asked whether more Danish banks might fail, Noedgaard said
“it’s too early to make that conclusion. There’s still some
risk out there on the loan books and we’ll have to wait and see
how things develop.”  Financial stocks were the biggest losers on Copenhagen’s
benchmark index, losing 0.6 percent, compared with a 0.2 percent
decline for the OMXC30 Index at 9:27 a.m. in Copenhagen. Danske
Bank dropped 0.6 percent to 126 kroner.  ‘Excessive Risks’  The failure of Amagerbanken, Denmark’s fifth-largest listed
lender, was the first to fall under rules effective since
October that opened the door to bondholder losses. Financial
Stability, the state winding-down unit, estimates Amagerbanken
creditors and depositors will lose about 41 percent of holdings
not backed by guarantees. Guarantees on bank bonds issued during
the state program that expired on Sept. 30 run out in 2013.  “We knew in advance that one of the consequences of
Denmark no longer securing all debt holders could be that
financing costs would rise -- it was even written in the law
proposal,” Noedgaard said. “Investors know now that if a bank
takes excessive risks then you may end up paying the bill. We’re
currently a bit tougher than the rest of  Europe , but the Danish
regime is consistent with the recent proposal from the European
Commission.”  Mergers  Since Amagerbanken’s collapse, regional Danish lenders
Sparekassen Faaborg A/S and Svendborg Sparekasse A/S agreed to a
15.5 billion-krone ($2.9 billion) merger on March 2, creating a
new unit, Bank Fyn A/S, which will employ 319 people and be
listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange.  Danske Bank Chief Executive Officer Peter Straarup said in
a Feb. 10 interview Denmark’s 130 banks can’t escape
consolidation. Danske Bank won’t buy up any smaller rivals to
comply with competition laws, it said last month. Sydbank A/S
and Spar Nord Bank A/S, the country’s third- and fourth-largest
lenders, have said they may look for opportunities.  The rise in funding costs comes as smaller banks are more
dependent on wholesale financing than they were two years ago.
Denmark’s biggest lenders, with more than 50 billion kroner in
working capital, raised 699 billion kroner through bond sales as
of June, up 7 percent from a year earlier, according to the FSA.
Banks with less than 50 billion kroner in working capital almost
tripled bond sales in the period to 72.4 billion kroner, it
estimates.  Funding  Banks stepped up borrowing to finance loans amid
speculation Denmark’s property market would rise.  House prices ,
which surged an annual 26 percent in the second quarter of 2006,
subsequently slumped 28 percent through the second quarter of
2009. Since then, the number of commercial bankruptcies soared
41 percent through a November 2010 peak. Homeowner insolvencies
are up 75 percent since the second quarter of 2009, according to
the statistics office.  “There are still some banks out there that could be
vulnerable,” Noedgaard said. “There are banks out there that
have big exposure to real-estate and agriculture. Banks with
real-estate exposure have been hit hard.”  Since Amagerbanken’s failure, Denmark’s financial stocks
have suffered. Danske Bank shares have lost 12 percent, shares
of Jyske Bank A/S, the country’s second-largest lender, are down
8.1 percent, while Sydbank stock has slumped 15 percent. That
compares with a 3 percent decline in the 32-member MSCI European
Financials Index.  Writedowns  Danske Bank wrote down 13.8 billion kroner of bad loans last
year, down from 2009’s record of 25.7 billion kroner, it said on
Feb. 10. The bank also announced plans to raise about 20 billion
kroner in a rights offering to boost capital and repay
government loans. Proceeds will increase Danske’s core Tier 1
capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, to about 12.5
percent from 10.1 percent, it said.  “Writedowns are somewhat unevenly distributed among
Denmark’s banks,” Noedgaard said. “There are some banks that
are challenged; in general terms, the worst writedowns are
behind us, especially for the big banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 