-- 
Dubai Stocks Rise Most in a Month After 15% Tumble, Following Saudi Rally

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-06T14:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/dubai-stocks-rise-most-in-a-year-lead-gulf-gain-on-bets-losses-overdone.html
Dubai shares advanced the most in a
month, leading gains in the Middle East, as a rebound in  Saudi
Arabia ’s index yesterday spurred speculation the selloff in
regional stocks because of political unrest was overdone.    Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
tower, increased 2.5 percent and  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) 
advanced the most since October. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed
2.7 percent, the most since Feb. 2, to 1,389.04 at the 2 p.m.
close in the emirate. The gauge has lost 15 percent since
Tunisia’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted in
January. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rallied 7.3
percent yesterday, the most since November 2008, snapping a 13-
day losing streak. It gained 0.9 percent today.  “The gains were prompted by what we saw yesterday in Saudi
Arabia,” said Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $110 million
at The National Investor in  Abu Dhabi . “Investors took this
opportunity to buy. Looking forward, there is no visibility as
the news flow is very rich and there are tensions across the
Gulf Cooperation Council countries.”  Stocks tumbled across the region last week, sending the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf shares to the lowest
level since 2009 and propelling the Saudi benchmark index down
the most in two years, on concern turmoil in Libya will spread
to the kingdom after uprisings erupted in Bahrain and Oman. The
BGCC 200 measure rose 0.8 percent today.  An increase in  oil prices  will boost the “strong
condition” of the kingdom, Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf
told Al Arabiya TV yesterday. Stock prices in Saudi Arabia,
which holds about 20 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves,
are attractive and the Saudi Public Pension Agency bought shares
last week, he said.  Saudi Rallies  Oil rose 2.5 percent to a 29-month high on March 4. Crude
oil for April delivery increased to $104.42 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Sept. 26,
2008. The six nations of the GCC, including the United Arab
Emirates and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Shiite Muslims in the eastern province of Saudi Arabia held
two demonstrations on March 3 to call for the release of
prisoners. Saudi Arabia’s Interior Ministry said demonstrations,
marches and sit-ins are “strictly” prohibited under the
kingdom’s laws, the official Saudi Press Agency reported March
5, citing an unidentified official at the ministry.  Emaar rose the most since Feb. 2 to 2.47 dirhams. Dubai
Islamic Bank gained 4 percent, the most Oct. 20, to 2.10
dirhams.  Bahrain’s BB All Share Index rose 1.3 percent. Kuwait’s SE
Price Index climbed 0.7 percent and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  advanced 1.1 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  increased 0.8
percent. Qatar’s gauge is closed for a holiday.    Egypt  Bourse  In North Africa, Egypt stock trading remained suspended
today after the bourse postponed plans to resume operations as
Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik quit. No date was given for the
opening. The bourse has been shut for more than a month amid a
popular revolt that toppled the 30-year-old regime of former
President Hosni Mubarak. The measure lost 16 percent in the week
ended Jan. 27, when it last traded.  “The fact that Egypt’s market is not open today is a very
big negative, especially as we do not have an idea of when it
may reopen,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head of
investment at Royal Capital. “We expect a lot of volatility in
regional markets.”  Tunisia’s stock exchange will resume operations tomorrow,
according to a statement on its website. The market regulator
suspended trading on Feb. 28. The benchmark Tunindex has
retreated 21 percent so far this year.  In  Israel , the TA-25 Index slipped 0.6 percent in Tel Aviv.
The benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government bond due January 2020
dropped, pushing the yield on the 5 percent bond up 3 basis
points to 5.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  