-- 
Egypt Leaders Agree on Candidates for Sharaf Cabinet to Be Sworn In Today

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-03-07T11:14:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/egyptian-leaders-agree-on-eight-positions-for-sharaf-s-governing-cabinet.html
Egyptian leaders agreed on
candidates for a new Cabinet that is due to be sworn in today to
help manage a transition to democracy after an uprising ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak  last month.  Finance Minister Samir Radwan will retain his position, the
state-run Middle East News Agency said today, without saying how
it got the information.  The new government is scheduled to be sworn in before the
ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which on March 3
asked the prime minister-designate, Essam Sharaf, to form a new
Cabinet.  Former Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik resigned following calls
by protesters that he leave along with other ministers appointed
by Mubarak. The former president was forced from office on Feb.
11 after three decades in power by an uprising inspired by the
ouster of  Tunisia ’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali a month
earlier.  The new cabinet will also reappoint Hassan Younes to head
the ministry of electricity and energy, Fayza Aboulnaga for
international cooperation, Fathi El-Baradei for housing, Ibrahim
Manaa for civil aviation, Nabil Arabi as foreign minister and
Sayed Mashaal for the ministry of military production, the news
agency said.  Additional Candidates  Majed George will remain state minister for environment
affairs, Jawda Abdul Khaliq as minister of social solidarity and
internal trade, Munir Fakhri Abdelnoor for tourism, Abdallah al-
Husseini for religious endowments, Mohsen Al-Nomani for local
development, Samir Ali El-Sayyad for industry and foreign trade,
Atef Abdelhamid for transport, Majid Othman for communications
and information technology, and Hussein Mustapha for irrigation
and water resources, it said.  The other appointments, according to the news agency, are
Mohamad Abdul Aziz al-Jundi, justice; Imad Abu Ghazi, culture;
Ahmad al-Burhi, labor; Mohammed Abdullah Ghorab, petroleum; and
Ayman Farid Abu Hadid, agriculture.  The designation of Sharaf, a former transportation
minister, has been welcomed by many protesters and opposition
figures. Shafik, a former air force official, was named prime
minister by Mubarak in January.  “This is the first Cabinet that reflects the choice of the
people. It includes ministers who participated in the revolution
and who supported it,” said Ziad Elelaimy, a member of the
Alliance of the Youths’ Revolution, a coalition of protesting
groups. “They can implement the demands of the revolution.”  Protesters’ Choice  Sharaf and Arabi were among those who joined protesters
during the uprising in Tahrir Square, the hub of mass
demonstrations, Elelaimy said, which endeared them to many
activists.  Arabi’s name was among those suggested by the coalition to
Sharaf for inclusion in the Cabinet, he said.    Egypt ’s stock market will open after a new cabinet is
formed, Khaled Seyam, head of the bourse, told Al Jazeera
television two days ago. The bourse has been closed since Jan.
27 after the benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  fell 16 percent amid the
uprising.  Egypt may post economic growth of 1.5 percent “at best”
this year following the unrest that led to the ouster of
President Hosni Mubarak, Kai Stuckenbrock, director of the
regional sovereign ratings group at  Standard & Poor’s , said
today in a conference call. Growth may fall to zero,
Stuckenbrock said.  Protesters and security forces clashed this weekend. Tanks
were sent to guard the state security building in the southern
city of Assiut after demonstrators tried to storm it March 5,
saying its main purpose is to spy on dissidents, Al Arabiya TV
reported.  Security forces also fought demonstrators near a state
security building in Alexandria on March 4, killing one person
and injuring four,  Al Arabiya  said, citing a witness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 