-- 
Egypt Sells Fewer Treasury Bills Than Planned as Yields Hit Two-Year High

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-06T12:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/egypt-sells-fewer-treasury-bills-than-planned-as-yields-hit-two-year-high.html
  Egypt  raised 3 billion pounds ($509
million) in treasury bills today, 1.5 billion pounds less than
planned, as yields rose on concern the economy is struggling to
recover from the revolt that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak .  The  Ministry of Finance  sold 1 billion pounds of 91-day
bills at at a yield of 11.49 percent, the highest level since
January 2009 and 39 basis points higher than the previous sale
on March 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It raised 2
billion pounds out of 3.5 billion pounds it had sought in 266-
day notes, with the average yield rising to 12.47 percent, the
highest since November 2008 and 31 basis points above debt sold
in the previous auction.  Yields are climbing amid investor concern at the country’s
failure to reopen its stock exchange three weeks after the
uprising forced Mubarak to resign on Feb. 11. Economic growth
will slow to about 4 percent in this fiscal year through June,
from an earlier forecast of about 6 percent, Finance Minister
Samir Radwan said.  Prime Minister-designate Essam Sharaf may announce the full
list of his cabinet by the end of the week, spokesman  Magdy Rady 
told reporters on March 5. Radwan is likely to retain his post,
the state-run Al Ahram newspaper reported, without saying how it
got the information.  Samy Khallaf, adviser to Radwan, couldn’t be reached for
comment by Bloomberg News at his office in Cairo.  Sharaf succeeds Ahmed Shafik, who bowed to popular pressure
and resigned last week. Mubarak had appointed Shafik in January
in a bid to placate the anti-government protesters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  