-- 
Strauss Says Win Over South Africa Can Kick-Start England’s World Cup Bid

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-07T00:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/england-defeats-south-africa-by-six-runs-in-world-cup-cricket-group-game.html
  England  captain Andrew Strauss said
yesterday’s six-run win over South Africa can “kick-start” his
team’s Cricket World Cup campaign.  Four days after a shock loss to Ireland,  Stuart Broad  took
four wickets as England rebounded in Chennai after posting just
171 in its innings. India had a five-wicket victory over Ireland
in Bangalore in the other Group B game.  “It was a huge game for us, because after the Ireland game
we needed to show some character,” Strauss told reporters.
“The guys dug very deep in the field, and I was delighted for
the bowlers. We got away with a win and a win is all you need to
kick-start things.”  England had looked in a perilous position after winning the
toss and totaling 171 in 45.4 overs as Ravi Bopara scored 60 and
Jonathan Trott 52. Imran Tahir took 4-38 and Robin Peterson
3-22.  South Africa  ended on 165 in 47.4 overs.  “We batted poorly really,” said Strauss, who was
dismissed in the first over as England slumped to 15-3 after
losing Kevin Pietersen and Ian Bell. “To lose three wickets
early on a pitch like that was criminal really. Thankfully Trott
and Ravi got us back in the hunt.”  The Proteas looked poised for victory on 124-3 before
losing four wickets for three runs. Morne van Wyk, on 13, was
then dismissed after an eighth-wicket stand of 33 with Dale Steyn. Broad took the wickets of Steyn and Morne Morkel in the
next over to wrap up the innings and finish on 4-15. Hashim Amla
top scored with 42, followed by AB de Villiers on 25.  ‘Move Forward’  Captain Graeme Smith made 22 before being given out on a
video replay of a caught-behind decision with the score on 63-0.  “We’ve got to move forward,” said Smith, whose team won
its first two games at this year’s tournament. “It’s obviously
very disappointing for us not to get over the line after playing
some good cricket.”  South Africa next plays  India  in Nagpur on March 12.
England -- which now has two wins, a tie and a loss -- meets
Bangladesh in Chittagong a day earlier.  England will be without opening batsman Pietersen for the
rest of the tournament because of a hernia injury that requires
surgery, the  Daily Telegraph  reported, without saying where it
got the information. Eoin Morgan may be called up as his
replacement, the newspaper added.  Defending champion Australia, meantime, got permission from
the event’s technical committee to replace injured fast bowler
Doug Bollinger with middle-order batsman Mike Hussey.  ‘Left-hand Option’  Left-hander Hussey, 35, was on the original 15-man roster
though didn’t make the trip because selectors didn’t want to
risk carrying an injured player at the tournament.  “His skill, experience, ability against spin and the fact
that he provides a left-hand option in the middle order is seen
as critical in our World Cup defense now that he has
successfully recovered,” Andrew Hilditch,  Australia ’s Chairman
of Selectors, said in an e-mailed statement.  In Bangalore, Yuvraj Singh spearheaded India’s win, taking
5-31 as Ireland reached 207 all out. He then made an unbeaten 50
in India’s 210-5, reached in 46 overs.  Captain and opener William Porterfield top scored for
Ireland with 75, Niall O’Brien adding 46.  The win put India atop Group B, level with England on five
points and ahead on run rate. West Indies and South Africa have
four points, Ireland and Bangladesh two and the Netherlands
none.    Pakistan  leads Group A with six points, one ahead of  Sri
Lanka  and Australia.  New Zealand  has four with  Zimbabwe  on two.  Canada and  Kenya  have no points ahead of their meeting
today in  New Delhi .  The top four teams from each of the groups advance to the
quarterfinals after a round-robin competition. The tournament,
co-hosted by India, Sri Lanka and  Bangladesh , ends April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  