-- 
Euro Near 4-Month High Versus Dollar Ahead of Investor Confidence Report

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-07T06:54:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/euro-trades-near-four-month-high-versus-dollar-before-eu-confidence-data.html
The euro traded 0.2 percent from the
strongest in four months against the dollar before data that
economists said will show investor confidence in the region
reached the highest since 2007.  The 17-nation currency touched a six-week high against the
pound on speculation European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will reiterate today that an interest-rate increase may
come as early as April. The yen rose against most of its major
peers on speculation Japanese companies bought the currency to
bring home overseas earnings before the financial year ends.
South  Korea ’s won fell as Middle East unrest drove up  oil prices 
and on concern  China ’s fight to slow inflation will hurt growth.  “You’re going to get a divergence in monetary policy in
the near term, and that will be in the euro’s favor,” said
Khoon Goh, head of market economics and strategy at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “Euro still has further to go to the
upside.”  The euro traded at $1.3980 as of 6:45 a.m. in  London  from
$1.3987 in  New York  last week, when it completed a 1.7 percent
weekly advance. The currency reached as high as $1.4008 on March
4, the most since Nov. 8. It traded at 115 yen from 115.13. The
dollar fetched 82.26 yen from 82.32 yen.  European investor confidence rose to 17.2 in March, the
highest since September 2007, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before the Limburg, Germany-based Sentix research
institute report today.  Rate Outlook  The euro has gained versus 15 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts since March 3 when Trichet said an “increase of  interest rates  in the next meeting is possible” to counter
inflation. He spoke in  Frankfurt  after the ECB left its key rate
at 1 percent, where it’s been since May 2009. Trichet is
scheduled to speak in Basel today.  “We no longer are bearish on the euro over the course of
2011,” Gabriel de Kock, a New York-based executive director at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note published yesterday. “We have
realigned our euro forecasts to reflect Morgan Stanley’s changed
ECB call after President Trichet’s signals that policy
tightening is imminent.”  Morgan Stanley increased its year-end target for the single
currency to $1.45 from an earlier prediction of $1.24, according
to the note. The median forecast of 44 strategists is for it to
trade at $1.34 by December, according to a Bloomberg poll.  Futures show traders added to bets on higher borrowing
costs in the 17-nation euro bloc. The implied yield on the
three-month Euribor contract expiring in December was at 2.16
percent today from 1.94 percent a week earlier.  The euro was little changed at 85.99 pence from 85.98 pence
last week, after earlier reaching 86.09 pence, the strongest
since Jan. 31.  Yen Repatriation  Yen repatriation by Japanese life insurance companies ahead
of fiscal year-end raises the risk of a “heavy tide” of
inflows over the coming month putting pressure on the dollar,
UBS AG said in a note to clients today. Demand for Japan’s
currency may be stronger than usual after life insurers were net
buyers of overseas bonds in the 10 months to January, UBS’s
Singapore-based currency strategist  Gareth Berry  wrote.  “Repatriation from Japan seems to be constant,” said
Hideki Amikura, deputy general manager of foreign exchange in
Tokyo at Nomura Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s largest
brokerage. “It’s likely to be a yen-buying factor.”  The won retreated from a two-week high on concern the
nation’s trade balance will deteriorate as Middle East unrest
drives oil higher and China’s inflation fight hurts exports.    Crude Oil   Crude in New York reached its strongest level since
September 2008 today. South Korea is  Asia ’s fourth-largest
importer of the fuel. In China, the biggest buyer of Korean
exports, Premier  Wen Jiabao  told the annual National People’s
Congress in Beijing on March 5 that reining in inflation is the
nation’s top priority.  “The Middle East problem has not yet ended and the oil
factor is driving the won lower,” said Sam Hong, a currency
dealer at Shinhan Bank in  Seoul . “Another big issue is China’s
plan to tackle inflation, which will cap China’s growth. Korea’s
economy is very much influenced by China’s.”  Fighting between Libyan rebels and troops loyal to Muammar
Qaddafi intensified yesterday as the opposition advanced west
from the oil hub of Ras Lanuf toward the leader’s hometown of
Sirte. Libya is  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer.  South
Korea ’s exports rose 17.9 percent from a year earlier in
February, following a 45.4 percent jump the previous month,
government data showed on March 1.  The won slid 0.4 percent to 1,119.30 per dollar, after
touching 1,114.10 on March 4, the strongest level since Feb. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 