-- 
Mexico to Reduce Tariffs on U.S. Goods by 50% to Help End Trucking Dispute

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-03-06T20:56:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/mexico-to-reduce-tariffs-on-u-s-goods-by-50-to-help-end-trucking-dispute.html
  Mexico  will reduce tariffs on U.S.
products by about 50 percent as part of an agreement that ends a
ban on Mexican trucks crossing the border, Economy Minister
Bruno Ferrari said at a news conference.  The trucking accord should be signed by June and Mexico
expects the first truck to the enter the U.S. in four months,
Ferrari and Dionisio Perez-Jacome, the minister of
communications and transportation, said today in Mexico City.  “We’ll lower 50 percent of tariffs to all the products,
horizontally, once the agreement is signed,” Ferrari said. “The
50 percent remaining will be lifted once the U.S. grants the
first authorization to operate to a Mexican truck,” he said. The
tariffs affect $2.4 billion worth of goods, the White House said
on March 3.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon and U.S. President  Barack
Obama  announced an end to the truck ban after a meeting in  Washington  last week. The dispute between the two nations, which
have a $393 billion trading relationship, dates to the  North
American Free Trade Agreement  in 1995. U.S. officials have
promised on multiple occasions to resolve the standoff. The
nation never allowed Mexican trucks full access to the U.S.  Mexico responded to the 2009 cancellation of a pilot
program that allowed some Mexican trucks into the U.S. by
imposing tariffs of 10 percent to 45 percent on U.S. goods
including vegetables, wine, juices, sunglasses and toothpaste.  In August, Mexico applied a second round of tariffs of 5
percent on some cuts of pork and as much as 25 percent on fresh
white cheese, according to a statement in the nation’s  official
gazette . Onions, apples, pears, oranges, cherries, soy sauce and
mineral water are also on the list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net . 