-- 
Madoff Trustee Picard Settles Litigation Against Greenwich Sentry Funds

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-18T17:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/madoff-trustee-picard-settles-litigation-against-greenwich-sentry-funds.html
The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm agreed not to pursue $212 million from two
bankrupt U.S. funds related to the Fairfield Greenwich Group,
the biggest so-called feeder fund in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  As part of a settlement with the trustee, the funds,
Greenwich Sentry LP and Greenwich Sentry Partners LP, reduced
their claims against the Madoff bankruptcy estate and signed
over claims they had made against Fairfield Greenwich Group,
trustee  Irving Picard  said in a statement today. Greenwich
Sentry cut its claim against the Madoff estate to $35 million,
from more than $140 million, and the other fund’s claim dropped
to about $2 million, from $2.5 million, he said.  “The agreements greatly further the interests of the
customers” of the conman, Picard said in a court filing today
in U.S. bankruptcy court in  Manhattan .  The deal struck by Picard is similar to one announced on
May 9, when he dropped efforts to collect $3.8 billion that
three offshore Fairfield funds allegedly withdrew from the
Madoff firm in the final six years of the fraud, the trustee
said. The offshore funds also cut their claims on the Madoff
estate.  Fairfield Greenwich Group, founded by Walter Noel, invested
about $7 billion with Madoff, according to court documents.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-1789, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 