-- 
Groupama to Decide on Premafin Bid Within Days After Ruling

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 
2011-03-06T22:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/groupama-to-decide-on-premafin-bid-within-days-after-ruling.html
Groupama SA, a French customer-owned
insurer, will decide within “days” whether to buy a stake in  Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF)  after the Italian regulator said it
would require a full bid for the holding company.  Consob, the market regulator, said agreements between the
French insurer and Premafin’s biggest shareholder,  Italy ’s
Ligresti family, on control of the company would take governance
above the majority level, triggering a mandatory offer for
shares, according to Groupama in an e-mailed statement. Premafin
controls  Fondiaria-Sai SpA (FSA) , Italy’s second-largest insurer.  “In the next days the group will analyze that reasoning,
its implications and the options available,” the French company
said in the statement e-mailed late yesterday.  The Paris-based firm agreed in November to buy a 17 percent
stake in Premafin through a rights offering that was contingent
on the absence of a mandatory bid.  Consob said on March 4 that Groupama’s purchase of a
minority stake in Premafin would require tender offers for the
holding company and Fondiaria.  Premafin’s board approved in November a rights offer of
225.7 million euros ($316 million). Fondiaria, which approved
asset and share sales last year after posting its fifth
consecutive quarterly loss, is seeking to raise as much as 460
million euros ($56 million) by selling new stock to existing
shareholders as part of a plan to return to profitability.  Premafin will “carefully consider” its options for
strengthening capital following the regulator’s decision, it
said in a statement today. The company will keep the market
informed of its decisions, the statement also said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  