-- 
Miners Love Bonds for Deals With Yield Gap at 4-Year Low: Australia Credit

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-03-07T05:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/miners-love-bonds-for-deals-with-yield-gap-at-4-year-low-australia-credit.html
  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN) , bidding C$4.8
billion ($4.9 billion) for  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , is considering a
debut bond sale as Australian resources companies pile into
capital markets to finance production at the lowest relative
yields since 2007.  Equinox, coal miner  Aston Resources Ltd. (AZT) , copper producer
OZ Minerals Ltd. and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. are among the
companies considering bond sales, following on last quarter’s
record offerings. Equinox said March 3 it may sell bonds and
debt convertible into equity, while Aston said the same day it
is considering a debut offering of as much as $500 million.  Mining companies in Australia are racing to buy operations
and build mines to take advantage of near-record prices for
coal,  iron ore  and gold. The extra yield investors demand to
hold the debt of resource companies instead of similar-maturity
government bonds dropped 64 basis points, or 0.64 percentage
point, since Sept. 1 to 154 basis points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The spread on Australian
corporate debt shrank 54 to 165, while international dollar
bonds narrowed 26 to 101.  “In Australia, the more corporate mining companies issue,
the better it is because the corporate markets are mainly driven
by banks and financial institutions,” Kumar Palghat, who helps
manage the equivalent of $3.5 billion at Kapstream Capital in
Sydney, said by phone. “People would like to buy non-financial
assets and there will be a good appetite for it. We’d have an
interest in them.”  Demand Growing  This year marks the most aggressive start since 2008 for
acquisitions, with $11.1 billion of bids this quarter, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That came after Australian
commodities and energy companies sold $6.5 billion of bonds in
the final three months of 2010, the most since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 1999.  Equinox will consider credit lines and convertible and
high-yield bonds, Carl Hallion, the company’s vice president of
business development, said March 3 in a phone interview from
Toronto. Equinox bid C$8.10 per share in cash and stock on Feb.
28, trumping a bid from Inmet Mining Corp.  “You really couldn’t have done this deal six months ago,
even if you wanted to, you couldn’t have put this structured
package together,” Hallion said. Demand for mining company
bonds “has been growing steadily over the last 6 to 12
months,” he said.  His comments echo those of Aston Resources Chief Executive
Officer Todd Hannigan, who said in Sydney on the same day that
U.S. dollar-denominated bond markets represent the best option
for funding the company’s plan to spend A$463 million building
the Maules Creek coal mine that will produce 11 million metric
tons a year of coal.  Very Open  “That market is very, very open at this time with very
competitive rates,” Hannigan said.  A sale of $500 million would surpass Griffin Coal Mining’s
2006 offering of 10-year debt as the largest sale by an
Australian company with a market worth of less than A$1 billion,
Bloomberg data show.  Fortescue, the Perth-based miner controlled by Australia’s
richest man,  Andrew Forrest , said in January it may raise $2.5
billion of debt, including through bond sales, to fund expansion
of its iron ore mines. OZ Minerals Ltd. may sell bonds for the
first time as it seeks longer-dated debt to fund investment,
Chief Financial Officer Andrew Coles said in January.  Global Deals  Global mining and energy deals are poised for the biggest
first quarter since 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. There have been 576 deals announced valued at $121.5
billion, with 74 worth $11.1 billion in Australia, the world’s
biggest shipper of coal and iron ore.  Fixed-income investors are snapping up bonds sold by raw
materials producers, lured by coupons such at the 11.5 percent
paid on $335 million of seven-year notes sold by Midwest
Vanadium Pty Ltd. last month, and confidence that companies can
afford to meet their obligations.  Equinox wants to refinance its $3.2 billion bridge loan to
mostly convertible and high-yield bonds within three months,
Hallion said. The convertible bonds would be mostly three- to
five-year maturities and the high-yield bonds would have terms
of seven to 10 years. It plans to sell bonds in the U.S. and
will seek a  credit rating , he said.  Bonds can provide greater certainty for a borrower than
loans by locking in costs over longer periods, said Peter Chilton, a  fund manager  at Constellation Capital Management Ltd.  Greater Certainty  “Often if you’re taking finance from a bank, you’ve got to
roll it over in a short period of time, every five years or
less,” he said by phone from Sydney. “It is like buying peace
of mind and certainty. If you’ve got to build a project, you
want funding before you start and you might need funding several
years down the track to complete that project.”    Australia  expects to earn a record A$220.6 billion from
exports of commodities in the 12 months ending June 30 as faster
economic growth in  China  boosts demand for raw materials.  China’s economy  expanded 10.3 percent in 2010, the quickest pace
in three years.  The Australian dollar climbed 11 percent in the past six
months to $1.0123, touching a record $1.0256 on Dec. 31. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia raised its forecast last month for
2011 growth to 4.25 percent, from a November prediction of 3.75
percent.  The boost from commodities has cut Australia’s jobless rate
to 5 percent, compared with 8.9 percent in the U.S.  Australian five-year government bond yields climbed 75
basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, to 5.33 percent over the
past six months as the  Reserve Bank of Australia  carried out
seven interest-rate increases between October 2009 and November
2010 to curb inflation. Yields exceed those on similar-dated
Treasuries by 315 basis points, down from last year’s peak of
406 in November.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes show investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.92 percent for the next five years, the
fastest among eight developed nations tracked by Bloomberg. The
so-called breakeven rate on inflation-linked debt jumped from
2.22 percent on Sept. 1.  Small Loans  Midwest Vanadium’s U.S. dollar bond sale dwarfed 34 loan
accords reached by small Australian mining companies over the
past three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Midwest is rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service and B- at  Standard & Poor’s , six levels below investment grade.  The largest credits for a resources company worth less than
A$1 billion was A$240 million of financing for coal miner and
construction company  MacMahon Holdings Ltd. (MAH) , compared with an
average loan size of about A$55 million.  Midwest Vanadium, whose parent company  Atlantic Ltd. (ATI)  is
valued at A$214 million, sold bonds maturing in February 2018 to
yields 843 basis points more than similar-dated U.S. Treasuries.
Atlantic, which last year bought the Windimurra vanadium mine
once owned Xstrata Plc, said strong investor demand in  North
America  is helping to fill a funding gap being left by
Australian banks.  “Australian commercial banks aren’t lending into the
commodities sector,” Michael Minosora, managing director of
Perth-based Atlantic, said in an interview on March 2. “North
American funds in particular were known to be short in the
metals and mining space, so they needed to put back some sort of
balance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  