-- 
Inflation Endangering Chinese `Dream' Spurs Wen Pledge to Rein In Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-06T23:40:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/inflation-endangering-chinese-dream-spurs-wen-pledge-to-rein-in-prices.html
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s pledge to stem
inflation in China underscored forecasts for more interest-rate
increases as a jump in food and housing prices risks sparking
public anger.  Wen, in his opening speech to the annual National People’s
Congress conclave in Beijing two days ago, said that reining in
consumer and property prices is the nation’s top priority. That
will be welcome to fruit vendor Song Zhiqiang, 56, of the
southwestern city of Guiyang, who says: “My rent’s doubled in a
year and my family’s food budget has increased to 3,000 yuan,”
or $456, from 1,200 yuan.  Policy makers’ 4 percent inflation target for this year was
exceeded by almost a percentage point in February, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Without higher
deposit rates to encourage saving, and a stronger currency to
ease import costs, the risk is that price pressures will keep
escalating in coming months.  “The skew of risks is very much for an extended period of
uncontained inflation,” said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia
economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong. “The danger is
that inflation spikes as high as 10 percent in the third quarter,
causing households tremendous pain and fuelling widespread
social discontent.”  For their part, investors have signaled diminished concern
that Wen’s government will tighten monetary policy so fast that
it will hobble growth in the world’s fastest-expanding major
economy. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks has
climbed in five of the past six weeks, closing on March 4 at the
highest level since mid-November.  Boosting Rates  Additional increases in benchmark  interest rates  and banks’
reserve requirements may help to bring price pressures under
control, Maguire said. Nomura Holdings Inc. forecasts 0.75
percentage point of interest-rate increases by year-end, along
with gains in banks’ reserve ratios.  Wen didn’t set any lending target for banks. New loans
topped a 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) ceiling last year and
the central bank said Feb. 17 that it will develop a wider
measure of credit growth and liquidity, including off-balance-
sheet lending, local and foreign-currency loans, and bond and
stock sales.  The key one-year lending rate is 6.06 percent after three
increases since mid-October and the deposit rate is 3 percent.
The yuan, described as “substantially undervalued” by the U.S.,
traded at 6.5686 per dollar on March 4.  Home Prices  “Exorbitant” house price increases in some cities are a
top public concern, Wen told the thousands of lawmakers gathered
in Beijing, adding that the government will curb speculation and
“adjust and improve” real-estate tax policies. The budget for
this year shows a 35 percent increase in spending on low-income
housing.  With real-estate values climbing in the aftermath of the
record credit boom unleashed during the global financial crisis,
slums have emerged in cities including Beijing and  Shanghai  as
migrant workers and cash-strapped urban youth seek an affordable
place to live.  “My dream of owning a house is drifting further away
because home prices have increased by a huge margin, outpacing
my salary gains,” said Tao Jianyi, 32, an electrical engineer
in Beijing. “The government has a lot to do to make homes
affordable and within the reach of ordinary income earners.”  At the congress, official reports confirmed targets of 4
percent inflation and 8 percent economic growth for this year
and showed that the nation will spend more on the internal
police force than the armed forces.  Call for Protests  An online call for protests in  China , inspired by uprisings
in the Middle East, has highlighted the risk of social unrest.
The government has deployed hundreds of police in Beijing and
Shanghai after an open letter called for “jasmine” rallies,
named after the January uprising in  Tunisia  that overthrew
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Across the country, consumer prices rose an annual 4.9
percent in January as food costs jumped, while in Beijing, new
home prices climbed 6.8 percent. In February, inflation was 4.8
percent, according to the median forecast in a survey of 22
economists. That number is due to be announced this week.  In his speech, Wen said that keeping prices stable is the
“top priority in macroeconomic control” for this year and the
government aims to narrow the widening gap between rich and poor
“as soon as possible.”  “People in China are very unhappy,” said  Huang Yiping , an
economics professor at  Peking University  in Beijing. “Inflation
driven by food prices is very destabilizing for the economy and
society because it’s reducing everybody’s purchasing power and
mostly it damages the welfare of low-income households.”  Growth Targets  Wen had already disclosed that the nation will cut its
average annual growth target to 7 percent in the five-year plan 
running from 2011 to 2015 from 7.5 percent in the previous period.  While such targets are routinely surpassed -- annual growth
averaged 11 percent in the past five years -- the new goal may
signal that the government accepts that the expansion will
moderate as part of reshaping the economy. Wen, who describes
China’s growth model as “unsustainable,” aims to curb
dependence on exports and investment and bolster consumer demand.  This year, subsidies for urban low-income earners and
farmers and continued incentives for rural purchases of home
appliances may help to boost spending, Wen said. The government
plans more increases in minimum wages and to raise the income-
tax threshold from 2,000 yuan.  ‘Glacial’ Change  “We still only expect glacial changes in the composition
of  China’s economy  in the coming five years,” said  Shen Minggao ,
head of China research at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong . “In the
past, numerous reform efforts were delayed or gutted on downside
risks to growth and upside risks to inflation.”  In Guiyang, fruit seller Song’s expenses are surging at the
same time as his sales have slowed because of rising prices, he
said. The price of apples has leapt 40 percent from a year
earlier to 7 yuan a jin (half a kilogram) and water melons are
up 20 percent, he added.  “I want to bring my wife’s aging parents to live with us
in the city from 100 kilometers away but we just can’t afford
it,” he said. “Five years ago rents were cheaper and making
money was easier.”  -  Kevin Hamlin , with assistance from Zheng Lifei and Chinmei Sung. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Peter Hirschberg.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story: Kevin Hamlin
in Beijing on   khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  