-- 
Fine Gael, Labour Reach Agreement on Forming Ireland Coalition Government

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-03-06T08:53:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/ireland-s-fine-gael-and-labour-party-agree-to-form-government.html
Ireland’s  Fine Gael  and  Labour 
parties have concluded negotiations on a draft program for
government, Fine Gael said in an e-mailed statement today.  Both parties are scheduled to meet later today to approve
the agreement, so a government is in place when the 166-seat
parliament meets in Dublin on March 9.  “Negotiations between Fine Gael and the  Labour Party  on
the formation of a government concluded early this morning,” the
Fine Gael said. “A draft program for government will be
discussed at a meeting of the Fine Gael Parliamentary Party
today” in Dublin.  Fine Gael won 76 seats in a Feb. 25 national vote, and
Labour won 37 seats. Neither party has been in power since 1997.
The new coalition wants to cut Ireland’s  budget deficit ,
renegotiate the aid package and said creating jobs is the main
priority for the country.  Ireland’s economy has shrunk around 15 percent since 2008
and unemployment has almost trebled, helping push the budget
deficit to around 12 percent of gross domestic product last
year. Ireland accepted a European Union-led 85 billion euro
($119 billion) bailout in November after it was locked out of
bond markets as concerns grew about the rising cost of its bank
guarantee plan.  Fine Gael and Labour want to renegotiate the 5.8 percent
interest rate on the EU and International Monetary Fund loan.
Both parties want the interest rate lowered.  Fine Gael favours speeding up planned budget cuts to narrow
the deficit while Labour prefers tax increases to trim the
shortfall.  ‘Finding Balance’  “The main challenge is to restore some sort of vitality to
the economy and turn around the job market,”  Austin Hughes ,
chief economist with Dublin-based KBC Bank Ireland, said. “Only
by doing that you can make the public finances and bank-related
debt more sustainable. It is a case of finding a balance between
taking tough medicine and ensuring that you don’t kill the
patient in the process, that is the difficulty.”  The general election inflicted the biggest defeat ever on
Fianna Fail, which had been in power since 1997 and which has
ruled Ireland for three out of every four years since 1932.
Fianna Fail got 20 seats and will be the official opposition in
the Dublin-based parliament, known as the Dail.  In November the parliament passed a budget which aims to
reduce the deficit by 6 billion euros this year by raising taxes
and cutting spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  