-- 
Irish Government May Introduce Laws for Bank’s Bondholders

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-03-06T17:02:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/irish-government-may-introduce-laws-for-bank-s-bondholders.html
Ireland’s incoming government said
it may introduce laws to restructure some senior bank
liabilities as the country’s debt level risks becoming
“unsustainable.”  The proposals are being considered by  Fine Gael  and  Labour
Party  members today in Dublin, and the incoming government said
it may consider laws affecting senior unsecured, unguaranteed
bank debt.  “The outgoing government’s blank cheque for bank policy
must now be ended,” according to a document, agreed by Fine
Gael and Labour, that was given to reporters in Dublin today.
“We must step back from the edge of national insolvency.”  Ireland received a bailout from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  in November after it was locked out
of bond markets as concerns mounted about the cost of its bank
guarantee plan. The country’s economy has shrunk by 15 percent
since 2008, while unemployment has trebled in the past three
years.  New laws may be needed to “extend the scope of bank
liability restructuring” to include unsecured unguaranteed
senior bank bonds, according to today’s document.  The new government also wants to renegotiate the terms of
the 85-billion euro ($119 billion) aid package. The government
wants to reduce the 5.8 percent interest rate on the loan.  National Vote  In a Feb. 25 national vote, Fine Gael won 76 seats and
Labour took 37 seats in the country’s 166-seat parliament. Both
parties have agreed on a program for the government, and members
will today vote on whether to ratify the agreement.  Fianna Fail ,
which had been in power since 1997, won 20 seats, its worst ever
result.  Labour leader Eamon Gilmore told delegates at a meeting of
his party in Dublin today that the new government will set up a
“work cabinet” to combat the country’s economic woes, which
began in 2008 when the end of a decade-long housing boom was
compounded by the global financial crisis.  The new government also said that it will end further
transfers to the National Asset Management Agency, set up to
take toxic debts from lenders including Bank of Ireland Plc.  The incoming coalition government will set further payments
to the banks at a level that is “consistent with national debt
sustainability,” according to today’s document.  The government will stick to the outgoing coalition’s
fiscal targets for the period between 2011 and 2012 and will
draw up a new plan to cut Ireland’s budget deficit to 3 percent
of gross domestic product by 2015. The outgoing ruling parties
had aimed to cut the deficit, which grew to 12 percent of GDP
last year, to 3 percent of GDP by 2014.  The Fine Gael and Labour party coalition government will
freeze current rates of income tax and cap the rate of value-
added tax at 23 percent, according to the document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  