-- 
Dalglish Praises Liverpool After Kuyt's Three Goals Stun Manchester United

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-03-07T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/liverpool-beats-manchester-utd-3-1-on-kuyt-hat-trick-narrowing-title-race.html
Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish 
praised his team’s all-round effort after Dirk Kuyt’s hat trick
secured a 3-1 win over Premier League leader  Manchester United .  The Reds climb into sixth spot in English soccer’s elite
division following their first victory in three games, whilst
denting United’s chances of winning a record 19th league title.  “Without everybody giving everything they’ve got, you
don’t beat Manchester United,” Dalglish told reporters at
Anfield. “Dirk got three goals and he’ll get the headlines.
Luis (Suarez) played really well, fantastically well, but the
rest of them weren’t too far behind.”  United remains atop the standings with 60 points -- three
ahead of Arsenal -- as it seeks to move ahead of Liverpool on
the all-time list of English championships.  Manchester City  has
53 points, Chelsea and Tottenham have 48 and Liverpool has 42.  Tottenham tied 3-3 at second-last  Wolverhampton Wanderers 
in yesterday’s other game.  Kuyt became the first Liverpool player since Peter
Beardsley in 1990 to get three goals in a game against United,
which fell to its second straight defeat following a 2-1 loss at
Chelsea.  Javier Hernandez  scored for United in injury time.  “You dream about the hat trick and to do it against United
is the best feeling ever,” Kuyt told Sky Sports. “It’s
perfect.”  Ferguson Silent  United manager  Alex Ferguson  opted not to speak to
reporters after the match. He is appealing against a Football
Association charge of improper conduct charge for criticizing
referee  Martin Atkinson  after the March 1 loss to Chelsea.  Liverpool had its first chance in the second minute as
Suarez connected with a Raul Meireles cross. He was only able to
direct his effort straight at goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar.    Dimitar Berbatov , who got a hat trick for United against
Liverpool in September, shot wide from 20 yards after 12
minutes, then four minutes later volleyed against the outside of
a post.  Meireles cleared Wes Brown’s header off the line midway
through the half.  Liverpool took the lead on 34 minutes. Suarez slalomed past
several United players before striking a low shot toward goal
and Kuyt tapped in from close range.  Kuyt doubled the home team’s advantage five minutes later.
United winger Nani headed the ball back into his own team’s six-
yard area and Kuyt reacted to score.  Nani Injury  Challenges from  Jamie Carragher  and Rafael da Silva
resulted in two confrontations between rival players near the
end of the half. Both were yellow-carded, and Nani was
stretchered off after the incident involving Carragher. The
Portuguese winger suffered a “very deep gash” in his left leg
and will be assessed today, United said on its website.  In the second half, Meireles again cleared from in front of
goal before Kuyt secured the three points after 65 minutes,
scoring from the rebound when Van der Sar was unable to hold
Suarez’s free kick.  England striker Andy Carroll, who joined Liverpool in
January for 35 million pounds ($57 million) from Newcastle, made
his debut as a substitute later in the half after recovering
from a thigh injury.  Kuyt and  Steven Gerrard  had chances to increase Liverpool’s
lead, though it was United’s Hernandez who got the game’s final
goal. The Mexican striker headed in a cross from  Ryan Giggs , who
was making a club record 607th league appearance, moving ahead
of Bobby Charlton.  “We deserved to win 3-1,” Dalglish added. “Some of the
players are a wee bit disappointed to have lost a goal in the
last minute, but that won’t take away the shine.”  Doyle’s Double  Wolves remain 19th in the 20-team standings after rescuing
a point against Spurs with a goal on 87 minutes from substitute
Steven Fletcher at Molineux.  Kevin Doyle got the home team’s other two goals, while  Jermain Defoe  scored twice for Spurs. Roman Pavlyuchenko also
got a goal.  Both teams had several chances to win the match, with Defoe
denied a hat trick by a post three minutes before Fletcher
scored. Wolves had a goal disallowed several minutes earlier
when the referee ruled a foul on goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes.  “There are not many games left,”Doyle told  Sky Sports .
“It’s very tight and we needed that draw so it’s great to get
it in the end.”  Last-place Wigan has 27 points, and Wolves move to 29, with
Birmingham on 30 completing the relegation positions. West Ham
has 31, with West Bromwich Albion, Blackpool and Blackburn all
on 32.  Two days ago, Arsenal was held to a 0-0 home draw by
Sunderland, while Manchester City beat Wigan 1-0. Chelsea visits
Blackpool today.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  