-- 
Jailbreak to Gaza Fuels Israeli Hamas Fear in Post-Mubarak Era

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-06T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/jailbreak-to-gaza-fuels-israeli-hamas-fear-in-post-mubarak-era.html
The Cairo protests that dislodged
President  Hosni Mubarak  from power had an unexpected side
effect: They also helped Hassan Weshah break out of an Egyptian
prison, return to his home in the Gaza Strip and prepare for
fresh attacks against  Israel .  “Resisting occupation is the obligation of every
Palestinian,” said Weshah, 28, a member of the so-called Army
of Islam who had been arrested by Egyptian forces in October for
planning to infiltrate Israel’s Sinai border. “I would not
abandon the resistance.”  Palestinians such as Weshah are one reason why Egypt’s
newly unstable border has become a headache for Israel. A
pipeline that brings in 60 percent of Israel’s gas consumption
looks more vulnerable after a Feb. 5 explosion from unknown
causes shut it down for at least a month. The Sinai desert, a
buffer for three decades between  Egypt  and Israel, may require a
greater Israeli military presence.  “Our preparedness along the length of the border is
high,” Defense Minister Ehud Barak said after viewing military
exercises at a southern military base March 1. Israel has
accelerated defensive operations “so that we can be as
protected as possible” on the Egyptian frontier.  Security concerns are putting downward pressure on Israeli
stocks. The TA-25 benchmark index has declined 4.1 percent since
the start of the year while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index is
down 1.6 percent. The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit
bond maturing in January 2020 rose 46 basis points to 5.15
percent as the shekel declined 3.5 percent against the dollar to
3.62 in the period.  Abandoned Checkpoints  Checkpoints and security posts across Egypt were abandoned
last month following a withdrawal by the police. Civilians took
security into their own hands for several days before the
military was deployed to restore order.  Both Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Bank of
Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said last month that the
government will probably need to raise defense spending. The
country spent 7 percent of gross domestic product on defense in
2008, according to a database maintained by the  Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute , while the U.S. spent 4.3
percent and Egypt 2.3 percent.  “Let’s remember that this is a region that can change
completely from today to tomorrow, not necessarily in our
favor,” said retired Major-General Yaakov Amidror, former head
of Israel’s National Defense College. “As a state we must look
at the worst-case scenario, not just the optimistic scenarios.”  Hamas Control  The greatest security threat may be in Gaza, where Hamas
seized control in 2007, a year after winning Palestinian
elections, defeating forces loyal to Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas. Hamas is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Hamas, which rejects peace talks with Israel and opposes
the 32-year-old peace treaty between the two nations, was
founded in 1987 as an offshoot from Egypt’s  Muslim Brotherhood ,
the strongest opposition group during Mubarak’s presidency.  Israel and Egypt both sealed off Gaza’s borders after Hamas
took over, cutting off most civilian traffic and restricting
trade with the territory. Israel has maintained a ground and sea
blockade around Gaza ever since.  Egypt also enforced the blockade and occasionally cracked
down on tunnel smugglers from its own side of the border, though
limited exports and imports have been allowed in the past year.  Open Border?  Now the Muslim Brotherhood, banned in Egypt since 1954,
hopes to open Egypt’s border with Gaza and raise the price
Israel pays for Egyptian gas if it enters a coalition, said
Essam El-Erian, a senior member of the group.  “The whole region is about to change,” he said in an
interview. “We hope that the stupid policies that neglected the
fact that Hamas ran and won a democratic election will also
change. It’s time to see a real assimilation of what people
want.”  Candidates from the Brotherhood won 20 percent of seats in
Egypt’s parliamentary elections in 2005 even though the party
was officially banned and the government closed polling stations
in towns were it had widespread support. Hundreds of thousands
of people flocked to Cairo’s Tahrir Square a week after
Mubarak’s fall to hear Yusuf al-Qaradawi, a cleric who aligns
himself with the Brotherhood.  Hamas expects Egyptian policy toward Gaza to soften after
the new elections, said Mustawa Sawaf, a professor of media
studies at the  Islamic University  in Gaza who is affiliated with
the group. Egypt’s ruling army council said Feb. 14 it will hand
power to a democratically elected government within six months.  Free Passage Hopes  “These changes will have great influence in supporting the
rights of the Palestinian people,” Sawaf said. “We hope, as
residents of the  Gaza Strip  who are blockaded by Israel, to have
free commercial passage with Egypt.”  Weshah learned about the Cairo protests from watching
Egyptian television in a group room in the prison. He described
a scene that night, 14 days before Mubarak’s ouster, in which
inmates started banging on the walls and bars of their cells and
then overpowered guards who responded to the uproar.  “It was very scary, with intensive gunfire and prisoners
shot dead on the floor,” Weshah said. “We just kept running
and followed some Egyptian prisoners who took us to a safe
place.”  Weshah was one of nine Palestinians who made their way to
Gaza after the jail break, according to interviews with them
all. Another was Ayman Noufal, one of the top commanders of the
Hamas militia known as the Al-Qassam Brigades. He had been held
for three years. A Hamas spokesman declined to comment.  Rockets From Gaza  Palestinian militants have fired at least 30 rockets from
Gaza since Feb. 1, said an Israeli  army  spokesman, speaking
anonymously under military rules. Israeli forces have killed
seven Palestinians in Gaza during the period, said Adham Abu
Selmeya, emergency-services chief in the Gaza Health Ministry.  After a taxi ride from Cairo, Weshah continued north
through the Sinai desert, dodging police roadblocks by walking
around the barriers and then switching to a new cab. At the
 border  town of Rafah, a smuggler guided him to a tunnel.  The desert he crossed, the demilitarized Sinai on Israel’s
southern border, is becoming more dangerous. Restoration of the
gas supply cut by the Feb. 5 explosion at a pipeline metering
station, planned for March 4, was postponed after a shootout
between “suspected terrorists” and Egyptian security forces
that delayed testing on the repaired system, according to a
March 3 report to the  Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange by  Ampal-American
Israel (AMPL)  Corp. Ampal has a 12.5 percent stake in pipeline owner
East Mediterranean Gas Co.  Ampal Chairman Yosef Maiman in a March 1 interview called
the explosion a terrorist attack.  Soldiers in Sinai  The Egyptian Oil Ministry said the blast appeared to have
been set off by a gas leak. Israeli National Infrastructures
Minister Uzi Landau said the country must have   energy
security ” and declined to speculate about who caused the
explosion, said spokesman Chen Ben-Lulu.  The metering station is outside El-Arish, before the spot
where the 100-kilometer (62-mile) pipeline splits into two
branches bringing gas separately to Israel and to Jordan, Maiman
spokesman Zeev Feiner said. He said the explosion was apparently
set off by unidentified “terrorist elements,” declining to say
how it was detonated.  The pipeline currently provides Israel with 2.5 billion
cubic meters of gas a year, about $400 million worth, according
to Israel Electric Corp. That is expected to rise to 7 billion
cubic meters in 2014, Feiner said.  “Let’s not forget that the most important economic
arrangement signed with Egypt since the peace agreement is the
agreement on gas,” Landau said March 6 in an interview with
Israel’s Army Radio. “When events in Egypt settle down, we hope
and certainly want the supply of gas to resume.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net 
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  