-- 
Kan Government in `Crisis' as Maehara's Fall Deepens Japan Finance Dilemma

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-03-07T09:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/japan-s-maehara-intends-to-quit-as-foreign-minister-nhk-says.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s battle to
fund Japan’s budget and avoid early elections suffered another
blow as his foreign minister quit over an illegal donation and a
poll showed fewer than one voter in four supports him.  Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara, 48, resigned late yesterday
after admitting he had received 250,000 yen ($3,038) since 2005
from a South Korean woman in Japan he has known since childhood.
The ruling party was already hit by former leader  Ichiro Ozawa ’s
indictment on unrelated charges of violating campaign financing
laws, which also ban foreign contributions.  Kan has failed to persuade the opposition to authorize 44.3
trillion yen in  government bonds  to finance the budget and faces
dissent in his  Democratic Party  over a push to raise the  sales
tax  to cope with soaring debt costs. The stalemate has increased
the possibility Kan will have to step down, becoming the fifth
straight premier to last no more than a year.  “The Kan administration is facing an enormous crisis,”
said Minoru Morita, a Tokyo-based independent political analyst.
“He’ll have to quickly appoint Maehara’s successor and work on
budget-related bills to postpone the timing of resignation or
election.”  Kan reiterated that he has no intention of stepping down.  ‘Fulfill My Duty’  “I believe the people should judge whether to change the
government after the lower house completes its full four-year
term” in the second half of 2013, he said today in parliament.
“I intend to fulfill my duty until then.”  Stocks fell partly on concern increased political gridlock
will hamper efforts to reign in debt that is set to exceed twice
the size of Japan’s gross domestic product this year.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.8 percent to close at
10,505.02. The broader Topix index lost 1.5 percent to 941.63.
Bonds rose, with the yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March
2021 falling 2.5 basis points to 1.27 percent.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano will take on Maehara’s
portfolio temporarily, Kan said today in parliament. Maehara
lasted less than six months as foreign minister, helping to
smooth frayed ties with  China  and defending Japan’s claims in a
territorial dispute with Russia. Before that, he spent a year as
transportation minister.  Opposition lawmakers had called for Maehara to step down
for accepting money from a foreign national. Thousands of ethnic
Koreans who have lived in Japan their entire lives do not hold
Japanese citizenship. Maehara said the woman, whom he didn’t
identify, ran a barbecue restaurant in his hometown of Kyoto.  DPJ Scandals  The DPJ in September 2009 unseated the  Liberal Democratic
Party  from more than half a century of almost unbroken power,
pledging to avoid the corruption that tainted several LDP
governments. Nine months later, Kan’s predecessor  Yukio Hatoyama 
was forced to step down partly due to a finance scandal. In
January, Ozawa was indicted in a case that has led to the trial
of three of his former aides.  “By any measure, Maehara’s resignation is overblown, but
he brought it on himself by the overstated claims and ambitions
of the DPJ,” said  Koichi Nakano , a political science professor
at  Sophia University  in Tokyo. “Now it’s going to be doubly
hard for Kan to survive.”  Japan’s lower house of parliament passed Kan’s record 92.4
trillion yen budget on March 1. Kan, though, has failed to
convince the opposition to support the financing bills, which
require approval of either the opposition-controlled Upper House
or a two-thirds majority in the Lower House, which the DPJ lacks.  Impasse  The impasse may force Kan to either resign or dissolve the
Diet and call a snap election. Maehara, a former DPJ leader, was
a likely candidate to replace Kan.  Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 22 lowered Japan’s debt
rating outlook on concern over the stalemate. Standard & Poor’s
cut Japan’s debt rating in January, citing the stalemate and the
possibility the financing bills won’t be passed. Failure to pass
the legislation could cause bond yields to rise, damaging an
economy already hampered by social security costs that have
increased by more than 60 percent since 2000.  “Yields are low so the problem doesn’t feel that immediate,
but further political turmoil could lead to more rating
downgrades, and that would obviously reduce the value of Japan’s
debt,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo.  Maehara, in resigning last night, said he “cannot allow a
delay on parliament’s budget debates because of my political
donation problem.”  Party Rebellion  Kan’s efforts have been complicated by an intra-party
rebellion. Sixteen DPJ lawmakers, who last month announced their
opposition to his push to raise the sales tax, abstained from
voting on the budget. The group is loyal to Ozawa, whose
suspension from the party during his trial for violating
campaign funding laws provoked a backlash.  Maehara was the most favored person to become prime
minister in a Sankei newspaper survey published March 1,
preferred by 10.2 percent of those polled. He was followed by
DPJ Secretary General Katsuya Okada with 8.1 percent.  Kan’s approval rating dropped to 24 percent, the worst
since he took office in June, from 27 percent last month, the
Yomiuri newspaper said today. The nationwide telephone survey of
1,052 voters was taken between March 4 and March 6, the report
said, without providing a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  