-- 
Johnny Depp Leads Box Office as Animated Chameleon in ‘Rango’

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 
2011-03-06T16:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/johnny-depp-s-chameleon-in-rango-captures-box-office-with-38-million.html
The  Johnny Depp  animated comedy
“Rango” opened as the No. 1 film in U.S. and Canadian theaters
this weekend, generating $38 million in ticket sales for  Viacom
Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount and Nickelodeon divisions.  “The Adjustment Bureau,” starring  Matt Damon , opened in
second place with $20.9 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal
Pictures , researcher  Hollywood.com Box Office  said today in a
statement.  “Rango,” featuring Depp as a chameleon who tries to clean
up the Wild West town of Dirt, is the third Paramount film to
occupy the top weekend spot this year, following “No Strings
Attached” and the remake of “True Grit” with  Jeff Bridges .
Paramount is No. 1 in U.S. box-office sales this year, with $285
million in revenue as of Feb. 27, according to  Box Office Mojo .  “Rango” was expected to take in about $36 million, the
forecast of Gitesh Pandya, editor of the Box Office Guru
website. The film was directed by Gore Verbinski, who also
oversaw  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s successful “Pirates of the
Caribbean” series.  The picture cost $135 million to make, according to  Sherman
Oaks , California-based Box Office Mojo, and also features the
voices of Isla Fisher,  Ned Beatty  and Alfred Molina.  In “The Adjustment Bureau,” Damon plays a politician,
David Norris, who gets a glimpse of his future and decides to
take another course, instead pursuing his love interest played
by Emily Blunt. John Slattery, from TV’s “Mad Men,” is part of
the team trying to put Norris’s life back on its intended
course. The film is based on a short story by Philip K. Dick.    CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “Beastly,” a retelling of the “Beauty and
the Beast” tale, took in $10.1 million in third place.  Alex
Pettyfer , who is also in theaters in the movie “I Am Number
Four,” plays a New York teen who is turned into a monster and
must find true love to reverse the curse. Vanessa Hudgens, known 
for her success in Disney’s “High School Musical,” co-stars as
Pettyfer’s love interest and Mary-Kate Olsen is the witch who
casts a spell on him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  