-- 
Johnny Depp Takes Weekend Box Office With $38 Million as ‘Rango’ Chameleon

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-07T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/johnny-depp-takes-weekend-box-office-with-38-million-as-rango-chameleon.html
The  Johnny Depp  animated comedy
“Rango” opened as the No. 1 film in U.S. and Canadian theaters
this weekend, generating $38 million in ticket sales for  Viacom
Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount and Nickelodeon divisions.  “The Adjustment Bureau,” starring  Matt Damon , opened in
second place with $20.9 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal
Pictures ,  Hollywood.com Box Office  said yesterday in a
statement. Also in wide release this past weekend were “Take Me
Home Tonight,” Relativity Media LLC’s coming-of-age comedy, and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “Beastly,” featuring  Vanessa Hudgens  and  Alex
Pettyfer .  “Rango,” featuring Depp as a chameleon who tries to clean
up the Wild West town of Dirt, is the third Paramount film to
occupy the top weekend spot this year, following “No Strings
Attached” and the remake of “True Grit” with  Jeff Bridges .
Paramount is No. 1 in U.S. box-office sales this year, with $285
million in revenue as of Feb. 27, according to  Box Office Mojo .  “‘Rango’ didn’t blow the roof off, but it did well,
considering the quirky nature of the movie,” said  Brandon Gray ,
president of Box Office Mojo. “It’s an ugly-looking lizard in a
Western setting. Considering that, movies like that don’t
usually do as well as things from Pixar or Dreamworks.”  “Rango” was expected to take in about $36 million, the
forecast of Gitesh Pandya, editor of the Box Office Guru
website. The film was directed by Gore Verbinski, who also
oversaw  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s successful “Pirates of the
Caribbean” series.  ‘The Adjustment Bureau’  The picture cost $135 million to make, according to Box
Office Mojo, and also features the voices of Isla Fisher,  Ned
Beatty  and Alfred Molina.  In “The Adjustment Bureau,” Damon plays a politician,
David Norris, who gets a glimpse of his future and decides to
take another course, instead pursuing his love interest played
by Emily Blunt. John Slattery, from TV’s “Mad Men,” is part of
the team trying to put Norris’s life back on its intended
course. The film is based on a short story by Philip K. Dick.  “Beastly,” a retelling of the “Beauty and the Beast”
tale, took in $10.1 million in third place. Pettyfer, who is
also in theaters in the movie “I Am Number Four,” plays a  New
York  teen who is turned into a monster and must find true love
to reverse the curse. Hudgens, known for her success in Disney’s
“High School Musical,” co-stars as Pettyfer’s love interest
and Mary-Kate Olsen is the witch who casts a spell on him.  ‘Hall Pass’  “‘Beastly’ also had a pretty good opening,” Gray said. He
said it had to compete with “I Am Number Four,” also a
supernatural romance, and “that’s bound to cause confusion with
moviegoers.”  The film, which had a production budget of $17 million, is
the second this year from CBS Films, which also released “The
Mechanic” on Jan. 28, according to Box Office Mojo.  Last weekend’s top film, the  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  comedy “Hall
Pass,” took in $9 million for fourth place in its second week
in theaters. The film features Owen Wilson and  Jason Sudeikis 
as buddies whose wives try to revive their marriages by giving
the men a week of freedom to act like bachelors without
consequences.  “Gnomeo & Juliet,” an animated film about romantic garden
gnomes, fell to fifth place from second with sales of $6.9
million for Disney. The movie has taken in $83.7 million in four
weeks of release, according to Hollywood.com. The 3-D film
features the voices of James McAvoy, Emily Blunt and Maggie Smith.  ‘Take Me Home Tonight’  “Take Me Home Tonight,” the weekend’s other new release,
finished 11th in the rankings with $3.5 million in sales
for distributor Relativity Media and producer Imagine
Entertainment, the film and TV company led by Brian Grazer and
Ron Howard.  Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend fell 34.6 percent
percent to $121.4 million from the year-earlier period,
according to Hollywood.com. Domestic box-office sales this year
total $1.69 billion, down 20.5 percent. Attendance is off 21.7
percent.  The weekend was the second straight of declining sales
compared with the year-ago period when “Alice in Wonderland”
debuted, and had sales of $116.1 million.  “Alice” had an “exceptional” opening, Gray said, and
this year the films are “weaker holdovers and far more modest
releases.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 4 and March 5 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  