-- 
New Zealand Reviews Spending Plans in Face of $11 Billion Earthquake Bill

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-07T02:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/new-zealand-reconsiders-spending-amid-possible-11-billion-earthquake-bill.html
  New Zealand ’s government said it may
need to borrow more money and reconsider spending plans after
the country’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years caused as much as
NZ$15 billion ($11.1 billion) in damage.  Costs from the Feb. 22 quake that wrecked the central
business district of Christchurch may triple the estimated NZ$5
billion bill from a temblor that hit New Zealand’s second-
largest city in September, the  Treasury Department  said. The
expense will be shared between the government, insurers and
businesses, Finance Minister Bill English said yesterday.  “Paying for the earthquake will likely involve a balanced
combination of a bit more borrowing in the short term and
reconsidering our spending priorities,” English said in a
statement on his website.  New Zealand’s economic growth this year is expected to be
1.5 percentage points lower because of the disaster in
Christchurch, the Treasury Department said. A “small
contraction” in real gross domestic product is predicted in the
March quarter, compared with a 0.5 percent growth forecast
before the quake, it said.  A recovery starting in 2012 will “bring a sizable boost”
to investment, the department said.  Prime Minister John Key, in an interview with  Television
New Zealand , today reiterated that a cut in the nation’s
official cash rate would “probably help” as the economy slows.  RBNZ Meeting  The central bank is scheduled to review the benchmark
lending rate on March 10. Ten of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predict  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard will reduce the cash rate by at least 25 basis points
from 3 percent.  “It’s for him to decide and him alone to decide what
happens on Thursday,” Key said. “But certainly the markets
have factored in a likely cut in the official cash rate, and
you’ve got to say lower  interest rates  probably help the country,
but that ultimately is a matter for the governor.”  The number of deaths from the 6.3-magnitude quake rose to
166, the Civil Defense department  said on its website  yesterday.
Crews finished searching the rubble of the toppled Christchurch
cathedral and didn’t find any victims, the statement said.  Further aftershocks of magnitude 5 or more are possible in
the next few days after a 4.8-magnitude shock reported yesterday
by the  U.S. Geological Survey , the civil defense department said
on its website. Residents and businesses were allowed access to
some areas of Christchurch opened to the public yesterday, it
said.  Death Toll  Police at the weekend identified 21 more people killed,
including a 24-year-old South Korean national. As many as 100
foreigners may have died in the quake, according to the New
Zealand government.  “The outlook for the New Zealand economy was weaker even
before the earthquake, as domestic demand was soft despite
income gains from high commodity prices,” the Treasury said.  The impact of the February quake, “combined with already
slower economic growth than forecast,” may leave nominal gross
domestic product NZ$15 billion lower through 2015, English said.  The total loss of  tax revenue  may be as much as NZ$5
billion over a five-year period, he said.  “This is manageable in the context of the government’s
revenue base of about NZ$330 billion over the five years,”
English said in his statement. “It’s clear that the earthquake
will have an impact on the government’s finances -- through both
increased costs and reduced tax revenue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  