-- 
New Zealand Christchurch Quake May Cost About $11 Billion, Treasury Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-06T05:50:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/new-zealand-christchurch-quakes-may-cost-about-11-billion-treasury-says.html
The earthquake that struck
Christchurch Feb. 22, killing more than 160 people and wrecking
the central business district, is likely to cost as much as
NZ$15 billion ($11 billion),  New Zealand ’s Treasury Department
said.  The 6.3-magnitude earthquake will probably cost two to
three times more than the estimated NZ$5 billion expense of a
temblor that hit the city in September,  documents  on the
Treasury Department’s website show. The bill will be shared
between the government, insurers and businesses, the department
said today.  Economic growth in New Zealand in 2011 is expected to be
1.5 percentage points lower because of the February disaster,
according to the Treasury Department. Starting in 2012, the
recovery will “bring a sizable boost” to investment, it said.  “Paying for the earthquake will likely involve a balanced
combination of a bit more borrowing in the short term and
reconsidering our spending priorities, so we can provide the
financial resources needed to help rebuild,” Finance Minister
Bill English said in a statement today on his website.  A “small contraction” in real gross domestic product is
expected in the March quarter, compared with a forecast of 0.5
percent growth before the February quake, the Treasury said.  The number of deaths from the February quake rose to 166,
the Civil Defense department  said on its website  today. Crews
finished searching the rubble of the toppled Christchurch
cathedral and didn’t find any victims, the statement said.  Hit by Aftershocks  Further aftershocks of magnitude 5 or more are possible in
the next few days after a 4.8-magnitude shock reported today by
the  U.S. Geological Survey , the civil defense department said on
its website. Residents and businesses were allowed access to
some areas of Christchurch opened to the public today, the
department said.  Police yesterday identified six more people killed,
including a 24-year-old South Korean national. Previously the
names of 20 victims, including two Israeli citizens and a Thai
national, were released. As many as 100 foreigners may have died
in the quake, according to the New Zealand government.  The IMF will likely reduce its economic growth forecast for
New Zealand after the nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years,
spokeswoman  Caroline Atkinson  said on March 3.  “The outlook for the New Zealand economy was weaker even
before the earthquake, as domestic demand was soft despite
income gains from high commodity prices,” the Treasury said.  The impact of the February quake, “combined with already
slower economic growth than forecast,” may leave nominal gross
domestic product NZ$15 billion lower through 2015, English said.  The total loss of tax revenue may be as much as NZ$5
billion over a five-year period, the finance minister said.  “This is manageable in the context of the government’s
revenue base of about NZ$330 billion over the five years,” he
said. “It’s clear that the earthquake will have an impact on
the government’s finances -- through both increased costs and
reduced  tax revenue ,” English said in his statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  