-- 
No-Fly Zone Over Libya Urged by McCain, Kerry as Gates, Mullen Have Doubts

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/no-fly-zone-over-libya-urged-as-mccain-kerry-downplay-risks.html
Senior senators from both parties
stepped up their push for a no-fly zone over Libya, suggesting
Pentagon concerns about its risks are overblown.  Senator  John Kerry , a Democrat and chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, said the U.S. should begin working
with allies to prepare a no-fly zone that would be implemented
if Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi used his air force “as a means
of massacring large numbers of civilians.”  Kerry, speaking on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program
yesterday, downplayed Defense Department warnings that a no-fly
zone would be “an extraordinarily complex” operation and would
require an attack on Libya’s air defenses.  “That’s actually not the only option for what one could
do,” said Kerry, a  Vietnam  combat veteran. “One could crater
the airports and the runways and leave them incapable of using
them for a period of time.”  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said in congressional
testimony last week that suppressing Libyan air forces would
require offensive military operations against Libya. “A no-fly
zone begins with an attack on Libya to destroy the air
defenses.”  Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said in a Pentagon news conference last week that a no-fly zone
would be “an extraordinarily complex operation to set up.”  Antiquated Air Defenses  Senator  John McCain , the senior Republican on the Senate
Armed Services Committee and a former Navy pilot who flew combat
missions over Vietnam, where he was a prisoner of war after
being shot down, dismissed such concerns in an appearance
yesterday on ABC’s “This Week” program.  “I would like to point out their air assets are not
large,” McCain said of Libya’s military. “Their air defenses
are somewhat antiquated.”  A no-fly zone, McCain, of  Arizona , said, “would send a
signal to Qaddafi that the president is serious when he says we
need for Qaddafi to go. And also, it would be encouraging to the
resistance, who are certainly outgunned from the air.”  Putting in place such an exclusionary zone, as the U.S. did
over Iraq and Bosnia in the 1990’s, would be intended to prevent
Qaddafi from using aircraft against anti-government rebels.  Short Term Operation  “I think that if you were to have one, it’s not going to
be like Iraq or Bosnia for the long term,” Kerry, of  Massachusetts , said. While those no-fly zones lasted years,
Kerry suggested a zone over Libya would be needed for a shorter
duration, though he gave no time estimate.  President  Barack Obama  has said all options are under
review, though he has stopped short of calling for a no-fly
zone.  “Lots of people throw around the phrase of ‘no-fly zone,’
and they talk about it a though it’s just a game, a video game
or something, and some people who throw that line out have no
idea what they’re talking about,”  William Daley, Obama’s chief
of staff, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “The
president has said all options are on the table, but this has to
be an international effort.”  Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky told
CBS’s “Face the Nation” program that a no-fly zone is “worth
considering.” He said another option “is simply aiding and
arming the insurgents.”  The  U.S. Senate  on March 1 approved a non-binding
resolution calling for a no-fly zone over  Libya  and endorsing
U.S. outreach to forces opposing Qaddafi’s regime.  No U.S. Ground Troops  Kerry and McCain stressed they weren’t advocating the use
of U.S. ground troops in Libya.  McCain called the option of a ground intervention “very
unproductive,” while Kerry described it as “the last thing we
want to think about.”  “We don’t want troops on the ground. They don’t want
troops on the ground,” Kerry said on CBS.  Stephen Hadley, who served as national security adviser to
former President  George W. Bush , said on CNN that a better
alternative than a no-fly zone might be to funnel arms to Libyan
rebels, including anti-aircraft systems, “so they can create
their own no-fly zone rather than the  United States  have to do
it.”  Hadley, appearing on  CNN ’s “State of the Union” program,
said the U.S. should use increased diplomacy and economic and
military aid to the rebels “to build some momentum” for a
toppling of the Qaddafi government.  McCain said a greater focus on economic assistance,
particularly in  Egypt , will be the key to new and stable
governments across the Middle East.  “Perhaps the most important thing we could do in the long
run for these countries is investment,” McCain said. “Because
you know this was all about jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 