-- 
Norway to Avoid ‘Unnecessary’ Rate Increases With 2012 Budget

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-06T14:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/norway-to-avoid-unnecessary-rate-increases-with-2012-budget.html
  Norway ’s Prime Minister Jens
Stoltenberg pledged to limit the use of oil revenue next year to
avoid “unnecessary” interest rate increases that may fuel
krone gains and hurt exporters.    Interest rates  will go up,” Stoltenberg told reporters
today as government members met to discuss the 2012 budget in
Jevnaker, Norway. “Our job is to make sure they don’t go up
more than necessary.”  Norway’s  central bank , which in 2009 became the first in  Europe  to lift rates after the financial crisis, has said it
will raise borrowing costs again in mid-2011. Policy makers have
held their main rate unchanged at 2 percent since May.  “It is our duty, through the work we are starting here
today, to ensure that the 2012 budget doesn’t increase the
pressure on interest rates,” Stoltenberg said.  A jump in  oil prices  sparked by unrest in the Middle East
and North Africa this week pushed the krone to a four-year high
against the euro, hurting exporters such as Europe’s third-
largest aluminum producer  Norsk Hydro ASA. (NHY)   Norway’s budget rules stipulate that the government should
limit the spending of oil money each year to about 4 percent of
the country’s $556  billion sovereign wealth fund  over time.  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen told reporters today
that the government may spend “somewhat” less than the 4
percent of the nation’s oil wealth this year.  Johnsen has said that it is a key policy concern to ensure
the krone doesn’t appreciate to an extent that hurts exporters.  “Of course we are concerned about the competitiveness of
Norwegian” businesses, he said in an interview on March 3.  Norwegian industry’s wage costs are 50 percent above those
of European counterparts and the industry’s competitiveness
slipped 6.9 percent last year, according to a report by the
Norwegian Technical Calculation Committee for Wage Settlements.
Krone gains and higher costs have hurt exports, which fell 1.3
percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  