-- 
Hong Kong Engine Pollution Ban Hurt by Exemptions as Smog Climbs to Record

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-03-07T05:06:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/hong-kong-bans-idling-engines-in-14-year-battle-against-smog.html
Hong Kong  will ban idling engines to
reduce vehicle emissions from as early as September, after
pollution climbed to a record last year. A 14-year battle to
curtail roadside smog was hurt by exemptions to the bill.  Drivers will be fined HK$320 ($41) should they idle engines
for more than three minutes, according to the bill passed March
5. Government exemptions, including to cabs queuing at stands,
lessened the impact of the law, environmental groups said.  New World First Bus Services Ltd. , Citybus Ltd. and groups
including the Motor Transport Workers General Union have fought
the legislation, a proposal first sent for public consultation
in 2000. Roadside smog reached “very high” levels for a record
one in four days in 2010. Pollution is linked to 4,800
additional deaths between 2007 and 2010, the University of  Hong
Kong  said Jan. 19, and is hurting the city’s ability to lure
talent, according to the General Chamber of Commerce.  “The bill has been watered down a lot as the government
caved in to political pressure from the transport sector,” said
Edwin Lau, director at the Friends of the Earth (HK). “We don’t
think this could bring significant improvement to the worsening
air, but it’s better than nothing.”  Changes to the bill included the exemption of all cabs at
stands, from just two vehicles in line, and allowing some buses
to be exempted should they have at least one passenger on board.  More Vehicles  “The evisceration of this bill by transport interests
demonstrates lawmakers’ inability to defend public health over
the interests of narrow constituencies,” said Joanne Ooi, chief
executive officer of Clean Air Network, a lobby group.  Vehicles are the second-biggest source of pollution in Hong
Kong, after power stations, and their numbers rose 9.6 percent
between 2004 and 2009, according to the  government .  “We have carefully examined the views of the community,
the needs of drivers and the transport trades, and balanced the
effectiveness of the proposal,” the Environmental Protection
Department said in an e-mailed statement. “It will certainly
help reduce the environmental nuisances and the associated
health hazard caused by idling vehicles.”  Hong Kong’s efforts to reduce pollution date back to Chief
Executive Donald Tsang’s predecessor, Tung Chee-Hwa, who in his
maiden policy speech in 1997 said “traffic fumes” and
pollution swept in from  China  are problems the city must tackle.  Nitrogen Dioxide  While pollutants from neighboring China declined after an
emission control pact with the Guangdong provincial government,
the average level of nitrogen dioxide, a major auto pollutant
that will shorten lives after prolonged exposure, was almost
triple the  European Union’s safety level  from January to June
last year in Central.  “We risk doing something too late,” said Fu Xiaowen,
assistant professor in transport economics and policy at Hong
Kong Polytechnic University. “Pollution is slowly killing us.
The government should do more, whether in terms of offering tax
breaks or funding electric cars.”  Hong Kong said in its budget last month it is trying out
hybrid buses and plans to replace government vehicles with
electric ones. Nissan Motor Co. agreed to advance supply of its
Leaf electric car to Hong Kong, the government said January.  Still, a government plan to replace older vehicles on the
road has met with objections from bus companies concerned about
incurring extra costs.  Citybus and New World , which run the most bus routes on  Hong Kong Island , have resisted, saying they won’t speed the
replacement of older, more polluting buses.  Older Vehicles  “We will follow a schedule for replacing buses based on
their age to avoid wasting resources and increasing pressure for
fare increases,” Citybus and New World, 50 percent owned by a
unit of developer New World Development Co., said in a statement
to Bloomberg. Buses will be replaced after serving 17 to 18
years, said the companies.  Buses account for as much as 40 percent of traffic in the
busiest areas, and about 25 percent of the franchised buses have
engines with emissions worse than the European Union II standard.
Singapore  banned  such vehicles in 2001. There are five EU
standards, with I the least stringent and V the most.  The tussle highlights the struggle of  Asia ’s third-richest
economy to convince transport companies to pay for cleaner
vehicles as a survey released in December said a quarter of
respondents would consider leaving because of pollution.  “The pollution problem is an underestimated threat to the
viability of Hong Kong as a center,” said Anthony Limbrick,
chief investment officer of hedge fund Pure Capital Ltd. “It is
not an environment that is easy to take a family that takes
fresh air for granted to.”  Smoggy Shopping  The daily average pollution level in Central registered as
“very high,” which triggers a health warning, for 86 days in
2010, up from the 44 days in 2009. Central, which has  Mandarin
Oriental International Ltd. (MAND) ’s hotels and stores of LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, was the worst among the 14 districts
monitored. Last week, pollution reached “very high” levels in
the five business days in Central.  “It’s obvious that the air is getting worse as we see
smoky smog covering the harbor more than ever,” said Isabella Chan, sales and marketing director at  Franklin Templeton
Investments (Asia) Ltd.  “Sometimes I feel like I can’t breathe
on the street.”  About 35 percent of the franchised buses would be retired
by 2015, with costs pegged at between HK$2 million and HK$3
million each, the government said. Replacing all of them now
isn’t possible, and trials are being conducted to fit emission-
reduction devices to buses, Environment Secretary Edward Yau
 said  Jan. 5.  Peregrine Cust, founder of Prana Capital, chose  Singapore 
over Hong Kong when he moved his investment team from  London  in
April partly because of the air, he said.  “A clean, healthy, friendly environment in Singapore was a
big consideration,” said Cust. “The pollution obscured the
Kowloon view from Central. You could almost taste it!”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  