-- 
Toyota Said to Aim for Emerging Markets Growth in Plan

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-03-07T05:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/toyota-motor-said-to-focus-on-emerging-markets-growth-in-10-year-plan.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which
traditionally gets a majority of its profit in the U.S., will
outline a strategy for growth in emerging markets in a 10-year
plan the Japanese automaker is set to release this week, two
people familiar with the plan said.  Toyota also aims to cut two vice-chairman positions and
shrink its board to 17 or fewer members from 27 as part of the
biggest management shakeup in eight years, said two people, who
declined to be identified as the information is private.  President Akio Toyoda will present Toyota’s “Global Vision
2020” plan on March 9 to help boost sales after record recalls
contributed to the world’s largest car company becoming the only
major automaker to post falling deliveries in the U.S. last year.
As part of Toyota’s focus on emerging markets, the carmaker
added the Etios compact in  India  in December, which will also be
modified for sale in China,  Thailand  and  Brazil .  “As the recall problem has settled down, there’s hope that
Toyota will turn around and get on the offensive, but I’m not
optimistic,” said  Koji Endo , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at
Advanced Research Japan. “Toyota has been trying to return to a
less aggressive way of doing things after being so fixated on
profit.”  Toyota fell 2.8 percent in Tokyo to 3,680 yen as of 1:50
p.m. The stock has gained 14 percent in 2011 after declining 17
percent last year.  The automaker relies on  North America  for about 60 percent
of its operating profit, excluding exports, according to the
automaker. Standard & Poor’s cut Toyota’s credit rating to AA-
from AA on March 4, citing “weak” profitability.  Toyota spokesman Koki Konishi said the automaker can’t
comment on the plan at this point.  ‘21st Century Corolla’  Executive Vice President Yukitoshi Funo has dubbed the
Etios the “21st Century Corolla,” a reference to its
bestselling compact model.  “Toyota has started to introduce models for emerging
markets and that should be a core part of their mid-term
strategy,” said  Satoru Takada , an analyst at TIW Inc. in Tokyo.
“The old strategy of taking a hit model from the U.S. or Japan
to emerging markets is expected to change.”  Investors and analysts have called on Toyota to reveal more
about plans for next-generation models, shifting production away
from Japan and boosting sales of luxury models. Toyota will also
include measures to strengthen its quality control in the plan,
the people said.  Slimmer Board  Toyota’s slimmer board may help it adapt to challenges and
changes in the global industry more quickly, the people said.  Former President Katsuaki Watanabe will become an adviser
without a board vote, and former head of research and
development Kazuo Okamoto will move to an affiliate, the people
said.  “Toyota has seemed cluttered with too many board members,
and that has had consequences,” said Tadashi Usui, an analyst
at Moody’s K.K. in Tokyo.  After a global financial crisis and recalls of more than 8
million cars for problems linked to unintended acceleration,
Toyota has fallen behind rival Honda Motor Co. in terms of
profit and operating margin. The company has said it plans to
keep capital investments little changed for at least the next
five years to cut costs.  Volkswagen, GM  With Volkswagen AG aiming to surpass Toyota as the world’s
largest carmaker by 2018, and competitors including General
Motors Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. also gaining ground on the
Toyota City, Japan-based automaker, management has been divided
over whether it should be more aggressive or remain cautious,
said two Toyota group executives, who declined to be identified.  In Toyoda’s  testimony before Congress  in February 2010,
during the height of the recall crisis, he linked vehicle
defects to the rapid expansion that pushed the company to the
top of the industry.  “Quite frankly, I fear the pace at which we have grown may
have been too quick,” Toyoda, 54, said. The grandson of
Toyota’s founder has advocated a return to founding principles
such as “putting the customer first” and “genchi genbutsu,”
or “going to see things first-hand.”  Toyota is continuing a cautious approach even as analysts
say the company lags behind rivals in emerging markets such as  China  and India, said Karl Schlicht, head of the global product
and marketing division at  Lexus , the carmaker’s luxury brand.  ‘Big Lesson’  “We’re not going all out to go as fast as we can in
China,” he said. “We’ve learned a big lesson. We want to be
careful.”  Toyoda’s 2020 vision revises a plan outlined by Watanabe in
November 2007, which included a goal of offering hybrid versions
of all its models and commercializing next-generation battery
technology and new modes of mobility.  Watanabe, 69, said in 2006 he expected the company’s
operating margin to grow to 10 percent from 8.5 percent at the
time. That compares with 2.9 percent for the nine-month period
through December.  The company expects to earn 490 billion yen ($5.95 billion)
in net income in the year ending March 31, a figure that may
almost double to 922 billion yen in the year ending March 2013,
according to the average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s still below the record 1.7 trillion yen it
earned in fiscal year 2007.  Honda expects to make 530 billion yen in profit during the
current financial year. Its operating margin during the nine
months through Dec. 31 was 7.8 percent.  Prius Lineup  The company’s focus on expanding its lineup of fuel-
efficient models remains evident as it adds new versions of the
Prius, the world’s best-selling gasoline-electric model. Toyota
displayed its Prius v wagon and a compact Prius c concept car at
the Detroit auto show in January.  In the U.S., Toyota’s biggest market, the company expects
Prius models to become its top-selling vehicle line by the end
of the decade, overtaking the Camry sedan, according to  Bob Carter , Toyota’s group vice president for U.S. sales.  A plug-in hybrid and cars powered solely by batteries are
also planned for next year. Toyota agreed last year to buy a $50
million stake in  Palo Alto , California-based  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) 
to collaborate on an electric version of Toyota’s RAV4 sport-
utility vehicle.  Toyota is also working on new battery technology that
improves upon lithium-ion cells. Vehicles with magnesium-sulfur
batteries or alternative materials may be ready by about 2020,
according to Jeffrey Makarewicz, an engineer at Toyota’s
technical center in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  