-- 
Prada Shuns Milan for Hong Kong as IPO Plan Shows Decay in Italian Economy

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-03-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/prada-shuns-milan-for-hong-kong-as-ipo-signals-economic-shift.html
Prada SpA, the fashion house known
for its Miu Miu bags and Church’s shoes, is planning the largest
initial public offering of a family-owned Italian company since
2006. Investors in Prada’s hometown of Milan will have to reach
about 5,800 miles away to buy the stock.  Prada is shunning the Italian exchange for a $2 billion IPO
on the Hong Kong exchange because it’s closer to the retailer’s
fastest-growing region. The decision was made to “seize the
best opportunities offered by the international capital
markets,” Chief Executive Officer Patrizio Bertelli said in a
statement when it announced the IPO.  Losing Prada highlights the struggles facing Borsa
Italiana, a unit of  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , to gain new
listings, said investors, including Lorenzo Crispoltoni of Banca
Fideuram SpA. The Italian exchange lost half its value in the
past three years amid a dearth of IPOs and the drop in stock
prices since 2007. The 332 traded companies on Borsa Italiana
have a combined market capitalization of 425 billion euros ($593
billion), ranking the exchange no higher than seventh in Europe,
data from the World Federation of Exchanges show.  “The Borsa’s troubles mirror sluggish economic growth and
an exchange that isn’t as visible as others on a global scale,”
said Milan-based Crispoltoni, who helps oversee 2.5 billion
euros. “Companies that have a global market are looking
elsewhere for success.”  Slow Growth  Economic growth of just 1.1 percent last year combined with
the region’s sovereign debt crisis to erase 13 percent from the
country’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  in 2010. Italian shares are
now the cheapest relative to Europe, the U.S. and the emerging
markets on a price-to-book value basis since 1992, according to
London-based Barclays Plc. The country is Barclays’s preferred
“deep-value” play, analysts led by Edmund Shing wrote in a
note to clients March 2.    Italy ’s gross domestic product grew at an average annual
rate of 1.5 percent from 1999 to 2007, compared with 2.2 percent
for the European Union. Italy contracted 5.4 percent in 2009.  The economy and weak stock market have deterred Italian
companies, especially small ones, from going public, said
Gioacchino Attanzio, chief executive officer of Milan-based
 Aidaf , a group that represents family-owned companies.  “We’re in a paralysis,” he said. “Entrepreneurs are more
worried than ever about losing control because their businesses
are weak.”  Pulled IPOs  Italian biotechnology company Philogen SpA postponed a 65
million-euro IPO last month after Bayer AG, its biggest
customer, canceled contracts. Toymaker Giochi Preziosi SpA,
ferry operator Moby SpA and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s Banca Fideuram
asset-management unit also have scrapped plans for share sales.  Enel Green Power SpA sold 2.5 billion euros of stock in
November, the country’s largest IPO in 11 years.  Prada is making its fifth attempt in the past decade at
selling shares. The company, controlled by Bertelli, his wife  Miuccia Prada  and her family, is generating record sales.  Revenue grew 31 percent last year to 2.05 billion euros led
by demand in  Asia , where sales rose 48 percent.  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  are helping manage the company’s Hong Kong IPO, Prada said
in a Jan. 28 statement.  ‘Water to Fashion’  “From water to fashion to industry, you have leading
Italian brands that are household names in the world,” Ronald Arculli, chairman of  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., said
in an interview in October while visiting Italy to meet company
executives. “A listing in Hong Kong would automatically enhance
their  brand recognition .”  Borsa Italiana envisioned in 2007 when it was sold to the
LSE that the London connection would help lure more companies to
the exchange, which at the time of the combination identified
2,000 companies as potential IPO candidates. The number of
companies traded in Milan fell to 332 last year from 344 in
2007.  The exchange needs to offer “better terms” to companies
considering IPOs, Borsa Italiana Chief Executive Officer
Raffaele Jerusalmi said in a parliamentary hearing on March 2.
Borsa Italiana officials declined to be interviewed for this
article.  Lagging Asia  Italy isn’t the only market that’s trailing Asia for IPOs.
Initial sales in Hong Kong raised $49.5 billion in 2010, the
most in developing markets, compared with $28.4 billion in
western  Europe , data compiled by Bloomberg show. L’Occitane
International SA and its parent raised about $780 million from
the first Hong Kong IPO of a French company last year.  Borsa Italiana’s difficulties coincide with a wave of
consolidation with LSE bidding $3.15 billion for Toronto Stock
Exchange owner TMX Group Inc. Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE
Euronext disclosed last month that they plan to merge.  The Italian Exchange drew criticism from some market
operators when a data feed broke down on Jan. 22 and shut down
Borsa Italiana for 6 1/2 hours just as violence in  Libya  sent
global markets tumbling. The LSE stopped trading on Feb. 25
after a technical fault.  Luxury sportswear maker Moncler, whose biggest shareholder
is  Carlyle Group , is planning what may be the biggest Italian
IPO this year. Moncler’s sales increased 15 percent last year to
about 440 million euros.  “If Italy was growing at 3 or 4 percent, the IPO market
would be buoyant,” said Aidaf’s Attanzio. “It’s a situation
that will have to change.”  -- With assistance from Zijing Wu and Nandini Sukumar in  London  and  Andrew Roberts  in Paris. Editors: Dan Liefgreen,
David Merritt  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  