-- 
Rebels Head for Arms Training as Libya Insurgents Assemble Against Qaddafi

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-03-06T22:42:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/rebels-head-for-training-as-libya-s-insurgents-assemble-against-qaddafi.html
Hundreds of Libyans marched down a
street in rebel-held Benghazi as people leaned out of their
balconies cheering, saluting recruits to the rebel forces that
have driven Muammar Qaddafi’s loyalists from large swathes of
the country.  The men “are ready to do their utmost,” said Jamal
Mohamed, a medical worker and volunteer leader of the group.  Thousands of men in Benghazi, the country’s second-largest
city and the heart of the rebellion, have been volunteering to
fight, part of a rebel drive to build up an army that can
counter the Libyan leader’s forces as the anti-government
campaign shifts from the streets to the battlefield.    Libya ’s military, which received the lowest funding as a
percentage of gross domestic product in the region in the three
years through 2008, had 50,000 men, according to the
International Institute for Strategic Studies. The military
split as anti-government forces gained strength, with many
soldiers and officers defecting to the rebels and taking their
weapons with them. The opposition claims Qaddafi has bolstered
his forces with mercenaries from  Chad , Somalia, Niger and  Mali ,
although his son, Saif, denied that in an interview on  Al
Jazeera .  The insurgents have pushed Qaddafi’s army from much of the
country’s east and were advancing toward his hometown of Sirte.
A spokesman for the opposition forces, Abdullah al-Mahdi, said
6,000 people have died since the uprising began in mid-February.
The  United Nations  estimated that 1,000 people were killed as of
February 26.  Military Camp  In the Garyounes neighborhood, a 15-minute drive from the
center of the city, groups of young men gathered in a military
camp for training.  Mustafa El Sagezli, deputy head of the camp, ordered the
men to line up. They obeyed, shouting “Allah Akbar,” Arabic
for “God is great.”  Most of the men received paramilitary training during high
school or university and the training is mostly to refresh their
memories, Sagezli said. He estimated that there are about 10
such camps across the eastern cities which feed new fighters to
the rebel forces.  “We are always in touch with frontline fighters and they
tell us how many people are needed,” Sagezli said. “ The units
are usually made up of four or five people so that makes it easy
for them to move.”  New recruits receive about a week of training before
heading to the front lines, said Abdel Motteleb Saleh, a former
army trainer under the Libyan leader who now instructs the
rebels.  Recruits Train  In the camp, recruits train with assault rifles, machine
guns and rocket-propelled grenades that were either captured in
battle or handed over by defecting soldiers or by civilians.  “We collect the weapons that are in the possession of the
people of Benghazi and then we redistribute them to the camps
that train the free Libyan youth,” former General Rajab Al
Fetouri said. “The youth and the citizens, old and young, have
been very cooperative in handing in their weapons so far.”  Ahmed Sahly, a 25-year-old communications engineer from
Benghazi, said he came to the training station to “liberate
Libya from traitors and mercenaries.”  “Any Libyan man would have done the same,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  