-- 
Species’ Extinction Rates Are Lower Than Previously Thought, Study Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-18T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/species-extinction-rates-are-lower-than-previously-thought-study-says.html
Scientists have been overestimating
animal and plant extinction rates for decades and need a new
method of counting populations to better manage animal survival,
a study in the journal  Nature  showed.  Animals and plants are dying out about 2.5 times more
slowly than previously thought, according to the authors of a
study published today. The finding doesn’t mean species won’t
become extinct, the authors said.  Previous estimates of extinction rates suggested that 33
percent to 50 percent of all species would be lost between the
1970s and 2000. That hasn’t happened, according to the study.
The  Millennium Ecosystem Assessment , published in 2005 on
request by the  United Nations , may also be inaccurate, the
authors wrote.  “People realized there was an overestimation but, for
years, no one could pick out why,” said  Fangliang He , a study
author and professor of biodiversity and landscape modeling at
the University of Alberta in  Canada .  Ecologists and conservationists have been using a flawed a
model called “ species-area relationship ” to estimate
populations, said  Stephen Hubbell , a professor of evolutionary
biology at the University of  California ,  Los Angeles , and a
paper author.  By starting with the number of species found in a given
area, scientists can estimate how the number would grow as the
area expanded. Scientists and conservations reversed the method
to determine how many would be lost as a habitat decreases.  Species Count  This method was inaccurate because, when a scientist
encounters a member of a species for the first time, the species
count goes up by one. However, for extinction, all members of
the species must be lost, Hubbell said.  “I couldn’t see any problem right off the bat, but then we
sampled some large, mapped forest plots and we could see a big
problem,” Hubbell said.  Individual members of a species may migrate away from lost
habitat or continue to live in a much smaller area, Hubbell
said. Also, the inability to find a species in a given area
doesn’t mean it has died out there.  “This new paper does not alter the bottom line of the
Millennium Ecosystem Assessment,” said  Janet Ranganathan , the
vice president of science and research for the Washington-based
World Resources Institute, one of the main groups behind the
assessment, in an e-mail.  About two-thirds, or 15 of 24 ecosystems assessed in the
report, “have been degraded in the past 50 years,” Ranganathan
said. Today’s finding “does not dispute the urgent need to stem
habitat loss in order to preserve biodiversity,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 