-- 
Russian Terror Leads Regional Boss to Seek Amnesty for Rebels

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-03-06T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/russian-terror-leads-regional-boss-to-seek-amnesty-for-rebels.html
After 112 bombings last year in
Dagestan, part of  Russia ’s mainly Muslim North Caucasus, the
region’s leader wants to stop the killing by offering amnesty to
fighters who turn themselves in.  “The amnesty must be as broad as possible,” Magomedsalam
Magomedov said in a Feb. 28 interview in his office in the
regional capital Makhachkala. “It must give a chance for people
who want to return to avoid punishment. If we’re going to call
them back into society, we have to open the door.”  President  Dmitry Medvedev  and  Vladimir Putin , his
predecessor in the Kremlin who now serves as prime minister,
have struggled to combat terrorism, which is concentrated in the
North Caucasus. A suicide bomber linked to the region killed 37
people at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport on Jan. 24, the second
major attack on the capital in a year.  Dagestan, wedged between the Caspian Sea and Chechnya,
where federal forces fought two wars against separatists after
the collapse of the  Soviet Union , suffered more bombings in 2010
than any other region of Russia. Kabardino-Balkaria, also in the
North Caucasus, came second with 41 bombings, according to the
nongovernmental research group  Caucasian Knot .  An amnesty must be approved by the State Duma in Moscow and
Magomedov seeks the support of Medvedev to push the legislation
through. The Kremlin’s press service declined to comment
immediately.  ‘Against the Secular State’  Radical Islam is spreading across the region, adding
ideological fuel to the fire, according to Ruslan Kurbanov, a
political scientist at the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Terrorism is also fuelled by corruption, the lack of political
freedoms and social injustice, which help recruit new cadres
from socially deprived circles, he said.  “It’s a rebellion against the secular state, which they
want to destroy and replace,” he said by phone. “The children
of senior officials, judges and policemen often join the
militants.”  Magomedov, a former economics professor who took over as
the leader of Dagestan a year ago, said there are hardened
terrorists who’ll never come down from the mountains. He’s
targeting the less zealous majority, many of whom are common
criminals not driven by ideology.  ‘Angry, Disaffected’  “The most important thing is to deprive the terrorists of
their social base, so they can’t fill their ranks with angry,
disaffected young people,” said Magomedov “The young will go
down this radical road unless we can provide the basic
conditions they deserve.”  Putin and his predecessor  Boris Yeltsin  used amnesties in
the past in an attempt to quell violent unrest. In 2006, during
Putin’s second term as president, an amnesty was given to
Chechen rebels who weren’t involved in serious crimes.
Authorities said that the brother of Chechen rebel leader  Doku
Umarov  was among those who surrendered.  Umarov claimed responsibility for the Domodedovo attack as
well as for twin suicide bombings in Moscow subway stations in
March 2010 that killed 40 people.  Parliament previously approved an amnesty for Chechen
fighters in 2003 that covered crimes committed in the previous
10 years, including the first separatist war in the region.  “In Chechnya, many militants weren’t disarmed,” said
Grigory Shvedov, chief editor of Caucasian Knot, a Moscow-based
news and analysis group. “They remained fighters, but now they
were shooting at the people they’d previously been fighting
alongside against Moscow.”  ‘Very Hopeful’  While waiting for the Kremlin to approve an amnesty,
Magomedov appealed to prosecutors and judges to reduce sentences
and to grant probation or release for militants who vow lay down
their weapons.  Beslan Batsiev, 30, a militant charged with terrorism who
escaped to western Europe seven years ago, sought a pardon over
Skype. His case was reviewed on Feb. 28 by a commission chaired
by the Dagestan leader to help former terrorists adapt to a
peaceful life. He plans to set up similar panels in most parts
of the republic.  “We’re very hopeful that the president of Russia will
accept this amnesty program,” said Magomedov, whose father,
Magomedali, ran the region from 1987 to 2006. “We’re not going
to get fixated on the use of force or negotiations.”  While Chechnya has stabilized under Kremlin-backed leader
Ramzan Kadyrov, a former militant whom  Human Rights Watch  has
accused of crimes against humanity, which he denied, violence
intensified in other North Caucasus regions, including Dagestan.  ‘Keep Filling’  There about 1,000 militants in the North Caucasus, Russian
deputy prime-minister Alexander Khloponin said, citing estimates
by researchers.  “The problem isn’t that there are a thousand” militants,
“but that we kill them and they keep filling their ranks” with
new recruits, Khloponin, the former OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel chief
who runs the North Caucasus region for Putin and Medvedev, said
on Feb. 11.  Magomedov said that while the number of terrorist attacks
in Dagestan continues to grow, their severity has diminished
since  suicide bombers  killed more than a dozen people in the
city of Kizlyar in March 2010, two days after the Moscow subway
attacks.  Law enforcement agencies responded to the Kizlyar attacks
with a crackdown, killing about 200 militants by September.
Dagestan government data show 100 arrests made.  “Now we kill more of them than they kill policemen,”
Magomedov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Makhachkala via the Moscow newsroom at 
   iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  