-- 
South Korea Warns Computer Users Against Infection Distributed by Internet

-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-03-06T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/s-korea-warns-computer-users-after-government-website-attacks.html
  South Korea  warned computer users to
take precautions against a new computer virus one day after a
series of online attempts to cripple government websites.  Computer users should start their machines in safe mode to
protect against infection by so-called malware that could
destroy data stored on hard disks and prevent installation of
virus protection programs, the  Korea Communications Commission 
said yesterday in a statement on its website.  The latest attempts to disrupt South Korea’s online systems
target individual computer users, unlike the attacks against
official websites in the previous two days, Lee Sang Kug, a
deputy director at the commission, said by phone. Malware was
found and removed from four sites, Lee said, warning that the
bad code could be spread by accessing file-sharing networks.  The government on March 4 issued an alert against so-called
distributed denial of service assaults that targeted about 40
websites including the presidential office and National
Intelligence Service.  The attacks were similar to attempts made in July 2009 to
cripple dozens of websites in South Korea and the U.S.  North Korea’s postal ministry was responsible for the 2009
attacks, the JoongAng Ilbo reported in October 2009, citing Won Sei Hoon, head of the National Intelligence Service.  “We haven’t found any evidence to show where these new
attacks came from or their purpose,” said Hwang Mi Kyung, a
spokeswoman at Seoul-based  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , the nation’s largest
maker of antivirus software. “There was no evidence to prove
the 2009 attacks came from North Korea.”  No Serious Damage  The Communications Commission hasn’t received reports of
serious damage caused by the latest malware distribution, Lee
said, adding that no further attacks on government websites have
been detected.  Police investigating the spread of the malware haven’t
found its origin, and related agencies will continue to monitor
closely how the malicious code spread, Yoo Jin Ho, a spokesman
at  Korea Internet Security Agency , said by phone today.  Computer users in South Korea can download a free program
distributed by Ahnlab to diagnose and remove the latest malware.  The Defense Ministry and intelligence agency declined to
comment on the attacks, or on a Yonhap News report that  North
Korea  on March 4 disrupted distribution of Global Positioning
System signals in a few regions of South Korea. Officials at the
ministry and agency declined to be named citing department
policy.  GPS Disruption  North Korea might have tested GPS jamming technology as a
response to U.S.-South Korean military drills that began last
week, Yonhap said, citing military and government officials it
didn’t name. The communications commission said GPS signals were
affected in some parts of Seoul and Incheon that day, in a
statement on its website. The disruptions affected time signals
and connections for some mobile phones.  “It’s possible for North Korea to disrupt GPS signals to
show its capability,” said Kim Yong Hyun, professor of North
Korean studies at  Dongguk University . “Any repeat of such
electronic warfare could worsen relations.”  Relations remain chilled across the border following
exchanges of artillery fire in November after North Korea
shelled a South Korean island, killing four people. The
Pyongyang regime threatened last week to take military action if
the South continues propaganda encouraging revolt, and “all-out
war” in response to any attack during the annual U.S.-South
Korean military drills that began on Feb. 28.  North Korea on March 4 refused to allow the return of 27 of
its citizens who drifted across the maritime border by boat last
month, demanding that four who requested to stay in South Korea
also be repatriated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  