-- 
Sarkozy's `Arm Twisting' Means France Exceeds U.S. on Small-Business Loans

-- B y   A l a n   K a t z   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-03-06T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/sarkozy-arm-twisting-pushes-france-past-u-s-in-small-loans.html
Michel Grosselin rushed down the
marble hallway of the court in Sedan, northern  France , with five
minutes left to avert the liquidation of a carpet factory he
wanted to buy. He had obtained bank loans with government help.  Nine months after that June day, his factory is churning
out blue-gray carpets for the Basel World Jewelry and Watch
Show, employs 151 people and expects to be profitable this year.  “Without the mediator, this whole project would have been
impossible,” said Grosselin, 55. “Credit Agricole was the only
bank that would see me, but the minute I walked in I realized it
was just to say no. The other banks just said no on the phone.”  After business lending slumped with the bankruptcy of New
York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, U.S.
and U.K. officials exhorted banks to keep extending loans,
particularly to small companies, to bolster their economies. In
France, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  created an office to lean on
the banks to ensure money flowed.  The results are striking. French lending to small and
medium-sized companies -- with fewer than 250 employees -- never
turned negative and is  growing  at an annual rate of about 4
percent, data compiled by the Bank of France show. In the U.S.,
the volume of  outstanding loans  to small businesses has fallen
by $72.6 billion, or 10 percent, since the second quarter of
2008, according to the Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council’s website. In the U.K., such  lending  has
dropped since October 2009, the  Bank of England  reported.  The French example shows “arm twisting, when you get a
temporary shock, may work,” said Vincente Cunat, a lecturer at
the  London School  of Economics.  Obama’s Woes  France outstripped every major economy in  Europe  in terms
of full loan approval rates for small businesses for the January
2009 to June 2010 period, according to European Central Bank
data. That included  Germany , which created its own mediation
office last year.  A total of 13,359 companies got bank loans of 3.3 billion
euros ($4.6 billion) between November 2008 and January of this
year after the French mediator intervened directly or through
the Bank of France, which oversees the country’s lenders.  On the scale of the  U.S. economy  -- about 5.7 times the
size of France’s, according to the  International Monetary Fund  -
- that would be the equivalent of $26 billion in extra lending
resulting from government intervention.  “If you’re a small business, capital is still tough,”
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in Feb. 22 remarks in  Cleveland . “Community banks that were the source of a lot of
lending for small businesses are still working their way through
some problems.”  Mediator’s Story  Grosselin received his loan from five banks after the
government intervened. Groupe BPCE SA,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
Credit Industriel et Commercial and Credit Agricole loaned him a
total of 975,000 euros, while Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA
provided 375,000 euros for tools and materials.  “I got a call at home on a weekend afternoon about this
guy who wanted to save a factory and couldn’t get financing,”
said Gerard Rameix, the national mediator since September 2009
and the former secretary general for France’s stock market
regulator.  He then met with Grosselin and held meetings with banks in
his office, housed in a tower block across from Paris train
station Gare de Lyon to get them to agree to make the loans.  “We avoided the worst,” Rameix said. “Without mediation,
lending to small businesses might well have fallen.”  French government bodies also chipped in directly, awarding
Grosselin and his fellow investors a total of 2.5 million euros
in loans and 600,000 euros in grants. The government loans were
conditional on Grosselin getting financing from the banks.  Temporary Response  The mediator’s “role is to incite,” Grosselin said. “I
don’t know where the line between inciting and coercion lies.”  Rameix said government mediation is largely a temporary
response to an acute credit crunch and that the number of people
coming in has dropped significantly since 2009.  “If you’re thinking of structuring the banking system in
the longer term, I’m not sure this would be very useful,” LSE’s
Cunat said.  Grosselin’s story may not be mirrored by all recipients,
said Bo Becker, an assistant professor at the finance unit of
 Harvard Business School  in  Boston . “The track record in
government intervening in the allocation of credit is very
poor.”  A  Bank of France study  published in its bulletin for the
fourth quarter of 2010 showed that 11 percent of companies that
got loans through mediation went into bankruptcy proceedings
within a year. That compared with a 1.7 percent average for
businesses as a whole. Companies unable to get loans through
mediation went into bankruptcy at a 35 percent rate.  Jobs Saved  “Mediation was very, very useful,” said Olivier Klein,
chief executive officer of BPCE’s commercial banking business in
Paris. “Only very rarely did the mediator exaggerate, where he
wanted to save a company that wasn’t salvageable.”  French banks point out that the lending was a very small
part of their total loans.  The “mediation showed that the lending system works
well,” said Dominique Lefebvre, the chairman of  Credit
Agricole ’s National Federation, a group of regional banks
forming France’s largest lender by branches.  In Grosselin’s case, he benefitted from a modern factory
and a motivated workforce. The entrepreneur projects revenue
this year of 26 million euros and a profit of 200,000 euros. The
company had a loss in 2009 of 15 million euros after sales
plummeted to 35 million euros from 71 million euros in 2006.  “This company had been so starved it couldn’t buy any
thread,” Grosselin said. “All it needed was financing to get
the machines turning again. Without the mediator, 200 jobs would
have just disappeared.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 