-- 
HSBC Says Prefers to Remain in U.K. Amid Speculation of Move

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-07T12:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/hsbc-prefers-to-stay-in-london-talk-of-change-speculative-1-.html
  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, said it prefers to keep its headquarters in London, amid
speculation the lender is preparing to quit the U.K.  HSBC is planning to move its base back to Hong Kong because
of Britain’s growing tax and regulatory burdens, the Sunday
Telegraph reported yesterday, citing unidentified investors.
HSBC Chairman  Douglas Flint  and Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said in a statement that talk of “imminent change”
was “entirely speculative and presumptuous.”  HSBC and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the two U.K. lenders
dependent on Asia for a majority of their profit, are under
pressure from investors to consider moving to Hong Kong as the
U.K. government raises taxes for lenders and weighs separating
their investment and commercial banking divisions. The U.K.’s
tax on bank balance sheets cost HSBC about $600 million.  “It’s more noise and threats up in the air,” said Guy de Blonay, who helps manage about 19.5 billion pounds ($32 billion)
including shares of HSBC at Jupiter Fund Management Plc in  London . He said HSBC is unlikely to quit London. “U.K. banks
are too important an income for the government to be too
aggressive. It’s also relatively complicated for HSBC to move.”  HSBC rose 1.8 percent to 664.4 pence at 12:02 p.m. in
London today for a market value of about 118 billion pounds.  ‘Additional Cost’  HSBC is “being increasingly asked by shareholders and
investors about the likely additional cost of being
headquartered in the U.K.,” Flint and Gulliver said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “We are very clear that London’s
competitive position deserves protection and HSBC will play a
full part in this. We are encouraged by the U.K. government’s
recent commitments to do the same.”  The government’s Independent Commission on Banking is
considering whether to recommend “ring-fencing”  investment
banking  from consumer banking activities and will complete an
interim report next month and its full conclusions in September.
Barclays Plc and HSBC have also told U.K. regulators that
forcing banks to separate their securities units would make
failures more likely and increase costs for consumers.  The Telegraph cited an unidentified representative of a
“top institutional investor” as saying a move is “now more
than likely.” HSBC has told key investors that its latest full-
year earnings have made the case for moving to Hong Kong
“overwhelming,” the Telegraph said.  Banking Regulation  Net income more than doubled to $13.2 billion in 2010 from
$5.83 billion the previous year, HSBC said Feb. 28. Pretax
profit jumped by 26 percent to $11.6 billion in  Asia , outpacing
the 7.3 percent increase to $4.3 billion in Europe.  “Banking regulations in Europe are more stringent than
Asia’s,” said Dominic Chan, an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in
Hong Kong who rates the stock as a “buy.” “The Hong Kong
Monetary Authority, for example, has a less stringent capital
requirement for banks than the Financial Services Authority.”  HSBC, which plans to list its shares in  Shanghai , will
decide whether to keep its headquarters in London this year,
Flint said last month.  During the 145 years of HSBC’s history, the bank had been
in the U.K. for 18 years, Flint said. HSBC moved to London in
1992 from  Hong Kong  after taking over Midland Bank Plc because
to “grow our business as an international bank was not going to
be possible from a regional base.” HSBC’s London headquarters
building in  Canary Wharf  has 1.1 million square feet (102,000
square meters) of space.  ‘Our Preference’  “London continues to be widely recognized as one of the
world’s leading international financial centers, a position it
has built over many decades through deliberate policy action,”
Flint and Gulliver said. “We have been very clear that it is
our preference to remain headquartered here.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  criticized the banking
industry’s focus on short-term profit in an interview with the  Daily Telegraph  published March 5.  Good businesses “keep a clear vision of who their
customers are, and are run by people who don’t think they should
simply maximize profits next week,” King said. A  Bank of
England  spokeswoman confirmed the comments.  HSBC paid 1.2 billion pounds in tax last year, and the U.K.
government would lose as much as 500 million pounds if the bank
were to shift its headquarters outside Britain, the Telegraph
reported yesterday.  ‘Regulatory Arbitrage’  “Any decision we make will not be based on regulatory
arbitrage, it will be based on the economics of where it’s best
to do our business,” Flint said. “Were we to relocate, we
would not go anywhere where there was a risk to the character of
the organization.”  The U.K. imposed the balance-sheet levy because bank
stability has improved in recent months, lenders have been given
greater time to meet international capital requirements and
there is more certainty on regulation, the Treasury said.  “The speculation does highlight the increased cost of
being domiciled in the U.K.,” Gareth Hunt, an analyst at
Investec with a “buy” recommendation on HSBC, said in a note
to investors today. “Regardless of costs of U.K. domicile, the
centre of gravity is shifting to Asia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  