-- 
Singapore Exchange's Bocker Says ASX Merger Will Help Company Fund Raising

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-06T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/singapore-exchange-says-asx-merger-would-help-companies-expand.html
  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , pursuing a
takeover of  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , said the transaction would help companies
trading on the Australian stock exchange attract money to expand
and make it more competitive with its Hong Kong rival.  “We need to help listed companies’ investors get easier
and cheaper transactions,” Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said yesterday on Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s
“Inside Business” program. “We need to combine our resources
to become stronger. That’s what you’ve seen in  Europe . That’s
what you’ve seen in the U.S., and that’s what you see in Asia
coming now.”  The Singapore bourse offered on Oct. 25 to buy ASX in a
cash-and-share transaction then valued at A$8.4 billion ($8.5
billion), a 42 percent premium to ASX’s share price at the time.
Europe’s Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  have agreed to
merge, and London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it would buy
Canada’s TMX Group Inc., adding pressure on exchanges to expand.  The Singapore exchange, seeking approval for the
transaction, expects to file an application to Australia’s
Foreign Investment Review Board within 10 days, Bocker said.  Chi-X Global Inc. on March 3 received the go-ahead to
become the first foreign-owned stock exchange operator in
Australia’s 150-year-old trading history, as the Australian
Securities & Investments Commission announced a timetable for
the licensing of competitors to ASX. The regulatory approval may
make it easier for Singapore Exchange to tackle opposition to
its bid.  ‘Positive Sign’  “It’s a positive sign,” Bocker said, adding that he has
had more than 300 meetings with investors and listed companies
to explain the rationale for the ASX merger. “Competition is
important for the capital markets.”  The proposed takeover would help Singapore exchange get
more listings and take on Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
he said in the television interview.  The Singapore-ASX deal still needs the support of
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan , the  Reserve Bank  of Australia,
the Australian Securities & Investments Commission and
parliamentarians, several of whom have opposed the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  