-- 
Syria to Tender Property Projects Valued at $8.4 Billion

-- B y   L i n a   I b r a h i m
-- 
2011-03-06T08:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/syria-to-tender-property-projects-valued-at-8-4-billion.html
  Syria  plans to invite developers to
build 118,000 homes in projects valued at $8.4 billion in the
second quarter of this year, a government official said.  The Real Estate Development and Investment Commission, the
industry’s regulator, is finalizing tender books for the 12
projects, said its General Manager Yasser al-Sibai.  “We invite more investors to establish companies in Syria
and participate in the tendering process, which will be
announced in some two months,” al-Sibai said in an interview in
Damascus yesterday. “Newly established companies are advised to
merge in order to meet our development plans.”  The Commission, founded in 2008, granted a license to the
country’s first private developer in August 2010. Since then, 24
companies were set up. Previously, most real estate projects
were developed by state-owned developers or cooperative
societies representing trade unions. Syria needs to build about
570,000 housing units by 2015, al-Sibai said.  The new developments, with a built-up area of more than 12
million square meters, require capital inflow and investor
response has so far been poor, al-Sibai said. “About 35 percent
of investors are non-locals coming mainly from the Gulf, with a
few from Turkey and  Iran ,” al Sibai said.  According to Kamal Malas, an international arbitrator based
in the  United Arab Emirates , international companies need a more
solid ground to invest in Syria. “More stability in laws, a
clearer vision on behalf of the government, better trained labor
force, and a deeper coordination between authorities are among
the issues,” Malas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lina Ibrahim in Dubai at 
 librahim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  