-- 
Tunisian Stocks May Gain When Suspended Bourse Opens Monday After 20% Drop

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-03-06T14:03:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/tunisian-stocks-may-gain-when-suspended-bourse-opens-monday-after-20-drop.html
Tunisia’s stock exchange said it
will resume trading tomorrow, a week after it shut down for the
second time since a popular revolt ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January.  The announcement was posted on the bourse’s website today.  Tunisia’s benchmark index has plunged more than 20 percent
this year as the North African country’s uprising ended Ben
Ali’s 23-year rule and inspired demonstrations across the
region. Renewed protests to remove from power those linked to
Ben Ali forced Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi to resign on
Feb. 27. Interim President Fouad Mebazaa named former Foreign
Minister Beji Caid Essebsi as premier and called last week for
the election of a national council to write a new constitution.  “I expect the market to open higher because there is
confidence about the future,” Lotfi Jebali, head of capital
markets at the Tunis-based Banque Internationale Arabe de
Tunisie, said in a telephone interview today. “The Tunisian
bourse will recover first with Tunisian investors and then with
foreigners,” he said, adding that he expected some foreign
investors to stay away from the market in part because of the
turmoil in neighboring  Libya .  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , in power for more than four
decades, has lost control of several key eastern cities.
Opposition forces were closing on Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte,
said Khaled el-Sayeh, a coordinator between the opposition’s
military forces and its interim ruling council in Benghazi.    Egypt ’s bourse has been shut since Jan. 27 amid protests
that forced  Hosni Mubarak  to resign two weeks later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  