-- 
Vale, Xstrata Vie for Coal Mine Mongolia Sees as Springboard

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-07T08:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-06/vale-xstrata-vie-for-coal-asset-mongolia-sees-as-springboard.html
  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore supplier and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the No. 1 thermal coal exporter,
head two of six groups shortlisted to develop part of Mongolia’s
biggest coal asset as the nation seeks to become a resource hub.    ArcelorMittal (MT) ,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , a venture between
Mitsui & Co. and Chinese coal producer  Shenhua Group , and a
Russo-Japanese-South Korean group led by OAO Russian Railways
round out the shortlist,  Baasangombo Enebish , head of the state-
run  Erdenes MGL LLC , which owns the asset, said March 5. It may
take about four months to pick one to three winners for the
Tavan Tolgoi field, he said.  “We see no reason to delay,” Enebish said in an interview
in Ulan Bator, Mongolia’s capital. “Tavan Tolgoi is only the
start. Mongolia would like to be one of the main commodity
suppliers in  Asia .”  Coal output doubled to 25 million metric tons to become
Mongolia’s top export last year, encouraging the government to
speed up Tavan Tolgoi’s development after years of debate. The  mining industry  can help fund broader economic growth, which may
hit 10 percent this year, Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold said
last week. That would exceed China’s targeted 8 percent for 2011.  “Mongolia is an exciting new environment which we are
looking at,” Xstrata spokesman  James Rickards  said by phone,
confirming the company has been shortlisted.  Initial Bids  Mongolia attracted 15 initial bids to develop the field as
floods in Australia curb supply. The price of steelmaking coal
may rise to a record $340 a metric ton in the next quarter,
according to UBS AG’s forecast in a Feb. 21 report.  The Asian nation is “definitely” where Noble Group Ltd.,
a Hong Kong-based commodity supplier backed by  China ’s sovereign
wealth fund, wants to expand coal operations, Chief Executive
Officer Ricardo Leiman said March 1.  Tavan Tolgoi spans some 68,000 hectares, with coking  coal 
located mainly in the central Tsankhi area, Enebish said.
Tsankhi has been split into the western bloc, which will be
developed by the winners of the tender, and the eastern side,
which will be mined by Erdenes TavanTolgoi, a unit of Erdenes
MGL. The unit will make an initial public offering of 29 percent
to global investors this year or next, Enebish said.  West Tsankhi holds more than 1 billion metric tons of coal,
68 percent of which can be used for steelmaking and the rest as
fuel in  power plants , Enebish said. The tender winner will pay
Erdenes TavanTolgoi royalties for mining and assist in getting
the coal to ports in China and  Russia  for export to Japan and  South Korea , among other countries, he said.  Coal Exports  The cost of developing West Tsankhi may be about $7.3
billion, state-run Korea Resources Corp., part of the Russo-
Japan-South Korea group, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Output, marketing, and transport plans for West Tsankhi
will be discussed with the bidders, Enebish said. The East
Tsankhi block, which Erdenes TavanTolgoi is developing on its
own, is due to start coal exports within two months and has an
annual production target of 15 million tons, two thirds of which
will be coking coal, he said.  “The main market is China, it’s more natural,” Enebish
said. “But through China, through Russia, the government of
Mongolia plans to reach third markets.”  West Tsankhi is located in the South Gobi region of the
country, 270 kilometers (170 miles) north of the Chinese border.
The nearest port is China’s Tianjin 1,570 kilometers away, with
the closest Russian port of Vanino more than three times the
distance, according to  a November presentation  by the Mongolian
government posted on its website.  Russian Railways, Sumitomo  OAO Russian Railways is leading the Russo-Japanese-South
Korean group in the bidding, the state-run company said in
January. The group’s members include Siberian Coal & Energy Co.,
Russia’s biggest coal producer,  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) ,  Marubeni Corp. (8002) 
and  Itochu Corp. (8001)  Korea Resources leads the South Korean
companies including  Posco (005490) , the world’s No.3 steelmaker, and
state-run  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) , KoRes spokesman Kang Shin Young said today.  The biggest U.S. coal miner, St. Louis-based Peabody said
in July it has formed a venture with Winsway Coking Coal
Holdings Ltd. to develop Mongolian resources. Winsway, which is
listed in  Hong Kong , was the biggest buyer of Mongolian coking
coal in 2009,  Peabody said .  As coal investors help Mongolia establish the transport,
energy and mining infrastructure at Tsankhi it will aid
development of other deposits, Enebish said. That will make it
easier to attract more investment into resources, he said.  “Mongolia is still an under explored country,” Enebish
said. “We’d like to see Erdenes TavanTolgoi in five or 10 years
as one of the biggest coking coal mining companies.”  The  Shenhua Group , which produced 320 million tons of
coking and thermal coal in 2009, plans to have a capacity of 560
million tons by 2014, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  