-- Afghanistan-U.S. Agreement Reached on Prisoner Transfer
-- B y   A n n   H u g h e y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-23T22:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/afghanistan-u-s-agreement-reached-on-prisoner-transfer.html
Afghanistan  and the U.S. have
agreed that prisoners at the Parwan detention facility outside
Kabul will be turned over to the Afghans tomorrow, according to
the Pentagon.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel spoke with Afghan President
Hamid Karzai yesterday morning and welcomed the Afghan leader’s
“commitment that the transfer will be carried out in a way that
ensures the safety” of Afghans and coalition forces “by
keeping dangerous individuals detained in a secure and humane
manner in accordance with Afghan law,” the Defense Department
said in an e-mailed statement.  The agreement will remove one element of discord in U.S.-
Afghan relations, assuming it holds and Karzai doesn’t free
certain prisoners the U.S. considers likely to engage in
terrorist acts. U.S. and Afghan officials are seeking to
redefine the terms of their relationship in advance of plans to
remove most American troops from the country by the end of 2014.  A planned ceremony to transfer the prison at the Bagram air
base was called off during a visit by Hagel to Afghanistan this
month because the two sides couldn’t agree on terms of the
handoff. Karzai had said he would release some of those held
after the transfer.  The agreement was reached after discussions between Hagel
and Karzai, as well as U.S. military officials in Afghanistan
and Pentagon based officials, said a defense official who spoke
on the condition he not be identified.  National Sovereignty  The Afghans view the prison as a symbol of their nation’s
sovereignty and the U.S. now believes it has the necessary
assurances that dangerous detainees won’t be released to attack
U.S. and NATO personnel, the official said.  U.S. officials believe only a few dozen detainees at Parwan
among the hundreds in custody are considered extremely dangerous
and shouldn’t be released, the official said.  The Afghan government has also agreed to set up a review
process based on its nation’s laws to assess each detainee
seeking release. The proceedings will allow U.S. military legal
experts the opportunity to contest releases, the official said.  The details of the review and U.S. appeals process have yet
to be worked out, the official said.  The U.S. military will also continue to provide a “train
and assist role” that includes advising Afghans on physical
security and legal procedures, the official said.  The official said he would be surprised this week if some
of the most dangerous detainees were among the initial personnel
released.  Afghan Politics  Hagel’s trip, his first visit to Afghanistan as defense
secretary, was further marred by Karzai’s assertion in a speech
that the U.S. was holding peace talks with the Taliban and that
suicide attacks by radical Islamists were in the “service of
America.”  Marine Corps General Joseph Dunford, head of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s International Security Assistance
Force, said the Afghan president’s comments were “categorically
false” and may have reflected political pressure to send a
message to his constituents.  President  Barack Obama  has yet to say how many troops he
plans to keep in Afghanistan after 2014, and the U.S. and
Afghanistan are in negotiations over a “status of forces
agreement” that would set the rules for forces who stay.  As part of the agreement, the U.S. is demanding immunity
for U.S. personnel from prosecution in the Afghan legal system.
Obama removed remaining forces from  Iraq  when its government
failed to accept such an accord.  For Related News and Information:
Hagel, Karzai Agree to ‘Intensive Work’ on Prisoner Transfer  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Hughey in Washington at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  