-- Berlusconi Quotes Gandhi to Rally Supporters for New Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2013-03-23T18:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/berlusconi-rallies-supporters-to-protest-judicial-cancer-.html
Former Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  took his fight with political rivals and the
judiciary to the streets, telling thousands of supporters in
Rome he’s ready for new elections and blaming his legal battles
on enemies bent on suppressing democracy.  “There’s a saying by Gandhi that has always touched me,”
Berlusconi said of the Indian nationalist leader as he addressed
a rally of flag-waving Italians who jammed the Piazza del Popolo
today. “First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then
they fight you -- and then you win.”  The three-time prime minister is bracing for rulings in two
corruption trials, including one on charges of engaging a minor
in prostitution. He may also face new charges of bribing
lawmakers to help topple former Prime Minister  Romano Prodi ’s
government in 2008. He denies wrongdoing and has accused a swath
of the judiciary of trying to destroy him politically.  Berlusconi made his dispute with the country’s judges a
central part of his campaign for the Feb. 24-25 elections that
saw him fall short by less than half a percentage point of the
popular vote. His demonstration in the capital today came as
President Giorgio Napolitano struggled to cobble together a new
government after the inconclusive vote last month produced a
hung parliament and the possibility of another ballot.  The Democratic Party’s Pier Luigi Bersani, leader of the
biggest bloc in parliament, was handed a mandate yesterday to
form the next government from Napolitano, who encouraged him to
compromise with Berlusconi.  ‘Absolutely Ready’  Berlusconi said in his speech that his opponents had failed
to win election and that he’s ready for a new campaign.  “Let’s go vote,” he said. “We are absolutely ready.”  Berlusconi, who has faced dozens of criminal charges and
probes since entering politics in 1994, regularly says the
judiciary is more dangerous than the Sicilian Mafia. Addressing
magistrates’ charges in his speech, he said, “They want to
damage their enemy, Berlusconi.”  “We can’t accept that democracy and liberty are trampled
by those who want to cancel the votes of a third of Italians,”
he told the crowd, which the Ansa news service estimated was in
the thousands.  Berlusconi’s tirades against the judges resonate with his
base and some polls indicate that he has picked up support since
the vote and could win an early election.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty would win 31 percent of the
vote to 28.9 percent for Bersani’s  Democratic Party , or PD, and
its allies if elections were held today, according to a poll by
IPR Marketing released on March 21 for state-owned RAI1
television. No margin of error was given. The PD beat Berlusconi
29.6 percent to 29.2 percent in voting last month for the
Chamber of Deputies,  Italy ’s lower house.  Milan Protest  Berlusconi’s sparring with his prosecutors has intensified
in recent weeks. Hundreds of supporters and lawmakers from his
party protested outside Milan’s main court on March 11, with
some entering and occupying part of the building.  Berlusconi managed to secure delays in his Milan trial on
charges of prostitution and abuse of power and push back a
ruling in his appeal of a conviction for  tax fraud  after he was
hospitalized for a week with an eye disorder earlier this month.
His lawyers have requested that both trials be shifted to
Brescia from Milan, which would further slow a decision if the
request is granted.  Prosecutors in the so-called Ruby case, named after the
underage nightclub dancer at the center of the allegations, are
due to present closing arguments on March 25, which could pave
the way for a verdict within weeks.  Wiretapping Trial  Berlusconi was also convicted in a wiretapping trial in
Milan earlier this month and is under investigation in Naples
over allegations he bribed lawmakers. He denies all wrongdoing.  The media-billionaire-turned-politician has said he has
spent hundreds of millions of euros on his legal defense. So far
he has managed to avoid jail time for previous convictions that
were overturned on appeal or thrown out when the statute of
limitations kicked in.  Today the former premier was also facing a counterprotest
from a  Rome  demonstration calling for Berlusconi to be declared
ineligible for public office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  