-- Blackstone Group, Icahn Said to Submit Proposals to Dell
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-03-25T01:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/blackstone-group-icahn-said-to-submit-proposals-to-dell.html
(Corrects terms of go-shop period in fourth, 19th
paragraphs in story published March 23.)  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and activist
investor  Carl Icahn  submitted proposals to buy  Dell Inc. (DELL)  that
would rival a $24.4 billion buyout offer from Silver Lake
Management LLC and company founder  Michael Dell , according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm,
outlined an offer valued at $13.65 to $14.50 a share, said one
of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
process is private. Icahn said he’d pay $15 a share, with a cap
on the amount of cash used in the deal, two people said.  The proposals present unexpectedly serious challenges to
Michael Dell’s effort to take private the Round Rock, Texas-
based company he founded in 1984 as it struggles with
competition from smart phones and tablets. The transaction’s
strengths include the founder’s participation and his decision
to roll over his 15.6 percent stake to help finance the
purchase. It’s also rare for one private-equity firm to seek to
break up another’s deal.  Now, Dell’s board probably will conclude in the next few
days that both proposals are reasonably likely to be superior,
said one of the people. Under terms of the original Feb. 5
merger agreement with Silver Lake, the board would then take
time to determine whether the counteroffers are superior. At
that point Silver Lake and Michael Dell, which offered $13.65 a
share, would get at least four business days notice that the
board had endorsed another bid.  Too Cheap  Blackstone and Icahn submitted their proposals yesterday,
the deadline of a so-called go-shop period designed to solicit
competing bids for Dell. Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and
 T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW) , the company’s largest outside
investors, have said the original deal is too cheap. The stock,
which closed yesterday at $14.14, has climbed since the
leveraged buyout was announced amid speculation that Dell would
fetch a higher price.  A spokesman for the Dell special committee running the go-
shop process didn’t return calls or e-mails seeking comment.
 David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, Christine Anderson, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Blackstone, and Icahn declined to
comment.  Dell isn’t planning to disclose whether it received bids
until March 25, people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Blackstone, working with a group, would acquire Dell’s
shares while including a public stub, a security that would
allow other investors to be involved in the deal, the person
familiar with the plan said. The company would try to sell Dell
Financial Services, which helps customers finance purchases of
Dell products, to help fund the offer.  Options Considered  Blackstone, which last year hired Dave Johnson, Dell’s
former head of mergers and acquisitions, was considering several
options prior to the go-shop deadline, Bloomberg News reported
yesterday. The firm had explored making a bid with private-
equity firm TPG Capital and tech investment fund Francisco
Partners, said people familiar with the matter. TPG isn’t part
of the group that submitted the proposal, one person said today.  Blackstone had envisioned a sale of the Dell Financial to
 General Electric Co. (GE)  or another bidder, people said.  Blackstone has spoken to Southeastern to see if the firm
would be interested in rolling in its stake, people with
knowledge of the talks said.  Icahn’s proposal offers to pay shareholders $15 a share,
said the person with knowledge of his plan. The 77-year-old
billionaire would limit his cash outlay, meaning a piece of the
company could still remain in public hands.  Icahn, who has acquired a stake of less than 5 percent in
Dell, has called on Dell to pay a special dividend of $9 a share
if the Silver Lake deal failed. He has said that he’ll start a
proxy fight to put up his own board candidates if Dell refuses.  Public Participation  Blackstone, led by Stephen Schwarzman, oversees $210.2
billion of assets, the most among global buyout firms. Unlike
Silver Lake, which focuses on technology companies, it hasn’t
done many deals in the industry. Its two biggest haven’t fared
well.  Blackstone and two partners bought Freescale Semiconductor
Inc. for $17.6 billion in 2006. They have registered a more than
50 percent loss on their $7.2 billion investment in the deal,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Blackstone was also
part of a Silver Lake group that paid $10.6 billion for SunGard
Data Systems Inc. in March 2005, a deal that is barely breaking
even.  Cloud Impact  Michael Dell is seeking to take back majority control of
the company he started in a University of Texas dormitory, after
struggling to equip the PC maker for a new generation of
competitors in mobile and cloud computing. He’s betting that he
can more effectively transform Dell into a provider of a broad
range of products and services for corporations outside the
scrutiny of public investors.  The deal requires the support of more than half of the
company’s investors, excluding Michael Dell.  Michael Dell, 48, and Silver Lake agreed to a number of
restrictions in an effort to create a deal that would withstand
shareholder scrutiny, people familiar with the matter said last
month. One is that they can only make one more bid, the people
said. So if they move to top Blackstone or Icahn once, they are
unable to make a second offer.  The breakup fee of $180 million -- which Blackstone or
Icahn would have to pay if they block the deal -- is half of the
typical fee for a deal of this size, these people said.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  also reviewed
Dell’s books during the go-shop period, people familiar with the
matter said.  Dell had last year privately forecast $5.6 billion in
 operating income  for 2014, a figure that is now going to come in
around $3 billion, said one of these people. That rapid fall
could jeopardize the bank loans for Silver Lake, said this
person, if the lenders on the deal made their financing
commitment based on the higher numbers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  