-- Canada’s Dollar Declines as Cyprus Turmoil Curbs Risk Appetite
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/canada-s-dollar-declines-as-cyprus-turmoil-curbs-risk-appetite.html
Canada’s dollar fell for the sixth
week in seven versus its U.S. peer as concern Cyprus won’t reach
a deal to avoid financial collapse and prevent contagion from
infecting the euro region damped risk appetite.  The currency declined after Canadian factory sales fell in
January more than expected, suggesting the nation’s economic
recovery may have stalled. The so-called loonie pared losses as
Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said he plans to eliminate the
country’s deficit before the next election in 2015 and the U.S.
Federal Reserve maintained stimulus measures to support growth.
Canada’s  economy  grew in January after contracting the prior
month, a report is forecast to show next week.  “In the short term, there is some risk aversion from
Cyprus,” Camilla Sutton, chief currency strategist at the Bank
of Nova Scotia, said by telephone yesterday. “Once we get
through this weekend, and if a solution emerges, then maybe
there will be a change in risk appetite.”  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is nicknamed for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4 percent to
C$1.0232 per U.S. dollar this week in Toronto. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.73 U.S. cents.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond rose for a
second week, with yields falling eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 1.82 percent. The 2.75 percent security
that matures in June 2022 gained 65 cents to $107.85.  The Bank of Canada auctioned C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion)
worth of two-year government notes on March 20 at an average
yield of 0.985 percent, lower than the 1.168 percent yield from
the Feb. 13 auction of two-year notes. The offering drew C$8.62
billion in bids.  Future traders increased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar to the highest level
since March 2007, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
65,331 on March 19, compared with net shorts of 53,397 a week
earlier.  Cyprus Talks  The Canadian dollar weakened as European and Cypriot
officials were locked in talks to find a formula to avert the
Mediterranean island’s financial collapse, struggling to forge
consensus on a bailout package before the European Central Bank
cuts funding.  Cyprus’s House of Representatives late Friday approved the
passage of legislation to allow capital controls and to create a
“solidarity” investment fund, part of an attempt to secure
financial support from the euro area and International Monetary
Fund. Legislators were debating another seven laws, including
one to reorganize the nation’s banks.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, gained 0.4
percent in New York this week to $93.80 a barrel. Western Canada
Select, the benchmark for oil-sands bitumen, traded a  discount 
of $16.50 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate price, the lowest
since Oct. 17. The discount has fallen from $42.50 on Dec. 14.  “Canada is still grabbing a larger market share of U.S.
oil market, despite the U.S. oil boom,” David Watt, chief
economist at HSBC Bank Canada in Toronto, said by phone. “That
is a very good story for Canada, at least in terms of oil
volume.”  Canadian oil exports to the U.S. rose in 2012 even as the
world’s largest economy imported the lowest amount of crude oil
last year in any year since 1997, according to a government
report released March 20.  Imports from Canada  have gone up since
2005 compared to fewer imports from Saudi Arabia, Mexico and
Venezuela, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said.  ‘Negative Number’  The loonie declined as Canada’s factory sales dropped last
month for the fourth time in five months, led by declines in
automobiles and aircraft. Sales fell 0.2 percent to C$48 billion
($46.9 billion), Statistics Canada said in Ottawa. None of the
20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a decline, and
their median estimate was for a 0.6 percent gain.  “A little bit of a negative number for Canada,” Don Mikolich, executive director of foreign exchange sales at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said by phone from Toronto
on March 19. “Without that positive reinforcement over this
week and next, I think Canada will test the upper limit ends of
the boundaries.”  Mikolich said the loonie could weaken to C$1.03 per U.S.
dollar in the next two weeks.  Budget Surplus  Gross domestic product in Canada expanded 0.1 percent in
January after contracting 0.2 percent the previous month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 18
economists before the report is released on March 28.  Canadian Finance Minister Flaherty’s budget projected
Canada will swing to a surplus of about C$800 million ($781
billion) in the fiscal year that begins April 2015, from a
C$25.9 billion deficit in the year ending this month.  The Fed led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said it would keep
buying $85 billion of bonds each month to cap borrowing costs
while holding its target interest rate near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation is
projected to be no more than 2.5 percent.  The loonie has fallen 2.6 percent in the past six months
against nine developed nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The U.S is up 2.6 percent the euro
gained 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  