-- Congolese Militia Seizes UN Compound in Katanga’s Lubumbashi
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-03-23T16:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/congolese-militia-seizes-un-compound-in-katanga-s-lubumbashi.html
An unidentified militia group
attacked Lubumbashi, capital of Democratic Republic of Congo’s
copper-rich Katanga province, seizing a United Nations compound
and causing an unknown number of casualties.  About 100 fighters overpowered national police and took the
UN compound around midday, Carlos Araujo, a spokesman for the UN
mission in Congo, said by phone from Kinshasa, the national
capital. Congolese soldiers and members of the president’s
Republican Guard have surrounded the compound and are
negotiating to disarm the fighters, he said.  “We have some staff inside the compound but they’re not
harmed,” Araujo said. Some of the militia members are wounded,
he said.  Lubumbashi is a hub for many of Congo’s biggest mining
companies. The Central African nation produces more than 3
percent of the world’s copper and half its cobalt, most of which
comes from Katanga.  UN-backed broadcaster Radio Okapi said as many as 450
militia and family members from the group Kata Katanga entered
the city in the morning and began shooting.  Neither Araujo nor Congolese government spokesmen could
confirm the identity of the group. A number of the militia have
been arrested, Media Minister  Lambert Mende  said by phone from
Kinshasa.  “We will find out who they are in the coming hours,” he
said.  Kata Katanga  Before taking the UN compound, the militia battled in the
streets with the national army, Araujo said.  “People were running everywhere, then there was the sound
of gunfire from certain areas of the city,” Francois Kashinda,
spokesman for Katangan Governor Moise Katumbi, said by phone.  Several local militia groups, often called Mai Mai militia,
have caused more than more than 300,000 people to flee their
homes in central Katanga, north of Lubumbashi, according to the
UN. Some of the groups including Kata Katanga believe Katanga
should secede from Congo. Kata Katanga means “cut out Katanga”
in the Swahili language that’s spoken there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  