-- Cyprus’s Fate Hangs in the Balance as ECB Deadline Looms
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-03-24T00:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/cyprus-s-fate-hangs-in-the-balance-as-ecb-deadline-looms.html
Cyprus’s fate hangs in the balance
as euro-area finance ministers meet today to decide whether the
tiny Mediterranean island has done enough for a bailout that
will avert its financial collapse.  As thousands of protestors marched through the capital
Nicosia yesterday, Cypriot officials worked to broker a deal
with the  European Central Bank , European Commission and
 International Monetary Fund  on how to raise the 5.8 billion
euros ($7.5 billion) needed to qualify for aid. Those talks,
which focused on a plan to impose levies on  bank deposits  over
100,000 euros, ended at a “very sensitive stage” last night
and will continue in Brussels today, the government said.
Eurogroup finance ministers are due to convene in the Belgian
city at 6 p.m.  “There are only hard choices left,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a
statement. “It is essential that an agreement is reached by the
Eurogroup on Sunday evening in Brussels on a financial
assistance program for Cyprus.”  The third-smallest economy in the 17-nation euro area was
plunged into chaos last week when its lawmakers rejected an EU
proposal to confiscate a portion of all bank deposits in order
to qualify for 10 billion euros in bailout funds. The ECB has
imposed a deadline of tomorrow for a new deal to be struck by
threatening to cut off emergency funding to Cypriot banks, which
have been closed all week and are due to reopen on March 26.  ‘Bankrupt’ Banks  “We cannot fund banks that are bankrupt,” ECB council
member  Erkki Liikanen  told  Finland ’s YLE TV1 yesterday. “There
is now a chance of drawing up a program in which the banks are
recapitalized or reorganized to reach solvency. The ball is in
Cyprus’s court.”  Cyprus Finance Minister Michael Sarris said yesterday that
bank deposit levies were back on the table in discussions with
the so-called troika of the ECB, Commission and IMF.  Media including Reuters and German newspaper Welt am
Sonntag reported last night that a deal had been reached to
apply a 20 percent levy on deposits over 100,000 euros at Bank
of Cyprus Pcl, the country’s biggest lender, and a four percent
tax on deposits of that size at other banks.  Those reports couldn’t be confirmed, and state-run Cyprus
News Agency cited a government official as saying a deal wasn’t
close.  ‘Very Difficult’  President Nicos Anastasiades met with political party
leaders last night to brief them on the troika talks.  “The situation is very difficult and the margins are
tight,” Cyprus government spokesman Christos Stylianides said in
an e-mailed statement. Anastasiades and Sarris will fly to
Brussels today for further discussions, he said.  The Cypriot parliament passed nine bills on March 22 aimed
at preventing capital flight and restructuring the banking
sector.  Cyprus Popular (CPB)  Bank Pcl, the second-biggest, will be
wound down and have losses imposed on its depositors.  A collapse of the nation’s banking system could precipitate
its exit from the euro and unleash another wave of turmoil
across a region already mired in a debt crisis and recession.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell for the first week in a
month on the back of the Cyprus impasse and the euro posted its
biggest two-day drop since July at the start of the week. The
Stoxx 600 steadied at the end of the week as investors bet on a
compromise, and  Europe ’s single currency rose 0.7 percent.  Solutions Seen  “I don’t see any major contagion issues,” Finnish Prime
Minister  Jyrki Katainen  told reporters in Saariselkae, Finnish
Lapland, yesterday. “I’m very confident that we can see
solutions tomorrow or Monday.”  The crisis is the biggest faced by Cyprus since it was
invaded and its northern third occupied by  Turkey  in 1974.  Thousands of protestors, mainly bank employees, marched
through the streets of Nicosia yesterday. They targeted the
central bank, where they demanded the resignation of Governor
Panicos Demetriades -- in office less than a year -- before
congregating at Parliament and chanting “hands off our jobs and
pension funds.”  Cyprus in June became the fifth euro-area nation to request
a rescue. The move came after Greece’s debt restructuring, the
largest in history, left lenders including  Bank of Cyprus  and
Cyprus Popular reeling.  Cyprus Popular, founded in 1901 as a small savings bank,
operates in Cyprus,  Greece , the U.K., Ukraine, Russia, Romania,
Serbia, Malta and  China  through 439 branches, serving 1.35
million customers, according to its website.  Russian Deposits  The bank, which employs about 8,500 people, posted a net
loss of 1.56 billion euros for the first nine months of 2012,
after a net loss of 3.65 billion euros in 2011 following
writedowns on Greek government bond holdings, goodwill related
to its Greek business and provisions for loan losses.  Cyprus’s total bank assets swelled to 126.4 billion euros
at the end of January, seven times the size of the 18 billion-
euro economy, from 78 billion euros in 2007, data from the ECB
and the EU’s statistics office show. Russian companies and
individuals have an estimated $31 billion of wealth in Cyprus,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  At 17 billion euros, Cyprus’s financial needs are almost
equivalent to the country’s entire economic output, a magnitude
of bailout that has never been awarded before, German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  told reporters on March 20. That means “the bank
sector must contribute to the sustainability of Cypriot debt,”
she said.  Sarris, who met last week in Moscow with Russian First
Deputy Minister  Igor Shuvalov  and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov, has said that Russia won’t offer additional support
beyond restructuring a 2.5 billion-euro loan granted in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Nicosia at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Georgios Georgiou in Nicosia at  ggeorgio5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  