-- Dell Board Said to Expect Offers From Blackstone, Icahn
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-03-23T05:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/dell-board-said-to-expect-offers-from-blackstone-icahn.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s board and advisers were
expecting to receive takeover offers from  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
and activist  Carl Icahn , though no proposals had been received a
few hours before yesterday’s bid deadline, said two people
familiar with the matter.  Dell isn’t planning to announce whether it got any bids
until March 25, even though the deadline for topping the
existing Silver Lake Management LLC-led $24.4 billion leveraged
buyout was yesterday, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the process is private. Dell’s board or its
advisers had been speaking with Blackstone and the talks led
Dell to expect a higher proposal, the people said. Icahn could
also put in a proposal before the deadline, one person said
yesterday, speaking before it expired.  Blackstone, a private-equity firm, was considering whether
to try to top a proposal from Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell and Silver Lake to take the computer maker private for
$13.65 a share, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Dell’s board was seeking alternate bids under a so-called
go-shop period that ended at midnight on March 22.  A spokesman for the Dell special committee didn’t return
calls or e-mails seeking comment.  David Frink , a spokesman for
 Round Rock , Texas-based Dell, declined to comment.  Peter Rose 
and  Christine Anderson , spokesmen for Blackstone, didn’t respond
to phone calls and e-mails seeking comment. A call to Icahn’s
office wasn’t returned.  Unless another bidder emerges, Michael Dell, the computer
maker’s  largest shareholder , and Silver Lake will be left to
seek support for a bid that has been criticized as too low by
the company’s biggest outside investors.  Proxy Fight  Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and  T. Rowe Price Group
Inc. (TROW)  have said they will vote against the buyout, while
billionaire Icahn wants Dell to pay a special dividend of $9 a
share if the deal fails. He has said that he’ll start a proxy
fight to put up his own board candidates if Dell refuses.  To go forward, the deal requires the support of more than
half of the company’s investors, excluding  Michael Dell , who has
a 15.6 percent  stake .  The buyout is Michael Dell’s attempt to take back majority
control of the company he started in 1984 in a  University of
Texas  dormitory, after struggling to equip the PC maker for a
new generation of competitors in mobile and cloud computing.
He’s betting that he can more effectively transform Dell into a
provider of a broad range of products and services for
corporations outside the scrutiny of public investors.  Blackstone had explored making a bid with private-equity
firm TPG Capital and tech investment fund Francisco Partners,
said two people familiar with the matter.  Asset Sale  The Blackstone plan also envisioned a sale of the Dell
Financial Services business either to  General Electric Co. (GE)  or
another bidder, said these people. Proceeds from that asset
sale, in tandem with a buyout offer, would help fill the equity
hole for a bid, said one of these people.  Blackstone has spoken to Southeastern to see if the firm
would be interested in rolling in its stake, said these people.
One proposal considered would have included a so-called public
stub to allow both Icahn and Southeastern to invest in the
Blackstone bid, said these people.  Dell’s special committee began to take a Blackstone bid
more seriously as the week wore on, said these people. By
yesterday afternoon, the board and its advisers expected a bid,
said one of them.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  also reviewed
Dell’s records, people familiar with the matter said.  Dell had last year privately forecast $5.6 billion in
 operating income  for 2014, a figure that is now going to come in
around $3 billion, said one of these people. That rapid fall
could jeopardize the bank loans for Silver Lake, said this
person, if the lenders on the deal made their financing
commitment based on the higher numbers.  Dell was  unchanged  at $14.14 at the close in New York on
March 22. The shares have climbed 5.4 percent since Feb. 5, when
the Silver Lake proposal was disclosed, amid speculation that
another bid might be forthcoming.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  