-- Elbit Priciest in Two Years on Tanks: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-24T08:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/elbit-priciest-in-two-years-on-tanks-israel-overnight.html
Elbit Systems Inc. (ESLT) , Israel’s
biggest private developer of defense technology, is trading at
the highest valuation in two years after reducing its reliance
on U.S. and European markets by bolstering sales to Asia.  Shares of Elbit gained 4.7 percent last week in New York to
$41.61 to trade at 10.9 times  estimated earnings , the most
expensive level since May 2011. The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index of the largest Israeli stocks in the U.S.  declined  0.2
percent in the week, while  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  rose the most
since November.  Elbit has jumped 41 percent from an almost six-year low
reached in August to trade 12 percent above its average
valuation over the past three years. The Haifa-based company,
which got $195 million in new orders from Asian countries in the
past week, is winning a majority of new contracts outside the
U.S. and Europe for the first time in at least seven years. It
earned 51 percent of  revenue  from the U.S. and Europe in 2012
and has made 70 percent of its known deals this year with
Asian countries.  “Their long-term efforts are bearing fruit now,” Ella Fried, a senior analyst at Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. in Tel Aviv
who rates Elbit the equivalent of a buy, said by phone March 21.
“They spotted the demand. They’re a small company and
conscious of the danger of being absolutely dependent on the
Western markets.”  Asian Customers  Elbit shares surged to the highest level since Jan. 2 last
week after announcing a $115 million deal with an Asian customer
for electronic warfare systems March 17. Three days later, its
subsidiary Elbit Systems Electro-optics Elop Ltd., or Elop, said
that it received an $80 million contract to upgrade armored
fighting vehicles.  Defense spending  in Asia has surpassed that in European
countries for the first time in 2012, according a March 14
report by the London-based  International Institute for Strategic
Studies . Europe represented 18 percent of planned global
expenditure in 2012, compared with 20 percent for Asia and
Australia, the study showed.  Elbit is seeking new markets as American defense programs
face a $42.7 billion reduction, according to Bloomberg
Government estimates, after automatic spending cuts came into
effect March 1 amid a political stalemate over how to reduce the
U.S. budget deficit.  “Right now, the competition will be who has the best
cost,” Michael Lewis, managing director at McLean, Virginia-
based Silverline Group LLC, a defense consulting firm, said in a
phone interview March 22. “I don’t see why they can’t compete
with pricing. They’ve been successful in the price-competitive
U.S. market. They can take that same model and apply it to
other countries.”  Now Profitable  The company posted its first profit in the fourth
quarter, recording net income of $57.2 million from a $13
million net loss a year earlier.  “The company continues to grow during a contracting period
in defense budgets around the world,” Silverline’s Lewis said.
“However, the question is do you continue to buy? I think
they’ll witness some headwinds from defense cuts in the next six
to nine months.”  Elbit shares gained  2.2 percent  in Tel Aviv at 9:50 a.m. to
154.3 shekels, or $42.22, as the benchmark TA-25 Index added 0.7
percent to 1,247.26. The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge fell to 90.39
on March 22.  Cellcom, Israel’s largest mobile provider, jumped 6.3
percent last week in New York, the most since the five days to
Nov. 23.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , the Israeli maker of
products that track wireless traffic, was the biggest decliner
on the Israel-US index, losing 8.6 percent in the week.  The shekel strengthened to the highest level in almost 15
months March 22 as Israel and Turkey normalized relations. The
currency added 0.3 percent to 3.655 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  