-- Euro Falls by Most in 3 Weeks as Cyprus Seeks Plan to Save Banks
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/euro-falls-by-most-in-3-weeks-as-cyprus-seeks-plan-to-save-banks.html
The euro fell by the most in three
weeks versus the dollar as Cyprus sought to secure a bailout of
its banking system and as data suggested economic growth in the
region that shares the currency is failing to accelerate.  The pound gained for a second week against the greenback as
some Bank of England policy makers said further easing may cause
“unwarranted” currency weakness. The yen appreciated by the
most since November as Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
failed to announce fresh stimulus. A March 28 report may show
the U.S. economy grew at a 0.5 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter.  “In terms of headline risk, clearly Cyprus has been
dominant,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “For the euro, we had disappointing numbers. The
euro has been quite resilient, and I think actually the most
remarkable aspect is that the euro has held up quite well,
despite all the negative news.”  The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.2989 and touched $1.2844 on
March 19, the weakest level since Nov. 22. It fell 1.5 percent
to 122.73 yen. The yen gained 0.9 percent to 94.46 per dollar.  European and Cypriot officials were locked in talks to find
a formula to avert the Mediterranean island’s financial
collapse, struggling to forge consensus on a bailout package
before the European Central Bank cuts funding.  Reduced Risk  Policy makers’ patience with Cyprus is running out after
Cypriot lawmakers rejected a plan to tax bank deposits agreed on
last weekend by the 17 euro-area finance ministers.  Cyprus’s House of Representatives yesterday approved the
passage of legislation to allow capital controls and to create a
“solidarity” investment fund.  “The No. 1 thing that stands out this week is how well the
euro appears to have traded around this $1.2880 level that we’ve
been watching,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Markets aren’t particularly concerned that Cyprus is a
systemic risk to the euro zone.”  Europe’s common currency gained as much as 0.9 percent
against the dollar yesterday, the biggest jump since March 7,
and climbed versus most of its 16 most-traded peers.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in the euro-region services and manufacturing industries fell to
46.5 from 47.9 in February, London-based Markit Economics said
March 21. Analysts had forecast a reading of 48.2, according to
the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  ‘Just Awful’  “The growth outlook remains just awful for Europe, so I
fully expect the ECB to be easing within a month or two,”
 Richard Franulovich , chief currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in New York, said in a Bloomberg radio interview
yesterday. “Whatever short-term relief we might see, I fully
expect the euro to be trading lower in coming days.”  The ECB has kept its benchmark interest-rate unchanged at
0.75 percent since July 2012. Following the PMI figures,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Greg Fuzesi said the company cut
its 2013 euro-area economic growth forecast to a 0.6 percent
annual contraction from a 0.2 percent decline and is
“penciling” in a June borrowing-cost reduction by the central
bank.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne held firm
to his austerity plan as the economy continues to stagnate,
saying government spending cuts will carry on for three years
after the 2015 election. Osborne announced a new mandate for the
central bank, though he kept its 2 percent  inflation  target. The
pound whipsawed during the chancellor’s speech.  Fading Expectations  The majority on the Monetary Policy Committee said that
with inflation above the BOE’s 2 percent target, there was a
risk that adding to stimulus “might also lead to an unwarranted
depreciation of sterling if it were misinterpreted as a lack of
commitment to maintaining low inflation in the medium term,”
according to minutes of their March 7 meeting.  Sterling gained 0.8 percent to $1.5230, its second weekly
advance. The currency touched $1.4832 on March 12, its weakest
level since 2010.  England ’s “budget announcement and the new Bank of England
mandate, and the first press conference by Mr. Kuroda at the
Bank of Japan, I think they probably fell short of the very
dovish expectations,” BNP’s Serebriakov said. “We saw both the
sterling and the yen strengthening. It’s more a reflection of
how dovish the market expectations have become.”  ‘Weaker Yen’  BOJ chief Kuroda, speaking in his first press conference,
restated that he will do whatever it takes to achieve a 2
percent inflation target and that he may bring forward open-
ended asset purchases. He declined to comment on whether he will
call an emergency meeting before the April 3-4 policy gathering.  “The trend of a weaker yen should continue,” Daingerfield
said. “Our overall view is that Kuroda and the leadership at
the BOJ will be pushing through some strong easing in April.”  Europe ’s shared currency fell 1 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen weakened 0.5 percent,
while the dollar rose 0.8 percent.  The Federal Reserve signaled gains in employment aren’t yet
sufficient for policy makers to move closer to reducing stimulus
measures. The central bank said the nation’s  unemployment  rate
will hit its threshold for raising interest rates sometime in
2015.  Dollar Gains  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trade
partners, rose 0.1 percent to 82.38. The measure is forecast to
end the year at 81.6, according to the median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product expanded at an annual rate of 0.5
percent in the last three months of 2012, according to the
median forecast of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after
increasing 0.1 percent in the previous quarter.  “There’s a growing camp of market players that see scope
for less stimulus by the end of the year,”  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in an interview yesterday in New York.
“At the same time, it’s going to take a big dip in the jobless
rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  