-- Mexico Envisions Nafta-EU Trade Agreement, Foreign Minister Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   K o m a r o w   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/mexico-envisions-nafta-eu-trade-agreement-foreign-minister-says.html
Mexico  envisions a trade deal tying
it to the European Union, U.S. and  Canada  as the future of
transatlantic commerce and would welcome joining talks between
the U.S. and EU, Foreign Minister Jose Antonio Meade said.  An agreement that binds the nations of the  North American
Free Trade Agreement  to the EU, the world’s two largest free-
trade areas, makes the most sense because it would leverage the
economic power of the Nafta nations, Meade said. Mexico already
has a free-trade deal with the EU, while Canada and the U.S. are
each negotiating their own trade deal.  Having each nation in a separate bilateral agreement with
the EU wouldn’t “take full advantage of the economies of scale
and scope that have resulted from Nafta,” Meade said in an
interview yesterday in Washington. “We would be very willing to
participate from the outset if from the outset it would be made
to be something regional rather than bilateral.”  The U.S. and EU are aiming to complete trade talks within
two years on a deal that would expand their economic
relationship after President  Barack Obama  promised in his  State
of the Union  speech to pursue an agreement. The 27-nation EU
says the accord will seek to lower tariffs, ease regulatory
barriers and expand access in investment, services and public
procurement, among other steps.  The EU says a deal with the U.S. could add 86 billion euros
($111.7 billion) a year to the bloc’s economy. While trade and
investment between the U.S. and the EU was valued at $4.5
trillion in 2011, the two governments have been at odds over
issues including  farm subsidies , health protections and
regulatory standards.  ‘Superior Equilibrium’  Nafta went into effect in 1994, and in October Mexico and
Canada joined U.S.-led negotiations for a Trans-Pacific
Partnership that include eight other nations in Latin American
and Asia.  “We think that in terms of trade, as well as in other
contexts, a North American perspective works,” Meade said.  In an interview on March 21 at Bloomberg’s Mexico Economic
Summit, Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo said that President
Enrique Pena Nieto, who took office Dec. 1, met with  Jose Barroso , head of the European Commission, and European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy , and that they agreed to work on
updating the Mexico-EU free-trade agreement that took effect in
2000.  Canada and the EU are also working on a trade deal.
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  on March 14 said that
while the sides have made “significant” progress, important
issues need to resolved before the accord is finalized. It would
be an advantage for Canada to sign the agreement with the EU
before the U.S. signs one, Harper said during a joint news
conference with French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault in
Ottawa.  “It probably is the case that one can start by having the
three bilateral agreements, but I think the region would benefit
if at some point we keep in mind that a superior equilibrium can
be reached if the negotiations were  North America  toward  Europe 
rather than bilaterally each one of us with them,” Meade said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  