-- Storm Halts Woods’s Attempt to Regain Golf’s No. 1 Ranking
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-24T20:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/tiger-woods-takes-two-stroke-lead-at-arnold-palmer-invitational.html
A thunderstorm and tornado warning
has halted Tiger Woods’s attempt to return to the top of golf’s
world rankings until tomorrow, where he’ll pursue an eighth win
at the Arnold Palmer Invitational.  Woods had just extended his two-stroke overnight lead with
a birdie at the second hole of his final round before play was
stopped by heavy rain and winds of 50 to 60 miles per hour (80-
95 kph) at Bay Hill Club & Lodge in  Orlando ,  Florida .  After a delay of about two hours, during which several
holes were flooded and television camera towers were knocked
down by the gusting winds, the U.S.  PGA Tour  said the final
round would resume at 10 a.m. local time tomorrow.  “Golf course is gone, bunkers are gone,” said Mark
Russell, the PGA Tour’s vice president of rules and competition.
“We’re going to need time for the course to drain.”  Keegan Bradley,  Rickie Fowler ,  Ken Duke  and John Huh are
tied for second place, three shots behind Woods at 9-under par,
with a group of five players at 8-under. Woods shot 6-under-par
66 yesterday to move into the lead.  A victory would vault Woods past Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy in the  Official World Golf Ranking , putting him at the
top for the first time in 2 1/2 years.  “It sort of was one of my goals to get back to that
position after being out of the top 50 there for a while, being
hurt, and having all my points come off where I couldn’t play,”
Woods said. “That was not a fun stretch, but I had to get
healthy in order to compete, and so far I’ve had five wins on
our tour in the last couple years. So I’m heading in the right
direction.”  Woods has won twice this year on the PGA Tour and five
times in his past 19 starts on the world’s richest golf circuit.
An eighth title at Bay Hill also would tie him with  Sam Snead 
for the most victories at a single PGA Tour event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 