-- India to Ease Investment Rules for Foreign Funds in Rupee Bonds
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-03-25T01:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/india-to-ease-rules-for-overseas-funds-purchasing-rupee-bonds.html
India will ease investment rules
for foreign funds purchasing government and corporate bonds, a
move that may help boost inflows from abroad to finance a record
current-account deficit.  The government will remove all restrictions and sub-limits
within the two broad categories starting April 1, keeping the
cap for sovereign debt at $25 billion and $51 billion for
securities issued by companies, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told reporters in  New Delhi  last week. A new “on
tap” system will replace the existing auction procedure for
foreign investment in corporate debt, he said.  “There were a number of sub divisions,” Chidambaram said.
“To rationalize, it is proposed to merge the sub limits.”  The measure is the latest in a series of policy changes
Chidambaram has spearheaded since September to revive a
faltering economy, including opening up aviation and retail
industries to foreigners. The government estimates India needs
more than $75 billion of foreign capital this year and next to
fund the  current-account deficit , which widened to $22.3 billion
in the three months to Sept. 30, or 5.4 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product.  “It’s important in the context of the whole range of
reforms that they’ve done,” said Glenn Levine, a Sydney-based
senior economist with Moody’s Analytics.  India ’s bond market
“is not particularly well-developed and it’s not particularly
open to foreigners,” he said, adding that the move will make it
easier for portfolio investors and reduce volatility on the
external account and the rupee.  The rupee has appreciated 2 percent versus the dollar since
the policy revamp began on Sept. 13, and traded at 54.34 on
March 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Still, the
currency remains down 5.8 percent in the past 12 months, a
period when the S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  climbed 8 percent.  Investor Feedback  Chidambaram is relaxing the restrictions in response to
feedback from investors when he met them on a tour of  Asia  and
 Europe  almost two months ago.  The investment limit on corporate bonds will be reviewed
when 80 percent of the cap is exhausted, Chidambaram said. The
cap on  government bonds  will be enhanced based on “utilization
levels, demand from foreign investors, macroeconomic
requirements and on prudent offshore and onshore balance.”  “It makes it easier for foreign institutional investors,”
said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at ICICI
Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai. “It will increase
the ticket size of investments since the sub-limits have been
removed. It will widen the pool of foreign investors.”  The $1.8 trillion economy will probably  expand  5 percent in
the financial year ending March 31, according to government
estimates, the slowest pace in a decade.  Chidambaram vowed to cut the  budget deficit  to 4.8 percent
of GDP next year, from an estimated 5.2 percent this year,
seeking to avert a downgrade in credit ratings after Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings lowered the sovereign outlook to
negative, a step closer to junk status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  