-- Italian Bonds Advance on Bets ECB Will Contain Cyprus Contagion
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-03-23T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/italian-bonds-advance-on-bets-ecb-will-contain-cyprus-contagion.html
Italian and Spanish bonds rose this
week as investors bet the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to buy
the securities of struggling countries would prevent turmoil in
Cyprus from spreading to other high debt and deficit nations.  Italy ’s  10-year yield  fell to the lowest in three weeks
yesterday as President Giorgio Napolitano asked Democratic Party
leader Pier Luigi Bersani to try to form a government, a month
after inconclusive elections. The bonds of so-called peripheral
nations slid at the start of this week as Cyprus sought, then
rejected, an unprecedented tax on bank deposits, threatening to
reignite Europe’s debt crisis. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
pledged in July to do “whatever it takes” to protect the euro.  “The markets appear to be taking a relatively sanguine
view that the  crisis in Cyprus  will be contained and not spill
over into other peripherals,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “The ECB’s
backstop is providing strong support for Italy and Spain. The
situation is Cyprus is not perceived as a danger to the single
currency.”  Italy’s 10-year yields fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, this week to 4.52 percent after dropping to
4.49 percent yesterday, the lowest since Feb. 25. The 5.5
percent bond due in November 2022 rose 0.655, or 6.55 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,298) face amount, to 107.995.  Similar-maturity Spanish yields declined seven basis points
to 4.86 percent, with the securities completing their fifth
weekly gain in six weeks.  Cyprus Deadlock  Cypriot lawmakers rejected a 5.8 billion-euro levy on  bank
deposits  imposed by the euro-area as a condition for a bailout,
leaving the nation with a political deadlock. The ECB said it
would cut emergency funds to banks in the Mediterranean nation
after March 25 unless a bailout program with the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  is in place.  Bersani won a majority in the lower house in the Feb. 24-25
parliamentary elections but fell short in the Senate, creating a
political vacuum and endangering efforts to resolve the nation’s
debt crisis.  German bunds gained for a second week as concern the
region’s debt turmoil will still worsen underpinned demand for
safer assets.  The Ifo institute in Munich said yesterday its business
climate index declined to 106.7 from 107.4 in February. That’s
the first drop in five months. Economists predicted a gain to
107.8, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Ten-year  bund yields  dropped eight basis points this week
to 1.38 percent. Austrian 10-year yields fell five basis points
to 1.68 percent after declining to 1.63 percent, the lowest
since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1993.  Italy,  Belgium , the Netherlands and  France  are all
scheduled to auction bonds next week.  Italian bonds have handed investors a return of 8 percent
in the past 12 months, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spanish securities gained 9 percent and German bunds
earned 5.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  