-- NBN Says Opposition’s Australia Internet Plan Cheaper
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-03-23T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/nbn-says-opposition-s-australia-internet-plan-cheaper.html
Australia ’s A$37.9 billion ($39
billion) NBN, a government-backed fiber Internet network, may be
more than 20 percent cheaper to construct under an opposition
party proposal, the head of the company building it said.  Asked if the proposal from the opposition Liberal-National
party coalition, which has an election winning lead in opinion
polls, may be 10 percent to 20 percent cheaper, or even more
than that, NBN Co. Chief Executive Officer Mike Quigley told
Australian Broadcasting Corp.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government is laying
fiber to homes and businesses for  93 percent  of Australia’s
population, replacing the slower existing copper network owned
by  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  The plan from the opposition would see the
network stop short of people’s houses, instead connecting to the
node, or street cabinets.  “The upfront capital costs would be lower for fiber to the
node  network  than a fiber to the premise,” Quigley said today.
Still, the opposition proposal will be more expensive to
maintain over the long-term because it uses more sophisticated
technology, he said.  A  Galaxy poll  published in the Herald Sun newspaper today
showed showed 55 percent of voters in favor of the opposition on
a two-party preferred basis ahead of elections scheduled for
Sept. 14 compared with 45 percent for Labor. The measure is
designed to gauge which party is likely to win enough seats to
form a government under Australia’s preferential voting system.
The poll of 1,005 people was conducted March 22 to March 23.  Government Compensation  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  has vowed to cut spending on
the NBN project. Abbott is preferred prime minister with 37
percent of voters compared to 33 percent for Gillard, according
to the Galaxy poll.  Melbourne-based Telstra, Austalia’s biggest phone company,
is getting A$11 billion of compensation from the government
after agreeing to give up control of its copper network to make
way for the new system.  The Telstra agreement may need to be revised if NBN changes
its business model to only connect to the node, Quiqley said.  “The deal with Telstra is to build fiber-to-the-premise
network so we negotiated access to Telstra’s ducts and pits and
exchanges,” Quiqley said. “What we didn’t negotiate is rights
to use their copper, in fact that wasn’t part of the remit.”  The NBN plans to connect all Australians, with those not
reached by fiber to be served by wireless and satellite.  Parliament has entered seven-week hiatus, leaving the
government to prepare its May 14 budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  