-- Obama Takes Time for Tourism Before Returning to Washington
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-23T14:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/obama-takes-time-for-tourism-before-returning-to-washington.html
-- President  Barack Obama  played
tourist on his final day in the  Middle East , going on a guided
tour of the ancient city of Petra.  With his meetings with Jordan’s King Abdullah II wrapped up
yesterday, Obama awoke today in Amman with the only scheduled
events being a meeting with U.S. embassy staff at his hotel and
a visit to the city that was carved into the sheer rock face of
mountains by the Nabataeans, a civilization that settled in the
area more than 2,000 years ago.  “It’s amazing,” Obama said as he looked at the cliffs
above. “Spectacular.”  The Petra sojourn was a few hours of pure tourism on a trip
spent mostly in  Israel , where Obama discussed with Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  the confrontation with Iran over its
nuclear program, the civil war in  Syria  and the stalled peace
talks with Palestinians. Obama also helped broker a call between
Netanyahu and Turkey’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  that
administration officials said marked a breakthrough in repairing
Israel-Turkey relations.  He met with the Jordanian king yesterday and saw him again
today before departing Amman for the trip back to Washington and
a return to an agenda that includes rewriting U.S. immigration
laws and seeking a budget deal with congressional Republicans to
address the nation’s long term debt. He’s scheduled to arrive
tonight.  Petra Visit  Obama told his aides when the trip was being planned that
he wanted to make sure a visit to Petra, Jordan’s biggest
tourist attraction, was on his agenda.  “The president is well-traveled and respects the history
of the places he visits,”  Ben Rhodes , deputy national security
adviser said. “It’s important to go beyond bilateral meetings
and summits.”  Getting to Petra required an hour-long helicopter ride over
rolling hills and desert and a short drive by motorcade. Obama
was greeted by Jordan’s Minister of Tourism and Antiquities,
Nayef Al Fayez, and his guide, Suleiman A.D. Al Farajat,
professor of tourism at the University of Jordan.  The president walked for about a mile, winding through a
narrow canyon, called the Siq, with 80-meter cliffs. The path
opened onto a plaza that houses the Treasury, a façade carved
into the mountain and featured in the film, “Indiana Jones and
the Last Crusade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Amman at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  