-- Pope Francis Helicopters In for Historic Lunch With Benedict XVI
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-23T18:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/pope-francis-helicopters-in-for-historic-lunch-with-benedict-xvi.html
Pope Francis was greeted by his
predecessor Benedict XVI, whose historic resignation made
possible the first meeting of its kind in almost 600 years, on
the heliport of the pontiff’s summer residence.  Francis flew by helicopter just after noon  Rome  time to
Castel Gandolfo, south of the capital, before riding by car
together with Benedict XVI, now known as Pope Emeritus, through
the villa’s grounds to the hilltop palazzo.  Inside, they prayed in the chapel, with Francis declining
Benedict’s suggestion the new pope kneel alone at the prayer
stand of honor and insisting they stay together, according to a
Vatican statement.  “We are brothers,” Francis said, according to the
statement. Video released by the Vatican showed Francis pulling
Benedict by the arm to kneel together. They then met privately
in the library before lunch, the Vatican said.  Benedict’s surprise resignation for health reasons fueled
speculation he lacked the strength to confront intrigue and
infighting among the Vatican bureaucracy that was exposed in
documents leaked to the press last year. The election of an
Argentine with few ties to Curia, as the Vatican insiders are
known, has increased the chance of a shakeup in the day-to-day
management of the church.  Francis has praised Benedict for his courageous decision to
resign rather than continue to lead the world’s 1.2 billion
Roman Catholics as his strength and health declined.  Stunning Resignation  “I think with great affection and deep gratitude of my
venerable predecessor, Benedict XVI, who during these years of
his pontificate has enriched and strengthened the church with
his teaching, his goodness, his guidance, his faith, his
humility and his gentleness, which will remain a spiritual
heritage for all,” he said at a March 16 meeting of Cardinals.  The two last spoke on March 19, the day of Francis’s
inauguration on St. Joseph’s Day, when the new pope called
Benedict, formerly Joseph Ratzinger, to wish him well on his
saint’s day.  Benedict’s Feb. 11 announcement that he planned to resign
stunned the world as virtually all popes have served until their
death. Gregory XII was the last pope to quit in 1415, to resolve
a dispute over who should lead the Catholic Church. His
resignation led to the end of the Western Schism, which arose
after two popes were elected in 1378, with one sitting in
Avignon,  France , and the other in Rome.  After today’s lunch, Francis made the 20-minute return
flight back to the Vatican, where he is living in temporary
quarters in the hotel where cardinals stayed during the conclave
that elected him March 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net 
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  