-- Pound Jumps Versus Euro After BOE, Retail Sales Damp Easing Bets
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-03-23T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/pound-jumps-versus-euro-after-boe-retail-sales-damp-easing-bets.html
The pound posted its biggest weekly
gain in more than a month against the euro after the Bank of
England damped speculation it will undertake additional economic
stimulus measures that would debase the currency.  Sterling extended its gains as a March 21 report showed
retail sales jumped more than economists predicted last month,
further weakening the case for monetary easing through asset
purchases. The U.K. currency jumped and government bonds rose
for a second week as Cyprus’s lawmakers struggled to strike a
deal on unlocking rescue funds to avert a financial collapse.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne kept the central
bank’s inflation target at 2 percent in his March 20 budget.  “The pound is in the process of correcting, or pricing
out, this aggressive monetary easing that was completely priced
in,” said Eimear Daly, a currency analyst at Monex Europe Ltd.
in London. “We are seeing more traction in the U.K. economy.”  The pound advanced 1.3 percent in the week to 85.35 pence
per euro at 5:18 p.m. London time yesterday, after appreciating
to 84.85 pence, the strongest level since Feb. 11. Sterling rose
0.7 percent to $1.5212, adding to its 1.3 percent advance in the
five days through March 15.  The pound stayed lower against the euro and pared its
advance against the dollar late yesterday after Fitch Ratings
said it placed the country’s grading on a negative watch.  Minutes of the Bank of England’s March policy meeting,
released three days ago, showed some officials saying more bond
purchases may cause an “unwarranted depreciation of sterling.”
The central bank last increased the asset-buying target in July,
raising it by 50 billion pounds to 375 billion pounds.  Quantitative Easing  Sterling has advanced 1.2 percent in the past month, the
second-best performer after the Australian dollar among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The euro declined 1 percent and the dollar
rose 0.8 percent.  Even so, the pound has depreciated 4.5 percent this year on
concern weak economic data will compel the central bank to
expand its so-called quantitative easing program. Minutes of the
March gathering showed Governor Mervyn King and two colleagues
on the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee voted for a second
month to expand the asset-purchase target.  A government report on March 27 will confirm that the
British economy contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter,
while the next day, GfK NOP Ltd. will say March  consumer
confidence  fell, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Gilts rose this week as investor concern that a banking
 crisis in Cyprus  would spread turmoil in the euro area boosted
demand for alternatives to the region’s assets.  Yields on the 10-year gilt fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 1.85 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due
September 2022 gained 0.72, or 7.20 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 99.11.  U.K. government bonds returned 1.1 percent this month
through March 21, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds gained 0.6 percent, while Treasuries fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  