-- Treasuries Climb as Turmoil in Cyprus Overshadows U.S. Economy
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/treasuries-climb-as-turmoil-in-cyprus-overshadows-u-s-economy.html
Treasuries rose for a second week,
paring a quarterly loss, as concern that Cyprus’s banking
turmoil will worsen the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis fueled
demand for the refuge of U.S. government debt.  Bonds gained even as data signaled the U.S. economy is
improving and the Federal Reserve said it would keep buying
bonds to stoke further growth, encouraging demand for higher-
yielding assets. Benchmark  10-year note yields  traded below 2
percent throughout the week after Cyprus rejected a rescue that
included an unprecedented levy on bank deposits. The Treasury
will auction $99 billion of notes next week.  “Even though an array of economic data in the U.S. has
been better than expected across a range of categories, yields
remain low,” said Christopher Sullivan, who oversees $2.1
billion as chief investment officer at United Nations Federal
Credit Union in New York. “The Fed reaffirming the continuation
of easing and yet another new crisis out of  Europe  continue to
keep the Treasury market supported.”  The  10-year yield  fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 1.93 percent this week in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It reached 2.08 percent on March
8, the highest since April 5. The price of the 2 percent
security maturing in February 2023 increased 18/32, or $5.63 per
$1,000 face value, to 100 21/32 this week.  The yield on the benchmark note has traded on a closing
basis this month in a 22 basis-point  range , from 1.84 percent on
March 1 to 2.06 percent on March 11.  Long Bonds  Thirty-year bond  yields decreased six basis points to 3.15
percent. They climbed to an 11-month  high  of 3.28 percent on
March 8.  Ten-year securities were headed for their second quarterly
loss, the first such back-to-back decline since 2011, with
yields up 16 basis points. Thirty-year yields have risen 20
basis points since the start of the year.  The Federal Open Market Committee said March 20 after a
two-day policy meeting that it would keep purchasing $85 billion
of bonds each month to cap borrowing costs until “the outlook
for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of
price stability.”  “It’s steady as she goes,” Richard Schlanger, a vice
president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston , who’s a member of a
group managing $20 billion in fixed-income securities, said that
day. “The Fed is concerned that there are deeply embedded
problems, and that’s why they’re willing to continue to provide
this accommodation.”  ‘Remains Elevated’  Fed policy makers said in a statement that while the labor
market showed improvement, the jobless rate, now 7.7 percent,
“remains elevated.” They said the central bank’s monthly buying
would continue and it would keep the benchmark  interest rate  at
virtually zero as long as  unemployment  remains above 6.5 percent
and inflation is projected at no more than 2.5 percent.  The U.S. auctioned $13 billion in 10-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities on March 21, drawing a yield of
negative 0.602 percent. It was the eighth consecutive time a
sale of the inflation-indexed debt yielded less than zero.  “The negative yield is a result of the Fed policy,” Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas
SA, said before the sale. “It’s a sign, on a longer horizon, to
get inflation protection because the Fed is still very
accommodative.” As one of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers, the
firm is obliged in bid in U.S. debt offerings.  The Treasury will sell $35 billion of conventional two-year
notes on March 26, the same amount of five-year securities the
next day and $29 billion of seven-year debt on March 28.  Gaining Strength  Housing, manufacturing and jobs reports in the U.S. this
week showed the world’s biggest economy is gaining strength.
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose 0.8 percent in
February to a 4.98 million annualized rate, the most since
November 2009, National Association of Realtors data showed.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly
expanded in March, the Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index
showed. Claims for jobless benefits rose by 2,000 to 336,000
last week, less than forecast, Labor Department data showed. The
four-week average dropped to a five-year low of 339,750.  Treasuries climbed this week after lawmakers in Cyprus
refused to accept a 5.8 billion-euro ($7.49 billion) levy on
bank deposits imposed by euro-area finance ministers as a
condition for a 10 billion-euro rescue. The European Central
Bank said it would cut emergency funds to banks on the
Mediterranean island after March 25 unless a bailout program
with the EU and International Monetary Fund is in place.  ‘Big Enough’  “Cyprus is a small country, but it’s big enough where it is
a concern for the euro zone,” Sean Murphy, a trader at the
primary dealer Societe Generale SA in New York, said March 21.
“You listen to Bernanke and nothing has changed, and now with
the euro-zone situation outcome uncertain, investors have been
unsettled enough to keep Treasuries well bid.”  European and Cypriot officials were locked in talks
yesterday to find a formula to avert the Mediterranean island’s
financial collapse.  U.S. government securities lost 0.5 percent this year
through March 21, after returning 2.2 percent in 2012, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 8.9 percent this year including reinvested
dividends, after climbing 16 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  