-- G-20 Talks on Yen Slide Urged by South Korea Finance Chief Hyun
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-03-23T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/s-korea-s-hyun-urges-stable-currency-market-as-policy-agenda.html
South Korea ’s newly-appointed
finance minister, Hyun Oh Seok, urged international cooperation
to tackle a “weak-yen problem” and said that the Group of 20
nations should revisit the issue.  “Japan’s expansionary policies are having various ripple
effects on many countries,” Hyun told reporters yesterday in
Bundang on his second day as finance chief. “The yen is
depreciating while the won is gaining and this is flashing a red
light for Korea’s exports.”  Japan’s new central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda is poised
to boost monetary easing as part of a campaign against
deflation, which has already driven down the yen by about 11
percent against the dollar in the past three months. Hyun’s
comments revive concerns that his nation aired before and after
last month’s G-20 meeting in Moscow, where that organization
refrained from criticizing Japanese policies.  “While we will do what we can, we need international
cooperation to deal with the weak-yen problem,” Hyun told
reporters yesterday. “This should be discussed at the G-20.”  South Korean officials are concerned at the yen’s slide
because the nation depends on exports for economic growth and
competes in overseas markets with Japanese manufacturers of cars
and electronics. At the Moscow meeting, G-20 nations pledged not
“to target our exchange rates for competitive purposes,”
without any censure of  Japan  for the yen’s decline.  Japan’s government says it is not targeting the yen, with
declines in the currency a side-effect of efforts to end
deflation and spur a sustained recovery in the world’s third-
biggest economy.  Checking Prices  Hyun’s comments yesterday were as he toured markets in
 Seoul  and Bundang, checking on prices of goods after the new
government under President Park Geun Hye pledged efforts to aid
low income earners. Appointed by Park March 22, Hyun pledged in
his inaugural speech to use “all possible measures to speed the
economic recovery,” and indicated that government support would
come as early as this month.  “We need to factor in the yen problem as we think about
policy measures, as exports and domestic demand are two big
pillars of our economy,” Hyun said yesterday. Stabilizing
foreign-exchange markets should always be an important part of
government policy, since currency moves can be a source of
shocks, he said.  South  Korea ’s Kospi Index fell 0.1 percent on March 22 as
Cyprus struggled to avoid a financial collapse. The won declined
0.7 percent in the past week to 1,119.28 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  