-- Statue of Liberty Reopening Plan Opposed by N.Y. Police
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/statue-of-liberty-reopening-plan-opposed-by-n-y-police.html
The  New York City Police Department 
criticized a National Park Service plan to reopen the  Statue of
Liberty , closed since  Hurricane Sandy  battered the island in
October, without screening visitors before they board ferries in
Manhattan.  “The Park Service’s decision to reopen the Statue of
Liberty without screening in Manhattan was made against the
NYPD’s recommendation and leaves unresolved the vulnerability to
attack on ferry passengers en route to both Liberty and Ellis
islands,”  Paul Browne , a police spokesman, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said March 19 that the
statue would reopen to visitors on July 4 after storm damage to
Liberty Island had been repaired.  The hurricane destroyed the docks, crippled the energy
infrastructure and wiped out the security screening system,
according to Salazar’s statement. Before the storm, passengers
were screened in Manhattan before boarding ferries at Battery
Park. The park service proposes to move security screening to
Liberty Island.  Salazar said in the March 19 statement that an annual
National Park Service report showed that 3.7 million people
visited the park in 2011, generating $174 million in economic
activity and supporting 2,218 jobs.  “The National Park Service and the  New York  City Police
Department, which have been engaged in a longstanding
conversation about security measures for guests visiting the
Statue of Liberty, will continue discussions in coming weeks to
devise a security protocol for the safety of passengers before
they board ferries at the Battery,” Browne said in a later
joint statement yesterday with Jeffrey Olson, a National Park
Service spokesman.  “We share a mutual interest in protecting both the
monument and the visitors,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  