-- U.S. Senate Democrats Adopt First Budget in Four Years
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-03-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-23/u-s-senate-democrats-adopt-first-budget-in-four-years.html
The Senate adopted a proposal
yesterday that would modestly reduce the U.S. debt through
higher taxes for top earners as part of the first budget plan
the Democratic-controlled body has passed in four years.  The $3.7 trillion budget proposal, which won’t take effect,
highlights differences between Democrats and Republicans over
taxes, spending and the size of government. The vote clears the
way for the next phase in  Washington ’s budget battle, which will
probably revolve around the need to raise the U.S. debt limit.
Federal borrowing authority is scheduled to expire May 19.  “The Senate passed a budget plan that will create jobs and
cut the deficit in a balanced way,” the White House said in a
statement. “Like the president’s plan, the Senate budget cuts
wasteful spending, makes tough choices to strengthen
entitlements, and eliminates special tax breaks and loopholes
for the wealthiest Americans to reduce the deficit.”  The Senate plan mostly uses the savings to finance the
repeal of $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts known as
sequestration, leaving little for additional  deficit  reduction.
It differs markedly from the measure adopted by House
Republicans earlier last week, which proposes to balance the
budget within a decade through steep cuts to a number of
politically sensitive programs.  No Agreement  The two chambers probably won’t agree on a single plan,
with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat,
saying he sees little reason to bother with a conference
committee, in which lawmakers are supposed to work out their
differences.  “Budgets are about far more than numbers on a page -- they
are about the values and priorities of the American people,”
said Senate Budget Committee Chairman Patty Murray, a Washington
Democrat and the plan’s chief sponsor.  Senators voted 50-49 to endorse a fiscal 2014 measure that
proposes to raise $1 trillion by clamping down on tax breaks for
the wealthy while paring spending on defense, farm subsidies and
other programs. The vote capped a session lasting into early
morning to consider scores of amendments.  Democratic Opposition  Four Democratic senators voted against the final version:
Max Baucus of  Montana , Mark Begich of  Alaska , Kay Hagan of North
Carolina and Mark Pryor of  Arkansas . All are up for re-election
in 2014.  Baucus, the Senate Finance Committee chairman, voted
against the Senate plan because it raises taxes too much and
opposes the House plan because it cuts entitlement spending too
much, according to The Hill newspaper, which cited an aide.
Pryor issued a statement saying “this budget fails to strike
the right balance between cutting our spending and setting up a
path for future job creation and economic growth,” the Hill
reported.  “Honest people can disagree on policy, but there really
cannot be disagreement on the need to change our nation’s budget
course,” said Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions, the top Republican
on the chamber’s Budget Committee.  Action was completed at 4:56 a.m.  New York  time, after 13
hours of a rapid-fire series of votes in a chamber where what
comes before lawmakers usually is determined by extensive
negotiations. Under special rules, senators were allowed to seek
an unlimited number of amendments to the fiscal blueprint.  Symbolic Votes  It became a voting marathon with lawmakers trying to pin
down their colleagues on issues as diverse as a carbon tax, the
Keystone XL oil pipeline, genetically modified fish and the
estate tax -- with many of the votes probably ending up as
fodder for campaign commercials next year.  The votes are mostly symbolic because they come in the form
of amendments to the budget, which isn’t a bill and can’t be
signed into law. It’s an internal agreement among lawmakers
establishing the boundaries of their tax-and-spending debate for
the coming fiscal year. Congress would have to pass separate
legislation making any of the policy changes endorsed in the
measure.  Still, the amendment-vote tallies can provide a barometer
of support among lawmakers for a specific proposal, which can
either help to generate -- or to kill -- political momentum
behind the idea.  Seventeen Democrats joined every Republican in support of
an amendment endorsing the construction of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL oil pipeline, which the Obama administration has yet
to approve. It passed 62-37.  A call to allow states to apply sales taxes to online
purchases made from out-of-state retailers won broad, bipartisan
support, with 75 in favor and 24 opposed. Lawmakers adopted, 79-
20, a bid to repeal a medical-device tax created to help finance
Democratic President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care overhaul.  Estate Tax  Democrats forced Republicans to say whether they support
the fiscal plans of House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of
 Wisconsin ; five didn’t. Republicans put almost every Democrat on
the record in opposition to repealing the estate tax with an
amendment that failed 46-53.  The Democrats’ underlying budget calls for reducing the
deficit to $566 billion in 2023, which is about $400 billion
less than what the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office
anticipates it would otherwise be.  Financial markets have largely shrugged off concern that
U.S.  budget deficits  have pushed U.S. debt to record levels.
Yields on 10-year Treasuries were 1.93 percent at 5 p.m. March
22, compared with an average of almost 5 percent over the past
20 years. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of equities has  gained 
9.2 percent this year, closing March 22 at 1,556.89.  Medicare Cuts  The Senate Democrats’ proposal calls for $265 billion in
cuts over the next decade to Medicare, the health program for
the elderly and disabled, with an additional $10 billion in
savings from Medicaid, the joint federal-state health plan for
the poor. That’s less than what Obama has endorsed, and a
fraction of the almost $800 billion in Medicaid cuts House
Republicans want.  Democrats would cut  defense  spending by $240 billion
beginning in 2015, while taking $76 billion from non-health-
related mandatory spending. Their plan would offset some of
those savings by spending an additional $100 billion in economic
stimulus.  The result would be to stabilize the debt at 70.4 percent
of the nation’s gross domestic product in 2023, which would be
high by historical standards.  The  debt  has topped 60 percent of GDP only a handful of
times in the past 60 years -- in 2010, 2011, 2012 and, budget
forecasters predict, in 2013. It’s projected this year to reach
76 percent. The plan offered by Ryan would cut the debt over the
next decade to 54.8 percent of GDP.  The Senate budget resolution is S. Con. Res. 8; the House
version is H. Con. Res. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  