-- Ackman Says His Canadian Pacific Slate Is Winning Votes
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-08T20:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/ackman-says-cp-rail-slate-winning-over-90-of-vote-so-far.html
William Ackman , the hedge-fund manager
waging a proxy battle to oust  Canadian Pacific  Railway Ltd.’s
chief executive officer, said his slate of board nominees has
won almost all shareholder votes cast so far.  “Ninety-five percent plus are favorable to our
directors,” Ackman said today at the Bloomberg Canada Economic
Summit in Toronto. About 36 percent of shareholder votes have
been logged, said Ackman, who is proposing seven candidates for
a 16-member board. “It has to be loud and clear how
shareholders feel.”  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP is
 Canadian Pacific (CP) ’s largest investor, has been calling for a new
CEO to boost profit at North America’s least-efficient major
railroad. The board is backing CEO  Fred Green  as Ackman
champions the hiring of former  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  CEO
 Hunter Harrison .  Harrison, 67, would probably stay as CEO for three to five
years, and could be succeeded from within Calgary-based Canadian
Pacific, Ackman said. While Ackman has said his board nominees
don’t have a mandate to hire Harrison, he said today that it’s
likely the retired executive will get the job.  ‘Risk and Disruption’  Canadian Pacific said backing the Pershing Square slate
would be a “vote for risk and disruption.”  “We recommend that shareholders cast their votes in favor
of the best 16 directors and not to give Pershing Square seven
seats on the board,” Ed Greenberg, a Canadian Pacific
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The aggressive and
successful execution of CP’s multi-year plan is creating value
for shareholders.”  Canadian Pacific fell 1.1 percent to C$73.69 at the close
in Toronto. It was the stock’s fourth consecutive decline, and
pared this year’s gain to 6.8 percent.  A Brendan Wood  International investor (TII)  survey showed growing
support for Ackman’s campaign last month heading into Canadian
Pacific’s May 17 annual shareholders’ meeting.  Ackman’s case was bolstered yesterday when railroad
investor  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  said it supported
Pershing’s slate. That followed last week’s recommendation from
proxy adviser Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., also in
favor of Pershing’s nominees.  Pershing has heard “an absolute outpouring of support”
from employees within the company, Ackman said. Some of the
workers have asked to speak with Hunter, and Pershing has
arranged phone calls between him and employees, Ackman said.  Operating Ratio  Canadian Pacific’s ratio of expenses to sales, a benchmark
for railroads, has been at the center of Ackman’s fight with the
carrier.  Harrison has said he could improve Canadian Pacific’s
operating ratio to 65 in 2015. Green, 55, has pledged to lower
the measure to a range of 68.5 to 70.5 in 2016. The railroad’s
ratio was 80.1 in the first quarter, compared with 79.4 for the
same period in 2006, a month before Green took the top job.  Improving operations, rather than a merger or sale, is the
best way to boost returns for the railway’s shareholders, Ackman
said.  “We don’t think the company should be combined with anyone
else,” he said. “To have a competitive environment, you need
to have at least two railroads in  Canada .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  