-- Ackman CEO Win Seen Without Full Canadian Pacific Slate
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-08T16:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/ackman-ceo-win-seen-without-full-canadian-pacific-slate.html
William Ackman ’s push to oust the
chief executive officer of  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  may
succeed even if some of the hedge-fund manager’s board nominees
lose in a proxy vote.  Electing as few as four directors from Ackman’s slate of
seven may be enough to achieve his goal by changing the
boardroom dynamic, paving the way for a new CEO, said  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7 billion at First Asset
Investment Management Inc., which owns  Canadian Pacific  shares.  Ackman’s quest comes to a head at the railroad’s May 17
annual meeting, about a week after his presentation today at
Bloomberg’s Canada Economic Summit. Any of his nominees elected
would have a platform to air Ackman’s views, eroding CEO  Fred
Green ’s support and pressuring colleagues to make a change. A
vocal minority can have an outsize impact because boards tend to
work collegially, investors and analysts said.  If “there are even three directors on the board who don’t
think that they can do the job properly, then it typically ends
with the CEO being terminated in one way or another,” said  Paul Hodgson , a researcher at GovernanceMetrics International.  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP
disclosed a stake that made it Canadian Pacific’s largest
shareholder in October, has been demanding a leadership shift to
boost profit at  North America ’s least-efficient major railroad.
While Ackman champions former  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  CEO
 Hunter Harrison  to replace Green, Canadian Pacific’s board has
resisted.  Boardroom Atmosphere  Even if directors seeking a new CEO can’t persuade a
majority to ask for Green’s departure, Stephenson said they
could make the working atmosphere difficult.  Board members including Chairman John Cleghorn and Green
probably “wouldn’t be made to feel welcome for a variety of
reasons,” he said. “In the case of Cleghorn, you’re the face
of the resistance, essentially. And Fred, you’re the guy that
everyone thinks is the reason why this is happening.”  Walt Disney Co.’s leadership change in the mid-2000s
illustrates the leverage a small minority can exercise, said
Hodgson, whose New York-based firm tracks corporate governance
and transparency.  Disney CEO  CEO  Michael Eisner  retired in September 2005 after a
prolonged campaign by dissident shareholders Roy Disney and
Stanley Gold, who stepped down from the company’s board in 2003
and publicly sought Eisner’s removal.  While institutional investors at Canadian Pacific
“overwhelmingly” prefer the 67-year-old Harrison to Green,
Pershing isn’t likely to see its full slate elected, Stephenson
said.  Shareholders will “give them some of their directors and
leave some of management’s slate there,” he said. That would
“send sort of a muddling message that they’d like to see
change, but maybe not overwhelmingly stack things in the favor
of  Pershing Square .”  A recommendation from Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc. in favor of electing Ackman’s entire slate may sway
shareholders comparing the railroad’s performance with a 21
percent share-price surge since Pershing said it was the biggest
investor.  “If you vote for some of them, but not all of them, that
would be self-defeating,” said Jim Huang, president of Toronto-
based T.I.P. Wealth Manager Inc., which holds Canadian Pacific
shares. “We have voted, and we voted for all seven.”  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , the railroad’s 14th-
largest investor with about 1.3 percent of shares, said
yesterday that it, too, voted for all seven of Ackman’s
nominees.  ‘Not Compromising’  Ackman, 45, ruled out a deal on May 2 with Canadian Pacific
that would give Pershing four to five board seats and eliminate
Harrison as a CEO candidate. News of the railway’s proposal,
which was relayed to Ackman by other shareholders, followed a
Brendan Wood  International investor (TII)  survey that showed growing
support for Ackman’s campaign.  “It’s clear from all the polls that the wind of change is
very strong,” Huang said. “One hundred percent of the people I
talk to in the community want a change, and they will vote for
Ackman’s proposal.”  Ackman has said he heard that at least one current member
of the railroad’s board doesn’t support the CEO, and directors
often feel obligated to vote unanimously even if they don’t
really support current management.  Changing Direction  That made Pershing comfortable nominating a minority slate
of directors rather than seeking to replace the entire board, he
said.  The slate has won almost all of the 36 percent of
shareholder votes logged so far, Ackman said today at
Bloomberg’s Canada conference.  “There’s a direct correlation between how many directors
we get and how quickly and efficiently we can work to maximize
 shareholder value ,” Ackman said by telephone last week.  Another investor, Michael Sprung, president of Sprung & Co.
Investment Counsel Inc., questioned whether board incumbents
could be persuaded to replace Green, 55.  “As long as the current directors can keep control of the
company, they will defend their choice,” he said. “They’ve
made such an effort to defend the record of Mr. Green up to this
point, that I think that they would be loath to then, all of a
sudden, change direction.”  Whether Green or others lose their jobs isn’t investors’
main concern, said Lee Clair, a Chicago-based partner with
transportation consultant Norbridge Inc.  Operating Costs  “What really is important is, can there be value created
in the company?” he said. “It’s going to become fairly
apparent in a reasonable amount of time” whether the company
can boost profit.  Canadian Pacific’s operating costs rose to 80.1 percent of
sales in the first quarter from 79.4 percent in the same period
in 2006, a month before Green took the top job. That operating
ratio was the highest of the seven largest North American
railroads in the the period.  Canadian Pacific fell 23 percent from the time Green took
the top job through the day before Pershing began buying its
stake. That lagged behind a 27 percent gain by  Canadian National 
and a 47 percent increase by the three-member Standard & Poor’s
500 Railroads Index.  The hedge fund manager has pointed out previously that
before his stake purchase, investors saw a negative return in
Green’s tenure as CEO. That was a criticism ISS emphasized in
its report.  Investment Performance  “The issue for shareholders -- who are ultimately invested
for return -- is exactly this issue that only the dissidents
have spoken to: the performance of their investment over time,”
ISS wrote. “An investment which, unlike every one of its peers,
had been losing value until an activist shareholder stepped in
is unlikely to be explained away with a welter of metrics.”  The Calgary-based railroad, which disagreed with the ISS
report’s conclusions, has argued that its own performance-
improvement plan has already begun delivering results, even
though it was temporarily slowed by inclement weather in 2011.  First-quarter profit this year more than quadrupled and the
company’s ratio of expenses to sales improved by 1,050 basis
points to the lowest for the period since 2007. The measure was
still higher than it was in the quarter before Green took over.  “You can make the argument that maybe they’re on the right
path, but again, we’ve seen this kind of stuff before,” said
Chris Wetherbee, a New York-based analyst with Citigroup Inc.
Ackman will likely see some of his nominees on the board, which
will make it difficult for directors “to defend the current
management team,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  