-- Actelion Sees Slower Growth Than Analysts From 2013 to 2015
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-05-08T11:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/actelion-forecasts-stable-2013-earnings-before-2014-growth-1-.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  said earnings will
remain stable in 2013 before rising in 2014 and accelerating to
“double-digit” growth in 2015 as a new blood pressure drug
spurs sales.  Actelion plans to deepen cost cuts, including lower and
“more targeted” spending on research and development, the
Allschwil, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today.
Its estimates are for “core” earnings, defined as sales minus
cash operating expenses, and they exclude currency swings. The
shares fell as analysts said the forecasts were below their own.  Trial results announced last week of an experimental drug
called macitentan suggest Actelion has succeeded in developing a
successor for Tracleer, the blood pressure drug that accounts
for 87 percent of sales and will face competition from cheaper
copycat pills in 2015. Olav Zilian, an analyst at Helvea SA in
Geneva, said he may have overestimated how quickly sales of
macitentan would increase  or how fast research spending would
decrease.  “This guidance is definitely more cautious than we are
currently forecasting,” Zilian wrote in a note today.  Analyst Consensus  Analysts had been forecasting earnings growth next year and
an increase of as much as 12 percent from 2014,  Andrew Weiss , an
analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich, wrote in a note today.  Actelion fell 1.2 percent to 38.71 Swiss francs as of 1:09
p.m. in Zurich. The company’s  market value has dropped 14
percent in the past 12 months to 5.1 billion francs ($5.5
billion).  Investors aren’t putting any value on the company’s drug
pipeline and the stock “deserves a re-rating,” said Jean- Pierre Garnier, Actelion’s chairman.  “We’re going to tell you that the stock is undervalued,”
Garnier said at the start of today’s analyst briefing in  London .
“You’ve heard that many times, you’ve been to many company
presentations, you’re a sophisticated audience. So it makes me
feel like  Elizabeth Taylor ’s fifth husband on the eve of their
wedding night: I know what needs to be done, but I’m not sure I
can make it exciting.”  The company has said it expects core earnings to be
unchanged this year from 2011, and for sales to decline by a
low-single-digit percentage.  Increased Competition  Sales of Tracleer have been declining as the drug faces
increased competition from  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Letairis.
Actelion reported a net loss last year because of provisions for
a lawsuit it lost to  Asahi Kasei Corp. (3407)  and for bad debts from
health-care providers in southern  Europe .  Actelion said April 30 that a late-stage trial of
macitentan showed that patients who took it were 45 percent less
likely to experience worsening of their disease than those who
got a placebo. The drug showed a trend toward prolonging
patients’ lives, though the result wasn’t statistically
significant. The company plans to present more data at a
conference in October, it said.  Tracleer and macitentan are designed to treat pulmonary
arterial hypertension, a disease in which the arteries that move
blood from the heart to the lungs narrow, making the heart work
harder and causing elevated  blood pressure . About 40 percent of
patients die within five years of diagnosis, and a lung
transplant is the only cure, according to Actelion.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel is also looking to
antibiotics and immune system treatments to lessen the company’s
reliance on one disease. Actelion wants to sell the rights to
drugs for “general practice” diseases such as asthma, insomnia
and cardiovascular disorders to focus on treatments prescribed
by specialists, he said at the analyst briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  