-- Madonna’s Secret for Longevity Seen Aiding Bacteria Boom
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-05-08T21:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/madonna-s-secret-for-longevity-seen-aiding-bacteria-boom.html
The secret to  Madonna ’s staying power
may be surprisingly simple: gardening.  What the pop star does involves no trowel or soil. Thanks
to dishes of fermented soy beans, millet and brown rice prepared
by her personal chef,  Mayumi Nishimura , Madonna practices a form
of inner horticulture -- cultivating her intestinal flora in a
burgeoning alternative approach to health.  Studies of the trillions of bacteria living on and in the
body suggest the Material Girl, 53, may be onto something. By
eating foods rich in fiber and laced with so-called  good
bacteria , she may be encouraging helpful microbes to flourish in
her bowel, aiding in food digestion and vitamin extraction and
possibly staving off diseases from asthma to  colon cancer .  “This diet that Madonna is following is very sensible,”
says  David Topping , chief food-nutrition researcher at
 Australia ’s Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organization in Adelaide, who studied gut biology for 25 years.
“The bacteria that live inside you are fulfilling very
important functions.”  While scientists try to understand the ecology of the
bacteria and their interactions with diet and disease, companies
are looking for ways to profit.  The health benefits of gut germs have spawned a global
market for products that contain friendly bacteria, called
probiotics, in the form of tablets or supplements added to foods
by companies including Danone,  Nestle SA (NESN) , and  Yakult Honsha Co. (2267)   The market for supplemented dairy products such as  Danone (BN) ’s
 Activia yoghurts  and  Yakult’s fermented drinks , worth $14.7
billion six years ago, will probably expand 32 percent to $33.5
billion by 2016, Euromonitor International estimated last month.  Quinoa, Not Coffee  Studies published in the past year have linked certain
bowel-dwelling bacteria to a stronger immune system, while
others have been associated with  autism  and  obesity . In one
paper published in the journal Nature, scientists showed that a
type of white blood cell that produces  antibodies  only acquired
its infection-fighting ability after spending time in the gut.  Nishimura, who has cooked for cancer patients before being
hired by Madonna, serves quinoa and other whole grains as
staples, along with vegetables and soy sauce, she said in a
telephone interview from  New York . She also tries to offer
seaweed every second day -- usually sautéed or boiled.  “We eat food processed as little as possible,” Nishimura,
55, says of her dietary approach, known as macrobiotic. She
doesn’t recommend meat, dairy and coffee. An agent for Madonna
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Whole grains and fiber act as both food and fertilizer to
the bacteria in the bowel, according to  Mark Morrison , a
microbiologist with Australia’s CSIRO in Brisbane studying ways
to improve gut function and health.  ‘Terrific Interest’  There are 10 times as many bacteria in the human intestinal
tract as there are cells in the body. As coordinator of the
 Human Microbiome Project , Lita Proctor is helping to organize
collaboration from hundreds of scientists around the world
trying to map and study microbial communities living on the skin,
in the mouth and bowel, and in other parts of the body.  “It’s extremely heartening and healthy to have so much
attention now paid to the diet,” says Proctor, who works at the
 National Human Genome Institute  in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Even so, Proctor says the research is still in its infancy,
and products based on partial understanding may not deliver what
they promise.  “That’s not holding up the industry,” she says. “It’s a
very fluid, ill-defined area, but with a lot of terrific
interest.”  Flowers and Weeds  The term  probiotic  is vague and there’s no accepted
definition for it. Measuring results may be even more of a grey
area and some supplements are destroyed by stomach acid before
entering the gut, according to Proctor.  Nishimura relies on fermented foods such as miso, soy sauce
and tempeh to play the role of probiotics and says the benefits
of her diet can be quickly noticed.  “I feel better than I did 20 years ago,” Madonna wrote in
a preface to the  cookbook  her chef had published in 2010. “I am
very grateful to you for this.”  The garden analogy is helpful when it comes to describing
the complex ecology of the bacteria living on humans, says  Julie
Segre , the lead investigator working on the skin microbiome at
the National Human Genome Research Institute.  “There are some flowers that make it easier for other
flowers to grow in the same soil,” Segre says. The most
important thing is to keep out the invasive weeds, she says.  ‘Transpoosions’  When the weeds take over, Australian gastroenterologist
Thomas Borody has a radical  approach  to reestablishing the
balance of intestinal flora in his patients: he transplants
fecal germs from disease-free individuals directly into the
upper reach of the colon, in a pouch known as the cecum.  His Sydney clinic has done 1,800 of the procedures, which
he jokingly dubs “transpoosions,” over 25 years. Borody, 62,
says the treatment has helped patients with ailments ranging
from autism to pseudomembranous colitis, a resilient infection
that causes abdominal pain, loose bowel movements and fever.  “The next day their diarrhea stops,” the doctor says.
After the procedure, he asks patients to avoid treatments that
may damage their gut flora.  Three studies  presented at the
American College of Gastroenterology’s meeting in October
indicate fecal transplants can help with bouts of diarrhea
associated with the bacterium Clostridium difficile.  When Weeds Take Over  Keeping inner bugs healthy is crucial because otherwise
they risk taking over more than the garden. If intestinal
bacteria aren’t able to survive on the food their host consumes,
the germs will try to feed on what they can find -- “mucus as
well as anything else,” according to CSIRO’s Topping. That may
lead to inflammatory  bowel disease , a painful condition that can
evolve into colon cancer, he says.  Staving off disease is one reason people have turned to
Nishimura’s cooking in the past. The chef, who prepared meals
for cancer patients in  Boston , says the diet helps with
constipation, menstrual pain and body odor. When she first
changed the way she ate, Nishimura says she also found that her
allergic skin rash improved.  ‘So Fresh’  Typically, Nishimura tailors her meals each day to suit the
way her employer feels, she says, adding that Madonna prefers
the chef herself to shop for ingredients. Popular dishes include
seaweed in miso soup; hijiki -- a type of brown seaweed --
served with carrots and onions and seasoned with soy sauce; and
cooked oats for breakfast, Nishimura says.  Whole grains demand harder work for bowel bacteria, which
help the body extract vitamins and nutrients from food, because
the  insoluble fiber  they contain is only broken down in the
lower reaches of the digestive tract in a fermentation process
that delivers different quantities and varieties of
inflammation-fighting short-chain fatty acids to the body’s
cells.  There is “solid evidence” that microbes play a role in
tuning the immune system, says Ian Lipkin, director of the
Center for Infection and Immunity at Columbia University’s
Mailman School of  Public Health , where scientists showed in
January that children with autism and gastrointestinal
disturbances have a bacterial species not found in non-autistic
children with tummy upsets.  Madonna and others making similar diet choices may not know
they’re pushing the science frontier. They may just feel better.  “When you cut out animal products, white sugar and coffee
for 10 days you start to feel the difference,” Nishimura said.
“When I first began this diet, I remember how my head became
clearer, I woke up earlier and felt so fresh in the morning that
I didn’t want to stay in bed.”  Madonna herself isn’t lacking in stamina. Her  world tour ,
which starts in  Tel Aviv  this month and ends next March,
includes 75 concerts in  Europe  and  North America . Her previous
world tour was in 2008 and 2009, when she also published six
children’s books and directed or produced two movies.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 