-- Thai ‘Grandfather’ Accused of Royal Insult Dies in Custody
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-05-08T06:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/thai-grandfather-accused-of-royal-insult-dies-in-custody-1-.html
A 62-year-old Thai man serving one of
the longest jail terms given under laws protecting the royal
family from insults died in custody today after complaining of
stomach pain, a prison official said.  Ampol Tangnoppakul died at 9 a.m. at the government-run
Klang Hospital, Suchart Wong-ananchai, director-general of the
Department of Corrections, told reporters in Bangkok. In
November a court sentenced him to 20 years in prison for sending
 text messages  that threatened and defamed Queen Sirikit, 79.  “Grandfather died,” Arnon Numpa, Ampol’s lawyer, wrote on
his Facebook page. “Please accompany him at the prison.”  Ampol’s sentence prompted the U.S., European Union and
 United Nations  to issue  statements  calling on Thailand to
respect freedom of speech. The Southeast Asian country has seen
a surge in the number of cases alleging insults against the
royal family in recent years, coinciding with political violence
since a 2006 coup.  Ampol, who pleaded not guilty, was convicted of sending
four messages in May to the mobile phone of an aide to former
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , the court said. It rejected a
defense argument that his phone was being repaired at the time.  Dubbed “Uncle SMS” by the local media, Ampol was admitted
to the Medical Correctional Institution last week because of a
stomach pain, Arnon said. It wasn’t clear when he was moved to
Klang Hospital.  ‘Chilling Effect’  Thailand ’s lese majeste law mandates jail sentences as long
as 15 years per charge for defaming, insulting or threatening
the king, queen, heir apparent or regent. The UN human rights
office in December said the law had a “ chilling effect ” on
free speech and called for it to be amended.  The number of lese-majeste cases before Thailand’s lower
courts increased to 478 in 2010 from 33 in 2005, a year before
the coup that ousted former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra ,
according to statistics compiled by the Campaign Committee for
the Amendment of Article 112, which is pushing to change the
law.  The lese-majeste law “is not aimed at curbing people’s
rights to freedom of opinion and expression nor the legitimate
exercise of academic freedom, including debates about the
monarchy as an institution,” Thani Thongphakdi, foreign
ministry spokesman, said in a Dec. 14 statement. Ampol was
accorded “due process,” he said.  Thailand’s military has accused Thaksin and his supporters
of undermining  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 84, who took the throne
in 1946. A royal anthem paying homage to the king is played
before movies screened at theaters in Thailand and a nightly
news show focused on the monarchy is broadcast throughout the
country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  