-- Ai Weiwei Plans Underground Pavilion for London’s Serpentine
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-08T12:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/ai-weiwei-plans-underground-pavilion-for-london-s-serpentine.html
Ai Weiwei, the dissident Chinese
artist who was detained for almost three months last year,
released plans for an underground space to be built as the
summer pavilion for London’s Serpentine Gallery.  The pavilion -- co-designed with architects Herzog & De
Meuron, who previously worked with Ai on the 2008 Beijing
National Stadium, known as “the Bird’s Nest” -- has been
purchased by billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal  and his wife for their
collection, a Serpentine news release said. Mittal is chairman
of the world’s biggest steelmaker  ArcelorMittal. (MT)   This year’s summer pavilion, the 12th of its kind, will be
built underneath the lawn and highlight traces of past
pavilions. Its interior will be lined with cork, and its roof
will rise 1.4 meters (4 feet) above ground, supported by 12
columns representing each of the Serpentine pavilions over the
years.  “Every year since 2000, a different architect has been
responsible for creating the Serpentine Gallery’s summer
pavilion,” Herzog & De Meuron and Ai Weiwei said in the
release. “That makes eleven pavilions so far, our contribution
will be the twelfth.”  “So many pavilions in so many different shapes and out of
so many different materials have been conceived and built that
we tried instinctively to sidestep the unavoidable problem of
creating an object, a concrete shape,” they said.  Going Underground  This year’s designers said they would perform a kind of
archeological dig, burrowing some 5 feet into the park soil and
incorporating subterranean water into their structure. They’d
also single out telephone wires, old foundations and other
remnants of past structures, they said.  Previous pavilion architects include Pritzker Prize
winners Peter Zumthor (2011),  Jean Nouvel  (2010),  Zaha Hadid 
(2000),  Frank Gehry  (2008) and  Rem Koolhaas  (2006).  Every year since 2000, the Serpentine, a former tearoom,
asks an architect or artist to put up a provisional building for
its summer fundraising party, as well as for visitor use and day
and evening events.  A Beijing court has accepted Ai’s lawsuit challenging the
15 million  yuan  ($2.4 million) tax evasion penalty the
government levied against the company that markets his work, the
artist said in an interview today.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 