-- Airlines Ask Agency to Delay Fuel Tank Safety Upgrade
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/airlines-ask-u-s-faa-to-delay-fuel-tank-safety-upgrade-deadline.html
Airlines asked the U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration  to postpone a requirement for installing
equipment aimed at preventing fuel tanks on passenger jets from
exploding.  The approval for kits required under a 2008 regulation are
“significantly behind schedule,” making it impossible to meet
FAA deadlines without having to ground some aircraft, the trade
group Airlines for America said in a March 28 letter to the
agency.  The Washington-based group, which represents large carriers
such as  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,
released the letter yesterday.  The FAA ordered plane manufacturers and airlines to install
the kits to prevent explosions such as the one that destroyed
TWA Flight 800 on July 17, 1996. All 230 people aboard died in
the second-worst U.S. aviation accident since 1989.  The tank located between the  Boeing Co. (BA)  747’s wings became
heated, generating an explosive mixture of fuel vapors and air,
the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board ruled. Similar
fuel tank explosions caused fatalities in three other cases and
the FAA estimated that four additional U.S. jets would crash
without more protection over 35 years.  Passenger carriers have until Dec. 26, 2014, to equip half
of their fleets with devices that force oxygen out of fuel tanks
and replace it with nitrogen, which prevents explosions, the
letter from the airline trade group said.  Boeing Jets  FAA approval for the kits have fallen “well behind the
pace needed” to meet that deadline, according to the letter.  The agency is evaluating the trade group’s request and
believes it is important to work “with the aviation community
to improve safety,” the FAA said in an e-mailed statement.  “This rule provides an important safety net and as a
result, fuel tanks are far safer today than they were in 1996,”
the agency said in the statement.  The delays affect kits to retrofit Boeing models, according
to the trade group. Equipment for Airbus jets has already been
approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  