-- Al Jazeera Shuts Beijing Bureau After Reports on Abortion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-08T19:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/al-jazeera-shuts-beijing-bureau-as-journalist-denied-visa.html
Al Jazeera English said it was closing
its Beijing bureau after  China  refused to renew the visa of a
correspondent whose stories included reports on secret jails and
 forced abortions  in the country.  The government also declined to grant approval to replace
the correspondent, Melissa Chan, 31, who had reported from China
since 2007,  Al Jazeera said  yesterday. The U.S. is
“disappointed” by the decision and has raised the issue with
China, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in  Washington .  “The channel has expressed its disappointment in the
situation and said it is continuing to request a presence in
China,” Salah Negm, director of news at Al Jazeera English, was
quoted as saying on its website. “We are committed to our
coverage of China.” Chan, who is a U.S. citizen, declined to
comment in an e-mail and directed questions to the company’s
press office.  The decision not to renew Chan’s visa comes at a sensitive
time for China, which has been roiled by the ouster of Chongqing
party Secretary Bo Xilai in April and legal activist  Chen Guangcheng ’s move to seek shelter at the U.S. embassy for almost
a week earlier this month. The government is trying to ensure
stability as it prepares for a once-a-decade leadership
transition later this year.  ‘Open and Free’  Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei declined to say whether
Chan’s visa had been revoked, saying only that the government
had dealt with the “relevant” journalist in accordance with
the law. In the e-mail she said she left Beijing on Monday
night.  “We welcome foreign journalists to report objectively in
China,” Hong said at a briefing yesterday in Beijing. “The
environment for their reporting activities is very open and
free. At the same time, foreign journalists should abide by
Chinese laws and regulations.”  The Foreign Correspondents Club of China said it was
“appalled” by the move, which it called  an expulsion .  Foreign journalists who sought to cover Chen, who is still
staying at a Beijing hospital after he left the embassy, were
summoned for meetings with security officials, who told them
they risked having their visas revoked, according to the FCCC.  The English and Arabic channels of Doha, Qatar-based  Al
Jazeera  gained worldwide attention for broadcasting images of
the Arab Spring in the  Middle East  early last year. Chinese
leaders deployed hundreds of security officers at the time to
prevent pro-democracy rallies in the country.  ‘Grave Threat’  The FCCC, where Chan was secretary for 2011-2012, called
the ministry’s decision not to renew her visa a “grave threat
to foreign reporters’ ability to work in China.” The Foreign
Correspondents’ Club in  Hong Kong  said objecting to bad news was
“a flawed and self-defeating response that should have no place
in a strong and modern nation,” according to a statement on  its
website .  According to the FCCC, Chan had been issued short-term
press credentials over the last three months instead of the
typical one-year accreditation. Al Jazeera said she had filed
more than 400 stories during her time in China, including on
human rights, the economy, labor rights and social justice.  The Committee to  Protect Journalists   urged China  to grant
visas to Al Jazeera English correspondents. The New York-based
organization said that authorities often delay approving visas
or threaten to revoke them as part of “an overall strategy of
intimidation.”  “The refusal to renew Melissa Chan’s credentials marks a
real deterioration in China’s media environment, and sends a
message that international coverage is unwanted,” the CPJ said.  Knight Fellow  Chan will spend part of 2012 and 2013 at  Stanford
University , where she has  been named  a John S. Knight journalism
fellow, according to Stanford’s website. She will develop an
online toolkit to help reporters protect their computers against
hacking, according to the website.  During her time in China, Chan filed reports about people
displaced by Chinese developers, Bo’s crime crackdown in
Chongqing and allegations of jails where people were held
illegally in Beijing. A  March story  showed her visiting what she
described as one such jail and included footage of parents who
said their children had been detained in unknown locations.  In a 2011 blog post, Chan described intimidation she and
her sources had been subjected to while reporting in China,
including a time when a van blocked her car’s path and men
emerged to bang on their windows and demand they stop what they
were doing.  “You develop a level of paranoia sometimes, engrossed in
the mission of filming enough footage before getting stopped,”
Chan wrote in the post.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  