-- Ally Said to Gain ResCap Bondholder Support for Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-05-08T22:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/ally-said-to-gain-rescap-bondholder-support-for-bankruptcy-plan.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers, received an oral commitment
from bondholders of Residential Capital to support a bankruptcy
filing for the mortgage unit that may come early next week,
according to people with direct knowledge of the talks.  The investors were given material, nonpublic information
and are negotiating final details of what they’d receive to
settle their  claims , said one person, who declined to be
identified because the talks aren’t public. While negotiations
could still fail, a court filing may come as soon as the evening
of May 13 in New York, a person working with the company said.  The talks could create a “prepackaged”  bankruptcy  for
ResCap, which would shorten disputes and the court proceedings,
and in turn make it easier for Ally to repay a U.S. bailout that
topped $17 billion. A ResCap bankruptcy would rank among the
largest for a U.S. Treasury Department-owned asset since General
Motors Corp. won court protection in 2009.  The U.S. holds a 74 percent stake in Detroit-based Ally,
and President  Barack Obama  vowed in 2009 to recover “every last
dime” of bailout money given to banks. Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Carpenter  has said a planned initial public offering to
raise some of those funds won’t happen until there’s progress on
resolving the fate of the mortgage business.  Fortress Role  Ally lined up  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  to buy the
mortgage unit in a court-supervised sale, one of the people
said. New York-based Fortress has been in talks since at least
March, when people familiar with the matter said the investment
firm would pay more than $1 billion to acquire parts of ResCap,
including some of its mortgage-servicing subsidiary that handles
billing and collections.  In another step toward a court filing, ResCap secured
$1.45 billion in so-called debtor-in-possession financing with
Barclays Plc, said another person briefed on the matter. The
funds would let ResCap operate while under court supervision.
e-mail messages.  The bankruptcy plan received conditional approval from the
Treasury, which will support Ally and ResCap directors if they
decide a bankruptcy is the best course of action, an Obama
administration official said earlier this week. The U.S.
concluded that addressing ResCap’s mortgage losses will put
taxpayers in a better position to recoup their investment in
Ally, according to the official.  Opposition to Filing  Investors holding at least $800 million in ResCap debt,
including  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. and  David Tepper ’s
Appaloosa Management LP, hired law firm White & Case LLP and
partner Gerard Uzzi in January to oppose a bankruptcy.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally, Gordon Runte, a
spokesman at Fortress and Paulson’s  Armel Leslie  said they
couldn’t comment. David Tepper didn’t return telephone and
e-mail messages.  Ally, formerly known as GMAC, confirmed last month that
ResCap is considering bankruptcy and said Ally’s loss tied to
the action could be $400 million to $1.25 billion. Ally had
about $101.6 billion in debt outstanding at the end of 2011 and
employed 14,800 workers at the end of December, according to its
annual securities filing.  Ally ranked No. 1 in financing U.S. consumer auto sales for
2011 with more than $40 billion in contracts for new or used
cars and trucks, or about 1.5 million vehicles. ResCap was one
of the largest originators during the housing bubble of subprime
and Alt-A mortgages until record defaults led to billions of
dollars in losses.  There are no publicly traded shares in Ally. Minority
stakes include 9.9 percent held by a trust for General Motors
Co. and 8.7 percent owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
New York-based investment firm. GM was GMAC’s parent until 2006,
when Cerberus engineered a buyout. Cerberus then lost control
and its stake was diluted in the bailout that began in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  