-- Ally Gets Nod for ResCap Filing as U.S. Seeks Repayment
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-08T11:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/ally-gets-nod-for-rescap-filing-as-u-s-seeks-repayment.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
majority-owned by taxpayers, received  U.S. Treasury  Department
approval to put its Residential Capital unit into bankruptcy as
the government seeks to recover bailout funds.  The Treasury will support directors at Ally and ResCap if
they decide that filing for  court protection  from creditors is
the best course for the mortgage unit, said an Obama
administration official, who asked for anonymity because the
arrangements haven’t been made public. The approval is
conditioned on a review of terms, the person said yesterday.  “Treasury wants its money back,” Jody Lurie, a corporate
credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia,
said in a telephone interview. “This sign-off is an indication
that Ally has a good-enough plan to prove they can eventually
pay back the government. The only feasible opportunity for them
to get their money back is to split up or sell Ally.”  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  is working to
repay bailouts exceeding $17 billion that left the U.S. with a
74 percent stake. Officials concluded that addressing ResCap’s
mortgage losses will put  taxpayers  in a better position, the
person said yesterday. President  Barack Obama  vowed in 2009 to
recover “every last dime” of bailout money.  Carpenter, who once predicted that a pending initial public
offering could value Ally at $30 billion, later said the sale
won’t happen until there’s progress on resolving the mortgage
unit. Detroit-based Ally, formerly known as GMAC, confirmed last
month that ResCap is considering bankruptcy and said Ally’s loss
tied to the action could be $400 million to $1.25 billion.  $5.5 Billion  The lender has since repaid $5.5 billion through dividends
and the sale of Ally securities,  Gina Proia , a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Matt Anderson , a
Treasury spokesman, declined to comment.  “Addressing the risks in the mortgage business is key to
successfully pursuing strategies that would best position the
company to maximize value for its shareholders, including the
U.S. Treasury,” Proia said. “That is our highest priority.”  Fortress Investment Group Inc., the private-equity and
hedge fund manager, will probably buy assets from Ally for $3
billion, the  New York  Post reported, citing unidentified people
with knowledge of the matter. New York-based Fortress may pay $2
billion for ResCap and $1 billion for a portfolio of mortgage-
servicing rights Ally holds, the newspaper said.  Putback Claims  A ResCap bankruptcy may accelerate so-called putback
claims, where holders of mortgage-backed securities issued by
the unit try to force the company to buy back soured loans
backing the bonds, said  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at Graham
Fisher & Co. Those claims may saddle Ally with years of lawsuits
that prevent the planned IPO and delay repayment of the bailout.
Ally faced $1.2 billion in outstanding claims at the end of the
first quarter.  “If Treasury waited 12 to 18 months, ResCap would be
clean,” Rosner said. “By filing it they are going to force an
acceleration of claims. The only way they can justify the filing
is if they have a plan that they assume would resolve it faster
than 12 to 18 months.”  Ally’s first-quarter profit more than doubled from a year
earlier as mortgage results improved.  Net income  climbed to $310
million and profit in mortgage operations, run by Thomas Marano
and which include ResCap, almost quadrupled to $191 million.
ResCap’s deficits had helped drive the unit’s loss to about $792
million in the three previous quarters combined.  Splitting Firm  Treasury officials told Ally earlier this year that an IPO
is unlikely, and they were pushing the firm to split into at
least two  pieces , people familiar with the matter have said. One
part would be Ally’s auto-finance subsidiary, which is among the
largest in the U.S., and the other would be its online bank,
which had almost $28 billion in retail deposits at year-end.  All options, including the IPO or sale of business units
remain open, the official said.  “Treasury doesn’t want to be viewed as actively managing
the business,” said  Kirk Ludtke , an analyst at CRT Capital
Group LLC, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based broker-dealer. Still,
he said, “you need to have Treasury on board.”  Ally ranked No. 1 in financing U.S. consumer auto sales for
2011 with more than $40 billion in contracts for new or used
cars and trucks, or about 1.5 million vehicles. ResCap was one
of the largest originators during the  housing bubble  of subprime
and Alt-A mortgages until record defaults led to billions of
dollars in losses.  Ally Bonds  Ally’s $932.5 million of 8 percent bonds maturing in
November 2031 climbed 0.5 cent to 115.75 cents on the dollar in
New York trading yesterday. The firm had about $101.6 billion in
debt outstanding at the end of 2011, its annual filing showed.
Ally said it employed 14,800 workers at the end of December.  There are no publicly traded shares in Ally. Minority
stakes include 9.9 percent held by a trust for  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and 8.7 percent owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
New York-based investment firm. GM was GMAC’s parent until 2006,
when Cerberus engineered a buyout. Cerberus then lost control
and its stake was diluted in the bailout that began in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  