-- KPN Says America Movil’s Offer for Stake Is Too Low
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-05-08T16:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/america-movil-makes-offer-for-kpn-stake-at-8-euros-per-share.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone company
that attracted a 2.6 billion-euro ($3.4 billion) bid from
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  for a bigger stake,
said the offer is too low and it is exploring strategic options.  The unsolicited 8-euro per share cash offer for as much as
a 28 percent holding in KPN “substantially undervalues the
company,” The Hague-based KPN said in a statement today. KPN
hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as
advisers and Allen & Overy as legal counsel, it said.  KPN jumped 17 percent to 7.58 euros at the close of trading
in Amsterdam, after rising as much as 22 percent today. America
Movil, owned by the world’s richest man, announced the bid late
yesterday to boost its 4.8 percent stake in the former Dutch
telecommunications monopoly. It would be the  Mexico  City-based
company’s biggest investment outside  Latin America .  Slim, 72, is taking advantage of  Europe ’s debt crisis to
find bargains there, fulfilling a plan to expand beyond his
Latin American phone empire. The KPN offer follows failed
attempts in the past decade to enter  Spain  and  Italy , and
America Movil also considered purchases in the past 18 months
in Poland and Serbia.  ‘Cheap Shares’  “It’s very simple: prices in Europe are cheap right now
because of what’s happening there,” said Martin Lara, an
analyst at Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City. “Slim likes to
buy cheap shares.”  America Movil fell 7.6 percent to 17.24 pesos in Mexico
City after earlier dropping 8.4 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since October 2008. The slump pulled Mexico’s
benchmark IPC index down 2.5 percent.  A representative for  America Movil  decliend to comment.  Before today, KPN had dropped 30 percent this year, the
worst performance on the Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication
Services Index, as the company struggled to maintain profits
while investing in its domestic broadband network.  America Movil’s bid will pave the way for agreements
with KPN over roaming, marketing and joint purchasing, Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said on a conference
call today. America Movil hasn’t held discussions with KPN and
sees the stake as a “long-term” strategic investment, he said.  Cash Bid  The offer is about 24 percent more than KPN’s closing
price yesterday, but is still 13 percent less than the level at
the start of this year. Western European telecommunications
deals this year fetched an average premium of 42 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on 42
transactions.  The offer follows last week’s $2.6 billion bid for Irish
phone company Eircom Group by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka- Shing’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)   America Movil plans to pay in cash, according to a
statement. The carrier had 60.3 billion pesos ($4.6 billion) in
cash at the end of March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company said it expects to get approval from the
local securities regulator and carry out the offer by the
beginning of June.  “This offer is a good opportunity for KPN shareholders to
get out,” said Jos Versteeg, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
 Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers . “About three weeks ago KPN shares
were worth 8 euros and now you should be happy to get that
price.”  Defensive Stock  Corne van Zeijl, a Den Bosch, Netherlands-based  fund
manager  at  SNS Asset Management  who oversees about 1 billion
euros, including KPN shares, says he hasn’t made a decision on
tendering the stock yet.  “The question is what will happen to the share price after
America Movil has bought a stake of 28 percent. I don’t think it
will rise that much anymore afterward,” he said. “KPN will
become a defensive stock, and that is nice when you’re in a
storm, but not if you want to move forward.”  The Dutch government sold its last 8 percent stake in KPN
in 2006.  The price of America Movil’s 5 percent March 2020 dollar
bond rose to 113.75 cents on the dollar at 10:45 a.m. in  London ,
the highest since Feb. 29, Bloomberg data show. Its $2 billion
2.375 percent Sept. 2016 notes climbed to 102.3 cents on the
dollar, the highest in more than two months.  Belgian, German Assets  KPN had 44.5 million subscriptions, including 36.6 million
wireless lines in the Netherlands, Belgium and  Germany , at the
end of last year, according to its  website . The company said
last month it would accelerate a job cut plan, eliminating as
many as 5,000 positions by 2013.  “Europe is itself is facing times which are economically
challenging but we believe that the situation will stabilize and
will go back to normal at some point and that the region should
return to growth scenario in not too distant future,” Garcia-
Moreno said.  America Movil said in a statement it supports the strategic
plans of KPN’s management and its shareholders. America Movil
has no plan to fully take over KPN, Garcia-Moreno said.  In the Netherlands, holders of a 30 percent stake in a
public company are obliged to make an offer for all of the
outstanding shares.  German Competition  In addition to its telephone network in the Netherlands,
KPN’s assets include wireless carriers in Germany and Belgium.
KPN said April 16 it has started reviewing the future of its
Belgian mobile-phone unit BASE, which people familiar with the
matter estimated may fetch about 1.8 billion euros in a sale.  In Germany, where KPN competes with companies including
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the company is under pressure after its E-
Plus unit was the only one of four national mobile operators to
fail to secure wireless spectrum in the coveted 800-megahertz
band, meaning it will have to partner with rivals to expand
service.  The stake in KPN expands Slim’s foothold in Spain, home of
his biggest Latin American competitor, Madrid-based  Telefonica
SA. (TEF)  KPN’s Simyo brand, which the carrier has considered selling,
resells minutes from other companies in Spain as a mobile
virtual-network operator, or MVNO.  As a private investor, Slim disclosed a minority stake last
year in  Promotora de Informaciones SA , which publishes the El
Pais newspaper in Spain.  ‘Better Sense’  “It clearly would be a possibility to continue to look at
Europe, but we cannot run before we walk,” Garcia-Moreno said.
“We first have to get a better sense of the market, a better
sense of the industry, consumers, generally a better
understanding of the industry before we can make other moves.”  KPN is among Western Europe’s cheapest telecommunications
stocks, trading at a price-to-earnings ratio of 7.5 times, less
than half the regional industry average of 17 times, according
to data on 40 companies compiled by Bloomberg.  By another measure, enterprise value compared to earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda,
KPN’s ratio of 4.3 compares with the industry average of 28.
Enterprise value is measured by subtracting cash from market
capitalization plus debt.  KPN’s ratio of net debt to Ebitda, a measure of liquidity,
was 2.46 times, up from 2.15 a year earlier. The ratio was
smaller than Telefonica and  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  and larger
than Deutsche Telekom AG and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   America Movil closed at a  record  18.66 pesos a share
yesterday after the company settled an antitrust case in its
home country. The share surge helped boost Slim’s net worth by
$2.4 billion to $76.2 billion, extending his lead as the world’s
richest person, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  America Movil represents about 63 percent of Slim’s
fortune, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  