-- AMR Local TWU Leaders Urge Vote Against Contract Offer
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-05-08T02:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/amr-local-twu-leaders-urge-vote-against-contract-offer.html
American Airlines ’ mechanics, baggage
handlers and other airport ground workers should reject the
bankrupt carrier’s final contract offer, local presidents of the
 Transport Workers Union  told members.  The action goes against the stance of the labor group’s
national leaders, who are not recommending members vote for or
against the plan. The offer by  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American would cut
5,900 TWU jobs, freeze workers’ pension plan and close a
maintenance base in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .  “For those of you who are considering voting yes, I ask
you to think about your career, your livelihood and if you might
get laid off, what you’re going to come back to,” Gary
Peterson, TWU Local 565 president, said on a  video  to members.
“We need to stand up, we need to stand together and fight our
way through this.”  Voting on American’s final contract offer is part of TWU’s
strategy to keep all avenues open as the carrier seeks to cut
labor costs by $1.25 billion a year as it restructures in
bankruptcy. The union has also reached worker accords with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  on a possible takeover bid for the carrier
and is opposing an effort by American to void existing contracts
in court next week.  Jim Little , TWU’s international president, told members on
a conference call today not to let anyone pressure them to vote
yes or no. He urged workers to become fully informed on all
options before casting a vote.  ‘Magic Information’  “You need to focus and make a decision that’s going to be
best for you and your family,” Little said. “I wish I had some
magic information for you to tell you if you just do this things
will be better, because it’s not getting any better in the
future.”  TWU members are set to vote on American’s final offer May
10 through May 14. The union’s attorneys will ask American’s
bankruptcy judge to extend the “very short window” for
balloting, Little said.  If approved, the plan would become part of TWU’s contract
with the carrier after it leaves court protection. The union is
the largest at American, representing seven work groups.  The TWU will join unions for American’s pilots and flight
attendants in arguing against the airline’s request to reject
existing contracts and impose new terms starting May 14. The
judge has said he will rule by June 6.  If the TWU votes against American’s last offer and the
judge lets the airline void contracts, the unions would begin
negotiating terms for entirely new labor agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  