-- Man. City Players to Get $400,000 for Title: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-08T10:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/man-city-players-to-get-400-000-for-title-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  City Payment  Manchester City  players may get 250,000 pounds ($400,000)
each should the club win the Premier League title this weekend,
the  Daily Star said.   The payments will cost owner Sheikh Mansour about 4.5
million pounds, the newspaper said. The team leads  Manchester
United  on goal difference and will win its first title since
1968 with a victory over Queens Park Rangers on May 13, the
newspaper said.  Fulham Goes Frysian  Fulham may sign Luciano Narsingh and Oussama Assaidi from
Dutch side Heerenveen for as much as 10 million pounds, the  Sun 
reported.  The club based in the northern Dutch province of Friesland
has also had interest in the pair from the likes of PSV, Ajax,
Everton, Newcastle and Russian side Anzhi Makhachkala, the paper
said.  City Wants Belhanda  Manchester City may sign Montpellier midfielder Younes
Belhanda instead of Lille player Eden Hazard, the  Independent 
reported.  City may be able to buy Moroccan Belhanda for 7 million
pounds, whereas Hazard will cost 30 million pounds. The Premier
League team has been pursuing Hazard for two months, but the
demands of the player’s representatives “are becoming a source
of severe concern,” the paper said.  Arsenal for M’Vila  Arsenal will hold talks with Rennes midfielder Yann M’Vila, who
wants to move to the English Premier League if the London club
makes the  Champions League ,  the Mirror said .  Inter Milan  is also interested in the French player, who
has spoken of his respect for Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger , the
newspaper said.  Spurs Chasing Vertonghen  Tottenham may sign Ajax defender Jan Vertonghen, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  Belgium ’s Vertonghen has only one year left on
his contract with the Amsterdam club, and is also wanted by
Arsenal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports
desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  