-- Anadarko Judge Tosses Some Claims in $25 Billion Lawsuit
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-08T18:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/anadarko-suit-judge-throws-out-fraudulent-transfer-claim.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  won dismissal
of some claims against it in a $25 billion environmental lawsuit
brought by the U.S. and creditors of bankrupt Tronox Inc.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper granted a request from
The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko to limit so-called fraudulent
transfer claims to its wholly-owned Kerr-McGee unit. Such claims
seek to recover money transferred out of a company prior to a
bankruptcy and imply an intent to defraud creditors. Kerr-McGee
put its liabilities into Tronox and sold good assets to Anadarko.  David Zott, a lawyer for the U.S. and Tronox, said the
ruling made in  Manhattan  today doesn’t change the case, as the
Kerr-McGee unit has always been the main defendant in the lawsuit.  “If a multibillion judgment is entered against Kerr-McGee,
Anadarko is still the sole owner,” Zott said in an interview
after the hearing.  The suit, which seeks payment for environmental liabilities
for as many as 2,772 polluted sites, is set to begin May 15.
Anadarko rose more than 3 percent on the news.  Tronox said in its 2009 lawsuit against Anadarko and the
subsidiary that Anadarko had control over it, and was part of a
“two-step fraudulent-scheme” that first dumped old liabilities
onto Tronox through its 2006 spinoff from Kerr-McGee, and then
subsequently sold Kerr-McGee’s oil and gas assets to Anadarko
three months later. U.S. agencies joined the suit, seeking $15
billion in value they said was transferred to Anadarko, along
with $10 billion in interest and appreciation since 2005.  ‘Mere Dominion’  The U.S. and Tronox argued that the parent company could be
considered the recipient of any fraudulently transferred funds
because it had “dominion and control” over the unit.  The law about fraudulent transfers “does not suggest that
mere dominion and control makes a company a subsequent or
initial transferee,” Gropper said. He said that because
Anadarko had kept its Kerr-McGee unit an isolated entity, Tronox
and the U.S. can’t argue that it was the recipient of
fraudulently transferred funds.  Principal Assets  “The court was not aware that Anadarko had carefully
continued to isolate the principal Kerr-McGee assets in the
Kerr-McGee subsidiary and that this isolation had continued for
all the subsequent years,” Gropper said.  Gropper also said at today’s hearing that the legal
separation of the Kerr-McGee unit from  Anadarko Petroleum  may be
a subject to be discussed at trial. “Why have they been kept
separate all these years?” Gropper said.  David Owens, deputy general counsel for Anadarko, and  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, declined to comment.  Anadarko bought Kerr-McGee’s oil and gas assets for $18
billion in 2006. According to the U.S. lawsuit, Kerr-McGee began
to separate its liabilities from its assets as early as 2001,
through a project known as “project focus,” and never revealed
the extent of its polluting properties, some of which it
referred to internally as “secret sites.”  Under a settlement made between Tronox and the EPA during
Tronox’s bankruptcy, Tronox paid $320 million and agreed the
agency and state environmental agencies would get 88 percent of
whatever can be recovered in the lawsuit for toxic cleanups. The
remainder will go to tort claimants who say Kerr-McGee’s
pollution injured them.  March Show  In a March slide show for investors, Anadarko estimated
that the suit would cost about $250 million -- 1 percent of what
the U.S. is seeking. On April 30, it took an additional $275
million charge for the lawsuit, bringing the total for estimated
costs to $525 million.  “We’re confident in the merits of our case and also
recognize there is value in removing uncertainty for our
shareholders,” spokesman Brian Cain said after the April 30
report. “If a settlement is not reached, we are prepared to
defend our interests at trial.”  Anadarko fell 32 cents to $68.65 at 12:03 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Tronox Inc. (TROX) , 09-10156,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  