-- Animal Blood, Corpses, Concepts Litter Paris Triennale
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-05-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/animal-blood-corpses-concepts-litter-paris-triennale.html
The newly overhauled  Palais de Tokyo 
in Paris is the largest exhibition space for contemporary art in
 Europe , say the organizers of the sprawling opening show, “ La
Triennale .”  It covers 22,000 square meters (236,800 square feet).
French officials seem to think that -- as in fairy tales -- the
third time is lucky. In 2006, the government mounted “La Force
de l’Art,” an exhibition at the Grand Palais that was supposed
to provide the country’s contemporary artists with a showplace
they couldn’t find on the international market.  The success was modest: In six weeks, the exhibit drew
80,000 visitors. The sequel in 2009 fared even worse.  For the latest attempt, the name and venue have been
changed. The exhibition now is called the Triennale. And it’s
not for lack of money, the organizers assure us, that the Palais
de  Tokyo , home to  France ’s collection of modern art before the
opening of the  Pompidou Center  in 1977, now looks like an
unplastered, unpainted shell. The press kit defines it as “a
rebellious undeveloped plot, the anti-museum par excellence.”  The circle of participants also has been enlarged.  By entrusting the show to Okwui Enwezor, the Nigerian-born
U.S. curator and director of the  Haus der Kunst  in Munich, the
French government has abandoned its propaganda effort. The
Triennale, which has the poetic subtitle “Intense Proximity,”
doesn’t focus exclusively on French art.  Of the 120 artists in the show, only about a quarter are
French or work in France, with 16 from  Africa .  Congo Voyage  Not all are still alive. The exhibition starts with a
documentary made in 1928 by the French writer Andre Gide and his
then lover Marc Allegret about a trip to the Congo.  A 1935 photograph by Walker Evans portrays an “African
Negro,” another picture, by the ethnologist Claude Levi- Strauss, from 1937, shows a tattooed woman from the Amazonian
 rain forest .  It’s interesting that the show stresses the ethnological
aspect of items coming from what used to be called the Third
World. That’s the opposite of what the  Musee du Quai Branly  in
Paris tries to do, namely to wrest them from the anthropologists
and present them as artworks.  Other than that, you find the usual mix of deliberately
artless videos, photographs and installations. Paintings and
drawings take a back seat. Concept is more important than
execution.  Many works have a more or less decipherable political
subtext.  Exotic Sculpture  Some are very big. At the entrance, visitors are greeted by
“The Blind Leading the Blind,” a monumental sculpture hanging
from the ceiling by Peter Buggenhout, a Belgian artist who uses
exotic materials such as animal blood and coats of dust.  The lower floor is dominated by Hamburg-based Ulla von
Brandenburg’s colorful double skateboard ramp, mysteriously
titled “Death of a King.”  Death is also the theme of a video by the Swiss artist
Thomas Hirschhorn. Quoting  Donald Rumsfeld  (“Death has a
tendency to encourage a depressing view of war”), he depicts
corpses and mutilated war victims.  Annette Messager’s installation “Motion-Emotion,” a
collection of dresses, fabrics and dolls flapping in a breeze
stirred by electric fans, fills an entire room. The catalog
interprets it as a symbol of life where “everything is moving,
changing, deforming, transforming, from birth to death.”  If that convinces you, you’ll probably also enjoy the rest.  The Triennale is at the Palais de Tokyo, 13 Avenue du
President Wilson, Paris, through Aug. 26. Information:
 http://www.latriennale.org .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Martin Gayford on  London
art , Ryan Sutton on  food .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 