-- Apollo Global Rises Most in Five Months as Profit Gains
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-08T20:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/apollo-first-quarter-profit-increases-20-on-higher-fees.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm that went public last year, rose the most in
five months after reporting a 20 percent increase in first-
quarter profit.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of earnings
excluding some compensation costs tied to its initial public
offering, increased to $422.3 million, or $1.10 a share, from
$351.4 million, or 99 cents, a year earlier, New York-based
Apollo said today in a statement. The shares climbed as much as
9.2 percent to $13.32, the most since Dec. 5.  Apollo joins  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in reporting higher profit for the
quarter as the market rally boosted the value of holdings. The
firm, led by  Leon Black , benefited from stock-market increases
as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, a benchmark for U.S.
equities, surged 12 percent this year through March 30, its
second straight quarterly gain. Apollo’s private-equity holdings
gained 16 percent during the quarter, said Marc Spilker, the
firm’s president.  “We’re operating in a volatile economic environment with
an upward trajectory,” Spilker said on a call with analysts and
investors today. “Clearly, if markets behave the way they did
in the first quarter it will benefit the realization cycle. If
markets worsen, we are well-positioned to deploy additional
capital.”  Apollo advanced 5.3 percent to $12.85 at the close of
trading in  New York , as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
less than 1 percent. The stock has declined 32 percent from its
$19 IPO price. It has gained 3.5 percent this year.  Assets Rise  Analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg had on average expected
profit of 71 cents a share. That may not compare to the reported
figure because Apollo last quarter modified its definition of
economic net income, or ENI, adding the value of stock-based
compensation to its expenses.  Assets under management rose to $86 billion as of March 31
from $75 billion at the end of the fourth quarter, driven by an
increase in the value of Apollo’s private-equity portfolio as
well as $3 billion the firm got from the Teacher Retirement
System of  Texas . The firm last month completed its acquisition
of Stone Tower Capital LLC, which added $19 billion in credit
assets that will be reflected as assets next quarter.  The firm’s economic net income doesn’t comply with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. The net gain under
those standards rose to $98 million, or 66 cents a share, from
$38.2 million, or 33 cents, a year earlier.  Private-equity firms pool investor money to buy companies,
using mostly debt, with the intention of selling them or taking
them public later for a profit. They typically charge an annual
management fee of 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds
and keep 15 percent to 20 percent of profit from investments.  Returning Cash  Apollo said it will pay a dividend of 25 cents a share on
May 30.  “Investors are under-appreciating the company’s ability to
harvest gains from its portfolio and return cash to
shareholders,” said  Howard Chen , an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG in New York. The dividend was “well above our
expectations.”  Apollo said six portfolio companies are on track for IPOs,
two of which submitted registration statements in the past two
months. Ceva Logistics Inc., a U.K.-based supply-chain
management company, filed to raise $400 million in a U.S. sale,
and Berry Plastics Group Inc., an Evansville, Indiana-based
container maker, filed to sell $500 million of stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  