-- Apple Wins Dismissal of Proview IPad Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-05-09T20:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/apple-wins-dismissal-of-proview-ipad-lawsuit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won dismissal of Proview
Electronics Co.’s California lawsuit seeking to block it from
using the iPad name, according to a copy of the court order
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Proview, based in  Taiwan , has sought to block shipments of
Apple’s iPad tablet computer in and out of  China . In the
California case, filed in state court in  San Jose , Proview
claimed a December 2009 agreement to sell iPad trademarks to an
Apple unit called IP Application Development Ltd. should be
canceled. The Apple unit made “false” statements to Proview in
correspondence before the agreement, according to the filing.  Apple successfully argued that the case should be dismissed
because the agreement required that the dispute be resolved in
 Hong Kong .  Apple “provides evidence that plaintiff specifically
requested the Hong Kong forum and is litigating there
currently,” Judge Mark H. Pierce wrote in his May 4 decision.
Proview “does not, in opposition, present evidence that
demonstrates that enforcement of the forum selection clause is
unreasonable or unfair,” Pierce wrote.  The dismissal “was not based on the merits of the case,”
Christopher Evans, a lawyer representing Proview, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We are looking forward to presenting the facts in this
case to the appellate court, and we are confident that the facts
will show that Apple fraudulently obtained the iPad
trademarks,” Evans said.  Worldwide Rights  Apple acquired Proview’s worldwide rights to the iPad
trademark in 10 countries, including China, the Cupertino,
California-based company said Feb. 14.  Proview claimed Graham Robinson, an agent for IP
Application, used the name Jonathan Hargreaves in correspondence
with Proview before the Dec. 23, 2009, agreement to acquire all
of Proview’s iPad-related trademarks for 35,000 British pounds
($55,267), according to court filings.  The case is Proview Electronics Co. v. Apple Inc., 12-
cv-219219, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County (San
Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  