-- Hartford Lifts Rates as Group Disability Unit Falters
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-08T14:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/hartford-lifts-rates-as-group-disability-unit-falters.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer scaling back under pressure from investor  John Paulson , said it’s raising rates and changing managers at its
group disability business after results missed expectations.  “We are looking at this business soup-to-nuts,” Chief
Executive Officer  Liam McGee , 57, said today at a conference in
New York sponsored by UBS AG. “We are not accepting the fact
that it’s just macroeconomics. There are clearly things that we
can and will do better, and we’ve dramatically upgraded our
leadership team to do that.”  Hartford joins  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  in changing
managers after missing targets in group disability, which is
sold through the workplace, and covers employees when medical
conditions keep them off the job. Prudential last month named
Stephen Pelletier to head the group business, replacing Lori High, who resigned. Pelletier had been president of annuities at
the  Newark , New Jersey-based firm.  Group-benefits results at Hartford were “well below” the
company’s expectations, the life insurer and property-casualty
carrier said May 3. Earnings from the business will probably be
little changed this year from 2011, Chief Financial Officer
Christopher Swift told analysts on a conference call. That’s
down from the improvement of 15 percent to 17 percent that the
company forecast in December, he said.  McGee said today that Hartford is being “very aggressive”
about pricing in the business and can only raise rates on about
a third of the accounts because contracts typically renew every
three years.  The business’s results are “highly correlated” with
unemployment, he said. Joblessness in the U.S. has stayed above
 8 percent  since February 2009.  The insurer fell 9 cents to $19.58 at 10:21 a.m. in  New
York . Hartford, which is based in the Connecticut city of the
same name, has risen 20 percent this year, compared with the 7.8
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  