-- Marubeni Said to Be Close to Buying Grain Trader Gavilon
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-05-08T05:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/marubeni-said-to-be-close-to-buying-grain-trader-gavilon.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002) , Japan’s biggest grain
trading company, is in exclusive talks to buy closely held U.S.
grain handler Gavilon Group LLC for about $5 billion, including
debt, according to a person familiar with the situation.  The negotiations are in the final stages and a deal may be
announced in the next several days, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. An
accord may still fall through, the person said. A Marubeni
spokeswoman and Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Gavilon at
Sard Verbinnen & Co. declined to comment.  Buying Gavilon would allow Marubeni, whose shares rose
today in  Tokyo , to expand in the U.S., the world’s largest
producer and exporter of corn.  Glencore (GLEN)  International Plc and
 Bunge (BG)  Ltd. were among companies that had shown interest in
Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon, according to people familiar with
the matter.  “The Gavilon project would be very positive,” elevating
Marubeni into the ranks of top five of global grain suppliers
with volumes close to that of Cargill Inc. of the U.S., said
Akira Kishimoto, an analyst with JPMorgan Securities Japan Co.
in Tokyo. “The only risk is their method of financing.”  Marubeni rose 3.6 percent to 549 yen at 1:57 p.m. in Tokyo
trading, extending its advance this year to 15 percent.  ‘Strong Positions’  “I’m interested in Gavilon from the point of view that
it’s a trader with very strong positions in the U.S. grains
business,” Marubeni Chief Executive Officer Teruo Asada said
yesterday. “I can’t say more than this at the moment.”  Gavilon -- whose largest investor is Ospraie Management
LLC, the commodities hedge-fund firm founded by Dwight Anderson
-- is the third-biggest U.S. grain merchandiser. It owns storage
bins, railcars, trucks and containers used to ship commodities
globally, according to its  website . It also runs energy-trading
and fertilizer-distribution businesses.  The group hired Morgan Stanley to explore strategic
alternatives, a person familiar with the matter said Jan. 20.
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , which made an initial approach to buy Gavilon
in March, according to a person familiar with the matter, isn’t
in talks to buy the company, Chief Financial Officer Ryoichi
Ueda said today.  Tokyo-based  Mitsui & Co. (8031) , Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore,
 White Plains , New York-based Bunge and Singapore-based  Wilmar
International Ltd. (WIL)  also have shown interest, people with
knowledge of the matter said March 6.  “The fact that there’s been widespread global interest in
the assets is little surprise,” said  Steve Hansen , a Vancouver-
based analyst at  Raymond James . “There is all kinds of debate
about what these assets are worth.”  Viterra Deal  Glencore, which in March agreed to buy Canadian grain-
handler Viterra Inc. for C$6.1 billion ($6.1 billion), expects
Asian consumption to drive annual growth of as much as 3.5
percent in global grain and oilseed demand. Mitsubishi CEO Ken Kobayashi said April 18 that growth in food demand in line with
expanding populations and incomes in  Asia  will make it one of
the key businesses for  Japan ’s biggest commodity supplier.  “The purchase would put a lot of distance in grains
between Marubeni and other trading houses” in Japan, said Jiro Iokibe, an analyst with Daiwa Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Grain Processing  Marubeni is due to process 25 million metric tons of grain
in the year ending March 31, 2013. Mitsubishi plans to double
its volumes to 20 million tons by 2015.  Marubeni could sell some of its infrastructure and
machinery assets to help buy Gavilon while preserving current
debt levels, JPMorgan’s Kishimoto said. If Marubeni buys Gavilon
without selling new shares or selling assets its ratio of debt
to equity may rise to 2.3 times, which is “manageable,” he
said.  Marubeni has  net debt  of $23.1 billion as of March 31,
equivalent to 2.08 times its equity, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The ratio for Mitsubishi’s $48 billion net debt is
at 1.04 as of Dec. 31.  “Even if we make a big acquisition, I’d like to have the
ratio at 1.8 times,” Marubeni’s Asada said in an interview
yesterday, referring to the debt-to-equity ratio.  Contracts to insure Marubeni’s debt from non-payment fell 6
basis points to 279 as of 9:53 a.m. in Tokyo, according to CMA
data. That’s on course for the biggest one-day decline since
April 26, the data show.  Were Mitsubishi to join Marubeni’s bid and take a stake in
Gavilon the debt burden would ease, Kishimoto said. Still, the
chances that Mitsubishi would be happy with a small minority
stake or of Marubeni willing to share the U.S. assets are
“low,” he said.  Gavilon traces its roots back to Peavey Co., acquired by
 ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  in 1982. Ospraie, Soros Fund Management LLC
and private-equity firm General Atlantic LLC bought ConAgra
Foods Inc.’s trading and merchandising unit in 2008 for about
$2.75 billion including debt. Gavilon has about 2,000 employees
in 300 locations on six continents, it said in a March 7
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  