-- Stocks, Commodities Fall as Euro Extends Slump on Greece
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-08T20:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/asian-stocks-advance-after-biggest-loss-in-six-months.html
Stocks and commodities slid, while the
euro extended its longest slump since 2008, as concern that new
Greek political leaders will back out of bailout agreements sent
the nation’s benchmark equity index to an almost 20-year low.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.4 percent to
close at 1,363.72 at 4 p.m. in New York. The index pared a loss
of as much as 1.6 percent after holding for most of the day
above 1,350, a technical level watched by traders.  Greece ’s ASE
index plunged 3.6 percent to close at the lowest level since
November 1992. Copper and oil lost at least 1 percent as the S&P
GSCI Index of commodities wiped out most of its 2012 gain. The
euro fell a seventh day, losing 0.3 percent to $1.3013. Ten-year
Treasury yields fell to a  three-month low .  Speculation that Greece’s new government will reject terms
of its financial rescue grew as  New Democracy  leader Antonis Samaras said he failed to form a coalition following the weekend
elections, passing the opportunity to Alexis Tsipras’s Syriza
party. Tsipras said he plans to form a government of left-wing
parties that would nationalize banks, repeal recent labor
reforms and cancel the bailout accords.  “The situation in  Europe  could get worse before it gets
better,” said  James McDonald , chief investment strategist at
Northern Trust Corp. in Chicago. His firm manages $715 billion.
“The concern is about the potential that Greece does not carry
through on their agreements and they default and leave the euro.
While investors have known Greece is going to be challenged to
handle their debt load, it’s another thing to watch unfold.”  Rebound From 1,350  The  S&P 500  dropped for the fourth time in  five days ,
extending its retreat from a four-year high last month to 3.9
percent. Consumer-discretionary, financial and commodity
companies led losses among eight of the 10 main industry groups
today.  Hewlett-Packard Co. and Bank of America Corp. dropped more
than 2 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  down
76.44 points to 12,932.09, paring losses after sliding as much
as 198 points. The S&P 500 dipped below 1,350, a so-called
support level being watched by traders, for only about 15
minutes this morning.  “We found support for the S&P 500 at 1,350 where you would
have expected it to be,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management in New York, which oversees more
than $1.6 billion. “Once that held you’ve seen a willingness to
buy the dip in the U.S. market in names that people have become
comfortable with.”  Market Leaders  McDonald’s Corp. retreated 2.1 percent after April sales
trailed analysts’ projections.  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-
largest U.S. video-game publisher, declined 4.3 percent as its
forecasts fell short of estimates. Fossil Inc., owner of the
namesake watch brand, plunged 38 percent after the company
reduced its full-year earnings forecast amid weakness in Europe.  The 10-year U.S. Treasury note yield fell for the third
straight day, losing three basis points to 1.84 percent after
dipping as low as 1.81 percent, the lowest level since February
3. The government sold $32 billion of three-year notes today,
the first of three sales this week totaling $72 billion.  Investors in Treasuries reduced bets the securities will
advance and raised neutral positions to the highest in a month,
according to a weekly survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The proportion of “net longs” was cut to zero from six
percentage points last week as the level of outright longs
dropped to equal the level of outright shorts, which was
unchanged at 17 percent. A long position is a bet that an asset
will increase in value, while a short is a wager it will
decrease.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slid 1.7 percent, erasing
yesterday’s gain, as six shares fell for each that gained.
Automakers, mining and financial-services companies led the
retreat. National Bank of Greece tumbled 8.4 percent. Bankia SA
slid 4.8 percent in Madrid as El Confidencial said the Spanish
government will nationalize the lender. Royal KPN NV rallied 17
percent as  America Movil SAB (AMX)  offered 2.6 billion euros ($3.4
billion) to increase its stake.  The euro fell 0.4 percent versus the yen. The  Dollar Index (DXY) ,
which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six trading
partners, climbed 0.3 percent, advancing for the seventh
consecutive day in its longest rally since 2010. The so-called
Aussie weakened against 12 of its 16 major peers after the
nation reported a larger-than-estimated trade deficit.  Greece Speculation  Greece will probably leave the euro as soon as next month
as the government runs out of cash and European institutions
fail to lend more to the nation, according to  John Taylor  of
hedge fund FX Concepts LLC.  “This summer I think is very likely,” Taylor, founder and
chief executive officer of FX Concepts in  New York , said today
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with
 Erik Schatzker . “The Europeans aren’t going to give them the
money, the  International Monetary Fund ’s not going to give them
an OK. They will be out of money in June.”  Tsipras told his pro-bailout counterparts they must
renounce support for the European Union-led rescue if there is
to be any chance of forging a coalition. Tsipras said he
expected Antonis Samaras of New Democracy and  Evangelos
Venizelos , the former finance minister who leads the Pasok
party, to send a letter to the EU revoking pledges to implement
austerity measures by the time he meets with them tomorrow.
Samaras said he would not do so, and would support a minority
government if necessary.  Greece’s Parliament is split down the middle on the bailout
deals negotiated with the EU and IMF.  ‘All Surprised’  “We’ve de-stabilized Greece politically and now we’re all
surprised they can’t take the decisions to do what we want them
to do,”  Carl Weinberg , chief economist at High Frequency
Economics, told Bloomberg Television. “If Greece falls out of
compliance with the IMF program and goes into a hard default,
that will raise questions about the capital base of the ECB, put
a burden on the other governments of Europe, and that will
trigger a series of events that I think won’t have a very happy
ending.”  Oil in New York declined 1 percent to $97.01 a barrel in
New York, falling for a fifth day in its longest slump in three
months, after Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said
prices are too high. Copper sank 2.5 percent to $3.6775 a pound
as 17 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI declined,
sending the gauge down 0.6 percent and trimming its 2012 advance
to 0.6 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  sank 1 percent as benchmark
indexes in Mexico, India and Brazil lost at least 1.4 percent.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese stocks listed
in  Hong Kong  slid 0.5 percent as residential land sales dropped
92 percent in major Chinese cities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  