-- Maurice Sendak, ‘Wild Things’ Author, Dies at 83
-- B y   F e l i x   K e s s l e r
-- 2012-05-10T17:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/maurice-sendak-wild-things-author-dies-at-83.html
(Corrects to show in fifth paragraph of story published
May 8 that a Sendak book was among the most frequently
challenged, according to American Library Association data. The
group itself doesn’t challenge books.)  Maurice Sendak, whose “Where the Wild
Things Are” upset parents and psychologists in 1963 and became
an international best-seller that helped change the placid world
of children’s books, has died. He was 83.  He died today in Danbury,  Connecticut , of complications
from a recent stroke, the New York Times reported, citing his
editor, Michael di Capua. He lived in Ridgefield, Connecticut.  Sendak, who wrote and illustrated more than 50 children’s
books, also collaborated on operas, ballets, films and TV
programs. His works featured outsized monsters and snotty brats,
providing a refreshing change from traditional fare that tried
to model children’s behavior.  “ Wild Things ” turned out to be wildly profitable. The 37-
page, 338-word book has never been out of print. After a half-
century and 17 million copies sold, its hardcover list price was
$18, $8.95 soft-cover. It stars a little boy named Max, sent to
bed without supper one night when “he wore his wolf suit and
made mischief of one kind and another” -- an opening line baby-
sitters read to their charges and remembered years later.  Sendak, who also wrote “Chicken Soup With Rice,” later
created another stir with “In the Night Kitchen,” a tale about
a boy who fell into a batter and was almost baked in a cake. The
book, which depicts the boy naked, is among the 100 most
frequently “challenged” or banned books since 1990, according
to data compiled by the  American Library Association .  In 1981, Sendak’s “ Outside Over There ” caused fresh
controversy with a story of goblins kidnapping a child under the
nose of a much-too-casual babysitter -- her sister. The book had
a “quality of nightmare,” said a review in the  New York  Times.  Childhood Trauma  Born in Brooklyn on June 10, 1928, Sendak was the child of
immigrant Polish Jews. He traced his love of books to a sickly
childhood he spent often confined to bed and reading comics. Not
yet 4, Sendak was traumatized when he heard on the radio that
 Charles Lindbergh ’s baby son was kidnapped, he said.  If a famous figure’s child couldn’t be kept safe, “I had
no chance. I was only a poor kid,” Sendak said. “It doesn’t
make much sense to say it, but that’s the equation.”  “My life hung on that baby being recovered,” he told Bill Moyers on a 2004 PBS broadcast, saying “something really
fundamental died in me” with the Lindbergh baby’s death.  Sendak said his dreams -- and nightmares -- of an evil
world were born in his unhappy childhood, their dark shadows
emerging later in his books and illustrations.  Some parents and children “don’t want to see those
shadows,” he said, “I’m telling what it was like for me, and I
know it was not unique.”  Early Illustrations  After high school, Sendak created window displays for the
toy store FAO Schwarz, selling his first illustration in 1947
for a textbook, “Atomics for the Millions.” He went on to
illustrate a score more books before “Wild Things.”  His 1993 book, “We Are All in the Dumps With Jack and
Guy,” brought a new discussion of whether his work was
appropriate for children. “Every time I do a book, they all
carry on,” he told the Times. “It may be good for business,
but it’s tiresome for me.”  “In the Dumps” is about a homeless black baby boy who is
kidnapped by giant rats, finally finding guardians in two street
characters, Jack and Guy, who vow to bring him up.  Sendak said the  book ’s inspiration came from a homeless
child he saw asleep in  Los Angeles , his legs sticking out of a
cardboard box.  Grownups say they try to shelter children from such
unpleasant facts, he said, “but they’re really protecting
themselves. Besides, you can’t protect children. They know
everything.”  Childhood ‘Not Easy’  Children didn’t need over-protection, he said, because
necessity made them tough. “Childhood is not easy,” he said.  Honors and acclaim accompanied the controversy Sendak
aroused. “Where the Wild Things Are” in 1964 received the
 Caldecott Medal , a top award for children’s literature. In 1970
his illustrations won the Hans Christian Andersen Award. Among
other honors, he received a  National Book Award  in 1982 and the
National Medal of Arts in 1996.  As he aged, Sendak seemed a bit like one of his monstrous
characters to a writer for  England ’s Guardian newspaper in 2011.
He had “beady eyes, pointy eyebrows” and was “still enraged
by almost everything that crosses his landscape,” she  wrote 
after a visit to Sendak’s home in rural Connecticut.  At 83, he ranted that he “hated” e-books, she wrote, and
called his native  New York City  “too tumultuous, too crazy,”
then added that  Rupert Murdoch  (owner of his book publisher
HarperCollins) “represents how bad things have become.”  ‘Typical Old Man’  And then Sendak smiled. “I can’t believe I’ve turned into
a typical old man,” he said. “I was young just minutes ago.”  Even late in his career, Sendak didn’t win praise from all
readers. Vanity Fair writer Bruce Handy said he’d been “left
cold” by ‘Wild Things’ as a child. His children Isaac and Zoe
also found the book “boring,” he  wrote  in the Times in 2009,
saying the kids seemed to agree with Publishers Weekly: In 1963
it called the book “pointless and confusing.”  Sendak said his characters “were like me as a child, like
the children I knew growing up in  Brooklyn  -- we were wild
creatures.”  His companion of a half-century, Eugene Glynn, a
psychiatrist, died in 2007. Sendak never informed his parents
that he was gay, he told the Times in 2008: “All I wanted was
to be straight so my parents could be happy. They never, never,
never knew.”  And perhaps that was so, as a Sendak children’s story might
have concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felix Kessler at   fkessler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chuck Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  