-- Greenberg Loses Appeal for Dismissal of Suit Over AIG
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-08T22:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/maurice-greenberg-s-appeal-in-new-york-lawsuit-is-denied-1-.html
Former  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg lost an
appeal seeking dismissal of a lawsuit alleging a fraudulent
transaction with  Warren Buffett ’s General Reinsurance Corp.  Former New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  sued
Greenberg and AIG’s former chief financial officer, Howard Smith, in 2005 in New York state Supreme Court in  Manhattan ,
accusing them of using sham reinsurance deals and other
transactions to distort the insurer’s financial condition.  An appeals court in Manhattan, in a 4-1 ruling posted
today, affirmed Justice Charles Ramos’s order from October 2010
denying motions by Greenberg and Smith to dismiss the suit,
saying that evidence “presents triable issues of fact as to
whether defendants knew of, or participated in the fraudulent
aspects” of the alleged schemes.  “We are pleased that the court has paved the way for a
trial to hold the defendants accountable for perpetrating a
major reinsurance scheme to defraud investors,” James
Freedland, a spokesman for  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, said in a statement.  Justice James Catterson, who dissented from the ruling,
said the claims against Greenberg and Smith under state law are
preempted by federal statutes.  ‘Utter Failure’  Even they aren’t, the complaint should be dismissed “due
to the utter failure of the New York Attorney General to oppose
the defendants’ motion with evidence in admissible form or to
put forward an excuse for the failure to do so after five years
of investigation and discovery,” Catterson wrote.  Lawyers for Greenberg and Smith said in a joint statement
they intend to seek permission to appeal the court’s decision to
the state Court of Appeals in  Albany .  “In the meantime, Mr. Greenberg and Mr. Smith expect that
the federal court, which has preliminarily approved a settlement
of federal securities claims on behalf of a class of AIG
shareholders, will approve that settlement resulting in
additional grounds for the dismissal of this wasteful action,”
Vincent Sama, a partner with Kaye Scholer LLP representing
Smith, said in the statement.  ‘Well-Reasoned’  Greenberg and Smith “believe the Appellate Division should
have gone even further, however, and as stated in the well-
reasoned opinion of Judge Catterson, dismissed the Attorney
General’s action in its entirety,” Greenberg’s attorneys,  David Boies  of Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP and John Gardiner of
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, said in the statement.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, ousted Greenberg in
March 2005, two months before Spitzer sued him and Smith,
alleging they misled regulators and investors.  AIG, based in New York, eventually restated its earnings,
lowering them by $3.4 billion, and agreed to pay $1.64 billion
to settle claims by Spitzer and other regulators, without
admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Four former Gen Re executives, including ex-CEO Ronald
Ferguson, and one from AIG, Christian Milton, were convicted in
2008 at a fraud trial focusing on AIG’s transaction with Gen Re.  The appellate court reversed Ramos’s order granting the
attorney general’s request for summary judgment on another
transaction known as CAPCO, saying that “summary resolution of
their knowledge or participation in this alleged fraud cannot be
determined as a matter of law.”  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, 401720-2005,
New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  