-- Aussie Dollar Falls After Trade-Deficit Data; Kiwi Drops
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-05-08T06:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/aussie-falls-versus-peers-after-trade-deficit-data.html
Australia ’s dollar was 0.8 percent
from this year’s low after the nation reported a larger-than-
estimated trade deficit amid concern spending cuts by the
government will damp economic growth.  The so-called Aussie snapped a gain from yesterday before
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  announces the budget for the year starting
July 1 later today. New Zealand’s dollar fell in its longest
losing streak in more than six years as Greek political leaders
meet in a bid to form a new government, after an election raised
questions about the country’s membership in the euro bloc.  “Factors that supported the Australian dollar are peeling
away,” said Yoshisada Ishide, who manages the world’s biggest
mutual fund focusing on Australian dollar-denominated bonds at
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Markets understand that
Australia’s government can’t take stimulus measures and that it
has to rely on monetary policy” to support growth.  The Aussie slid as much as 0.3 percent before trading at
$1.0190 at 4:03 p.m. in Sydney, little changed from the  New York 
close. It touched $1.0110 yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 29.
The  New Zealand dollar  fell for a seventh day, the longest
stretch of declines since November 2005, and dropped 0.1 percent
to 79.36 U.S. cents.  Australia’s imports  outpaced  exports by A$1.587 billion
($1.61 billion) in March, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was for a deficit of A$1.3 billion.  Budget Surplus  The budget details will be announced at about 7:30 p.m. in
Canberra. The governing Labor party, which trailed the
opposition by 18 percentage points in the latest opinion poll,
says a return to surplus will give the central bank room to
lower borrowing costs in a nation where almost 90 percent of
mortgages have variable rates.  “The budget is expected to be contractionary for economic
growth,” said Emma Lawson, a currency strategist in Sydney at
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  “Over time, that may make it
harder for Aussie to regain a move to the upside.”  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year debt was at 3.43 percent
today after sliding to a record 3.39 percent yesterday. Yields
had dropped after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut  interest
rates  by 50 basis points to 3.75 percent on May 1.  “Rates have been falling more rapidly than markets
expected,” said Ishide, who manages the equivalent of $14.8
billion. “Rates can’t be a supporting factor for the Aussie.”  Greek Politics  In  Greece , New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras said he
failed to forge agreement to form a government after weekend
elections. The attempt will now pass to Alexis Tsipras, the head
of Syriza, the second-biggest party, which has vowed to cancel
bailout terms for the nation. Tsipras will see President Karolos
Papoulias today at 2 p.m. Athens time.  New Zealand ’s two-year swap rate, which exchanges a fixed
rate for a floating one or vice versa, rose two basis points to
2.49 percent. It slid to 2.46 percent yesterday, the least on
record going back to 1993.  The country’s budget deficit was wider than forecast in the
nine months through March as  tax revenue  slowed, a report from
the Treasury Department showed today. Export prices for the
nation’s commodities dropped 4.5 percent in April month-on-
month, the most in more than three years, an index compiled by
ANZ National Bank Ltd. showed last week.  “The New Zealand dollar has finally succumbed to some of
the weaker fundamentals that have been present in the economy,”
said Khoon Goh, a senior foreign-exchange strategist in
 Singapore  at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “Weaker
global sentiment, particularly over the beginning of this week,
finally saw the kiwi playing catch-up to the fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 