-- Australia Predicts A$24.7 Billion Carbon Revenue
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-05-09T05:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/australia-predicts-a-24-7-billion-carbon-revenue.html
Australia  expects to raise A$24.7
billion ($24.8 billion) in four years from the carbon tax coming
into effect July 1, as the government seeks to reduce emissions
and spur investment in cleaner energy.  The levy on Australia’s biggest polluters starts at A$23
per ton of carbon and rises by 2.5 percent in real terms in each
of the following two fiscal years. Treasury projects they will
reach A$29 in 2015-16, when the mechanism moves to a price set
by the market, the government said in the budget yesterday. The
tax is expected to increase  consumer prices  by 0.7 percentage
point in the 12 months starting July 1.  International emission-permit prices fell after elections
in the European Union that may complicate the bloc’s economic
recovery and amid growing supply from  Russia . United Nations
credits for next year declined 1.5 percent to 3.83 euros ($4.99)
a metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at 10 a.m. in
 London  yesterday, the lowest since the contract was first
offered in January 2011. EU carbon futures for December, the
industry benchmark, slid 1 percent to 6.65 euros a ton.  “We’re seeing huge volatility in the EU price, which isn’t
surprising in the sense that everything to do with Europe has
been volatile,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said in an
interview in Canberra today. “The EU itself is looking at its
own scheme and we don’t know what may come out of that.”  The government’s estimate for A$29 a ton is threatened by
this year’s slide in UN and EU prices, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. The Australian carbon price may range from
A$15 in 2015 to A$16.60 in 2018, BNEF analysts led by Seb
Henbest said in March in a report.  Falling Prices  “Traded international prices have fallen, in part because
of the downturn in Europe,” the Australian Treasury said in
yesterday’s  budget . “The unsettled global outlook is
contributing to uncertainty around the future path of carbon
prices. In 2015-16, the budget would be firmly in surplus even
if the price floor of A$15 were to bind.”  Gillard’s government is planning to boost renewable sources
to about 40 percent of Australia’s energy supply by 2050 from
about 10 percent in 2011.  “The carbon price will transform our economy by decoupling
economic growth from growth in pollution,”  Greg Combet ,
Australia’s climate change minister, said in a statement
accompanying the budget.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott , whose Liberal-National
coalition leads the government by 18 percentage points in the
latest opinion poll, has vowed to scrap the carbon levy if he
wins power in elections due by the end of 2013.  The levy will apply to about 500 of the nation’s largest
polluters who pump out some 60 percent of Australia’s emissions,
Combet said.  Clean Energy  The government is setting up the Clean Energy Finance
Corp., which will receive A$2 billion a year for the five years
starting July 1, 2013, to invest in renewable energy projects.
It’s also establishing the Australian Renewable Energy Agency to
oversee A$3.2 billion in funding for cleaner power generation
starting from July this year. A separate A$1.2 billion program
will offer grants to assist companies seeking to reduce
emissions.  The carbon levy is forecast to increase costs by A$9.90 a
week on average for households, more than offset by government
plans to provide A$10.10 a week in assistance.  Gillard’s government also plans measures worth about A$1.6
billion to assist coal and steel companies that face increased
costs because of the carbon levy, as well as setting aside money
for small businesses and to help workers in key industries
develop skills needed by clean energy producers.  The government will set a floor and a ceiling for the first
three years of flexible pricing that begins July 1, 2015.  “We’ve got in the budget numbers projections about what
the price will be when we move to a floating price in three
years’ time,” Gillard said today. “I don’t think we can
necessarily look at today’s volatility and say that will be the
dominant order in three years’ time when we move to a floating
scheme.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  