-- Australian Dollar Falls Toward Parity on Greek Concern
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-09T06:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/australian-dollar-weakens-on-greece-yields-drop-to-record-low.html
Australia ’s dollar fell to its weakest
level this year and bond yields reached record lows as concern
mounted that Greek leaders will be unable to form a coalition
government, reducing appetite for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie dropped versus all but one of its 16
major peers after Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said the  budget
surplus  her government has promised to deliver would provide
scope for the central bank to cut interest rates. New Zealand’s
currency, nicknamed the kiwi, is set to complete an eight-day
drop in what would be its longest losing streak against the
dollar since 2001 as Asian stocks extended a global rout.  “Risk is going to be on the back foot while the Greek
squabbles continue,” said  Joseph Capurso , a strategist in
Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “I don’t have a lot
of optimism that these things will be resolved quickly. It’s
pulling down many currencies like the Aussie, the kiwi and the
Canadian dollar, which are more linked to global growth.”  The Australian dollar fell to $1.0053, its lowest level
since Dec. 29, before trading at $1.0084 at 4:13 p.m. in Sydney,
0.4 percent below yesterday’s close. It lost 0.5 percent to
80.47 yen.  Returning Australia’s budget to surplus will give the
central bank “maximum room to move” in setting interest rates,
Gillard said today in an interview with Bloomberg News. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia this month cut its benchmark rate by
half a percentage point to 3.75 percent and investors are
betting there is an 88 percent chance of another reduction in
June.  Yields Slide  Australia’s 10-year bond yield fell to a record 3.347
percent as rates on all notes maturing in three years or longer
dropped to the lowest ever.  New Zealand ’s currency weakened 0.1 percent to 78.69 U.S.
cents. The kiwi retreated 0.2 percent to 62.79 yen.  New Zealand’s  two-year  swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, rose 5 1/2 basis points to 2.525
percent. It fell to an all-time low of 2.46 percent on May 7,
below the central bank’s official cash rate of 2.50 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 1.2 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares lost 0.4 percent
yesterday.  Greek Concern  Both South Pacific currencies declined as bets increased
that a left-leaning coalition in  Greece  may undo bailout
accords. Alexis Tsipras, whose Syriza party placed second in
Greek elections on May 6, said he would forge ahead with plans
to form a coalition government of left-wing parties after he was
handed the mandate by President Karolos Papoulias.  The Aussie has lost 2.4 percent this year, the worst
performance after the yen among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.
The kiwi gained 0.4 percent.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said yesterday the nation’s
underlying cash surplus will be A$1.54 billion ($1.55 billion)
in the 12 months to June 30, 2013. Expenditures are forecast to
fall to A$364.2 billion next year, the first drop in figures
dating back to 1971. The A$44.4 billion deficit this year is the
third-largest on record and is 3 percent of gross domestic
product.  New Zealand’s dollar slid versus its U.S. and Japanese
counterparts as central bank Governor Alan Bollard attributed
its weakening to falling commodity prices and weak economic
indicators.  Factors behind the decline include “a risk-off environment
in  Europe  and also a recognition of softer commodity prices and
a few bits of soft data in Australia and New Zealand,” Bollard
told reporters today. “It’s been moving in a direction that we
would have thought is broadly in line with fundamentals.”  Bollard signaled on April 26 he may reassess the outlook
for  interest rates  should the  exchange rate  stay strong.
Investors are betting he may reduce  borrowing costs  as soon as
next month. The New Zealand benchmark is currently at a record
low 2.5 percent.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
fell 0.8 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  