-- Haven Demand to Persist, Credit Suisse’s Jersey Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-08T19:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/haven-demand-to-persist-credit-suisse-s-jersey-says-tom-keene.html
Global investors’ demand for the
relative safety of U.S. Treasuries will continue, pushing yields
lower, amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen, according
to Credit Suisse Group AG’s Ira Jersey.  “The flight-to-quality bid for Treasuries just seems to
continue until Europe and some of the other macro-contagion
issues work themselves out,” Jersey, an  interest-rate 
strategist in New York, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“Internationally, the flows are into Treasuries. There is a
lack of appetite to take risk.”  Treasuries rose for a third day as Greek leaders struggled
to form a government after elections on the weekend raised the
prospect of the country withdrawing from the region’s currency
bloc, adding to haven demand. Ten-year note yields fell to as
low as 1.81 percent in New York trading and 30-year bond yields
touched 3 percent, the lowest levels since February, as  Greece 
faced the prospect of becoming the first developed nation to
default on its debt.  Rates will probably hold steady near record lows even
beyond June, when the  Federal Reserve  finishes swapping $400
billion of short-term debt for longer-term securities in a
program known as Operation Twist, based on a measure of
volatility in three-month options for U.S. 10-year  interest-rate
swaps . The so-called  3m10y swaption  rate is about the lowest
since June 2007, when the housing bubble burst.  ‘Low-Volatility Environment’  “Volatility has steadily been falling,” Jersey said.
“The low-volatility environment in the  United States  is because
we are kind of reaching a level where we don’t find many who
really want to buy, but we find a situation where people have to
buy. That’s a situation where yields will probably see a floor
somewhere,” possibly around the 1.79 percent area, he said.  Swaptions, as options on an interest-rate swaps are known,
provide a way to hedge interest-rate risk. In a swap, two
parties agree to exchange fixed- for floating-based payments
over a period of time. Normalized volatility signals traders’
expectations for fluctuations in swap rates by adjusting the
implied volatility of the option by the interest rate struck on
the swaption.  Credit Suisse forecasts the 10-year Treasury yield will end
the year at 2.5 percent.  “We are looking for higher yields by year-end,” Jersey
said. “Maybe that’s our optimistic standpoint that Europe can
at least stabilize a little bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  