-- Aviva Chief Executive Officer Andrew Moss to Leave
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-08T15:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/aviva-chief-executive-officer-andrew-moss-to-leave.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer, said Andrew Moss quit as chief executive officer after
presiding over an almost 60 percent fall in the share price in
the last five years. The stock rose.  The firm’s incoming chairman, John McFarlane, will
immediately become interim executive deputy chairman, the
London-based insurer said today in a statement. Finance Director
Pat Regan, Andy Haste, former RSA Insurance Group Plc CEO, and
Trevor Matthews, CEO of the insurer’s U.K. business, were named
by analysts as possible successors to Moss.  “Andrew has been unpopular with many shareholders who feel
he has at times seemed out of touch with the issues that they
thought were facing the group,”  Marcus Barnard , a London-based
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. with a buy rating on the stock,
wrote in a note to investors today.  Moss, 54, becomes the latest CEO to quit in the last two
weeks due to investor pressure following Sly Bailey of  Trinity
Mirror Plc (TNI)  and  David Brennan  of  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)  Last week 54
percent of shareholders voted against Aviva’s compensation plans
at its annual general meeting even though Moss waived a salary
increase for this year. It was only the fourth time since 2003 a
FTSE 100 company lost a vote on compensation, according to
Manifest Information Services Ltd., a proxy voting agency.  The stock  rose  as much as 5.8 percent and closed up 0.2
percent to 302.9 pence in London trading.  ‘Lost Confidence’  “The market has got frustrated and it has lost confidence
in the chief executive and that has been reflected in the
vote,” Chris White, who manages 550 million pounds ($888
million) of U.K. equities including Aviva shares at Premier
Asset Management Plc in Guildford,  England , said May 4. “It was
a reaction to a long period of underperformance relative to the
sector.”  Regan, 46, who joined Aviva in 2010 from Willis Group
Holdings Plc, where he was finance director, is the top internal
candidate to replace Moss, according to analysts Eamonn Flanagan
at Shore Capital Group Ltd. and Barrie Cornes at Panmure Gordon
& Co. Matthews, 60, would also be a “strong candidate,”
according to Oriel’s Barnard.  If McFarlane wants a CEO from outside Aviva, Haste, 50,
would be near the top of his list, Cornes said. Barnard said
Haste “could not be rule out.” Haste tried to buy Aviva’s U.K.
general insurance operations for 5 billion pounds ($8 billion)
in 2010.  Moss, Regan and Matthews weren’t available for comment
today, Rashmi Wehmeier, an Aviva spokeswoman, said. Haste
couldn’t be reached for comment.  Severance Package  Moss will receive as much as 1.75 million pounds as part of
his severance package, Aviva said today in a statement. The
payment includes as much as 12 months of salary valued at
960,000 pounds and 300,000 pounds in lieu of various deferred
bonus payments and long-term incentive plans.  Aviva lost almost 12 billion pounds in market value during
Moss’s five years in charge, which began in July 2007 and
spanned the financial crash of 2008 and  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis. The firm is the worst performer in the nine-member  FTSE
ASX Life Insurance Index (FALIFE)  during that time, falling 59 percent
compared with the index’s 30 percent drop.  McFarlane, former CEO of Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., will conduct an “in depth thorough review of all of
Aviva’s businesses,” over the coming weeks, Aviva said. The
company will focus on areas “where we can generate superior
returns over the cycle and where we are confident of success,”
it said.  While European rivals  Prudential Plc (PRU)  and Axa SA looked to
 Asia  for growth, Moss focused on Europe and the U.K., which both
became mired in the sovereign debt crisis.  Prudential Gains  Moss announced a strategy dubbed “One Aviva Twice the
Value” when he began as CEO and the insurer had a market value
of about 20 billion pounds. The company, which has 18 million
customers in continental Europe, is now valued at less than 9
billion pounds.  By contrast, the  market value  of Prudential, the U.K.’s
biggest insurer and once a takeover target for Aviva, has risen
to 18.6 billion pounds from 18 billion pounds.  “The board of Aviva appreciates the contribution he has
made both in his role as chief executive officer, and prior to
that as group finance director, and wishes him well with the
next phase of his career,” Aviva said in the statement.  Moss has “tinkered” with the strategy throughout his
tenure, confusing investors about what he was trying to achieve,
said  Kevin Ryan , a London-based analyst at Investec Plc.  U.S. Reversal  As finance director, Moss approved the company’s $3.1
billion acquisition of  Des Moines , Iowa-based Amerus Group Co.
to expand in the U.S. He deemed the U.S. division one of the
company’s 12 key markets last year.  Yet last month he told investors he may sell the unit to
concentrate on fewer countries, according to two people with
knowledge of the talks. A sale will cause the company to post a
1 billion-pound loss, the Sunday Times said April 22.  In 2009, he pushed a plan to integrate and expand Aviva’s
European businesses from a single regional hub in Dublin. Moss
said life insurance and pension sales in Europe would be higher
than anywhere in the world over the following five years, citing
a study by Oliver Wyman Group.  Since then he switched the regional headquarters to London,
sales dropped due to the sovereign debt crisis and two Aviva
Europe CEOs departed. Last month its heads of Europe,  North
America ,  Russia  and  investment management  announced they were
stepping down as part of a reorganization of the firm into
developed markets and higher growth markets.  ‘Unhappy Experience’  “There’s a tendency now for shareholders to vote against
companies where there’s a feeling of consistent disappointment
against expectations,” said Tim Rees, who helps manage 270
million pounds at  Insight Investment Ltd.  in London. “This was
a response to what was a pretty prolonged and unhappy experience
as shareholders.”  At Aviva’s annual meeting last week, Moss defended his
strategy, saying its U.S., Canadian and Spanish units delivered
record profits in 2011 while U.K. life insurance doubled
earnings over the last six years.  “I care deeply about the Aviva share price and I’m as
frustrated about it as anybody in this room,” he said. “Yet
despite the difficult external environment in Europe we have
many things to celebrate and many reasons to be excited about
the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  