-- Tax Cheats Troll Public List for Dead Kids’ Identities
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/tax-cheats-troll-public-list-for-dead-kids-identities.html
Benny Watters, 5, died of a brain
tumor in September 2010. Ten months later, when his parents
sought to file their taxes and claim him as a dependent, they
found that an identity thief already had done so, using
government data about Benny’s death on a fraudulent return.  “It was almost like somebody had stolen him from us,”
said his mother, Lisa Watters of  Lake Forest ,  Illinois , who
described in an interview how she quickly found the data needed
to co-opt her dead son’s identity on the Internet. “It’s just
so easy, and I don’t know what purpose it serves.”  The information about Benny Watters and more than 89
million other people resides in the U.S. Social Security
Administration’s Death Master File, a compilation of records the
agency uses to stop paying benefits and start paying survivors
after people die. Updates to the file also provide raw material
for identity thieves who obtain tax refunds before the
legitimate returns arrive at the  Internal Revenue Service .  U.S. lawmakers working with identity-fraud victims are
trying to limit or prohibit access to the Death Master File. The
most restrictive proposals are meeting resistance from credit
reporting companies, pension funds and life insurers that use
the data to prevent fraud and administer benefits. A panel in
the U.S. House of Representatives is holding a hearing on the
subject today.  IRS Balancing Act  The IRS must balance accuracy and fraud prevention with
taxpayers’ need to get their returns and refunds processed
quickly. Once the IRS sends a refund to a disposable debit card,
the government’s money is gone, said Senator  Bill Nelson , a
Florida Democrat who sponsored legislation that would limit
access to the file.  “It’s very hard to trace,” he said in an interview. “The
fact that people’s Social Security numbers are being published
is a huge problem.”  More than 460,000 people have been the victims of tax-
related identity theft since 2008, according to the IRS. The
agency has been trying to flag deceased taxpayers’ final returns
and prevent anyone else from using those Social Security
numbers. As of mid-March, the agency had stopped 66,000 returns
this year for that reason.  Nina Olson , the national taxpayer advocate, has called the
use of dead people’s identities a “relatively new tactic” in
the broader identity-theft problem. The IRS uses automated fraud
filters, which it frequently refines, to flag questionable tax
returns.  “You would just assume in this day and age all the systems
might be linked a little better,” Watters said.  Privacy Laws  Furthermore, because of taxpayer privacy laws, identity
theft victims or their surviving relatives don’t know who filed
the fake returns. The IRS is starting a  pilot program  that will
allow state and local law enforcement officials to gain access
to some of the information with those taxpayers’ consent.  The  Death Master File  dates to 1980, when Social Security
settled a lawsuit filed under the Freedom of Information Act.
The agency created the file and the government began selling it
rather than responding to individual requests. Information from
the file can be found on genealogy websites, among other places.  Michael Astrue, the commissioner of the  Social Security
Administration , told a congressional subcommittee in February
that his agency doesn’t have the authority to stop making the
information available without legislation.  ‘Spreading Plague’  “Identity theft is a spreading plague on our nation,” he
said in prepared testimony. “The federal government must do all
that we can to curtail this problem, and we certainly should not
make it worse.”  Nelson said he disagrees and thinks the government should
wait six or 12 months before posting full Social Security
numbers online.  “We think they have more flexibility than what the head of
Social Security is saying,” he said.  Last year, the Social Security Administration removed data
it received from state agencies. The file still contains death
reports from family members, funeral homes and financial
institutions, and it contains complete Social Security numbers.  Representative Sam Johnson, a Texas Republican, has
introduced a bill to keep the information from being made
public. Johnson is chairman of one of the two subcommittees
holding today’s hearing.  The same data that can be used to commit fraud also is used
to prevent it, said Stuart Pratt, chief executive officer of the
Consumer Data Industry Association, a Washington-based trade
group of data companies whose members include  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  and
CoreLogic Inc.  ‘Prevent the Fraud’  “The faster that we can get it and the more current that
information is, the more likely we can prevent the fraud that
occurs in that early window right after someone dies,” Pratt
said.  Companies including Trans Union LLC,  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU) , and the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. have been
lobbying on the issue, according to U.S. Senate records.  Life insurance companies use the Death Master File to stop
or change annuity payments upon death and to close out policies
that beneficiaries may not have claimed.  “The removal of data or the threat that it wouldn’t be
available at all would be troubling to the life insurance
industry,” said Mary Jo Hudson, an attorney at Bailey Cavalieri
LLC in Columbus,  Ohio , who represents life insurers. Hudson, a
former director of the Ohio Department of Insurance, said most
life insurers probably could accept limits on how the data is
used or shared.  Using the File  States including  New York ,  Maryland  and  Kentucky  are
requiring or urging companies to use the file more often so that
beneficiaries who may not know about policies can obtain money
they are owed.  Such legitimate uses aren’t the problem, said Jonathan
Agin, a lawyer from Arlington,  Virginia , whose 2010 tax return
was blocked because someone had used the Social Security number
of his deceased 4-year-old daughter, Alexis. What’s especially
galling, he said, is that the information is “served up on a
silver platter” for thieves.  “It’s bad enough when you lose your child. You’ve lost
such a huge part of your life,” Agin said in an interview.
“Then to have their identity taken and utilized, it’s just a
compounding injury to a family. That’s something that I don’t
think a lot of people understand.”  Nelson’s bill is S. 1534. Johnson’s bill is H.R. 3475.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  