-- Bahrain, Occidental Oil Venture May More Than Triple Output
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-05-08T12:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/bahrain-occidental-oil-venture-may-more-than-triple-output-1-.html
Bahrain’s venture with  Occidental
Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and Mubadala Development Co. seeks to more than
triple output capacity at the island nation’s oil field, the
head of the kingdom’s energy investment holding company said.  The Bahrain field, the  Middle East ’s oldest producing
deposit, has “a lot of potential” for expansion, Mohamed bin
Khalifa Al-Khalifa, chief executive officer of Nogaholding, said
today at a conference. Developments to tap more of the field’s
reserves are “encouraging,” he said.  Bahrain, which began pumping crude in the 1930s, is the
 Persian Gulf ’s smallest producer. It depends on  Saudi Arabia ,
the world’s largest oil exporter, for supplies from a shared
field that are delivered to Bahrain by pipeline.  The deposit has produced about 30,000 barrels of crude a
day and Tatweer Petroleum, as the joint venture is known, aims
to raise output to at least 100,000 barrels a day, Al-Khalifa
said at the  Middle East Petroleum and Gas Conference  in the
Kingdom. The venture is also working to raise gas-output
capacity to 2.7 billion cubic feet per day by 2024 from 1.5
billion cubic feet, Oil Minister Abdul Hussain Ali Mirza said at
the same conference yesterday.  Deep Gas Reserves  Occidental is also developing a plan to tap deep gas
reserves in deposits below the Bahrain field, Al-Khalifa said.
To meet domestic demand until supplies from the Tatweer and
Occidental projects become available, Nogaholding is developing
plans for a liquefied-natural-gas receiving terminal with a
capacity of 400 million standard cubic feet a day, he said.  The plan may include a floating facility and the company
plans to shortlist two potential builders, he said. Excelerate
Energy LLC is one possible partner for the facility and
Nogaholding has been in talks with the trading units of  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Vitol Group regarding fuel supply, he said.  Gas from the plant could be used in refinery units that the
state oil company plans to build to create hydrogen to turn
crude residue into more valuable  diesel fuel , Al-Khalifa said.  Bahrain, which gains income by exporting oil products,
plans to invest $6 billion to $10 billion to expand capacity at
its only  refinery  to more than 450,000 barrels a day from about
260,000 now, the oil minister said yesterday.  State-owned Bahrain Petroleum Co. needs to decide within a
year whether to take on a partner to develop the refinery, which
is expected to add new units by 2018, the company’s chief
executive officer,  Gordon Smith , told reporters at the
conference yesterday.  Bahrain plans to invest $15 billion to develop oil and gas
resources as the Persian Gulf island state seeks to raise
production and meet domestic energy needs over the next two
decades, Mirza said yesterday.  The country received nine bids for the LNG terminal
construction and wants to award the terminal contract by the end
of this year, Mirza said. The complex, which may cost $300
million to $1 billion, is to be finished by 2014 or 2015, so the
country has time to find supplies, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Bahrain at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 