-- Bankia Shake-Up No Spain Panacea Without Action on Assets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-09T12:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/bankia-shake-up-no-spain-panacea-without-action-on-assets.html
Bailing out Bankia again after
replacing top management may not be sufficient to persuade
investors that Spain is doing enough to repair a banking system
burdened by bad loans and real estate.  “This is the  changing of the guard  at Bankia but by itself
it’s not enough,” said Ricardo Wehrhahn, a partner at Roland
Berger Strategy Consultants in Madrid, in a phone interview.
“The real signal will be when they spell out in a credible way
how they will clean up the balance sheets of the whole banking
system.”  Bankia Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  said May 7 he was resigning as
head of the banking group to be replaced by  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) ’s former second-in-command, Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, as the government weighs a second bailout of the
lender with the biggest Spanish asset base. The Bankia group,
formed in 2010 from a merger of seven savings banks led by Caja
Madrid and Valencia-based Bancaja, last year listed its banking
business on the stock exchange after parking its worst real
estate assets in the parent company.  The shake-up is part of Spain’s effort to support a
financial industry burdened by 184 billion euros ($239 billion)
of what the  Bank of Spain  terms “problematic” assets linked to
property. Questions over how  Spain  will finance a cleanup of its
banking system as bad loans mount has reignited  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis. The gap in yield between Spanish 10-year
bonds and German bunds grew to 4.50 percentage points today, the
most since November, while the cost of insuring against a
Spanish default climbed to a record.  More Provisions  Spain’s cabinet will approve plans on May 11 to boost the
provisioning of real estate loans now classed as healthy to
about 30 percent from 7 percent, said a person familiar with the
situation who asked not to be identified because the decision
hasn’t been formally taken. The rules may create additional
provisions of about 30 billion euros, the person said.  The Bankia group brought forward to today from May 11 board
meetings at which Goirigolzarri’s appointment will be confirmed,
a spokesman for the lender said. Goirigolzarri arrived at
Bankia’s headquarters in northern  Madrid  at about 11 a.m.  Shares in Spanish banks plunged as investors gauged the
possible impact of the new rules on earnings. Bankia fell as
much as 7.1 percent, CaixaBank SA as much as 6.6 percent and
 Banco Popular (POP)  Espanol SA as much as 5.7 percent.  Bigger Losses  Raising the provisioning level for performing property
loans to 30 percent may force Bankia into a 3.7 billion-euro
loss this year, compared with a previous estimate of a 516
million-euro loss, Keefe, Bruyette and Woods Ltd. analysts
 Antonio Ramirez  and Marta Sanchez Romero said in a report today.
Popular may post a 1.93 billion-euro loss and CaixaBank a 1.44
billion-euro loss because of the extra provisions, they said.  Bankia and  CaixaBank (CABK)  spokesmen declined to comment on KBW’s
estimates. Popular can make its real estate provisions over two
years and also choose to do so against equity instead of
earnings, a spokesman for the Madrid-based lender said, adding
it also has the capacity to generate one-time gains.  JPMorgan Chase & Co analysts Jaime Becerril and Axel Finsterbusch cut their  recommendation  on Bankia today to
underweight from neutral and lowered the target price to 1.70
euros from 3.50 euros.  “Risks are too high for us,” they wrote. “We cannot see
how significant dilution for Bankia shareholders can be
avoided.”  ‘Keystone’ of Reform  Of the 38 billion euros of real estate the Bankia group
held at the end of 2011, about half was classed as either
“doubtful” or at risk of becoming so, according to the group’s
annual report.  “It’s really just one big bad bank now,” said Lorenzo
Bernaldo de Quiros, an economist who served on a panel that
advised Rato when he was economy minister in the government of
Jose Maria Aznar, adding that he’d prefer to see the group being
broken up by the government. “The problem for the government is
that the markets and international organizations have made
Bankia the keystone of the whole financial reform in Spain.”  While installing new management at Bankia, which has assets
almost a third the size of Spain’s economy, shows the government
is serious about fixing the troubled lender, it still must
tackle the wider problem of souring real estate and consumer and
 mortgage loans , said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets in  London .  “Bankia has got to be seen as just the beginning of a
turnaround of the whole Spanish banking system,” said Blattner
in a phone interview.  Capital Injections  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said this week the government
would pass a decree on May 11 aimed at bolstering confidence in
the industry, adding the announcement would be linked to the
government’s plan to allow lenders to hive off real estate
assets into separate asset-management companies.  The government also may inject funds into Bankia by buying
contingent-capital securities, an Economy Ministry official said
May 7, declining to be identified as the plan isn’t public.
Barcelona-based newspaper La Vanguardia reported today that
Spain may offer guarantees to investors that take majority
stakes in vehicles set up to remove banks’ real estate from
their balance sheets.  Investors won’t be convinced by anything short of a “bad
bank,” or vehicle that removes assets from the balance sheets
of not just Bankia but all the banks, said Wehrhahn.  “They want to know at what price the assets will be taken
out of the balance sheets and who will be financing all this and
for how long,” Wehrhahn said.  Wielding Influence  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos has said the plan to allow
banks to split off assets will be voluntary and each lender may
set up its own vehicle. According to him, provisioning levels
set in February of 80 percent for land and 65 percent for
unfinished property are sufficient and will let banks offload
assets without generating additional losses.  Rato, a former International Monetary Fund managing
director, quit Bankia weeks after the IMF singled out the
company in a report on Spanish lenders. The biggest of the
country’s vulnerable banks should “especially” take swift
steps to bolster its balance sheet and improve management, the
IMF said.  Rato, 63, was unwilling or unable to clear away structures
that enabled the savings banks that merged to create Bankia to
continue wielding management influence, said Alvaro Cuervo, a
business professor at Madrid’s Complutense University.  Sweeping It Away  Caja Madrid  and Bancaja, savings banks linked to the
People’s Party administrations of the Madrid and Valencia
regions, hold 90 percent of Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, the
parent company that controls Bankia and holds the 4.5 billion
euros of preferred shares subscribed by the government in a
first bailout in 2010.  “Rato made the mistake of not turning the page more
forcefully away from the time of the savings banks,” said
Cuervo. “Investors want Goirigolzarri to bring in his own
people and sweep all this away.”  Bankia’s troubles under Rato also indicate how balance
sheets across Spain’s banking industry are  still deteriorating 
as the country’s economy endures a recession that has driven
 unemployment  above 24 percent, said Blattner.  Bad loans across the Bankia group reached 8.7 percent in
December and 7.6 percent at the listed Bankia business unit. The
group said it also renegotiated almost 10 billion euros of
assets in 2011 to stop them from defaulting, a figure equivalent
to about 5 percent of its loan book.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  