-- Banks’ Dollar Funding Costs Rise on Greece Government Concerns
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-05-08T16:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/banks-dollar-funding-costs-rise-from-nine-month-low-in-europe.html
The cost for European banks to borrow
in dollars rose as  Greece ’s failure to form a government stoked
the prospect of further financial turbulence in the euro region.  The three-month cross-currency  basis swap , the rate banks
pay to convert euro interest payments into dollars, was 45 basis
points below the euro interbank offered rate at 5 p.m. in
London, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The measure was minus
41.5 yesterday, the cheapest level since July 28.  Greece’s Syriza party received a mandate to form a
government after first party  New Democracy  failed to unite
parties split over the terms of bailout agreements following
elections on May 6. In France,  Francois Hollande  defeated
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to become the nation’s first Socialist
leader in 17 years.  “ France  is on its expected course after Hollande’s victory
and it’s Greece that’s causing the worries now,” said Chris Clark, an interest-rate strategist at ICAP Plc in London.
“There’s no clear evidence that Greece will form a government
that backs the bailout plan and the risk of default is
growing.”  Greece has 30 days to decide whether to make today’s
interest payment on 20 billion yen ($250 million) of 4.5 percent
notes maturing in 2016, or default. The notes are among bonds
issued under foreign rather than Greek law that sidestepped
losses imposed under the country’s debt restructuring in March.  The one-year basis swap was 52 basis points less than
Euribor from minus 49 yesterday. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Euribor-OIS  A measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another held
at a nine-month low. The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference
between the borrowing benchmark and overnight indexed swaps, was
at 38 basis points, the lowest since Aug. 1.  Lenders cut  overnight deposits  at the Frankfurt-based ECB
yesterday, placing 782 billion euros ($1 trillion) with the ECB
from 801 billion euros on May 4.  Three-month Euribor, the rate banks say they pay for three-
month loans in euros, fell to 0.692 percent from 0.693 percent.
One-week Euribor was unchanged at 0.317 percent.  The  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-
month dollar loans was unchanged at 0.466 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  