-- Baosteel May Consider Shanghai Plant Shift on Environment Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-08T05:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/baosteel-may-consider-moving-plant-from-shanghai-correct-.html
Baosteel Group Corp., the parent of
 China ’s largest listed steelmaker, may consider moving its main
factory out of Shanghai to avoid energy consumption and
environmental curbs, Chairman Xu Lejiang said.  “Moving may be one of our major tasks between this and the
next five years,” Xu told reporters today at an industry
conference in Beijing. The company has yet to decide on a new
location for the factory, he said.  Baosteel may follow Shougang Corp., the only Beijing-based
steelmaker, in moving its factory as the government implements
measures to conserve energy and cut pollution in the large
cities. Shougang, once identified by the government as Beijing’s
largest industrial polluter, built a 67.7 billion  yuan  ($10.7
billion) plant jointly with Hebei Iron & Steel Group in Hebei
province after closing its main facility in Beijing for the
city’s  Olympic Games  in 2008.  “Shougang’s today is our tomorrow,” Xu said.  Baosteel, China’s third-largest steelmaker, has yet to
receive government approval for its 10 million-ton plant in the
southern port city of Zhanjiang, Xu said. The approval may come
this year, he said.  The planned project will increase Baosteel’s production
capacity by about 2 percent to 53 million tons and help displace
Anshan Iron & Steel Group as the nation’s second-biggest
steelmaker, according to data from researcher Custeel.com. It
will also help Baosteel meet demand from the Chinese units of
Japan’s  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   China’s National Development and Reform Commission delayed
approving projects planned by Baosteel and Wuhan Iron & Steel
Group in 2009 because of industry overcapacity. Steelmakers in
China, the world’s biggest producer, had combined first-quarter
losses of more than 1 billion yuan, the China Iron and Steel
Association said last month, as weakening exports and government
curbs on property slowed steel demand.  Anshan Steel has delayed its plan to build a plant in the
Fujian province as Baosteel and Wuhan Iron & Steel Group are
planning their expansion in the southern Chinese market, Anshan
President  Zhang Xiaogang  said today at the same conference.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  