-- BCA’s Barnes Says He’s Worried About U.S. Fiscal Situation
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-05-08T17:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/bca-s-barnes-says-he-s-worried-about-u-s-fiscal-situation-1-.html
Financial markets will turn on the
U.S. as they have on European governments if the U.S. fiscal
situation doesn’t improve, said Martin Barnes, chief economist
at BCA Research in Montreal.  The risks posed by the  U.S. budget deficit  are important
for the Canadian economy, economists said at the Bloomberg
 Canada  Economic Summit in Toronto today. While rapid moves to
reduce the U.S. deficit could slow the Canadian economy,
investors could also sell U.S. bonds if the government doesn’t
do enough.  “I’m very worried,” Barnes said at the Bloomberg Summit
in Toronto today. “It’s only a matter of time. It’s a question
of when, not if, the markets do to America what they did to
 Europe . The markets will turn to the U.S. like a pack of wild
dogs once they finish chewing Europe out.”  U.S.  House Republicans  have proposed a budget that would
lead to a $3.1 trillion deficit over the next decade, a little
less than half as much as President  Barack Obama ’s budget plan.
The battle between Republicans and Democrats over reducing
budget deficits is set to intensify toward year-end, when the
administration and Congress must decide whether to extend
income-tax cuts, raise the debt ceiling and allow automatic
budget cuts to be enacted.  A U.S. slowdown caused by fiscal tightening constitutes a
“bigger threat” for Canada than a financial crisis in Europe,
said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at Toronto-based  CIBC World
Markets . Canada ships about three-quarter of its exports to its
southern neighbor.  ‘Potential Austerity’  “When you make the move to address budget deficits, if you
do it too abruptly, you are left with the mess that we have in
Europe,” Shenfeld said. “Recession is pretty much across the
board in all the countries that have been forced or chose to
adopt this austerity plan. And the U.S. has its own potential
austerity coming in 2013 if they don’t change their policy
trajectory.”  Fiscal tightening in the U.S. will probably be limited as
lawmakers vote against scrapping tax cuts, Barnes said.  “They will extend most of the tax cuts,” he said. “They
won’t let the defense spending cuts go through. There will be
fiscal tightening but it won’t be anything near like the
fiscal cliff that some people see.”  While progress has been slow, improvements in the U.S.
housing and job markets point to a strengthening economy, said
 Eric Lascelles , chief economist at RBC Asset Management.  U.S. Growth  U.S. economic growth is poised to outpace that of Canada
this year and next, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. U.S. gross domestic product will climb 2.3 percent
this year and 2.5 percent next year. That compares with 2.1
percent in 2012 and 2.3 percent next year for Canada, a separate
survey shows.  “We’ve seen I think a bottoming in U.S. housing markets,”
Lascelles said. “I don’t expect much of a run forward, but I
think we’ve probably seen a bottom. The job market has made an
important turn. We’re seeing  job creation . Important things are
beginning to heal.”  Growth in the U.S. is strong enough that the  Federal
Reserve  won’t need to undertake more asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, to spur growth, Shenfeld said.  Still, when compared with previous recoveries, expansion in
the world’s largest economy remains “lousy,” Barnes at BCA
Research said.  “It’s a very disappointing recovery,” he said. “We’ve
lowered the bar on what is considered an acceptable outcome. I
like to remind people that coming out of the 1981-82 recession,
the economy grew 7.7 percent on average for six quarters. That
was a recovery. At 3 percent growth it will take years to get
the  unemployment rate  down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Badertscher at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net  