-- Berlin’s New Airport Opening Delayed as Fire Safety Fixed
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-05-08T15:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/berlin-s-new-airport-opening-pushed-back-on-fire-safety-delays.html
Berlin’s new airport will not start
operations on June 3 as planned, throwing flights by  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  into disarray.  Berlin Brandenburg Willy Brandt Airport, which is costing
around 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion), will open late because
tests haven’t been completed on a system that removes smoke in
case of a fire, its operator said at a press conference today. A
new start date will be set for “after the summer holidays.”  “This is not a good day for Berlin and the region,”
Berlin Mayor Klaus Wowereit told reporters at the briefing.
“Safety has priority. We want to keep the delay as short as
possible.”  The airport, whose completion has already been pushed back
from 2011 and which will serve as Air Berlin’s main hub, aims to
handle as many as 27 million passengers annually to start, with
longer term plans to grow capacity to as much as 45 million
passengers. Berlin’s two current airports, Tegel and
Schoenefeld, will close when the new facility opens.   Lufthansa,  Germany ’s biggest carrier, had intended to
operate more than 1,000 flights each week from the new airport,
dedicating six more aircraft to the destination for a total of
15. Lufthansa said it’s negotiating for more takeoff and landing
slots at Tegel to add flights this summer as planned.  “We didn’t see this coming,” Lufthansa spokesman
Christoph Meier said. “They clearly can’t close Tegel if the
new airport isn’t up-and-running.”  Seeking Damages  The companies involved in installing the smoke-removal
system, which has yet to be properly tested, include  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
 Robert Bosch GmbH  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Systems unit, said
Manfred Koertgen, who’s in charge of operations.  Berlin and the neighbouring state of Brandenburg may seek
compensation from the companies which caused the delay, Wowereit
said, adding that the additional costs could bring the airport’s
financing “to the edge.”  “We are not responsible,” Bosch spokesman Andreas Kempf
said by telephone from Stuttgart, adding Bosch provided security
technology and warning systems, not smoke removal equipment.  While T-Systems has worked on infrastructure at the site,
for example on cabling and flight information display systems,
the company has had no role in the fire safety systems,
spokesman Stefan Koenig said by telephone. A Siemens spokeswoman
declined to immediately comment.  The site has had 7,000 people racing in this final month to
complete the project before the planned opening. Some 10,000
volunteers have been testing the baggage-handling facilities at
Berlin Brandenburg since February, with the help of 15,000
suitcases, to avoid a repeat of the problems at Heathrow’s
Terminal 5, which serves  London , when it opened in 2008.  Flights Scrapped  British Airways (IAG)  was forced to scrap hundreds of flights and
deal with thousands of pieces of stranded luggage after the
chaotic opening when the new building’s computerized baggage
system broke down. Terminal 5 cost 4.3 billion pounds and almost
20 years to plan and build.  “You can test as much as you want, but at the end of the
day it is not reality,” Rainer Schwarz, who runs the airport,
told Bloomberg in a May 4 interview. “It is often just the
small details which people don’t think of -- at Heathrow one of
the biggest problems was not the baggage conveyor system, but
that from the start of the process the staff couldn’t find
parking spaces in time.”  Berlin used to have three airports, a by-product of the
city’s division during the  Cold War , with Schoenefeld serving
the eastern part of the city, Tegel the west and Tempelhof, used
by the Allies during the Berlin airlift, near the center.
Tempelhof was closed in 2008.  “We now have to deal with this rescheduling,” Air Berlin
Chief Executive Officer Hartmut Mehdorn said in a statement.
“This creates for everyone involved enormous logistics
problems, that will also result in additional costs that can’t
be calculated at this point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  