-- Biggest Buffett Targets Seen Spanning Deere to Henkel
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-05-08T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/biggest-buffett-targets-seen-spanning-deere-to-henkel.html
When it comes to acquisitions,  Warren
Buffett  says his biggest deal is yet to come. That could attract
the 81-year-old billionaire investor to companies from  Deere &
Co. (DE)  to Henkel AG.  Buffett,  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s chief executive officer,
said the $204 billion company he built with takeovers and stock
picks will continue to grow and that his $34 billion purchase of
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  completed in 2010 “will not be the
limit,” according to an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 Betty Liu  after Berkshire’s meeting with shareholders on May 5.  The world’s most successful investor is eyeing bigger
acquisitions as Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire  generates  $1
billion a month in free cash flow, swelling the company’s cash
pile to  $37.8 billion . While Buffett said at the meeting that he
recently passed on a $22 billion deal, Deere, the largest maker
of agricultural equipment, and Henkel, the German maker of
Loctite superglue, are among 24 companies similar to Burlington
Northern in size that meet the takeover criteria in Berkshire’s
annual report, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Buffett’s problem is one we’d all like to have -- he has
too much cash,”  Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based  fund
manager  for Highmark Capital Management Inc., which oversees $17
billion, said in a telephone interview. “He can’t afford just
to do small deals.”  Deere and Henkel have “high quality assets, dominant
market share, are pretty reasonably priced,” he said. “Those
meet the characteristics he’s looking for.”  Lubrizol, Burlington Northern  Buffett didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment
sent to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  “I wish I could make a big acquisition, because I love
acquisitions when we’ve got the money,” Buffett told Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” program hosted by Liu. “Someday,
$34 billion will not be the limit,” referring to his
acquisition of Burlington Northern.  Buffett has used Berkshire’s cash pile to make at least one
multi-billion dollar acquisition in each of the past two years.  He bought Wickliffe, Ohio-based Lubrizol Corp., the world’s
largest producer of lubricant additives, in September for about
$9 billion after saying in last year’s  letter  that “our
elephant gun has been reloaded, and my trigger finger is
itchy.” In February 2010, Buffett spent $26.5 billion in cash
and stock for the 77.5 percent he didn’t already own in  Fort
Worth , Texas-based Burlington Northern.  The deal was Berkshire’s largest acquisition.  Acquisition Detail  Buffett usually prefers “simple” businesses with pretax
profit exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning power and
“good” returns on equity while employing little or no debt,
according to his annual report.  He has shifted his takeover strategy as Berkshire has grown
to focus on “capital intensive businesses” such as power
producers and railroads, which require consistent investment in
infrastructure and equipment. So-called value investors such as
Buffett also purchase companies when their stock prices are low
by historical standards compared with earnings.  Using acquisitions, Buffett has built Berkshire from a
failing textile maker into a holding company with more than 70
units that produce energy and chocolate, operate planes and
trains, and insure against car wrecks and earthquakes.  When Buffett says he is prepared to agree to a bigger
takeover than Burlington Northern, there are two dozen companies
that he would like based on data compiled by Bloomberg,
including Deere and Henkel.  Buffett Criteria  They have equity values of $20 billion to $40 billion; had
capital expenses accounting for at least 10 percent of net fixed
assets; generated an average increase in return on invested
capital in the past five years that ranked in the top 50
percent; had the biggest gains in  operating cash flow  in that
span; and sold for a lower price-earnings ratio than the average
stock in their home market, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deere, valued at $32.2 billion, increased its  return  on
invested capital, a measure of how profitably a company uses its
debt and equity, by an average of 33 percent over the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest among U.S. industrial companies in the group and more
than double the median return for the list, the data show.  The company also traded at  11.9 times  its reported earnings
yesterday, 36 percent lower than the average for U.S. equities,
the data show. With analysts projecting  net income  will exceed
$3 billion for the first time this year, Deere’s estimated
price-earnings ratio will shrink to 10 times, a third less than
its own five-year mean of 15.2 times, the data show.  Farmland Bet  Deere, which sold $24 billion of  agricultural equipment 
last year, said in February that sales of its signature green
and yellow farm, forestry and construction machines outside the
U.S. and  Canada  will help boost revenue to $50 billion by 2018.  Buffett said yesterday that over the next 100 years,
farmland will beat gold, which surged to a record in 2011 after
increasing more than sixfold in the past decade.  With Deere, “the valuation metrics are Buffett-like,”
 Keith Wirtz , who oversees $15 billion as chief investment
officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati, said in a
telephone interview. “Traditionally, Buffett has been attracted
to those entities that have strong brand identity.”  Deere is a company with “iconic brand identification.”  Ken Golden , a spokesman for Deere, didn’t immediately
return a telephone call or e-mail seeking comment on whether the
Moline, Illinois-based company has been approached by Buffett or
would consider putting itself up for sale.  Deere rose 0.4 percent to $80.54 a share today, snapping a
three-day losing streak.  Airplane Glue  Henkel, which supplies glues for Airbus SAS’s A380
superjumbo plane, is the world’s biggest maker of adhesives and
sealants with almost a  40 percent share  globally, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 21.7 billion euro ($28.3 billion) company, which is
controlled by the  Henkel family  and based in Dusseldorf, could
appeal to Buffett because its business is difficult to replicate
and will profit as demand in the  aerospace industry  picks up,
according to  Peter Sorrentino , a fund manager who helps oversee
$14.7 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.  Net new orders for commercial aircraft climbed to a four-
year high of about $200 billion in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Henkel said in March that it is “confident” of reaching
financial targets for 2012 and analysts now project its  cash
from operations  will rise to a record on a per-share basis, the
data show. In the past five years, the company’s average annual
growth in operating  cash flow  was almost double the median for
non-financial companies in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Good Fit  While Henkel has since rallied to the  highest  price in at
least two decades, the stock still sells for less relative to
earnings than the average German company, which was valued at
almost 20 times profit yesterday, the data show.  “That one would fit” Buffett’s criteria, Huntington
Asset’s Sorrentino said in a telephone interview. “They are
very unique. The aerospace cycle is really kicking in the high
gear with commercial aircraft replacements.”  Lars Witteck, a spokesman for Henkel, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail sent after normal office hours seeking comment.  Henkel fell 1 percent to 54.96 euros a share today.  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  would also be attractive to Buffett as a well-
known brand with a foothold in some of the fastest-growing
overseas markets and an easy-to-understand business, according
to  Walter Todd , who oversees $950 million as chief investment
officer at  Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood,  South Carolina .  The Columbus, Indiana-based maker of portable generators
and diesel engines gets about  20 percent  of sales from  China ,
 Brazil  and  India  and will post record sales and earnings this
year, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  Cummins traded at  11.1 times earnings  yesterday, a more
than 40 percent discount to the average U.S. company, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts estimate that its
operating cash flow this year will more than triple on a per-
share basis from five years ago.  “You could say it’s pretty cheap,” Todd said in a
telephone interview. Cummins has “very good exposure to world
economic growth and other geographies overseas.”  Janet Williams, spokeswoman for Cummins, declined to
comment on whether the $20.3 billion company has been approached
by Buffett or would consider putting itself up for sale.  Today, Cummins climbed 1.3 percent to $106.89 a share, the
second-largest gain among industrial companies in the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index.  Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than $20 billion as
chief investment strategist at the private-banking unit of
KeyCorp in  Cleveland , says one risk that Buffett faces in doing
bigger deals is the potential cost on Berkshire’s credit rating.  Berkshire lost its last remaining AAA credit rating in
February 2010 with its cash-and-stock purchase of Burlington
Northern, after Standard & Poor’s cut the company to AA+.  Elephants and Peanuts  Buffett has also maintained Berkshire’s  cash level  at more
than $20 billion to guarantee  liquidity  and told investors on
May 5 the $22 billion deal that he stepped away from would have
required Berkshire to sell securities he would prefer to keep.  To pay for a $30 billion deal entirely in cash and still
have $20 billion remaining, Berkshire would have to add more
than $12 billion to its current cash holdings.  “You’ve got to deal with the reality that the company is
big enough that in order to do anything of significance in
investing cash flow, they often have to do the mammoth deals
that require moves that may be damaging shorter-term to the
credit ratings or perhaps even the value of the stock,”
KeyCorp’s McCain said in a telephone interview.  Smaller transactions may not do enough to benefit Berkshire
investors. At the  shareholders’ meeting , Buffett said his
investments in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) 
in 2008, worth about $8 billion combined, were “peanuts.”  Moving the Needle  With Berkshire’s operations throwing off about $1 billion
in cash after capital expenses, Buffett could still accumulate
enough money in a year to consider an acquisition as large as
his takeover of Burlington Northern, the data show.  “He has the cash,” said  Tim Ghriskey , who oversees about
$2 billion as chief investment officer of Solaris Group in
 Bedford Hills ,  New York . “If the opportunity is there, a larger
acquisition can really impact Berkshire. Smaller acquisitions
aren’t going to really move the needle.”  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 