-- Blackstone’s Gray Gives University of Pennsylvania $25 Million
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-08T16:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/blackstone-s-gray-gives-university-of-pennsylvania-25-million.html
Jonathan Gray , head of global real
estate at  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , gave $25 million to the
 University of Pennsylvania  to start a center studying cancer
treatment and prevention.  The gift, made along with Gray’s wife Mindy, will name the
building the Basser Research Center after Mindy’s sister Faith
Basser, who died of ovarian cancer at 44, the university said.
The center will focus on cancers associated with inherited
genes.  “We hope that the Basser Research Center will eliminate
BRCA-related cancers and, in doing so, provide a road map for
curing other genetic diseases,” the Grays said in a  statement ,
referring to so-called BRCA genes that, if mutated, can lead to
breast, ovarian and other forms of cancer.  “Jon and Mindy have set the stage for scientific
breakthroughs that will transform the lives of women and their
families for decades to come,” said  Amy Gutmann , the school’s
president.  Gray joined Blackstone in 1992 after graduating from the
university and became a senior managing director eight years
later. His business accounted for 71 percent of Blackstone’s
profit last year, and in February he was named to the board of
directors. His wife is also a 1992 alumna of the school.  Gray, 42, received $36.5 million in 2011, including
$350,000 in salary, a $21.4 million bonus based upon the
performance of the real estate business, $2.6 million in his
share of investment profits and $12.2 million in cash dividends,
Blackstone said in a February regulatory filing.  The University of Pennsylvania, based in Philadelphia, is
one of eight schools in the northeast that make up the Ivy
League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 