-- Boehner Warns of Iranian Threat to Democracy in Americas
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-08T16:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/boehner-warns-of-iranian-threat-to-democracy-in-americas.html
Iran  poses one of three major threats
to democracy in  Latin America , along with drug cartels and the
danger of U.S. disengagement from the region, House Speaker  John Boehner  said.  Boehner said today that when he went to Latin America in
January, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was also in the
region visiting Venezuela and Cuba. The U.S. State Department
has designated Iran and Cuba as state sponsors of terrorism, and
has criticized Venezuela under leader Hugo Chavez for human
rights abuses and links to the two nations.  “His trip underscored the designs Iran has for expanding
its influence in Latin America,” Boehner said at a meeting of
the Council of the Americas at the State Department in
 Washington . “The best defense against an expansion of Iranian
influence in Latin America, and against the destructive
aspirations of international criminals in the region, is for the
United States to double down on a policy of direct engagement.”  Boehner praised the October 2011 passage of free-trade
agreements with Panama and Colombia, where the pact will
formally take effect in May. He said he was disappointed that
“the administration has not moved to build on these
achievements by seeking Trade Promotion Authority.”  He urged that all nations honor the rule of law and respect
international norms. “That means paying debts to bondholders,
honoring legal commitments and the decisions made by
international arbiters, and respecting private property,”
Boehner said.  Argentina nationalized the Spanish-owned energy company  YPF
SA (YPFD)  last month, a loss that owner  Respol YPF SA (REP)  estimated at $7.5
billion. President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner signed the
nationalization into law May 5.  “Some governments in the region have demonstrated an
alarming willingness to drift away from such norms when it suits
their objectives,” Boehner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  