-- Boeing’s McNerney Says Obama Needs More Outreach to Business
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-08T15:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/boeing-s-mcnerney-says-obama-needs-more-outreach-to-business.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney said the Obama administration needs to be more
sensitive to the needs of business, citing regulatory burdens
that he said are creating uncertainty for companies.  McNerney, who is chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s
Export Council and a member of the White House Council on Jobs
and Competitiveness, also defended the role of private equity in
the economy, which has come under fire from Obama’s political
team.  “I think they’re trying to reach out,” McNerney said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television when asked whether the
administration is responsive to the business community. “But
no, I would like to see more.”  McNerney’s comments may provide fodder for Republicans,
including the party’s presumptive presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , in a general election campaign that will turn on the
question of which candidate can best handle the economy.  Romney, a co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, has cited his
background as a private equity executive to argue that he knows
how to create jobs and an environment for businesses to thrive.
Obama’s campaign team, including chief strategist  David Axelrod ,
has countered that there is a difference between executive
experience creating wealth for investors and creating jobs at a
manufacturer such as Chicago-based Boeing, the world’s biggest
aerospace company and the largest U.S.  exporter .  Private Equity’s Role  McNerney said that distinction was “too easy” to make.  “Even within Boeing you’re growing some elements, you’re
winding down others to fuel, to provide resources, to provide
the growth,” McNerney said. “That’s what makes this country
great, because we can redeploy capital and labor more quickly
than other societies. And I think private equity plays a role in
that.”  The Boeing chief said business experience isn’t necessarily
a prerequisite for office. He joked that a CEO would be “a
little frustrated from time to time” as the government’s top
executive.  “I don’t think you have to be a businessman per se, but
you have to understand, you have to have had the same civics
lesson that others have had about how this country works,” he
said.  The cost of regulation has emerged as a theme in Republican
campaign attacks on Obama. Romney has described Obama’s approach
to regulation as “unprecedented, unpredictable and
unproductive.”  McNerney said the Obama administration tends “to fall a
little on the side of” extremes on regulatory, tax and fiscal
policies, adding “some of the more extreme elements in the
 Republican Party  can also be unreasonable.”  Dreamliner Tour  McNerney was speaking from Reagan National Airport just
outside  Washington , where Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner landed for the
first time yesterday as part of a world tour for the jet, which
entered production late in 2011 after more than three years of
delay. Boeing is seeking to accelerate production of the twin-
aisle jets to 10 a month by the end of 2013.  Boeing is being forced to plan around Washington gridlock,
which he blamed on extremists in both parties who are rewarded
for refusing to compromise.  “It is very frustrating to compete in a world where
extremism rules, but at the end of the day our country has been
known for pragmatic solutions,” said McNerney, 62, who also is
chairman of the  Business Roundtable . “That’s what
differentiates America from most other places. We’ll get back to
it. We just need to get there fast.”  McNerney said his company is being forced to be “more
aggressive” with costs than he had hoped, in anticipation of
$492 billion in  defense cuts  scheduled to take effect in January
2013. The automatic cuts are a consequence of so-called budget
sequestration imposed because Congress couldn’t agree on a
deficit reduction plan last year.  “Sequestration is the best example of Washington induced
uncertainty that I know of,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  