-- BofA’s New Black-Belt Data Chief Targets Blinding Gaps
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-05-08T14:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/bofa-s-new-black-belt-data-chief-targets-blinding-gaps.html
John Bottega’s path to becoming  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ’s first data chief started two decades ago in a
smoke-filled back office of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  It was 1991, and Bottega was supervising one of several
teams scattered across the New York-based investment bank that
did pretty much the same thing: entering data on securities,
monitoring the accuracy and sucking on cigarettes.  “There was a cloud hanging in the room, with everyone
huddled over computers typing away,” Bottega recalled in an
interview last month. “I recognized that throughout the bank,
there were multiple teams doing similar exercises. So I offered
up the idea of, ‘Why don’t we do this in one place?’”  While Lehman and the smoke are long gone, the idea of
consolidating bank data and improving the quality has gained
traction since the 2008 financial crisis. Lehman’s failure,
caused by disastrous bets on subprime mortgages, exposed a
glaring weakness: Incomplete and overlapping information from
hundreds of units can cause executives and regulators to
underestimate risk and leverage, Bottega said.  “Did we really know all the interconnected dependencies
Lehman had?” said Bottega, who joined  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in 2006
and later studied the issue as data chief at the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s markets division. “Most banks may have
understood their exposure within their firms, but across the
industry, without a consistent way to identify counterparties,
determining the impact of a major shock was very difficult.”  Fed Connection  Bank of America recruited Bottega, 54, from the New York
Fed in December as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
works to repair relations with regulators that were strained
during the tenure of his predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank spent more than $130
billion on takeovers under Lewis, creating an array of data
systems that weren’t all designed to work with one another.  Bottega’s appointment comes as the largest banks, with some
prodding by regulators, step up their ability to monitor firm-
wide risks. North American lenders will spend 3 percent more
next year on  information technology  and 22 percent more than in
2006, boosting their budgets to $56.3 billion, according to
Boston-based consulting firm Celent. The improvements could help
free $27 billion of capital held because of misclassified
assets,  Deloitte & Touche LLP  said in an April 30 research note.  The gaps hampered regulators’ ability to respond to the
financial crunch, said Trevor Gee, a senior banking consultant
for Deloitte. Regulators demanded information on balances and
counterparty positions from firms that were simply unable to
supply it, he said.  Data Blindness  “When regulators were calling for data at the height of
the crisis to assess how severely these institutions were in
trouble, they were finding that what they were getting didn’t
even reconcile within the banks,” Gee said. Out of the 10
largest global lenders, at least six now have assigned top data
managers such as Bottega, according to Gee.  The hodgepodge of thousands of bank entities meant that
regulators had an insufficient grasp of systemic risk,  Richard Berner , director of the Treasury Department’s Office of
Financial Research, said in a speech last year. His unit was
created by the Dodd-Frank Act to support data-collection and
risk-monitoring.  “Getting a consistent view of their data is really one of
the biggest challenges that big banks face,” said  Bart Narter ,
a senior analyst at Celent.  Writing Code  Bottega, the son of a  New York  Daily News photographer,
said he grew up in  Brooklyn  dreaming of a baseball career until
he was 21. He graduated from  St. John’s University  with a
computer-science degree in 1980, and then wrote code for
financial firms including Merrill Lynch & Co. before being named
to run the Lehman Brothers data group.  After consolidating support for all Lehman indexes, Bottega
became what Gee counts as the finance industry’s first data
chief. Following stints with Citigroup and the New York Fed,
he’s now with Bank of America’s global technology and operations
group, which has about 100,000 employees and contractors in 40
countries spread across retail and institutional banking units.
The company ranks second by assets among U.S. lenders after
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Bottega declined to specify what projects he’s working on
now. His role will encompass “some of the obvious things of
improving data quality, transparency, access to information and
attention on regulatory requirements,” he said. “You’ll hear
that in every firm, and it’s true here, too.”  Okinawan Karate  On display in Bottega’s 14th-floor office at Bank of
America’s New York headquarters are two of his passions. There’s
a wall photograph of Bottega, a fourth-degree black belt in a
 style  of karate that originated on Okinawa, wielding a staff set
against the green backdrop of Central Park. On his desk are two
plaques from Inside Market Data, a trade publication, citing his
contributions to data management.  At the New York Fed, Bottega wrote the first draft of a
paper making the case for a universal identification system, a
kind of bar code for financial firms. The final 16-page paper,
co-written by Federal Reserve statistician Linda Powell, was
published in December 2010.  “People wrestled with it for decades, the fact that we
have a fractured” network for bank identification, said  Tom
Price , a managing director at the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association. “John played a critical role in
pulling all of these thoughts together across the regulatory
agencies. He created the initiative to push this forward.”  Legal ID  A legal entity-identification system is one of the first
projects of the Treasury’s Office of Financial Research. As a
test case, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is scheduled
to use a version in July, and finance ministers and central bank
governors in the Group of 20 are examining the system.  The push for standard identification eventually will
include complex financial instruments, Bottega said. In the
past, Wall Street firms had focused more on creating innovative
products rather than improving data management, he said. During
the crisis, firms had difficulty determining the status of
collateral backing securities.  The ascent to Bank of America’s executive ranks hasn’t been
without turbulence for Bottega, who lives in South Brunswick,
 New Jersey . During an earlier tour of duty at Merrill Lynch
about a decade ago, Bottega’s division faced mandatory cutbacks.
The then-director was about to be let go.  Spending to Save  “When his boss realized they were cutting the one guy who
knew anything about the underlying data infrastructure of this
big bank, they had to scramble to convince John” to stay, said
Michael Atkin, a managing director of the Enterprise Data
Management Council, an industry group that lists Bottega as
chairman.  “Data was undervalued then,” Atkin said. “It was people
like John who were involved in it and understood its value
who’ve been crying out in the wilderness: ‘Listen, it’s an
essential part of your business.’”  The big budgets and staff can still make technology a
target during rounds of cost-cutting.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is seeking
 $1 billion  in annual savings driven by a technology overhaul
that includes merging its three brokerage platforms. JPMorgan
said it expects to save $1 billion a year by consolidating
trading platforms, a move allowing the New York-based bank to
eliminate 3,000 positions.  Trimming Expenses  One element of Bank of America’s efficiency effort, which
may trim as much as $8 billion in annual expenses, is
consolidating technology systems to reduce costs and personnel.
An example: Moynihan said in September the bank had 63 data
centers inherited through acquisitions, a number he wants to
trim to less than 10.  The moves, announced before Bottega was hired, largely will
be done using the firm’s $3 billion annual budget for technology
investments, Moynihan, 52, has said.  Bottega’s position within the company’s top executive
ranks, reporting to Chief Information Officer Laurie Readhead,
confirms the data managers’ ascent from the early days.  “It went from a room full of folks smoking cigarettes,”
Bottega said, “to the finance system recognizing the importance
of data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  