-- Both Parties Say House Will Pass Export-Import Bank Bill
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/both-parties-say-house-will-pass-export-import-bank-bill.html
A bill to raise the Export-Import
Bank’s lending cap 40 percent by 2014 will pass the U.S. House
today, lawmakers of both parties predict, although Republican
leaders aren’t formally urging members to support it.  House Speaker  John Boehner  endorsed the measure. Still,
many Republicans oppose it, saying the bank distorts free
markets by subsidizing loans for export sales. The legislation,
H.R. 2072, was negotiated by Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a
Virginia Republican, and second-ranking Democrat  Steny Hoyer  of
Maryland.  “The Democrats will be overwhelmingly for it,” Hoyer told
reporters yesterday. “This a part of trying to create and keep
jobs in America. This is an effort to try to grow our exports.
This is an issue supported overwhelmingly by the business
community.”  The proposal would raise the bank’s lending limit to $120
billion immediately, $130 billion in 2013 and $140 billion by
the end of the 2014 fiscal year. The bank will reach its $100
billion lending cap by the end of this month unless Congress
acts, bank officials have said.  The vote will be conducted through an expedited procedure
requiring a two-thirds majority for passage. Republicans control
the House with 292 members to 190 Democrats and three vacant
seats. If all members vote, the bill will need 289 votes to pass
under the streamlined procedure.  No Assurance  Hoyer told reporters he hasn’t received assurance from
Cantor that Republicans will have enough votes for passage. “My
presumption is Mr. Cantor made an agreement that he believes he
can pass,” Hoyer said.  The Export-Import Bank, created during the 1930s in
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s administration, provides loan
guarantees, insurance and loans for foreign purchases of U.S.
goods and services.  In an editorial published yesterday, the Wall Street
Journal urged Republicans to defeat the measure to show they are
“serious about trimming the size of government.” The newspaper
said the loan subsidies amount to “ job creation , French
style.”  After Hoyer and Cantor completed negotiations on May 4,
Boehner issued a statement saying that extending the bank’s
lending authority is “necessary to promote American exports and
remove a threat to the creation of American jobs.”  ‘Feeling Pretty Good’  “We’re feeling pretty good about it,” Washington
Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, vice chairwoman of the
House Republican Conference, said in an interview yesterday.
Rodgers said House leaders aren’t pressing individual lawmakers
on the issue because they are concentrating on budget
legislation awaiting House action later this week.  Oklahoma Republican Tom Cole predicted enough members of
his party would support the measure. Cole, a member of the House
Republican vote-counting team, said party leaders were
“confident enough to put it out there” under the fast-track
procedure. “One way or another it will pass,” he said in an
interview.  The bill is opposed by the Club for Growth and Heritage for
Action, groups that favor lower taxes and smaller government.
They say the Export-Import Bank provides unfair lending
subsidies that distort free-market competition.  Leaders of the Democratic-controlled Senate said they would
seek quick action on the legislation after it passes the House.  ‘Broad Support’  New York  Senator  Charles Schumer , the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, said in an interview that he anticipated the
House measure would receive “broad support” in the Senate.  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican who opposes
the bank, said he will insist that the  Congressional Budget
Office  conduct an analysis “of the real cost based on the real
risk” of the measure. He said he may push for a vote on an
amendment to phase the bank out of existence.  Critics of the bank dispute its leaders’ statement that it
had a $3.7 billion profit in the last seven years. DeMint and
other opponents say the bank wouldn’t be profitable if market-
risk costs were taken into account.  Georgia Republican  Tom Price  said he hasn’t “detected a
groundswell” of support among  House Republicans  for the
measure.  Arizona  Republican David Schweikert said he would vote
against it because “it’s contrary to my personal finance
philosophy.”  The measure would require Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  to initiate talks with other governments on eliminating
export loan subsidies for aircraft.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , based in Atlanta, has said the bank
undercuts U.S. airlines by giving foreign carriers better credit
terms to purchase wide-bodied jets.  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican, said he would vote for the
measure because it “hits the balance between ‘don’t
unilaterally disarm’ in a way that costs us jobs, but we need to
reform the bank.”  “It’s time to tackle the Export-Import Bank,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  