-- Brazil Makes ‘Significant Progress’ on Soccer Venues, FIFA Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-05-08T17:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/brazil-makes-significant-progress-on-soccer-venues-fifa-says.html
Brazil has made “significant
progress” on readying stadiums for the 2014  World Cup , soccer’s
governing body said as it prepares to monitor the country’s
preparation for the event.  South America ’s biggest nation was awarded the rights to
sports most-watched event in 2007. Rising construction costs,
delays, labor disputes and a disagreement with FIFA over
legislation have slowed preparations.  FIFA PresidentSepp Blatter and Secretary  Jerome Valcke  met
with Brazil’s Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo and local organizing
committee chairman Jose Maria Marin for five hours today to
discuss the project.  “Though analyses are still being carried out, several
obstacles have already been identified in some cities,” FIFA
said in a statement on its  website . “These points will be
discussed with the relevant authorities with a view to
identifying solutions. The monitoring process, which is being
conducted with the support of an international consultancy firm,
will also continue.”  FIFA will get updates every six weeks. Stadiums in
 Salvador , Rio de Janeiro and Recife that will be used in the
Confederations Cup, a warmup tournament held in 2013, have made
significant progress, FIFA said. Airports and other transport
services are also improving, the body said.  The country is spending 30 billion reais ($15.5
billion) on projects linked to the monthlong tournament and has
offered 400 million reais in funds to each group building or
upgrading the 12 stadiums being used.  In February, Brazil’s government made public a dispute with
soccer’s governing body, demanding that Valcke be removed from
his role as an emissary to the  competition’s organizers. Valcke
said the country needed a “kick up the ass” to be ready and
expressed frustration at  Brazil ’s delay in ratifying pledges it
had made when it was awarded the competition.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  