-- Brita Blowing GSA Whistle No Surprise If You Know Susan
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y ,   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-05-08T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/brita-blowing-gsa-whistle-no-surprise-if-you-know-susan.html
James Oberstar, a former U.S.
lawmaker, says one person came to mind when a U.S. General
Services Administration spending scandal broke last month.  “I turned to my wife and said, ‘I’ll betcha Susan Brita
blew the whistle on them,’” Oberstar, a Minnesota Democrat who
served in the  House of Representatives  for 36 years, said in an
interview.  When his wife asked why he believed that, “I laughed and
said, ‘If you knew Susan like I knew Susan,’” recalled
Oberstar, who worked with Brita as chairman and ranking member
of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, where she
was a subcommittee staff director.  Oberstar was right. It was Brita, a 68-year-old Capitol
Hill veteran and deputy GSA administrator, who called attention
to the agency’s $823,000 in spending at a Las Vegas conference.
She triggered what may prove to be one of the biggest shake-ups
in the history of the 12,000-employee agency.  The fallout so far includes the resignation of GSA
Administrator Martha Johnson and her replacement by an acting
head who has promised a top-to-bottom review of the GSA’s
structure and reporting procedures.  Two appointed GSA managers have been fired, 10 GSA career
employees have been placed on administrative leave, and the
inspector general has referred the matter to the  Justice
Department . Congress has held four hearings on the GSA since the
agency’s inspector general made public a report prompted by
Brita’s concerns. More are planned.  ‘To Your Face’  Like Oberstar, people who know Brita say they’re not
surprised at her role. Whether the issue is parking in her
Alexandria, Virginia, neighborhood or bureaucratic waste, she
has shown herself to be a formidable advocate -- or adversary --
when she decides what is permissible behavior and what isn’t,
they say.  Brita is “the kind of person who will tell you to your
face what really needs to be done,” Democrat Eleanor Holmes Norton, Washington, D.C.’s delegate to Congress and a member of
the House transportation committee, said in an interview.  Brita didn’t respond to e-mail and phone requests for
comment. Adam Elkington, a GSA spokesman who said he was
speaking on her behalf, said she and other GSA employees weren’t
available for interviews.  President  Barack Obama  appointed Brita to her current
position in February 2010. She earned $177,000 in the fiscal
year that ended last Sept. 30, according to FedsDataCenter.com,
a website that tracks federal salaries.  Las Vegas  She had served as GSA chief of staff from 1985 to 1988
before spending 18 years as staff director of a House
transportation subcommittee that oversees government operations,
including those of the GSA. Sometimes called the government’s
landlord, the GSA manages 9,600 federally owned or leased
buildings, and buys goods and services for U.S. agencies.  After her return to the agency, Brita began hearing from
employees about lavish spending by the GSA’s western region for
an October 2010 conference at the M Resort Spa Casino in
Henderson,  Nevada , near  Las Vegas . In November, she asked the
agency’s inspector general to investigate.  She found a letter of reprimand to western region
Commissioner Jeff Neely, based on an interim report by the
inspector general, to be insufficient. It was “not even a slap
on the wrist,” she wrote last July to Robert Peck, the letter’s
author. Peck, who was head of the agency’s Public Buildings
Service, has been fired.  Hot Tub Wine  The inspector general’s final report, made public on April
2, revealed that the Las Vegas junket had featured a mind
reader, a clown and a $75,000 bicycle-building exercise. The
conference also included $8,130 to print “yearbooks” for
participants, $6,325 for commemorative coins and breakfasts at
$44 per person.  News coverage of the report included photographs of Neely,
who organized the conference, in a hot tub in Las Vegas with two
glasses of red wine at hand. Neely, who is among those placed on
administrative leave, has declined to testify at the
congressional hearings, citing his Fifth Amendment rights
against self-incrimination.  Brita was “the skunk at the picnic” at the GSA,
Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican and chairman of
the House transportation committee, said in an interview. “We
would not know what had been going on there if it weren’t for
Susan.”  Mica’s committee has invited Brita to testify at a hearing,
possibly later this month, to review “solutions to reform,
reorganize or retire” the GSA.  Brokered Solution  The Las Vegas bash wasn’t Brita’s first run-in with the
GSA. U.S. Representative Peter DeFazio, an  Oregon  Democrat,
recalled working with her to get access for disabled people
added to a courthouse being built in Salem, Oregon.  The GSA and a judge involved in the building’s design,
“were incredibly resistant to making any changes,” saying they
would cost too much and hurt the appearance, DeFazio said. When
the building was completed in 2006, it had access for the
disabled.  “Susan was the one who brokered a solution,” DeFazio
said.  Former Representative Oberstar says Brita took a similar
stand when he was on the board of trustees of the Kennedy Center
for the  Performing Arts  in  Washington  and she worked for the
board as part of her committee duties.  To raise money, some board members proposed publicizing
large donors by inscribing their names in stone near the outside
front of the building, he said.  Taking On CBO  “She erupted,” Oberstar said. “She said, ‘This is a
memorial to a fallen president. This is a national memorial.
This is not Kmart.’ It was such a deep-seated visceral
reaction.”  The idea was shelved after Oberstar repeated her argument
almost verbatim at a board meeting, he said.  Delegate Norton said she worked with Brita when trying to
get a bipartisan bill passed to renovate the historic Old Post
Office building in Washington. Word came to Norton that the
 Congressional Budget Office  was going to “score” the bill, or
estimate how much it would cost, an action that might have
delayed or killed the proposed legislation.  “We let Susan loose on the scorers,” Norton said. “When
she got through with them, for the first time since I have been
in Congress, the  CBO  reversed its decision” and didn’t score
the proposal.  She “saved the project,” Norton said.  Boston Upbringing  Those who challenge Brita need to have a “very strong
spine,” said Rick Barnett, an acquaintance of more than two
decades who sparred with her as the Republican counterpart on
the transportation subcommittee.  “She can be mighty tough and has a long memory of
political battles,” Barnett, now executive managing director at
Studley Inc., a New York-based real estate services company,
said in an interview.  Brita grew up as Susan Finn, the second of five children in
a middle-class family from the Hyde Park neighborhood of  Boston .
Her father worked in sales for  W.R. Grace & Co. (GRA) , the specialty
chemicals company, and her mother was a homemaker. She graduated
in 1965 from Cardinal Cushing College, the now-closed Catholic
women’s school in Brookline,  Massachusetts .  “Our parents told us the difference between right and
wrong, and that’s how we were raised,” said Brita’s brother,
Paul Finn, a Boston attorney who helped settle a sexual abuse
case against the Archdiocese of Boston in 2003 for $85 million,
the largest such settlement at the time. “She doesn’t tolerate
fools,” Finn said of his sister.  Parking Spat  Brita was a stay-at-home mother until the youngest of her
three children attended school. She then enrolled at George
Washington University in Washington, earning a master’s degree
with honors in public administration, according to the GSA
website.  Brita, who lives in a block of $900,000 townhouses in the
Old Town area of Alexandria, is described by neighbors as a low-
profile resident except when she works to get out the Democratic
vote or when local issues arouse her.  Mariapia Ogden, who says she has lived next to Brita for 25
years and has had few conversations with her, recalled Brita’s
involvement in a parking dispute.  It arose when owners of new townhouses across the street
sought street parking permits, even though their homes had
garages. The homes on Brita’s side of the street lack garages
and residents there already were paying for the limited number
of parking spaces on the street.  “Why should they get street parking when we need it?”
Ogden said. “Susan became involved and they didn’t get the
permits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  