-- California Lawmaker Pushes New Municipal Bankruptcy Limit
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/california-lawmaker-pushes-new-municipal-bankruptcy-limit.html
The author of  California ’s four-month-
old municipal bankruptcy restrictions is recommending revisions
to broaden the powers of an outside mediator and loosen
deadlines on negotiations with creditors and labor groups.  Public employee unions are backing the new  bill  by state
Assemblyman Bob Wieckowski, the Fremont Democrat who wrote the
law approved in September. It requires municipalities to undergo
an evaluation or declare a fiscal emergency before filing for
bankruptcy.  Stockton, California, has invoked the process to help the
community of 292,000 avoid becoming the largest U.S. city to
enter bankruptcy since 2008, when Vallejo, with a population of
about 116,000, sought court protection. The Golden State joined
Indiana and  Michigan  in developing legislation to restrict
filings.  “I’m not trying to be an advocate for anyone,” said
Wieckowski, whose changes are backed by California Professional
Firefighters, the California Labor Federation and the California
Nurses Association.  “I’m trying to set up a system that can be
used anywhere in the  United States  for distressed municipalities
to work out their problems.”  The League of California Cities opposes the new bill,
saying it would give outside mediators too much power and make
it possible for unions and creditors to prolong the mediation
process as cities run out of cash.  Wieckowski said his original bill, which  passed  both
legislative chambers by majorities of 2-to-1 or more, was
intended to protect municipalities, bondholders and workers by
requiring review before cities and counties can seek court
protection.  Six Weeks Later  A bankruptcy lawyer, Wieckowski introduced his new bill
Feb. 15, six weeks after his earlier measure took effect and two
weeks before the City Council in Stockton voted to invoke it.
Another municipality, Mammoth Lakes, is also using the mediation
process.  Wieckowski’s new bill would “authorize the neutral
evaluator to request and control the process of an independent
investigation” and terminate the process “upon a specified
circumstance.” The bill wouldn’t give the mediator authority to
impose a resolution.  Wieckowski said he couldn’t point to flaws in the current
law, noting that the processes it established were already being
used in Stockton and Mammoth Lakes. Instead, he said, he’s
trying to get creditors involved in the process earlier. The
bill could come up for a final vote later this year.  Carroll Wills, a spokesman for state firefighters
association, said the umbrella group of more than 175 local
unions supports the new bill because it would keep either side
from running out the 60-day mediation period required under the
law.  Timeline on Mediation  “Once the timeline was out on the mediation process, the
municipality got to do what they originally wanted: to declare
bankruptcy and evade the consequences of their bad decisions
over the years,” Wills said by telephone.  Stockton Mayor Ann Johnston and Dan Carrigg, legislative
director for the cities group, both sent letters to Wieckowski
expressing opposition to the new bill. Johnston said it would
“dramatically” increase the chances of drawn-out mediation, in
some cases forcing cities to file for bankruptcy.  Carrigg, in a telephone interview, said unions support
restrictions on bankruptcy filings because some cities or
counties may try to use the courts to renegotiate contracts. The
new bill unravels a careful compromise that led to the law’s
passage last year, he said.  “From a city’s perspective, we think a municipality ought
to have maximum flexibility in dealing with bondholders, labor
and other stakeholders,” Carrigg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  