-- Cameron Pledges Growth Focus, No Going Back on Deficit Cutting
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-05-08T16:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/cameron-pledges-growth-focus-no-going-back-on-deficit-cutting.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said his
government needs to do more to get the British economy moving as
he vowed there will be going back on his plans to tackle the
budget deficit.  In a joint appearance with his Liberal Democrat deputy  Nick
Clegg , Cameron said the dangers facing the economy underline the
need to stick to the austerity plan agreed upon when the
Conservative-led government came to power two years ago.  “We can’t let up on the difficult decisions that we made
to cut public spending and to get the deficit and our debt under
control,” he told workers at a factory in Essex, north of
London. “I know it’s difficult, but when you’ve got a debt
problem the one thing you mustn’t do is keep adding endlessly to
that debt.” The government needs to “redouble” its efforts to
promote growth, he said.  Cameron and Clegg are seeking to bolster their coalition
after losses in local elections last week. Their pledge to drive
through the deepest budget cuts since World War II comes against
a backdrop of market turbulence in  Europe , where an anti-
austerity revolt saw voters punish administrations in ballots in
 France  and  Greece .  Restating the case for the coalition, Cameron said his
alliance with the Liberal Democrats is “as important and
necessary” now as it was when the government was formed in May
2010.  Cameron and Clegg faced a backlash from voters in municipal
elections on May 4 after the economy slipped into its first
 double-dip recession  since the 1970s. Labour, which gained seats
at the expense of the coalition parties, says the government is
holding back the recovery by trying to cut the budget deficit
too quickly.  ‘Answers Not Excuses’  “What people want from them is answers not excuses, not
excuses blaming something else, not excuses blaming the euro
zone, but answers about why they promised change and things have
got worse not better,” Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said at a
question-and-answer session today in Essex.  The coalition has also been hit by negative public reaction
to the March 21 budget, which cut income taxes for the rich, and
revelations during the Leveson Inquiry into media ethics. Former
 News Corp. (NWSA)  executives Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson  are
scheduled to testify this week, threatening to put a fresh
spotlight on the Conservatives’ relationship with  Rupert Murdoch . Coulson resigned as Cameron’s communications chief last
year amid the public furore over phone hacking at the News of
the World during his tenure as editor of the tabloid.  Austerity Backlash  In elections in Greece this weekend, voters flocked to
parties opposing austerity measures backed by German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, denying the two main parties a combined majority
and spurring calls for policies to boost growth. In France,
 Francois Hollande  defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy , becoming the first
Socialist to win the presidency in 17 years.  Cameron said Hollande was right to emphasize the need for
growth and denied that Britain, with its plan to erase the bulk
of a  budget deficit  of more than 8 percent of gross domestic
product by 2017, is imposing much more austerity than other
countries.  Hollande’s deficit-reduction strategy is “pretty much on a
pathway with ours,” Cameron said. “It’s a bit of a myth to
believe there are somehow people in Europe that are going to
spend a lot more money. We have all got to deal with our
deficits.”  Lost Output  Unlike  Germany  and the U.S., Britain has failed to recover
the output lost in the previous recession and is mired in the
longest slump for a century. GDP fell for a second straight
quarter between January and March, leaving the economy more than
4 percent smaller than its peak in early 2008.  Since the coalition took office in May 2010, the economy
has grown 0.4 percent and  unemployment  has climbed above 8
percent to its highest rate since 1996, with government
forecasters predicting further gains. Cameron said the economy
is in worse shape than anyone expected due to rising oil prices
and the debt crisis in the euro region, Britain’s biggest export
market.  Clegg described the 2008 financial crisis as a “shocking
great heart attack” at the center of the British economy and
said there was a “moral duty” not to pass on the burden of
debt to future generations. Still, he said more needed to be
done to spur the economy, including getting banks to lend more
and boosting investment in infrastructure.  Their joint pledges come on the eve of the  State Opening of
Parliament , when  Queen Elizabeth II  will set out the
government’s legislative program for the new parliament session.
Reform of the House of Lords is set to be among the main
proposals. The push for an elected upper chamber, a key
objective for the Liberal Democrats, is opposed by many
Conservatives who say it should not be a priority at a time of
economic crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in  London  at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  