-- Canada Housing Bubble Concern Shown in Insurer Query: Mortgages
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/canada-housing-bubble-concern-shown-in-insurer-query-mortgages.html
Anyone trying to understand the
concern over a potential  housing  bubble in Canada need look no
further than the debate among government officials over whether
to exit the  mortgage insurance  business.  The board of Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. considered
selling the home loan insurer last year, according to former
Chairman Dino Chiesa, whose term ended in March. CMHC, set up in
1946 to promote home ownership, also studied the sale of
Australia’s government-owned insurer and presented the findings
to the  Bank of Canada , according to documents released to
Bloomberg News under Canada’s Access to Information Act.  The moves by the federal housing authority came as  house
prices  in Canada continued to surge, pushing government
guarantees on mortgage insurance to C$541 billion ($545 billion)
at the end of September, equal to 31 percent of gross domestic
product, and more than twice as much as a decade ago. Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  has since questioned the need for a
government-owned mortgage insurer.  “We didn’t go and price what we could sell CMHC for, but
we certainly looked at the role of a national housing agency,”
Chiesa said in a telephone interview.  Flaherty’s concern that CMHC poses an increasing risk to
taxpayers was underscored by his efforts to tighten oversight
and governance of the company in his March 29 budget, after
toughening mortgage insurance rules three times since 2008. He
also proposed on April 26 barring banks from using insured
mortgages to back new covered bond issues.  Australian Example  CMHC analyzed Australia’s housing finance system, where the
government-owned mortgage insurer was sold to the private sector
in 1997. Since the 2008 credit crunch, Australian homeowners pay
“relatively higher margins on their mortgages than do Canadians;
the lending industry has become more concentrated and less
competitive,” according to the documents obtained by Bloomberg
News, which show the analysis was presented to Bank of Canada
officials last June.  The Australian government sold Housing Loan Insurance Corp.
to the finance unit of General Electric Co., which later spun
off its insurance business to create  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) 
Australia doesn’t guarantee either mortgage insurance or
mortgage-backed securities.  U.S. housing prices remain 33 percent lower than they were
at the start of 2006 while  home prices  in Canada have surged 44
percent, prompting Flaherty and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  to warn Canadians about taking on too much debt. Canada’s
housing market will be the subject of a panel discussion at
Bloomberg’s Canada Summit in Toronto today.  “Concerned”  “I have been concerned about CMHC for some time in this
sense: that it’s become an important financial institution in
Canada and it wasn’t subject to the same supervision,” Flaherty
told reporters in Ottawa on April 26.  CMHC’s board reviewed the agency’s role “at least six
times” during his seven-year tenure as chairman, said Chiesa,
adding that directors have a responsibility to consider such
options.  The board opted to “stay the course” for at least the
“next few years,” he said. A critical look will show that CMHC
should be kept “in one form or another, because of what it’s
contributed,” said Chiesa, who is chairman of Leisureworld
Senior Care Corp.  The process for replacing Chiesa on CMHC’s board continues,
Raymond Rivet, a spokesman for the government Privy Council
Office, said in an e-mail. The closing date for applications was
April 23.  Doubles  The amount of mortgages insured by CMHC has risen 156
percent over the previous decade. Canada Mortgage guarantees the
full value of mortgages it insures, meaning the government is
liable for losses if borrowers default. Canada also guarantees
90 percent of loans insured by private companies such as
 Genworth MI Canada Inc. (MIC)   Besides mortgage insurance, CMHC guarantees the principal
and interest on mortgage-backed securities issued by lenders
through a program it manages.  Flaherty’s budget proposed allowing the country’s banking
and insurance regulator, the Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions, to review CMHC’s books at least once a
year. It would also add two government deputy ministers to the
agency’s board.  Investors shouldn’t “overreact” to Flaherty’s comments
about exiting the mortgage insurance business, RBC Capital
Markets analysts Geoffrey Kwan and Sean Adamick said in an April
30 research note. “If it were to occur, we believe it would be
unlikely to happen for a while,” they said.  Handle Exit  The government would have to address a number of questions
about how to handle an exit, including whether it would raise
the legal limit on private mortgage insurance of C$250 billion,
the RBC analysts said.  While CMHC said in January it was rationing its mortgage
insurance as it approaches its legislated C$600 billion limit,
private mortgage insurers have room to grow this year, said Andy
Charles, chief executive officer of  Canada  Guaranty Mortgage
Insurance.  Canada Guaranty would like the limit raised to C$300
billion, Charles said in an April 18 phone interview. “I have a
strong level of comfort that the Department of Finance monitors
this.”  Flaherty would have to be careful not to sideswipe Canadian
banks in exiting mortgage insurance, because loans guaranteed by
the government are deemed riskless assets under international
capital rules, said Neil Mohindra, a policy analyst at the
Vancouver-based  Fraser Institute  research group.  Not Imminent  Flaherty questioned the need for a government-run mortgage
insurer in an April 27 interview with the National Post
newspaper. He later said any move on privatization isn’t
imminent. “In the longer term, there are a number of government
enterprises we review to see whether or not they need to remain
within the public sector,” the minister told reporters May 1 in
Kitchener, Ontario.  Governments don’t always need to intervene to promote home
ownership, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a  report 
published in April last year.  “Many countries in western  Europe , as well as  Australia ,
have achieved high homeownership rates without extensive
government participation,” the IMF said.  Spokesmen for CMHC and the Bank of Canada declined to
elaborate on their meeting last year. Part of the agency’s
mandate is to “conduct research and contribute to the well-
being of the housing sector by offering objective, reliable
housing information,” CMHC manager of media relations Teresa
Amoroso said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  