-- Canada Ex-PM Martin Evokes U.S. Hamilton for Europe
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-05-08T20:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/canada-ex-pm-martin-evokes-u-s-hamilton-for-europe.html
Former Canadian Prime Minister  Paul Martin  said  Europe  must make progress toward a deeper union that
includes joint euro-region bonds, much like what  Alexander
Hamilton  did in the U.S. more than two centuries ago.  Martin, speaking at the Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit in
Toronto, said that Europe needs to come to the “recognition”
that their currency union will eventually require the
development of federal institutions.  “Until they face up to that, I don’t think there is going
to be a solution to their problem,” Martin, 73, said.
“Alexander Hamilton did exactly what had to be done.”  In 1789, as the first Treasury secretary, Hamilton had the
U.S. federal government take over much of the states’ debt.  Martin said there will probably be more defaults in the
region and issuing of Eurobonds will be essential.  “The new debt is going to have to be euro-debt,” Martin
said.  The euro weakened for a seventh day against the dollar
today as Greek politicians struggled to form a new government
after elections over the weekend raised the prospect of the
country withdrawing from the currency bloc. The  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP)  slid 1.7 percent to 250.58 at the close in  London  as the
cost of insuring against default on European sovereign and
corporate debt advanced.  Martin, who eliminated deficits and reduced Canada’s debt
over his 13 years in office as both finance minister and prime
minister that ended in 2006, said European countries should
“stretch” out their austerity programs to ensure spending cuts
don’t end up fueling deficits and acknowledge that Greece won’t
be able to live up to its budget-cutting plan.  European banks will also have to put an end to their
“incestuous relationship” with sovereign debt, Martin said,
pointing to the practice of banks using low-cost funding
provided by the  European Central Bank  to purchase sovereign
bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in Toronto at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  