-- Canada Is World’s Biggest Oil Loser With Price Spread
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-05-08T16:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/canada-is-world-s-biggest-oil-loser-with-price-spread.html
Canada  buys high and  sells low  when it
comes to crude oil, costing the world’s 10th largest economy
billions in lost revenue as it expands production from one of
the world’s largest energy deposits.  The gap  between  Alberta’s exported Western Canada Select
and Brent oil imported into Ontario and Quebec was about $30.50
a barrel yesterday, and that difference is creating a drag on
growth according to  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney .  Annual losses of about C$19 billion ($19 billion) may
persist for a couple of years amid a lack of ready alternatives
for oil sands bitumen.  TransCanada Corp.’s (TRP)  Keystone XL pipeline
to U.S. Gulf coast refineries was delayed by President  Barack
Obama  while  Enbridge Inc.’s (ENB)  proposed Northern Gateway project to
the west coast faces environmental hearings and growing
opposition in British Columbia. There are no advanced proposals
to ship oil from Alberta east to the rest of Canada.  The price difference “highlights the importance and
potentially the value of pipelines in Canada that move our oil
on an east-west axis,” said  Jim Prentice , vice chairman of
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and a former minister for the
environment and industry. “That’s lost corporate revenue,
government income tax, government royalties.”  CIBC estimates losses to the economy of at least C$18
billion a year, while Bank of Montreal  economists say  the oil-
price gap costs about C$19 billion.  Bloomberg Summit  The economy and energy are topics that will be discussed
today at a Bloomberg Summit in Toronto that includes speakers
such as Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty, former Prime Minister
 Paul Martin  and Devon Canada Corp. President Christopher Seasons.  Canadian oil and gas stocks have lost 6.4 percent this
year, the ninth out of 10 sub-groups and  lagging  the 2.5 percent
drop for the country’s main stock index.  Companies such as  Bankers Petroleum Ltd. (BNK) , which earn money
from oil produced outside Canada, may outperform domestic
drillers such as  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) , Crescent Point Energy Corp.
and Suncor Energy Inc., said  Paul Taylor , Chief Investment
Officer at BMO Harris Private Banking in Toronto. Bankers
Petroleum has production in Albania that sells at Brent prices.  “That differential is probably going to stick for some
time,” Taylor said, citing Middle East tensions that may keep
Brent prices elevated and dim prospects for a quick end to the
glut of Canadian exported oil at Cushing, Oklahoma.  Economic Impact  In a 2005  report , the Bank of Canada said higher  oil prices 
benefited the economy, as the boost from increased investment
outweighed the drag on energy consumers such as factories. The
bank updated that view  last month , saying that oil market
developments this year have hurt Canada because “not all oil
prices have risen equally,” with the price gap reducing
Canada’s real domestic income.  Canadian oil-sands producers are ramping up investment that
will more than double output from Northern  Alberta ’s bitumen
fields to 3.5 million barrels a day by 2025, according to the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers. Production has
already risen from just over 1 million barrels a day in  2005 ,
according to provincial government figures.  Still, higher output hasn’t been enough for Canada to
escape a deficit in its broadest measure of trade, the  current
account . Being a net oil exporter with a current-account gap
makes Canada the biggest member of a club that includes Mexico
and Sudan. The International Monetary Fund  projects  Canada will
remain in a current-account deficit through 2017.  Energy Superpower  The drag from energy may blunt Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s efforts to brand Canada as an energy superpower.
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s March 29 fiscal plan included
steps to accelerate environmental reviews of major energy
projects.  The opposition  New Democratic Party  objects to fast-
tracking new pipelines, arguing better environmental controls
are needed and that Canada should consider refining bitumen at
home instead of exporting it to  Texas .  “This is the Wild West all over again, breaking down the
basic fundamentals and saying that all decisions with regards to
oil and pipelines will be political decisions,” Nathan Cullen,
an NDP lawmaker from British Columbia, told reporters May 4.  Some 52 percent of British Columbia residents oppose the
Northern Gateway proposal according to a Forum Research Inc.
telephone poll taken April 11, up from 46 percent in January.
The pipeline, which would carry crude from Alberta to the
 Pacific Ocean  at Kitimat, British Columbia, has been opposed by
environmental and aboriginal groups, who say a spill along the
coast would be catastrophic.  Better Prices  There are efforts to rework existing pipelines to fetch
better prices for Canadian oil, including Kinder Morgan Inc.’s
proposed expansion of the Trans Mountain line to Vancouver and
the reversal of the Seaway line owned by Enterprise Products
Partners LP and Enbridge between Cushing and Houston. As well,
TransCanada re-applied for a U.S. permit for Keystone XL on May
4, seeking permission to build a $5.3 billion portion of the
original project from the Canadian border to  Steele City ,
Nebraska.  Still, “Canada still exports primarily to the U.S.,” said
Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at TD Securities Inc. in
Toronto. “If you diversify it may be the case where you don’t
end up on the short end of the stick,” he said.  High prices for oil and other exported commodities have
helped keep the Canadian dollar at about parity with the  U.S.
dollar , adding to pressure on manufacturers, based primarily in
Ontario and  Quebec , who have fired 13 percent of their  workforce 
in the last five years.  “If I had my preferences as to whether we have a rapidly
growing oil and gas sector in the west or a lower dollar
benefiting Ontario, I’d tell you where I stand - with a lower
dollar,” Ontario Premier McGuinty said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  