-- McDonald’s April Sales Trail Estimates as U.S. Gains Slow
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-05-08T20:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/mcdonald-s-april-sales-trail-estimates-as-u-s-gains-slow.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13 months
rose 3.3 percent worldwide last month, trailing analysts’
estimates, as U.S. sales growth decelerated.  Analysts projected a gain of 4.3 percent, the average of 13
estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. Sales in the U.S.
advanced 3.3 percent, the slowest gain in 11 months, the  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts estimated an increase of 5.2 percent.  McDonald’s is working to refine its menu and modernize
restaurants “amidst a challenging global economic
environment,” Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said in the
statement. Employment growth slowed in April as U.S. employers
added the fewest number of jobs in six months and wages
stagnated, signaling the economic expansion may be cooling.  “The entire global business slowed dramatically in the
last week” of April, Brian Bittner, a New York-based analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., said in an interview. Consumer trends in the
restaurant industry are “unpredictably choppy” now, he said.  McDonald’s fell 2.1 percent to $93.55 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  dropped 0.7 percent last month.  Sales rose 1.1 percent in Asia Pacific, the  Middle East  and
 Africa . Analysts projected growth of 2.8 percent at locations in
the region, the average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based
Kaul Advisory Group. European sales gained 3.5 percent, topping
the average estimate for a 3.2 percent increase. The company
earlier said sales in  Japan  fell 3.6 percent in April.  Boosting Prices  McDonald’s, along with other restaurant operators, has
boosted menu prices because of higher costs for items such as
beef. Food costs may rise as much as 5.5 percent in the U.S. and
3.5 percent in  Europe  in 2012, Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen said during a conference call on April 20.  U.S. comparable-store sales sales gained 8 percent in
March, leading a 7.7 percent increase globally at McDonald’s,
which has about 33,500 locations worldwide. Comparable, or same-
store, sales are considered an indicator of a company’s growth
because they include only older locations.  Wendy’s Co. (WEN) , which has recently tried to boost sales with
premium sandwiches and remodeled stores, today reported first-
quarter revenue of $593.2 million, trailing analysts’  estimates 
of $609.2 million, the average of 15 projections compiled by
Bloomberg.  Wendy’s had “softer-than expected sales and company-
operated restaurant margin” during the quarter, the Dublin,
Ohio-based company said in a statement. There are more than
6,500 Wendy’s restaurants worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  