-- Cenovus Gives Safest Oil Sands Returns on Low-Cost Growth
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/cenovus-gives-safest-oil-sands-returns-on-low-cost-growth.html
Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  had the best risk-
adjusted returns among Canadian oil sands producers since it
started trading 29 months ago, as the company controlled costs
while expanding crude production.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows Cenovus, the
fifth-largest oil-sands producer, returned 1 percent when
factoring in price swings since the company was spun off from
Encana Corp. on Dec. 3, 2009. That’s the highest among peers
including  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the largest producer. The Calgary-
based company also beat Western  Canada  Select, the crude derived
from  Alberta  bitumen that trades near a record discount to the
U.S. benchmark.  Cenovus uses steam generated by burning natural gas to melt
the tar-like bitumen for easier extraction, a cheaper, less
labor-intensive method than traditional processes, making it the
most profitable in the industry. The stock may continue to
reward investors looking to minimize risk in their portfolios
while taking advantage of potential for growth from Canada’s oil
sands producers, said  John Stephenson , who helps manage C$2.7
billion ($2.73 billion) at First Asset Investment Management
Inc. in Toronto and holds Cenovus shares.  “They’re well-prepared for the next few years because they
can supply their own natural gas and they have one of the best
reservoirs in the business,” Stephenson said in an interview.  Beating Imperial, MEG  Imperial Oil Ltd., Canada’s second-largest oil producer by
market value, came in second place with a risk-adjusted return
of 0.6 percent.  MEG Energy Corp. (MEG) , at one-third Cenovus’s market
value, ranked third among major Canadian oil producers with a
return of 0.4 percent.  Cenovus provided higher total returns than Western Canada
Select while remaining a third less volatile than the benchmark
crude, which fluctuated between $45.80 and $98.18 during the
period.  “Cenovus’s oil-sands asset base is among the lowest cost,
so the value of the asset just doesn’t swing as much with  oil
prices  or oil-price expectations,” said  Randy Ollenberger , an
oil and gas analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Calgary.  The most expensive part of the method used by Cenovus,
known as steam-assisted gravity drainage, or SAGD, is natural
gas, which has been trading near 10-year lows since the
beginning of the year. That contrasts with mines owned by
Suncor,  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  and Imperial, where
labor is the biggest cost.  Highest Gross Margin  Cenovus’s cost-control strategy results in the highest
gross margin in the industry, at 91.8 percent compared with 40.5
percent at Suncor and 16.4 percent at Exxon. That means Cenovus
turns C$100 of sales into C$92 in profit.  “They’re taking $2 gas and converting it into $100 dollar
oil,” said fund manager Stephenson. “That’s a pretty good
deal.”  Canada has the world’s third-largest recoverable crude
reserves after  Saudi Arabia  and Venezuela, and the commodity is
the nation’s most valuable export worth about C$52 billion in
2010, according to the most recent figures available by
 Statistics Canada , the government statistics department.  This year through May 3, Cenovus produced a total return of
1 percent while being 15 percent less volatile than the average
of the largest oil sands producers, placing it fifth by risk-
adjusted return.  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , more volatile than the average but
with the best returns, is the best performer. Nexen’s shares
sank 29 percent in 2011.  Refining Hedge  Cenovus’s heavy-oil processing partnership with U.S.
refiner  Phillips 66 (PSX)  also gives the company a hedge against
swings in the price difference between heavy oil-sands crudes
and lighter varieties, said BMO Capital’s Ollenberger.  The Canadian company is part owner of the Wood River,
Illinois, and Borger,  Texas , refineries, which turn bitumen into
 jet fuel , gasoline and chemicals. By pairing production with
refining, Cenovus effectively hedges itself against some of the
risk of crude-price fluctuations, said First Asset’s Stephenson.  “We’re able to handle about 235,000 barrels a day of
Canadian heavy crude through the Wood River refinery,” Brian
Ferguson, chief executive officer of Cenovus, said in an
interview yesterday. “It really reduces the volatility in our
 cash flow  and our earnings performance.”  The  gap between heavy Canadian oils and other crudes in
the first quarter might have hurt the company’s profit had it
not been for the refinery venture’s ability to make more money
by buying low-priced crude, he said.  Crude Price Gap  “They’re capturing the full value chain and avoiding the
problems that some competitors have,” with discounted prices
for sellers of Western Canada Select, Stephenson said. The
 difference  between the Canadian crude and West Texas
Intermediate reached a record gap of $36 on March 7.  Imperial, 70-percent owned by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , is
currently spending about C$9 billion to build a bitumen mine,
where the hydrocarbon-saturated sand is scraped from near the
surface, transported in some of the largest trucks on earth and
boiled in giant tanks to separate the oil. Imperial also
operates a chain of gas stations in Canada.  Oil-sands miners, which have the best recovery rates from
their reserves, face volatile labor costs in Alberta’s tight
market. The province of 3.7 million people is looking for ways
to stimulate immigration, Premier Alison Redford has said.  Best In-Situ Assets  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price variation,
giving a measure of income per unit of risk. A higher volatility
means the price of an asset can swing dramatically in a short
period of time, increasing the potential for unexpected losses.  Cenovus has about 8.2 billion barrels of economically
recoverable bitumen on 2.1 million acres in Alberta’s oil sands
region.  “They have arguably the best in-situ oil sands assets in
the region,” said Robert Mark, who helps manage C$4.5 billion
in assets at MacDougall, MacDougall & MacTier Inc., a Montreal-
based investment firm. “Anyone who knows the sector knows that
Cenovus’s assets are top-drawer.”  Cenvous’s  cash from operations , a metric used by analysts
to measure oil producers’ performance while factoring out
investment costs, expanded to C$665 million in the first
quarter, almost four times the C$150 million it saw in the
fourth quarter of 2009. That compares with a doubling to C$3.4
billion at Suncor and a 13-percent increase to C$1.1 billion at
 Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)   1.4 Million Acres  “You’re hugely advantaged if you have high quality
assets,” Ferguson, the CEO, said. “And we have a very broad
and deep portfolio.” The company’s 1.4 million acres of oil
sands leases were acquired over the past three decades, he said.  So far in the second quarter, volatility at Cenovus has
remained below average, while smaller producers like MEG,
 Athabasca Oil Sands Corp. (ATH)  and Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. have
posted better returns as the price differential between Western
Canada Select and West Texas Intermediate crudes has diminished,
reducing the companies’ perceived risk among investors.  Rising cash flow has helped Cenovus reduce the need for
 debt , which stands at about C$6.5 billion and translates to a
debt-to-market cap ratio of 0.15, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with C$14.3 billion in outstanding
notes and a ratio of 0.21 at Suncor.  Dividend Support  The company pays a dividend to investors that helps support
the stock “from a valuation point of view,” BMO’s Ollenberger
said. “It makes them a little more defensive.”  The company’s 22-cent quarterly dividend has a 12-month
yield of 2.4 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The indicated yield is 2.6, the data showed.  Cenovus uses less steam and water than some competitors
because of the rich bitumen deposits of its reserves, lowering
operating costs and  capital investment  needed for larger steam
generators, said CEO Ferguson. It also reduces the environmental
footprint, something investors are increasingly focused on, said
Mark, the MacDougall fund manager.  “Companies that can show water is being re-used and that
they’re being energy efficient will have a competitive
advantage,” he said. “Lowering steam-to-oil ratios helps on
costs and the environment.”  Water Use Reductions  Technology improvements, including the use of chemicals
mixed with steam to further reduce the amount of water and
energy used in extraction, will help maintain the pace of cost
reduction and make better use of its resource, Ferguson said.  Cenovus got a boost when it was allowed to keep oil-fields
in southeastern Saskatchewan and low-cost gas fields in Alberta
in the separation from Encana. Conventional oil and natural-gas
liquids production made up 75,000 barrels a day, or 48 percent
of its output in the first quarter.  The conventional oil assets are “not a big deal for
them,” Ollenberger said. “Those provide a little bit of
diversification.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  