-- Centro Retail in Talks to Settle A$200 Million Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-08T05:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/centro-retail-in-talks-to-settle-a-200-million-lawsuit.html
Centro Retail Australia, formed from
the reorganization of a mall manager facing claims of more than
A$200 million ($204 million) by shareholders in a lawsuit, is in
talks to settle the case.  The company asked for a share-trading halt “pending an
announcement regarding class action litigation settlement
discussions,” Centro Retail said in a statement today.  IMF
(Australia) Ltd. (IMF) , a provider of funds for litigation, also
requested its stock be halted from trading, according to a
separate statement.  The trial before Federal Court Justice Michelle Gordon
began March 5 and was scheduled to run through June 22 as
shareholders of  Centro Properties Group , the former Australian
mall manager, claimed the company misled them over debts.
Lawsuits filed by class-action firms  Maurice Blackburn  Lawyers
and  Slater & Gordon (SGH)  Lawyers were being tried together, with
PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm, also being sued for
failing to audit the company properly.  “There’s a bit of a tendency to have these things
settled,”  Ian Ramsay , a professor of commercial law at the
University of  Melbourne , said in a telephone interview. “The
judge expressed concern over the cost of the litigation.”  Cameron Scott, a spokesman at Maurice Blackburn in
Melbourne, declined to comment. Hamish Heard, a spokesman at
Slater & Gordon, also declined to comment.  John Walker ,
 executive director  at IMF ( Australia ), said a blackout was in
effect and he couldn’t comment.  Misleading Accounts  Several of Centro’s former directors and executives were
found liable in 2011 for having released misleading statements.  Justice John Middleton in Melbourne fined Andrew Scott, a
former director, A$30,000 and barred previous Chief Financial
Officer Romano Nenna from serving as a director for two years
for approving the release of misleading statements. Four other
former directors and two who were directors at the time of the
Aug. 31, 2011, ruling were reprimanded.  Centro’s 2007 annual report failed to disclose A$1.5
billion of short-term liabilities by classifying them as non-
current, and the company didn’t declare $1.75 billion of short-
term debt guarantees of an associated company, Middleton said in
an earlier ruling in June. The mall manager also didn’t disclose
A$500 million of short-term debt at one of its units, the judge
said.  ‘Significant Deficiencies’  Middleton found “significant deficiencies” in the audit
conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers, said Ramsay, the commercial
law professor.  The extent to which auditors are liable in company-related
lawsuits in Australia is unclear, Ramsay said. This case could
be an opportunity to clarify the limits on their liability given
that auditors are often seen as the last defendant standing when
companies file for bankruptcy or are liquidated, he said.  Centro first announced a restructuring plan in 2009 after a
debt-fueled U.S. buying spree backfired when the global
financial crisis caused property values to plummet and borrowing
costs to soar, leaving the company unable to refinance its
liabilities.  Centro, which managed about A$16.5 billion of shopping
malls in Australia,  New Zealand  and the U.S., accumulated about
A$16 billion of debt across its businesses. The company avoided
receivership in December, when shareholders and debt holders
agreed to a plan to swap A$2.9 billion of debt for equity in a
new company,  Centro Retail Australia. (CRF)   Blackstone Real Estate Partners VI LP, a unit of the
world’s biggest private-equity firm, agreed to buy Centro’s 588
U.S. malls in March 2011 for $9.4 billion. Centro also agreed to
swap part of its debt for 108 Australian properties.  IMF shares fell 2.9 percent to A$1.34 yesterday, while
Centro Retail gained 0.4 percent to A$1.8475. Shares of both
companies have been halted until the start of trading on May 10
or when an announcement is made.  The case is: Richard Kirby v. Centro Properties Ltd.
VID326/2008. Federal Court of Australia (Melbourne).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  