-- McGuinty Seeks Ontario Conservative Backing on Public Pay
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r r y
-- 2012-05-08T17:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/mcguinty-seek-ontario-conservative-backing-on-public-pay-1-.html
Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty said
he will seek backing from the opposition Progressive
Conservatives on public sector wage freezes needed to bring the
budget of the country’s most-populous province back to balance.  McGuinty, speaking at the Bloomberg  Canada  Economic Summit
in Toronto, said his government “will do everything within our
power” to deliver on a fiscal plan that seeks to eliminate the
province’s deficit by 2017.  “We’ve entered into a period of prolonged slow growth. We
have a significant deficit,” McGuinty said. “We’re not going
to get out of this by sitting on our hands.”  McGuinty’s Liberals lost their majority in the provincial
legislature in last year’s elections, and now must rely on the
help of opposition lawmakers to pass laws. Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded the province’s rating to Aa2 from Aa1 on
April 26, calling Ontario’s goal to achieve a balanced budget
“ambitious.”  Standard & Poor’s  said the spending targets were
“challenging” as it reduced its outlook to negative.  Moody’s downgrade reflected the agency’s concerns about the
political uncertainty in Ontario, and wasn’t a negative
assessment of his government’s budget plan, the Ontario premier
said.  “They expressed some concerns about our ability to deliver
on that plan and specifically in so far as our status as a
minority government,” McGuinty said. “We cannot deliver on
much of our plan without the support of one of the two other
parties.”  Won’t Avoid Responsibility  “It’s important that our public sector partners know that
we will not shrink from that responsibility,” McGuinty told
reporters after speaking at the summit.  Ontario announced plans to freeze the fees that the
province’s doctors charge for health care in a bid to save
C$338.3 million ($339.4 million) in the 2012-2013 fiscal year,
the government said today in a statement.  McGuinty’s finance minister, Dwight Duncan, released a
fiscal plan in March that will seek to freeze public-sector
wages and scrap corporate tax cuts to balance its budget by
2017-18 as it tries to close Canada’s biggest provincial
shortfall.  To survive the vote on the 2012 budget, the Liberals last
month agreed to introduce a 2 percent tax on people with incomes
greater than C$500,000, meeting a demand from the  New Democratic
Party . The surtax would generate C$470 million next year,
McGuinty said, all of which would go to reduce the province’s
deficit, which is slated to drop to C$14.8 billion in the year
that began April 1.  No ‘Big Fan’  McGuinty said that while he was not a “big fan” of the
tax, he had no choice to work with the NDP because the
Progressive Conservatives “didn’t show up” and the government
wanted to avoid a new election.  Ontario may need to legislate the pay freeze if it can’t
come to a negotiated agreement with public sector workers and
may again need the support of the opposition to implement the
fiscal plan, McGuinty said.  “Now the big challenge is to confront some of our
compensation issues,” he said. “I’m hopeful that I’ll find
some common ground with the party that sits to my right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
John McCorry in Toronto at 
 jmccorry@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  