-- Chavez to Return Home in ‘Coming Days,’ Planning for Campaign
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-05-08T03:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/chavez-to-return-home-in-coming-days-planning-for-campaign.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  plans
to return to his country from Cuba in the “coming days” and
said he’ll soon be on the “front lines” of his effort to
extend his 13-year rule in an October election.  “I’ll emerge from this special situation in the following
days,” said Chavez, who spoke on state television last night
via telephone. “The campaign starts in July, August, September,
and I’m going to work very hard.”  Chavez, who is undergoing treatment for an undisclosed
cancer, said his goal is to win the October election with 70
percent of the vote even as he faces speculation his illness is
worse than what he has disclosed. Since June, he has undergone
three operations and several rounds of chemotherapy and
radiation treatment in Cuba.  Chavez, 57, said he continues on the communist island to
receive radiation therapy, physical therapy and to rest.  Last week, Chavez created a Council of State to advise on
key issues as his battle with cancer restricts his ability to
govern.  Before departing April 30 on his sixth trip to Cuba this
year for radiation therapy, Chavez said the council’s first task
would be to study whether Venezuela should exit the  Organization
of American States ’ human rights commission, which he accused of
bias against his government.  Vice President Elias Jaua, who heads the council, said the
constitution established it as a consulting body and denied
speculation that it is a transitional body, according to a
government statement sent by e-mail yesterday.  New Members  Today, the pro-Chavez National Assembly plans to name new
members to the Council of State designated in a presidential
decree, a representative selected by the National Assembly and
another by the  Supreme Court .  Venezuelan state governors yesterday nominated Vargas
Governor Jorge Garcia Carneiro, who is a general, to join the
council, state-run Agencia Venezolana de Noticias reported.  Chavez also said last night that  Venezuela ’s opposition was
working to promote unrest before the coming election.  “We should work to neutralize all the destabilization
plans that seek to ruin the peace in the country,” Chavez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  