-- China’s Gold Imports Jump as Country May Become Biggest User
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-08T09:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/china-s-gold-imports-advance-as-country-may-become-biggest-user.html
Mainland China’s gold imports from
 Hong Kong  surged more than sixfold in the first quarter, adding
to signs that the country may displace  India  as the world’s
largest consumer of the precious metal on an annual basis.  Imports from Hong Kong were 135,529 kilograms (135.53
metric tons) between January and March, from 19,729 kilograms in
the year-earlier period, according to  data  from the Census and
Statistics Department of the Hong Kong government. Shipments in
March rose 59 percent from February, yesterday’s data showed.  Demand has climbed in the world’s second-largest economy as
rising incomes and curbs on property speculation boosted
purchases. China may become the biggest user annually this year,
according to a forecast from the producer-funded World Gold
Council. Last year, total Indian demand including for jewelry
and investment was 933.4 tons to  China ’s 769.8 tons.  “We’re looking at another solid year for Chinese demand
based on these early numbers,” said Nick Trevethan, senior
commodities strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. “While it’s largely related to price, negative real
interest rates should keep demand strong.”  Gold has lost 15 percent from its record $1,921.15 an ounce
in September as the  European debt crisis , combined with reduced
expectations for further monetary easing by the  Federal Reserve ,
boosted the dollar. Spot gold traded 0.6 percent lower at
$1,629.20 at 5:24 p.m. in  London .  Largest Consumer  The prospect of China becoming the largest bullion user
reflects the country’s  economic ascendance . Per capita gross
domestic product has more than doubled since 2000, according to
World Bank data. The country is already the world’s top consumer
of copper and biggest producer of steel.  Gold shipments to the mainland climbed in March to 62,913
kilograms, the Hong Kong data showed. That compares with 39,668
kilograms in February and 9,166 kilograms in March 2011. China
doesn’t publish gold-trade data. Last year, imports from Hong
Kong more than tripled to 431,226 kilograms.  The purchases through Hong Kong may signal that the
mainland is accumulating reserves, London-based brokerage Sharps
Pixley Ltd. said in February. The nation last made its reserves
known more than two years ago, stating them at 1,054 tons.  “Summer is usually the low season for gold consumption,”
said Liang Ruian, director at Pinpoint Investment Consulting Ltd.
in Beijing. “If we can see growth even in the low season, it
represents the resilient nature of China’s gold consumption.”  Interest Rates  China expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months of
2012 from a year earlier in the fifth quarterly deceleration as
authorities cracked down on property speculation. Inflation was
3.6 percent in March, below a government target of about 4
percent. So-called real  interest rates  are negative when the
amount paid to savers on deposits is less than inflation.  Indian Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said yesterday
that he was withdrawing an excise tax on precious-metal jewelry,
boosting prospects for the country’s gold demand this year.
Imports in April had plunged to 30 tons to 35 tons from 90 tons
a year earlier, according to the Bombay Bullion Association.  “China’s strong demand for bullion may help support  gold
prices  at lower levels,” said  James Steel , an analyst at HSBC
Securities (USA) Inc. “A recovery in Indian gold demand should
be an important factor in support of gold prices.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  