-- China Repo Rate Drops on Speculation of Reserve-Requirement Cut
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-05-08T09:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/china-repo-rate-drops-on-speculation-of-reserve-requirement-cut.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell for a third day on speculation policy makers will reduce
banks’ reserve-requirement ratios to spur growth in  Asia ’s
biggest economy.  Government data on May 10 will probably show exports rose
8.5 percent in April from a year earlier after increasing 8.9
percent in March, according to the median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg survey. Consumer prices increased 3.4 percent,
compared with 3.6 percent in March, a separate survey showed
before the report due May 11.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, decreased five basis
points to 3.70 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  “We feel the odds of a 50 basis-point cut in  reserve
requirements  in May are still quite high,” Weisheng He, a
Shanghai-based fixed-income analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in
a report today. “In the absence of a reserve cut, we think the
seven-day repo rate is likely to range between 3.5 percent and 4
percent in the next few weeks.”  The People’s Bank of China will sell 20 billion  yuan  ($3.2
billion) of 28-day  repurchase agreements  today, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  The central bank last reduced the proportion of cash that
lenders must set aside in February, lowering the reserve-
requirement ratio for major lenders by half a percentage point
to 20.5 percent.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 3.33 percent in Shanghai, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on  government bonds  due
February 2022 dropped one basis point to 3.545 percent,
according to the National Interbank Funding Center.  ‘Underweight Long-end’  The yield is close to the upper-end of a recent range
between 3.5 percent and 3.55 percent and may climb as five-year
 interest-rate swaps  break through a 3.5 percent resistance level,
Citigroup’s He wrote.  “We suggest investors are underweight the long-end
government bonds,” He said. “It makes sense for investors to
switch their long-end exposure from government debt to  China
Development Bank .”  The lender is the biggest of the nation’s state-owned
policy banks and 10-year bonds from such issuers yield 85 basis
points more than similar-maturity government debt, according to
Chinabond, the nation’s biggest debt clearing house.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  