-- China Steelmills Want Vale Mega Ships to Dock at Nation’s Ports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-08T07:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/china-steelmills-want-vale-mega-ships-to-dock-at-nation-s-ports.html
China ’s steelmakers, the world’s
biggest iron-ore buyers, favor  Vale SA (VALE3) ’s very large ships
carrying the raw material to get government approval to dock at
the nation’s ports as the move will cut transport costs.  “The ships will benefit the steelmakers as they will lower
costs than those incurred using small ships,” Zhang Changfu,
general secretary of the China Iron and Steel Association, said
today in an interview in Beijing. “If the government asks for
our advice, I would say that. So far, the government hasn’t made
a decision.”  Vale, which controls about 26 percent of the world’s
seaborne iron-ore trade, is spending more than $8 billion to run
very large ore carriers to Asia from Brazil. The so-called
Valemax ships will lower costs and allow the Rio De Janeiro-
based company to compete with Australian  iron ore  exporters.  Carolyn Tang, a public-relations official with Vale in
China, declined to comment when reached by Bloomberg News.  Vale is seeking permits for the vessels to call at Chinese
ports, Jose Carlos Martins, Vale’s head of ferrous and strategy,
told journalists in London on Dec. 7. The plan has spurred
opposition from Chinese shipowners, which own the smaller ships
and say the move will worsen overcapacity and cause industry
wide losses.  Rio Tinto Group,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Vale signed separate
agreements last month to sell some of iron ore through China’s
spot-trading platform, which started today. The platform will
strengthen the bargaining ability of steelmakers and improve
transparency, according to the China Beijing International
Mining Exchange, which set up the online platform, along with
the association.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  