-- Chinese General Downplays China’s Role in Cyber Attacks
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-05-08T03:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/chinese-general-downplays-china-s-role-in-cyber-attacks.html
The U.S. and Chinese militaries should
work as equals and avoid the “stereotype” of being
confrontational superpowers, Chinese General Liang Guanglie said
on his first visit to  Washington  as defense minister.  Speaking to reporters yesterday following talks with
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , Liang disputed a question about
China’s responsibility for cyber attacks against the U.S. and
said the two sides discussed ways to “build a new state-to-
state relationship that’s not a stereotype of two major powers
predestined for conflict.”  Liang’s call to be treated as an equal reflects China’s
growing desire, backed by its $5.9 trillion economy, to be
considered a power on par with the U.S. It comes as the U.S. is
shifting its military posture to the Asia-Pacific area,
reflecting concerns by the U.S. and nations in the region about
China’s expanding reach and competition for resources such as
oil and gas in the  South China Sea .  “I proposed that the two militaries build a new
relationship based on equality, mutual benefit and
cooperation,” said Liang.  China’s emphasis on equality is in line with its previous
“win-win formulations” intended to show that its economic and
military rise is not intended to diminish U.S. power, said
Patrick Cronin, an Asia specialist at the Center for New
American Security, a policy center in Washington. Still, “China
wants to be treated like a superpower but does not yet want
responsibilities of one,” he said.  ‘Deal With Challenges’  Liang’s visit, the first such high level military visit
since President Barack Obama took office, comes after a series
of incidents that in the past would have derailed high-level
meetings between officials of the two countries. This is also
the first meeting between the top U.S. and Chinese defense
ministers after the U.S. in November announced plans to focus
defense efforts toward the Asia-Pacific region.  Panetta, asked if the U.S. pivot toward the Asia-Pacific
region is intended to contain China’s rise, said the purpose of
the U.S. effort is to help countries in the region “develop
their capabilities so they can deal with challenges.”  The Pentagon is interested in engaging in a “similar
relationship with China’s military to confront common challenges
and provide for stability and safety of the region,” Panetta
said.  After Obama spelled out U.S. strategy toward the Asia-
Pacific in November, China in March said it would increase its
defense spending 11.2 percent to about 670 billion  yuan  ($106.4
billion). The Pentagon’s proposed 2013 budget is $525 billion.  Oil and Gas  China has several disagreements with  Vietnam , the
 Philippines  and  Japan  over control of oil- and gas-rich waters
and has a lingering territorial dispute with  India  that erupted
into a war in 1962. It also seeks control of Taiwan, which it
regards as a renegade province.  Liang said his visit to the U.S. despite recent incidents
shows that there’s a “turnover in U.S.-China military”
relations.  For nearly two weeks the U.S. and China have negotiated
over the future of Chinese human-rights activist  Chen Guangcheng , who escaped house arrest and sought shelter at the
U.S. embassy in Beijing. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the U.S. reached an accord with Chinese authorities to
allow him and his family to come to the U.S., where has an offer
to be an visiting scholar at  New York  University.  In September, the Obama administration announced a $5.3
billion arms package to Taiwan, including upgrades to 145 older
F-16 fighters. After declining to provide Taiwan with new
versions of the jets made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the Obama
administration on April 27 said it may consider doing so.  Panetta to China  China’s decision not to cancel Liang’s visit over those
developments “suggests there’s a little more ballast to the
U.S.-China relations” than in the past, Cronin said.  Liang said Panetta had accepted his invitation to visit
Beijing in the second half of this year.  Panetta and Liang, appearing together at a Pentagon press
briefing, said they also discussed cyber security issues.  Asked about U.S. intelligence reports pointing to cyber
attacks and data theft that originate from China, Liang took
umbrage at the question, saying that not all attacks on U.S.
networks came from  China .  “I can hardly agree with the proposition that the cyber
attacks directed to the  United States  are directly coming from
China.” he said. “And during the meetings, Secretary Panetta
also agreed on my point that we cannot attribute all the cyber
attacks” to China.  Avoid ‘Miscalculations’  China, too, is concerned about cyber attacks because it
“relates to politics, military and people’s livelihood,” Liang
said, citing the example of an attack on a bank that “affects
people’s lives.”  Panetta said cyber attacks on both Chinese and U.S.
computer networks come from “other countries, hackers and
others.” Since the U.S., and China have “technical
capabilities in this arena” the two countries must work
together to avoid “miscalculations” that may lead to a crisis,
Panetta said.  As part of an effort to increase transparency between the
two militaries, Liang and his delegation, which includes the
head of the People’s Liberation Army’s 2nd Artillery Corps
responsible for its nuclear forces, as well as chiefs of the
Navy and  Air Force , will stop at several U.S. military
installations during their visit, according to China’s official
Xinhua news agency.  The Chinese delegation plans to go to Fort Benning,
 Georgia , home of the U.S. Army’s 3rd Brigade, 3rd Infantry
Division, and Southern Command based in Doral,  Florida . They
will also meet with non-commissioned officers of the 2nd Marine
Expeditionary Forces at Camp Lejeune,  North Carolina  and visit
the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point , New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  