-- China Summons Philippine Envoy Over South China Sea Dispute
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-08T10:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/china-summons-philippine-envoy-over-south-china-sea-dispute-1-.html
Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying
summoned a Beijing-based Philippine diplomat over a territorial
dispute in the  South China Sea , telling the envoy that the
 Philippines  is escalating the issue.  “I have summoned you twice last month, urging the
Philippines to calm down, and to stop any actions that will
expand and complicate the issues,” Fu told the Philippine
charge d’affairs, according to  a statement  on the Foreign
Ministry website dated yesterday. “But it’s obvious that the
Philippines hasn’t realized they are committing a serious
mistake.”  Philippine and Chinese ships have been locked in a
monthlong standoff over the disputed island in the South  China 
Sea, which the Philippines calls the Scarborough Shoal and China
calls Huangyan. On April 10, Chinese ships blocked the
Philippines from inspecting Chinese fishing boats in the area.  “The Chinese side has also made all preparations to
respond to any escalation of the situation by the Philippine
side,” Fu told the charge d’affairs, whom the Xinhua News
Agency identified as Alex Chua.  The Philippines has sought arbitration at the International
Tribunal on the Law of the Sea. Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei reiterated what he called China’s
“indisputable sovereignty” over the island during a daily
briefing today.  “Whatever the Philippine side says or does about Huangyan
island, it will not change the fact that Huangyan island belongs
to China,” Hong said.  The comments follow an April 23  report  in the Manila-based
Philippine Daily Inquirer citing Senator Edgardo J. Angara as
saying that an 1820 map shows that the Scarborough Shoal belongs
to the Philippines.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  