-- Clinton Says Ties With China Made Deal on Activist Easier
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-09T06:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/china-legal-activist-chen-working-on-travel-permits-u-s-says.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the benefits of expanded U.S.-China contacts were
demonstrated in working out a deal on activist  Chen Guangcheng 
and averting a crisis capable of damaging relations.  Clinton, in an interview yesterday in  New Delhi , said that
the work she and others have done to establish multiple channels
for dialogue over the last 3 1/2 years “created a level of
personal relationships and understandings between individuals
and our government institutions that is absolutely critical.”  Clinton suggested that China’s willingness to agree to a
U.S. proposal to assist a prominent critic of the government’s
one-child policy is an indication that taking a broader view of
the relationship pays dividends in a moment of crisis.  “I’ve invested a lot and argued strongly” for keeping
regular channels of communication open so that no one issue
“predominates or undermines the potential for reaching
agreement on other equally important issues,” the top U.S.
diplomat told Bloomberg Radio.  Chen, a blind self-taught lawyer who was imprisoned and
later kept under extrajudicial house arrest in Shandong province
after helping villagers protest forced abortions and
sterilizations, remains in a Beijing hospital, where U.S.
officials are in “close contact” with him, Clinton said.  “He’s continuing to receive medical treatment,” U.S.
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said at a briefing
yesterday, adding that the U.S. has its “ducks in a row” to
process his case.  Chen is “meeting with Chinese authorities to pursue the
necessary steps to be able to leave” to study at  New York 
University, Clinton said. “We’re also, on our end, expediting
and making the necessary preparations. My goal is to welcome him
to the  United States .”  Highly Unusual Step  After Chen evaded security guards around his home and made
contact with U.S. officials in Beijing, Clinton authorized
diplomats to take the highly unusual step of picking up the
injured activist and bringing him to safety in the embassy. The
American diplomats sent to fetch him were chased and almost
aborted their mission, U.S. officials said.  Asked if she feared her decision might spur a run on U.S.
embassies by dissidents in China and elsewhere, Clinton called
Chen’s case an “exceptional” one under “extraordinary
circumstances, and I do not anticipate seeing any case like this
again.”  The activist’s appeal to the U.S. for help during Clinton’s
visit to Beijing for high-level talks last week triggered a
diplomatic crisis that shined a spotlight on human rights
violations in China and threatened to derail China’s annual
dialogue with Clinton and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Second Deal  An initial deal with Chinese authorities reached the night
Clinton arrived would have allowed Chen to reunite with his
family and live freely in China to study law. That agreement
collapsed when he changed his mind hours after leaving the U.S.
embassy for the hospital on May 2. In Washington, Republican
critics accused the Obama administration of not doing enough to
protect Chen and being naive to trust China’s promises.  Clinton weighed in on the around-the-clock negotiations on
the sidelines of the yearly Strategic and Economic Dialogue, and
a second deal was crafted two days later. China said Chen and
his family could apply for passports to enable him to accept a
fellowship from  New York University .  China’s Foreign Ministry said Chen, who was imprisoned for
four years, had the right to apply for travel documents like any
other citizen. Chen had been held under house arrest in the
village of Dongshigu for more than a year after his release from
prison. Local officials had walls erected around his home, and
plainclothes guards prevented people from visiting him,
sometimes beating them up, during that time.  ‘Working Very Hard’  Clinton declined to predict how long it would take for Chen
to be able to leave China, saying only that both sides are
“working very hard. There are a lot of people engaged in both
the Chinese and the American governments.”  While  China ’s official Xinhua news agency denounced the
U.S. involvement in the Chen case before the final deal was
crafted, the response from Chinese authorities was more muted
than it had been in previous crises.  After a Chinese jet fighter collided with a U.S. Navy spy
plane off the coast of China on April 1, 2001, Beijing’s
leadership allowed the downed American plane’s crew to return
only after then-ambassador to China Joseph Prueher delivered a
letter saying the U.S. was “very sorry” for the Chinese
pilot’s death.  Declining to comment on how the U.S. managed to craft a
deal this time in a sensitive case involving a Chinese activist,
Clinton said that “every high-level Chinese official that I
met” last week “repeated back to me” words from a speech she
delivered in  Washington  reflecting on Sino-U.S. relations in the
40 years since President  Richard Nixon ’s historic outreach to
communist China.  Chinese officials, she said, echoed her view that “what we
are trying to do -- the U.S. and China -- is unprecedented in
world history. We’re trying to find a way for an established
power and a rising power to coexist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New Delhi at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  