-- China Growth Shift Splits KFC, Hydraulics
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-09T03:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/china-growth-shift-splits-kfc-hydraulics.html
Rising profits in  China  for  Yum!
Brands Inc. (YUM)  and slowing sales for electrical-equipment maker
Eaton Corp. are signs of a shift in the nation’s economy toward
being driven more by consumers.  Yum, the operator of Pizza Hut and KFC restaurants, is
counting on rising incomes in the world’s second-largest economy
and said one measure of operating profit in China rose 14
percent in the first quarter. Eaton cited the same “fundamental
change” in  China’s economy  toward consumption for weakness in
its business there.  The transition may be evident in reports starting tomorrow,
which will probably show  imports  picked up in April and retail
sales held pace while exports and fixed-asset investment
decelerated, according to Bloomberg News surveys. The shift will
help sustain growth, even as policy easing has a bigger impact
driving expansion in the short run, said  Tim Condon , chief Asia
economist at ING Financial Markets.  “The rebalancing is definitely taking place,” said
Condon, who is based in  Singapore  and formerly worked at the
 World Bank . In addition, recent easing indicates full-year
growth will pick up to about 8.5 percent, he said.  In the long run, China will have “more balanced growth as
consumption takes a bigger share” while the proportions from
investment and national savings shrink, Condon said.  Stocks Slide  The nation’s economic fundamentals are “good” even as
domestic and external conditions remain “complex,” Finance
Minister  Xie Xuren  said in an interview with Economic Daily,
according to a transcript published on the ministry’s website
today.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slipped 1.2 percent as of 11:11 a.m.
local time, poised for the biggest drop since March 29, as
political tension in  Greece  raised concerns that Europe’s debt
crisis may further slow export growth.  China’s  economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter
of 2012 from a year earlier in the fifth quarterly deceleration
as Premier  Wen Jiabao  extended a clampdown on the  property
market  and the sluggish global recovery limited the nation’s
exports.  Proportion Rising  Consumption including  government spending  on public
services accounted for about 77 percent, or 6.2 percentage
points, of GDP growth in the first quarter, while investment
contributed 2.7 points and net exports subtracted 0.8 point,
according to China’s statistics bureau. That compares with
consumption’s 51 percent share of growth for 2011, versus
investment’s 54 percent and minus 5.8 percent for exports.  Yum and Eaton gave their respective outlooks in earnings
conference calls with investors last month. “Rising incomes are
making our brands even more affordable for an increasing number
of people,” Yum Chief Executive Officer  David Novak  said April
19. Long-term economic trends are “working in our favor in
China” for the Louisville, Kentucky-based company, he said.  The company said in February it’s opening at least 600
restaurants in China this year out of 1,500 new outlets outside
the U.S.  Alexander Cutler, CEO of Cleveland-based Eaton, said April
23 that the hydraulics maker’s China business may fail to
recover in the third quarter as previously anticipated. The
country is “going through a fundamental change as they’re
trying to move themselves to an economy that’s got more
balance” toward consumption, Cutler said.  Leadership Change  China’s overseas sales  gains  may have cooled further to 8.5
percent in April from a year earlier, while import growth
probably doubled to 10.9 percent, based on the median estimates
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of a customs bureau
report tomorrow. The  trade surplus  may have narrowed to $9.9
billion from $11.4 billion in April 2011.  The ruling Communist Party may not be satisfied with a
growth shift that slows expansion too much as leaders prepare
for a once-a-decade power transfer to a younger generation of
officials.  “Policy support is still needed to avoid a further growth
downturn, and inflation should not be an obstacle for policy
easing in the near term,” said Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-based
economist with Citigroup Inc.  Moderating Inflation  That flexibility comes from consumer price gains that were
probably below the government’s 4 percent goal for a third
month. Inflation may have moderated to 3.4 percent in April,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Producer prices may have shown
the first back-to-back declines since 2009.  The government has lowered banks’ reserve requirement ratio
twice since November to boost liquidity and spur lending. Its
pause since the second cut announced Feb. 18 has lasted 81 days,
surpassing the 80 between the first two.  Interest rates  have
been unchanged since an increase in July.  A rebound in China’s growth may improve prospects for a
global expansion clouded by slowing job gains in the U.S. and
waning demand in  Europe  as governments from  Spain  to  Italy  are
forced to implement spending cuts to resolve debt turmoil.  A consumer-driven economy may fail to arrive in China in
the next few years, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . The ratio of investment to GDP is likely to remain above
45 percent through 2017, Murtaza Syed, the fund’s resident
representative in Beijing, said in a briefing yesterday.  Output Growth  Industrial production  growth probably accelerated to 12.2
percent growth in April from a year earlier, while  retail sales 
growth was little changed at 15.1 percent, economists surveyed
by Bloomberg said.  Fixed-asset investment  growth excluding rural
households probably slowed to a 20.5 percent in the first four
months of this year from 20.9 percent in the first quarter.  The  National Bureau of Statistics  is scheduled to release
figures for inflation, production, retail sales and fixed-asset
investment on May 11.  Lenders may have issued 780 billion  yuan  ($124 billion) of
new local-currency loans in April, economists said ahead of a
People’s Bank of China report due around the middle of the
month. That compares with 1.01 trillion yuan in March and 739.6
billion in April 2011.  “The China expansion has been powered by investment and
export growth,” said Liu Li-Gang, chief China economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The
rebalancing will require consumption to play a larger role in
future growth.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  