-- Canadian Equities Face ‘Real Risk’ of Correction, CIBC Says
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-05-08T16:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/cibc-s-gibson-sees-real-risk-of-correction-in-canada-equities.html
Canadian equities face a “real risk”
of a correction given the fiscal turmoil in  Europe  and weak
corporate earnings, said  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ’s
chief portfolio strategist.  Peter Gibson, speaking today at the Bloomberg Canada
Economic Summit in Toronto, said the correction could cut as
much as 5 percent to 10 percent from stock market indexes in
Canada and the U.S. and last as long as three months, Gibson
said.  While the longer-term equities outlook is “favorable,”
the renewed instability in Europe “suggests there’s a real risk
of a correction,” said Gibson, who has been named Canada’s top
quantitative analyst 21 times in annual Brendan Wood
International surveys of money managers.  “It’s the low return on equity I’m really worried about,”
he said.  Global stock markets fell for a second session today
following the election of anti-austerity candidate  Francois Hollande  as French president and speculation that  Greece ’s next
government will reject terms of its bailout. Equity gains have
stalled in the past month, with Canada’s benchmark Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index losing about 7 percent since April 1
on concern Europe’s debt troubles will limit economic growth.  Dennis Mitchell, a money manager at Sentry Investments
Inc., warned against reading too much into the turmoil in Greece
given the size of its economy.  Greek Effect  “Greece doesn’t drive our investment decisions,” Mitchell
said during the panel discussion. “If everybody in Greece
stopped drinking Coke or using computers, I think Coke and
Microsoft would be fine.”  The S&P 500’s intraday decline to 1,347.75 today after
trading as high as 1,422.38 this year indicates a deeper
pullback and that the market is on the verge of a correction,
Gibson said.  “When you look at corporate profitability in Europe, it’s
extraordinarily weak; in  Canada  we’ve got some weakness in
corporate profitability” because of cost pressures, he said. In
the U.S., company profits are “about one-third of the strength
we need to show there’s a self-sustaining recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Orlando at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  