-- Clifford Chance, Cadwalader, Nixon Peabody: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/clifford-chance-cadwalader-nixon-peabody-business-of-law.html
Clifford Chance  LLP, Ropes & Gray LLP
and Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP received preliminary
approval to open law offices in South Korea following free-trade
agreements with the European Union and the U.S.  South Korea’s Ministry of Justice may grant final approval
to their applications to operate in the country as foreign legal
consultants by the end of this month, it said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Clifford Chance, which announced its plan to enter the
Korean market before the EU-South Korea agreement took effect in
July, has worked with clients in the Asian country for more than
30 years. Brian Cassidy, who will head Clifford Chance’s office,
received preliminary approval yesterday as a foreign legal
consultant from the Republic of Korea’s Ministry of Justice, the
firm said. Projects lawyer Cassidy specializes in the energy
sector, advising on oil and gas, clean energy, and mining
clients on operations, projects and acquisitions and disposals
globally,  U.S. firms including  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP 
and McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced plans to open in Seoul
soon after the U.S.-South Korea free-trade accord was ratified
in November.  U.S.-based Ropes & Gray employs more than 1,000 lawyers and
professionals in locations including  Boston , Chicago,  Shanghai ,
 Tokyo  and Hong Kong, according to its  website . Sheppard Mullin,
also based in the U.S., has more than 550 attorneys practicing
in 14 offices including New York,  London , Beijing and Brussels,
its  website  shows.  The firms may be able to open law offices in Seoul as early
as July, the ministry said.  Moves  Asia Capital Markets Trio Jumps from Jones Day to Cadwalader  Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP added three new partners
to its Asia  capital markets  practice in Hong Kong. Jones Day’s
former co-head of the capital markets practice Jeffrey Maddox
and former partners Joseph Lee and David Neuville have performed
a range of cross-border debt and equity transactions, the firm
said in a statement.  Maddox’s practice focuses on international equity and debt
transactions in Asia. He has been in Hong Kong since 1994.
Maddox has represented issuers, underwriters, and investors on a
broad range of offerings, public and private, and equity and
debt including initial public offerings listed on the  New York 
Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Stock Market, and the stock exchanges
of Singapore, Hong Kong, India and London, the firm said in a
statement.  Lee focuses his practice on corporate finance and
securities transactions, with a special emphasis on initial
public offerings relating to Hong Kong and Chinese companies,
and mergers and acquisitions of listed and private companies.
Lee has established Joseph P.C. Lee & Associates, a local Hong
Kong Law firm with the express intention to form an association
with Cadwalader in accordance with Hong Kong law, the firm said.  Based in Hong Kong since 1994, Neuville represents Asian
issuers and underwriters. He focuses his practice on offerings
of equity and debt securities for companies throughout North and
Southeast Asia, with a particular emphasis on India and  China ,
and additional experience in Indonesia, Hong Kong, Taiwan,
Thailand and Singapore. His practice experience also includes
acting in numerous merger and acquisition, private equity, and
venture capital transactions.  Cadwalader, Wickersham has offices in New York,  Washington ,
Houston, London, Hong Kong, Beijing and Brussels and  Charlotte ,
North Carolina.  Nixon Peabody Expands IP Practice in L.A. with Davis Wright Team  Seth D. Levy, former chairman of Davis Wright Tremaine
LLP’s life sciences practice in Los Angeles, has joined Nixon
Peabody LLP as an intellectual property partner in Los Angeles.
He is joined in the move by three associates, two patent agents
and a patent scientist.  Levy has a background in biological engineering. He focuses
his practice on managing patent procurement in a variety of
technical fields including biotechnology and life sciences. He
represents academic institutions in licensing intellectual
property to the private sector and in structuring sponsored
research agreements, material transfer agreements, and inter-
institutional agreements with nonprofit and for-profit
collaborators.  “Seth represents some of Southern  California ’s largest
academic institutions and health-care facilities,” said Richard
Jones, managing partner of Nixon Peabody’s Los Angeles office.
“This is a significant addition for our Los Angeles office and
for our firm as we now have intellectual property capabilities
in Southern California which nicely complement our already-
strong national intellectual property platform.”  Nixon Peabody has approximately 700 attorneys throughout
the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  NFL Coaches Lawyer Cornwell Joins Gordon & Rees in Atlanta  Gordon & Rees LLP announced that David Cornwell, executive
director of the NFL Coaches Association, has joined the firm’s
Atlanta office as partner. He will focus his practice on sports
and entertainment law.  Cornwell has represented professional athletes, sports
agencies, executives and companies in the sports industry for 25
years.  As executive director of the NFL Coaches Association,
Cornwell was responsible for representing the interests of more
than 500 assistant coaches in the National Football League.  Gordon & Rees is a national litigation and business
transactions firm with almost 500 lawyers in 26 offices
throughout the U.S.  Ropes & Gray’s Adds Private Equity Partner in Chicago  Ropes & Gray LLP announced that Matt Richards will join the
firm as a partner in its private equity practice in Chicago.  Richards, who was formerly a partner at Kirkland & Ellis
LLP, represents private equity firms and their portfolio
companies in complex acquisition, financing and restructuring
transactions.  Richards is the 14th partner to join the firm’s 39-lawyer
Chicago office since it was founded in 2008. The firm has more
than 1,000 lawyers with additional offices in Boston, Hong Kong,
London, New York,  San Francisco , Shanghai, Tokyo, Washington,
and Silicon Valley, California.  Verdicts  Oracle Jury Finds Infringement, Can’t Agree on ‘Fair Use’  Google Inc., the largest Web-search provider, infringed
copyrights for Oracle Corp.’s technology in developing Android
software running on more than 300 million mobile devices, a
federal jury said.  The 12-member panel in San Francisco, however, was unable
to come to a unanimous verdict on whether Google had made “fair
use” of Oracle’s intellectual property.  The decision prevents Oracle from seeking damages for all
but nine lines of computer code on Android, out of 15 million
total lines, that the jury found were copied from Oracle, U.S.
District Judge  William Alsup (GOOG)  said yesterday. Oracle is seeking
$1 billion in damages.  Google attorney  Robert Van Nest (ORCL)  of Keker & Van Nest LLP
asked Alsup to declare a mistrial, saying the issue of whether
it’s liable for infringement is directly linked to the question
of whether it was fair use. Alsup said he would consider
Google’s request later. He ordered the patent phase of the case
to begin.  The decision came in the copyright phase of an eight-week
intellectual-property trial that began April 16 and next will
shift to Oracle’s claims of patent infringement. A third phase,
on damages, will follow the other two.  During the trial, Van Nest faced off with Oracle lawyer
David Boies of Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP.  Oracle alleged that Google, based in Mountain View,
California, stole copyrights and patents for the Java
programming language when it developed the Android operating
systems for mobile devices, which were released in 2007. Oracle
acquired Java when it bought Sun Microsystems Inc. in 2010.  While the jury was asked to decide whether Google infringed
parts of Java called application programming interfaces, or
APIs, the ultimate decision on whether APIs are covered by
copyrights will be made by Alsup later in the case. Alsup told
the jury to assume APIs are copyrightable; he can decide later
that they aren’t.  “We appreciate the jury’s efforts, and know that fair use
and infringement are two sides of the same coin,” said Google
spokesman Jim Prosser in an e-mail. “The core issue is whether
the APIs here are copyrightable, and that’s for the court to
decide. We expect to prevail on this issue and Oracle’s other
claims.”  “Oracle, the nine million Java developers, and the entire
Java community thank the jury for their verdict in this phase of
the case,”  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, said in an e-mail. “The overwhelming
evidence demonstrated that Google knew it needed a license.  “Every major commercial enterprise -- except Google --
has a license for Java and maintains compatibility to run across
all computing platforms, she said.  The verdict came on the fifth day of deliberations in the
trial, which began April 16. The jury sent Alsup seven notes
during their discussions with questions about their
instructions. A May 3 note said the panel couldn’t reach a
unanimous decision. Alsup ordered them to continue
deliberations, and after learning the panel was still at an
impasse, ordered them to deliver a partial verdict.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Deals  Treasury Sells $5 Billion of AIG Stock in Third Offering  The U.S. Treasury Department agreed to sell $5 billion of
shares in American International Group Inc. in a stock offering,
with the bailed-out insurer buying $2 billion of the total.  The Treasury is selling 163.9 million shares at $30.50
each, compared with the May 4 closing price of $32.83, the
department said in an e-mailed statement May 6. The transaction,
the government’s third  offering  of AIG’s shares since last May,
reduces the Treasury’s stake in the insurer to 63 percent from
70 percent, according to the statement.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP (AIG)  advised the
underwriters in connection with the sale. New York partners
Craig Brod and Jeffrey Karpf led the team. Davis Polk & Wardwell
corporate partner John Brandow, who heads the firm’s derivatives
and structured products group, also advised on the deal.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP advised the issuer, AIG. Corporate
partners Robert Buckholz Robert W. Reeder III, tax partner
Eliyahu D. Jacobson and special counsel Mark T. Lab on Blue Sky
and Finra provided legal advice.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, has sold
assets to help raise funds to buy back shares from the U.S. The
company said in March that dividends from insurance subsidiaries
along with proceeds from divesting a plane-leasing unit, a stake
in Hong Kong-based AIA Group Ltd. and other holdings will allow
it to generate as much as $30 billion that could be returned to
shareholders by the end of 2015.  “The company has been able to monetize sales of non-core
assets and we expect this to continue for the longer term,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Arun Kumar said in a note
to clients May 4, before the sale was announced.  The Treasury raised $5.8 billion in the first offering in
2011. At the same time, New York-based AIG sold 100 million
shares for $2.9 billion to demonstrate access to the capital
markets and satisfy a condition of its bailout. The insurer
bought half of the $6 billion in shares the department divested
in March. The day before that offering was announced, AIG raised about $6 billion by selling part of its AIA holding.  The U.S. rescued AIG in 2008 as the New York-based firm was
overwhelmed by losses on bets tied to mortgages. Its bailout
swelled to $182.3 billion as the government extended more credit
and reduced the interest charged.  The insurer paid back the balance on a Federal Reserve
credit line and the Treasury converted its preferred stake into
92 percent of the common stock in January 2011. The government’s
remaining investments in AIG total $39 billion after the share
offering announced yesterday, according to the Treasury.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Macquarie Group Ltd., Morgan Stanley, UBS
AG and  Wells Fargo & Co . were the government’s banks on the
offering, according to the statement.  For more,  click here.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  