-- Clinton Says She Knew of Terrorist Airliner Bomb Plotting
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-08T23:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/clinton-says-she-knew-of-terrorist-airliner-bomb-plotting.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said she was aware “for some time” of a foiled terrorist plot
to blow up a U.S. airliner and said she’s “known about the
efforts to do something like it even longer.”  In an interview yesterday in New Delhi with Bloomberg
Radio, Clinton said the Obama administration isn’t letting up in
its hunt for al-Qaeda leaders such as  Ayman al-Zawahiri , who
administration officials think is in Pakistan.  “We have to remain vigilant and attentive and quick and
agile in our response, which thankfully we continue to be,”
Clinton said of the thwarted attack by Yemen-based al-Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula. She said a key component in averting
terrorist strikes is working closely with many countries, such
as  India ,  China  and  Bangladesh , which she visited during the
last week.  “Counterterrorism is always on the agenda because we have
to defeat” those who are trying “to sow death and
destruction,” she said. “You’re dealing with such evil,
perverse human beings who sit around plotting about ways for
people to kill themselves and kill others at the same time. I
mean, it is so sick.”  International Sting  Separately, the Los Angeles Times  reported  yesterday that
the bomb plot was an “international sting operation,” in which
 Saudi Arabia ’s intelligence agency, working closely with the
CIA, used an informant to pose as a willing suicide bomber. The
covert operation was intended to get hold of a newer version of
the “underwear bomb” that was used in an unsuccessful 2009
attempt to blow up an airliner over  Detroit .  The operative turned over the explosive device, which is
now being analyzed by FBI bomb experts, and he is safely outside
Yemen, the Times said.  Clinton said she was saddened to see a new al-Qaeda video
released of Marvin Weinstein, a 70-year-old aid worker who was
abducted in Lahore, Pakistan, in August. She said the U.S.
thinks he is being held in Pakistan’s tribal areas along the
border with Afghanistan.  Far from being an enemy of Pakistan or Islam, Weinstein
“was there doing development work to help the poor people of
Pakistan,” she said, calling his kidnapping “tragic.”  Clinton said the U.S. is actively hunting Zawahiri, who
inherited al-Qaeda’s leadership from  Osama bin Laden . “We are
going to pursue him and all those who threaten Americans and our
friends and allies,” she said.  Ambassador Leaving  Asked about U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan Cameron Munter’s
announcement to his staff that he will leave his post after less
than two years, the top U.S. diplomat praised Munter for serving
“ably and well under very difficult circumstances.”  “It’s not unusual in these very difficult assignments,”
such as Pakistan,  Afghanistan  and  Iraq , for diplomats to say,
“I’m going full-out for two years and then I’m going to need to
step off this fast track,” she said.  “It was totally his request” to leave, she added, “and
we’re going to honor that.”  Munter’s departure after a shorter-than-usual posting comes
at a difficult juncture in U.S.-Pakistan relations. The two
sides are struggling to negotiate revised terms of an alliance
that was severely damaged by numerous high-profile crises over
last year, including the arrest of a CIA employee in the
shooting death of two Pakistanis and the U.S. decision to attack
bin Laden’s safe house in a Pakistani garrison town without
first informing authorities in Islamabad.  Supply Route Cut  Pakistan  cut off U.S. access to vital overland supply
routes for U.S. and allied forces in Afghanistan after U.S.-led
NATO forces accidentally killed 24 Pakistani soldiers near a
border post last Nov. 26.  Pakistan’s political parties held months of talks about new
terms for the U.S. relationship, including a demand that the
U.S. cease drone strikes against insurgents on Pakistani soil
unless Islamabad is involved in the decisions. The drone
campaign is a central pillar of the Obama administration’s
efforts to defeat Islamic extremist groups and secure
Afghanistan, and the U.S. has been reluctant to share
intelligence about planned strikes for fear that Pakistani
sympathizers may warn the targets.  Stalled Negotiations  A team led by  Marc Grossman , U.S. special representative
for Afghanistan and Pakistan, returned to  Washington  without
resolving disagreements over resupply rights and drones.  “We’ve made clear what our red lines are, and we stand
ready to negotiate over areas of concern between Pakistan and
the  United States ,” Clinton said.  Pakistan has had “some difficult political issues that
we’ve waited patiently for them” to resolve, she said,
referring to a series of domestic political challenges to the
government of Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  and President
Asif Ali Zardari.  Clinton said talks continue with Pakistan about rebuilding
a partnership that will become even more important as most U.S.
combat troops are withdrawn from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.
The U.S. is seeking Pakistan’s cooperation in promoting peace
talks with the Taliban and maintaining stability as U.S. forces
withdraw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  New Delhi  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  