-- CME, NYSE Said Among Companies Submitting Bids for LME
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-08T18:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/cme-nyse-said-among-companies-submitting-bids-for-lme.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , NYSE Euronext and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  were among suitors for the  London 
Metal Exchange to submit takeover offers before a deadline
yesterday, said five people with direct knowledge of the matter.  LME, the world’s biggest metals bourse, said earlier today
it received multiple proposals that may lead to it being
acquired. Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. said April 30 that
it “continues to participate” in the LME’s evaluation of
strategic options.  The exchange, founded more than a century ago in London’s
financial district, began a process in September that it said
may lead to its sale. LME handles about 80 percent of global
trading in metals futures and reported record volume of $15.4
trillion last year. More than $30 billion of exchange mergers
announced since October 2010 failed amid populist outcry,
antitrust concern and volatile markets.  Allan Schoenberg , a spokesman for CME in London, James Dunseath, a spokesman for NYSE in London and Claire Miller, a
spokeswoman for ICE in London, all declined to comment. Scott Sapp of Hong Kong Exchanges didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail and phone call seeking comment outside normal business
hours.  Chris Evans , a spokesman for the LME, said he had nothing
to add beyond the company’s statement today.  The LME may be valued at about $1.3 billion, Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Equity Research Desk, an adviser to hedge
funds, said in February. The LME is owned by 70 of its 92
members, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and UBS AG. Any bid will have to be approved by more than 50
percent of shareholders, with the owners of at least 75 percent
of shares backing the move.  NYSE, CME  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , based in  New York , trades commodities
including coffee, cocoa, sugar and wheat. It operates the New
York Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex Options, as well as
equity markets in Paris, Lisbon, Brussels and Amsterdam, and
Liffe in London and Paris.  CME Group, based in  Chicago , owns the Comex exchange, which
handles gold, silver and copper futures. The LME trades copper,
aluminum, nickel, zinc, tin, lead, steel and minor metals such
as cobalt. Atlanta-based ICE, the second-largest U.S. futures
market, offers trading in crude oil, coffee and sugar.  Hong Kong Exchanges, Asia’s largest bourse operator, said
last week it’s studying a bid. Asia’s largest bourse is
confident about its chances of acquiring the LME, the  South
China Morning Post  reported today citing an interview with
Charles Li, chief executive officer.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  won’t submit a bid for the LME,
Chew Choon Seng, the chairman of the bourse operator, said
yesterday. The Singapore bourse, whose bid for Sydney-based ASX
Ltd. was rejected last year by the Australian government, plans
to build its business through partnerships such as a metal-
trading venture it has with LME, Chew said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  