-- Cognizant Rallies After Citi, Baird Recommend Shares
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-05-08T20:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/cognizant-rallies-after-citi-baird-recommend-shares.html
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) ,
a provider of consulting and outsourcing services, rose the most
in more than six months after analysts recommended the stock,
helping it partially recover from a selloff.  David Koning , an analyst at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird
& Co., raised his rating to outperform, the equivalent of a buy
recommendation, from neutral. He expects the shares to rise to
$76 in the next 12 months.  Cognizant advanced 7.1 percent to $60.30 at the close in
New York, its biggest one-day increase since Oct. 27. The stock
had plunged more than 19 percent yesterday after the company cut
its growth forecast, citing a slower than expected start to the
year. The company was today’s  best performer  in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Yesterday’s selloff was an over-reaction if investors
believe the company’s revised growth forecast, Ashwin Shirvaikar, a Citigroup Inc. analyst, said in a client note.
Shirvaikar recommended buying the “beaten-down” stock, while
reducing estimates for 2012 through 2014 and lowering his 12-
month target price to $79 from $88.  Earnings will rise to at least $3.36 a share on sales of
$7.34 billion or more this year, Cognizant said yesterday. In
February, the Teaneck, New Jersey-based company projected profit
of at least $3.43 a share and sales of $7.53 billion.  Cognizant is benefiting from corporations’ shifting tasks
such as billing that were once performed in-house to cheaper,
global providers. Still, banks and pharmaceutical companies are
keeping a lid on discretionary spending for new technology
projects, opting instead to maintain existing systems, Gordon Coburn, the company’s president, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  