-- Confidence at U.S. Small Companies Increases to 14-Month High
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-08T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/confidence-at-u-s-small-companies-increases-to-14-month-high.html
Confidence among U.S. small businesses
climbed in April to a 14-month high as companies said they
planned to boost hiring and spending, a survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
 index  rose to 94.5, the highest since February 2011, from 92.5
the previous month, the Washington-based group said today in a
statement. Six of the measure’s 10 components increased.  “Job creation plans,  job openings  and  capital spending 
plans all increased,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief
economist, said today in a statement. “Hopefully this
performance will hold in the coming months.” Still, economic
“and employment growth news has not been good,” he said.  More small company leaders said they plan to expand, even
as national employment growth has slowed in recent months. The
world’s largest economy added 115,000 jobs in April, the
smallest gain in six months.  A net 5 percent of small-business owners said they planned
to hire over the next three months, up 5 percentage points from
March, the report showed. The share of owners projecting higher
sales, adjusted for inflation, eased two points to 6 percent,
and a net minus 12 percent said earnings trends were positive,
an increase of 11 points from March.  Some 25 percent, up 3 percentage points from March, said
they planned to invest in new equipment.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  Business Expectations  The gauge of expectations for improved business conditions
six months from now rose 3 points to a net minus 5 percent. A
net 7 percent of businesses thought it was a good time to
expand, the same as in March.  The NFIB report was based on responses from 1,817 small-
business owners through April 30. Small companies represent more
than 99 percent of all U.S. employers, according to the U.S.
Small Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise employing as many as 500 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  