-- ConocoPhillips Seeking a Buyer for Its Nigerian Assets
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-05-08T20:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/conocophillips-seeking-a-buyer-for-its-nigerian-assets.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the largest U.S.
independent oil and natural-gas producer, is seeking a buyer for
its Nigerian properties in a sale that may fetch $1 billion.  John McLemore, a ConocoPhillips spokesman, confirmed the
assets were on the block in an e-mail today, following a report
by Reuters. The Houston-based company has an interest in four
onshore leases that contributed the equivalent of 45,000 barrels
of oil a day last year, according to a Feb. 21 regulatory filing.  Asian companies or local entities may be interested in the
Nigerian assets, which could bring an estimated $1 billion,
 Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in Houston, said in a phone interview.  Nigeria  production
accounted for less than 3 percent of ConocoPhillips’s daily
output in 2011, he said.  “It’s definitely one of the least exciting elements of the
Conoco asset base,” said Molchanov, who has a market perform
rating on the company, the equivalent of a hold,  and doesn’t
own the shares. “I can definitely see why they’d want to
exit.”  ConocoPhillips is seeking to sell $8 billion to $10 billion
worth of assets in the next 12 months as it focuses on improving
returns, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Sheets said on an April 23
conference call. The company spun off its refining, pipeline and
chemical assets into Phillips 66, which began trading this month.  The Nigerian assets also include a stake in a gas-fired
power plant and in Brass LNG Ltd., which has plans to build a
liquefied natural gas facility in the  Niger Delta , according to
the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission filing. ConocoPhillips
also has a stake in the Uge oil project off Nigeria’s coast.  ConocoPhillips rose 1.8 percent to $54.31 at the close in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  