-- Copper Declines Most in Five Weeks as Economies May Slow
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-08T18:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/copper-declines-most-in-five-weeks-as-economies-may-slow.html
Copper futures fell the most in almost
five weeks after elections in  France  and  Greece  fueled concern
that austerity efforts aimed at stemming the region’s debt
crisis will be derailed, dimming the outlook for demand.  Francois Hollande  was elected May 6 and will be France’s
first Socialist president in 17 years when he’s sworn in next
week. The mandate to form a Greek government was passed to the
Syriza party, which has vowed to renegotiate terms of
international aid. Greek borrowing costs increased in a sale of
bills, the euro slid for a seventh session against the dollar,
and European stocks dropped.  “The concerns over the euro-zone are at the forefront
again” in markets, Frank Cholly, a senior commodity broker at
RJO Futures in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Copper futures for July delivery dropped 2.5 percent to
settle at $3.6775 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest decline since April 4. The metal retreated for a
fourth session in five, after touching $3.6565, the lowest for a
most-active contract since April 24.  A stronger dollar saps demand for raw materials as an
alternative investment.  The Greek government taking office has 30 days to decide
whether to make today’s interest payment on notes maturing in
2016 or default.  A Greek default would “be seen as the first step toward
the dissolution of the euro area,” Guy Wolf, a macro strategist
at Marex Spectron Group, said in an e-mail.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months slumped 1 percent to $8,095 a metric ton ($3.67 a pound).
The LME was closed yesterday for a public holiday.  Aluminum, zinc, lead and nickel slid in London. Tin rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  