-- Credit Suisse to Seek China Stock Trading License
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-08T03:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/credit-suisse-to-seek-china-stock-trading-permit-with-new-rules.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  plans to boost
capital at its Chinese joint venture and apply for a stock
trading permit in the country, as the government loosens
restrictions on foreign investment banks.  Credit Suisse will move bankers to China to take advantage
of higher ownership limits and a shorter wait for a license to
trade shares in Shanghai and Shenzhen, said Zhang Liping, the
bank’s chief executive officer for the country. Credit Suisse
started a joint venture in December 2008 with Founder Securities
Co.  China agreed last week to let foreign investment banks
raise their stakes in domestic joint ventures to 49 percent from
33 percent, and to shorten the qualification period for a
trading license to two years from five. Restrictions on overseas
firms have prevented Credit Suisse and rivals such as Citigroup
Inc. from fully taking advantage of a three-fold gain in the
size of  China ’s stock market since the end of 2006.  “We’re going to put in more people and resources and lots
of attention” on the Chinese joint venture, Zhang said
yesterday in an interview. “More specifically, we’re going to
transfer more experienced bankers to our JV. The new rules give
flexibility to do much more.”  Credit Suisse currently has about 100 employees at its
joint venture in Beijing. Zhang didn’t specify how many people
he plans to hire or transfer. The bank is in talks with its
local partner on preparing the trading application, he said,
adding that no final decision has been made on increasing its
stake in the venture, Credit Suisse Founder Securities Ltd.  Barclays Looking  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are the only foreign
firms to have management control of their local ventures. The
two banks got their underwriting licenses in China before the
government put a moratorium on new joint ventures in September
2006.  Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, was the first foreign bank
to establish a local joint venture after the ban was lifted at
the end of 2007. JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank and
Citigroup followed. Barclays Plc is considering more than a
dozen potential partners for an investment-banking venture, the
 South China Morning Post  reported today, citing unidentified
people. Barclays spokesman Tim Cuffe declined to comment.  Overseas firms have struggled to make inroads into China’s
stock and bond underwriting markets. Global financial companies
and their local partners accounted for less than 3 percent of
total corporate bond sales in China this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. UBS Securities Co.’s 2.5 percent share of
equity underwriting is the biggest among foreign-backed
ventures, the data show.  No. 1 Focus  Credit Suisse’s venture hasn’t arranged a stock sale in
China since August, when it helped Founder Securities raise 5.85
billion yuan ($610 million) in an initial public offering.
Its latest debt deal was a 3 billion  yuan  bond sale in December
by XCMG Construction Machinery Co.  Credit Suisse ranks sixth in equity offerings globally this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Seeking a trading license is Credit Suisse’s “number one”
focus, said Zhang. The bank also plans to strengthen its cross-
border mergers advisory, he said.  Goldman Sachs has forecast that the value of firms trading
on Chinese bourses will swell to $41 trillion in 2030,
surpassing the U.S. as the world’s largest equity market. Sales
of corporate bonds and shares in the country have surged as
companies sought funds to take advantage of an expanding
economy.  Profit Requirement  Foreign-backed joint ventures seeking trading permits in
China need to fulfill a set of requirements, including two years
of profits. Credit Suisse Founder Securities meets those
conditions, Zhang said.  The relaxed rules on foreign firms, announced as part of
the annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue talks between the
U.S. and China last week, reflects the securities regulator’s
push to bolster the quality of China’s financial industry,
according to Zhang.  “If you commit more capital and resources, that means more
international practices will be brought into the venture,”
Zhang said. “That’s the whole purpose of the CSRC allowing
greater participation,” he said, referring to the China
Securities Regulatory Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  