-- Crude Declines for Fifth Day on Saudi Comments, Weaker Euro
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-05-08T21:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/crude-declines-for-fifth-day-on-saudi-comments-weaker-euro.html
Oil fell for a fifth day as Saudi
Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said prices should come down
and the euro weakened against the dollar after election results
in Greece and  France .  Oil slipped to a three-month low as al-Naimi said prices
are “still a little bit high” and that Saudi Arabia is storing
crude. The euro fell for a seventh day as Greek politicians
struggled to form a new government and on the possibility of a
policy conflict between Germany and France, which elected
Socialist Francois Hollande president.  “The Saudis are still coming out and saying prices are too
high, and they probably will continue to ramp up production,”
said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO
Futures. “The euro is getting everything down.”  Crude for June delivery fell 93 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
settle at $97.01 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The price has fallen 8.6 percent in a five-day losing streak,
the longest since Feb. 2.  Prices slid 68 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $97.26 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:33 p.m. after the industry-funded
American Petroleum Institute reported oil inventories increased
7.78 million barrels to 378.2 million in the week ended May 4.
Oil traded at  $97.47 before the report was released at 4:30.  Brent oil for June settlement dropped 43 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $112.73 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Biggest Producer  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, is
storing as much as 80 million barrels and has 2.5 million
barrels a day of spare capacity, al-Naimi said before board
meetings of the Saudi Arabian Oil Co., of which he is chairman.
The country has set aside supplies “on shore in  Saudi Arabia ,
in pipelines, in tanks,” he said.  The kingdom, the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 9.82 million barrels a day
of oil in April, according to Bloomberg estimates. That’s the
highest level since August 2011.  “Saudi Arabia has indicated that a lot of its oil is going
into storage,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas SA’s
London-based head of commodity markets strategy. “But they will
eventually release some of it.”  The 17-nation euro extended its longest run of declines
against the greenback since September 2008 as German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  invited Hollande to Berlin for talks “as soon as
possible.” Hollande will meet Merkel soon after his May 15
inauguration, said his campaign chief,  Pierre Moscovici .
Hollande has called for watering down a European Union accord
that Merkel pushed to cut debt.  Demand Impact  “The conclusion has been drawn that the economic and
financial cohesion in the continent has a great possibility of
crumbling, and that will have an impact on oil demand,” said
 Mike Fitzpatrick , editor of the Energy Overview newsletter in
 New York  and previously an oil trader at MF Global. “The
sentiment from OPEC is for lower prices.”  The euro declined 0.2 percent against the dollar. A weaker
euro and stronger dollar reduce oil’s appeal as an investment.  “Oil’s definitely attached to currencies,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago .  Greece’s New Democracy leader, Antonis Samaras, said
yesterday he wasn’t able to forge agreement to form a government
after the elections. The attempt will pass to Alexis Tsipras,
the head of Syriza, the second-biggest party, which has vowed to
cancel bailout terms for the nation.  ‘Market Apprehension’  The elections have brought “market apprehension,”
Tchilinguirian said. “More worrying is the development in
 Greece .”  Greece now faces a 50 percent to 75 percent likelihood of
leaving the euro in the next 18 months, Citigroup Inc.
economists Guillaume Menuet and  Juergen Michels  wrote yesterday.
Their previous estimate was 50 percent.  Crude also moved lower with equities. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell 0.4 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
dropped 0.6 percent.  The 14-day relative strength index of front-month futures
was at 31.58. A reading below 30 signals prices have fallen too
far and further losses may not last.  U.S. oil stockpiles probably advanced 2 million barrels, or
0.5 percent, to 377.9 million in the seven days ended May 4,
according to the median of 12 analyst estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Inventories would rise to the most
since September 1990 and the string of gains would be the
longest since April 2010.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
data at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington . The industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  will report its own data today.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 587,208
contracts as of 4:39 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 594,512
contracts yesterday, 4.3 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  