-- Dana Gas Investors Said to Hire Linklaters to Broker Deal
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-05-08T14:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/dana-gas-investors-said-to-hire-linklaters-to-broker-deal.html
Investors in  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) ’s $1
billion Islamic bonds hired Linklaters LLP to help negotiate the
restructuring of the debt due in October, three people familiar
with the matter said.  The London-based  law firm  was hired last month, according
to the people who declined to be identified because the
information is private. Linklaters and Dana Gas declined to
comment.  The company, whose chief executive officer plans to retire
this year, hired  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to advise on restructuring
the Islamic bonds, three people familiar with the matter said in
April.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is also advising Dana Gas, two people
with knowledge of the matter said in January. The yield on its
7.5 percent sukuk climbed 33 percentage points so far this year
to 70.7 percent at 6:35 p.m. in Dubai.  While the Sharjah, United Arab Emirates-based company,
which produces and explores for oil and gas in  Egypt  and Iraq’s
Kurdish region, has said it will repay the sukuk, investors
haven’t been informed how the company plans to do so, Atul Gharde, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at SJS Markets Ltd.,
said today.  Dana Gas, whose parent Crescent Petroleum Co. owns 3
percent of Hungarian refiner Mol Nyrt., said Jan. 17 it would
continue to meet debt obligations and appointed an unidentified
financial adviser. The company repeated the commitment to settle
financial obligations in a March 20 report filed to the  Abu
Dhabi  stock exchange.  Money owed by customers almost doubled last year to $501
million from $255 million, Dana Gas said in March. The company
said $212 million of the total was owed for more than four
months. CEO Ahmed Al Arbeed plans to retire in September and
remain a board member, the company said last month. Shareholders
will elect a board May 31, it said this week.  The shares of Dana Gas have dropped  4.4 percent  so far this
year to 43 fils. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  climbed 3.5
percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  