-- Dangdang Leads Index Slump on Slowdown Concern: Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-05-08T23:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/dangdang-leads-index-slump-on-slowdown-concerns-china-overnight.html
E-Commerce Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  and  Sina (SINA) 
Corp. tumbled, sending an index of Chinese stocks in the U.S. to
a four-week low, on concern the global economic slowdown will
undermine online sales and advertising.  Dangdang, an Internet bookstore, sank 4.7 percent to the
lowest level since March 23, while Sina, which runs the Twitter-
like Weibo service, dropped to a four-month low. The  Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese shares in the
U.S. lost 1.9 percent to 99.92, its weakest close since April
10.  Sina, expected by analysts to report a first-quarter loss
next week, trades for 94 times estimated earnings, compared with
an average valuation of 16 for companies on the  Nasdaq Composite
Index. (CCMP)  The slowest pace of economic growth in more than two
years last quarter saw  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , China’s largest search
engine, forecast lower-than-estimated sales last month. Global
stocks tumbled yesterday as Greece’s failure to form a
government after elections boosted debt-crisis concerns.  “These stocks are not cheap,” Echo He, a New York-based
analyst who covers Chinese Internet stocks for Maxim Group LLC.,
said by phone. “It’s not a consensus that the Chinese economy
will pick up. This is reflected in the volatility of the
stocks.”  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined for a fifth day,
falling 2 percent to $36.43, the lowest close since April 11.  No Profit  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.4 percent to
1,363.72, the weakest level since April 10, while Greek stocks
plunged to their lowest level in two decades. Leaders of the
debt-ridden European nation met for a second day to try to form
a government following an election where voters flocked to anti-
austerity parties.  Dangdang slid to $7.45 yesterday in  New York , the lowest
level since March 23.  The company, which has lost money since the first quarter
of 2011, won’t turn a profit this year or in 2013, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock traded for 3.2 times
its book value, compared with an average of 3 for companies on
the Nasdaq Composite and 2.9 on the  Morgan Stanley Internet
index. (MOX)  Book value, or a company’s assets minus its liabilities,
tracks a corporation’s net worth.  “Despite the selloff, the valuation is not that
compelling,”  Adam Krejcik , an analyst at Roth Capital in
 Newport Beach , California, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Sohu Sales  Baidu and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , owner of China’s third-largest
search engine, dropped last month after reporting sales
forecasts for the second quarter that trailed analysts’
predictions. Baidu has lost 8.8 percent since April 23, after
saying sales in the second quarter of the year will be as much
as 5.46 billion yuan ($866 million), compared with the 5.48
billion yuan average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sohu expects revenue between $244 million and $250 million
in the second quarter, the company said in a statement on April
30. The projection compared with the average forecast of $253
million by nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Baidu fell 0.5 percent to $127.31 in New York, the weakest
since Jan. 26, while Sohu added 1.2 percent to $47.47, rising
for the first time in seven days.  “The online advertising market in China appears to be
slowing down,” Krejcik said. “The visibility for the second
half is weak. Growth is tepid.”  Internet advertising  accounted for 78 percent of Sina’s
revenue in the  fourth quarter . Sina slid 1.8 percent to $55.08,
the lowest close since Jan. 10.  Mindray Earnings  Shanghai-based Sina will report an adjusted loss of 24
cents per share after markets close on May 15, following
adjusted net income of 21 cents in the previous three-month
period, according to the  median  of 13 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mindray Medical International Ltd. (MR) , China’s biggest
medical-device supplier, lost 1.3 percent to $31.38, the lowest
close since March 12. The stock earlier dropped as much as 18
percent after the Shenzhen-based company reported first-quarter
earnings that fell short of analysts’ predictions.  Adjusted net income declined  to 34 cents a share in the
first quarter from 36 cents a year earlier, Mindray said in a
statement after the market closed on May 7. That compared with
the median estimate of 38 cents in a Bloomberg survey of four
analysts. Mindray’s revenue increased 21 percent to $219 million
and the company reaffirmed its full-year sales growth target of
at least 18 percent.  Falling Short  Of the 20 companies on the China-US gauge that have
reported quarterly earnings since April 10, at least 10 fell
short of analysts’ predictions, from  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) ,
China’s fourth-largest producer, and  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) , the
nation’s biggest fixed-line carrier, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Seven companies in the China-US index are expected to
release first-quarter results this week, including budget hotel
operator  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN)  and chipmaker
Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., the data show.
casino company  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  is set to announce
results today.  American depositary receipts of Yanzhou Coal dropped 2.8
percent to $19.78 yesterday to trade at a  discount  of 1.3
percent below equivalent shares in Hong Kong.  Aluminum Corp of China Ltd. (ACH) , the nation’s largest producer
of the metal, lost 4.7 percent, the biggest drop since April 30,
to $11.26 in New York. The  ADRs traded  1.2 percent below the
company’s Hong Kong stock.  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS) , a Hong Kong-based luxury-
clothing company, sank 5.3 percent to $41.75 in New York.
Specialty-retailer  Fossil Inc. (FOSL) , which makes watches for Kors,
reduced its 2012 earnings forecast because of a “softening
macro environment” in Europe. Fossil tumbled 38 percent, the
biggest decliner on the S&P 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  