-- Deadline-Happy Democrats Push Bills in Appeal to Voters
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-05-08T14:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/deadline-happy-democrats-push-bills-in-appeal-to-crucial-voters.html
The Violence Against Women Act expired
seven months ago, and hardly anyone noticed.  Now, Democrats are pushing to reauthorize the law in an
attempt to gain the attention of women voters. Senate Democrats
this week also are seizing on a July 1 deadline to prevent a
doubling of  interest rates  for college student loans.  In 2011 budget crises and threats of a government shutdown
impeded legislative action. This year Democrats are using
little-noticed deadlines to drive their agenda as they seek to
generate enthusiasm among groups of voters they consider pivotal
in the November election.  Such target dates are “a convenience: We have to do this
now when there’s a deadline, when deadlines weren’t all that
important on other things,” said  Jennifer Duffy , who tracks
U.S. Senate races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.
“There’s something in it for them, so this is as good a time as
any.”  In 2011, lawmakers brought the U.S. to the brink of a
government shutdown four times and flirted with a first-ever
default on the federal debt. A House-Senate standoff led to a
two-week lapse in aviation fuel taxes, and Congress came close
to letting a payroll tax cut expire Dec. 31.  Senate Democrats  plan a procedural vote today on
legislation to head off a July 1 increase in Stafford college-
loan interest rates to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent. Last month,
Democrats debated renewal of the anti-violence law, stressing
that it expired Sept. 30.  ‘Demographic Strategy’  “Certainly the Democratic strategy is a very demographic
strategy this year,” former Representative Artur Davis, an
Alabama Democrat, said in an interview. “The Democratic
strategy is to maximize the turnout of particular
constituencies.”  The Senate’s top Republican,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky ,
said Democrats are resorting to “show votes.”  “Democrats have turned the college loan issue into yet
another fake election-year fight,” McConnell said in a May 3
statement. “The goal is to distract young people from the fact
that they’re suffering disproportionately under this president’s
policies.”  President  Barack Obama , who in 2008 carried 66 percent of
voters younger than 30, must generate more enthusiasm among
young people to ensure they vote this year, according to a
 Gallup poll  conducted April 20-24. The poll showed Obama leads
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  64 percent to 29
percent among voters 18 to 29, though only 56 percent of young
registered voters said they definitely will vote in November.  65 and Older  Romney leads Obama by 12 percentage points among voters age
65 and older, and 86 percent of this group said they planned to
vote, the Gallup poll showed.  The Senate bill would finance the $6 billion cost of the
interest rate freeze by requiring some professional services
firms to pay withholding taxes if they make more than $250,000
annually. Law, accounting and other professional services firms
with three or fewer shareholders currently can treat their
income as profits and avoid the withholding tax.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat, said
in a telephone interview that “college affordability has been a
sustained effort for Democrats,” pointing to the party’s push
to increase the size of Pell grants, streamline the student loan
application process and extend a federal tuition tax credit that
expires Dec. 31.  Not 11th-Hour Issue  “This is not an 11th-hour campaign issue,”  Van Hollen 
said. “The reason why the focus is on this now is that the
student loan interest rates double on July 1.’  House Republicans have joined in, too. Two days after Obama
visited three college campuses to press Congress to continue the
lower interest rate, the House on April 27 passed a one-year
freeze. Democrats oppose the House plan because it would cover
the cost by abolishing a public-health fund created by Obama’s
health-care overhaul.  The Obama administration, which has said it will veto the
House bill because of how it pays for the interest-rate freeze,
yesterday endorsed the Senate bill. In a statement of
administration policy, the White House said it was “pleased”
that the Senate bill would cover the rate freeze “in a fiscally
responsible manner.”  “At a time when market interest rates are at historic
lows, students who rely on loans to finance postsecondary
education should not be burdened with additional college debt,”
according to the statement.  Payroll Tax Cut Deadline  The July 1 date affecting student-loan interest is less of
a real deadline than the one lawmakers faced during the payroll
 tax-cut  negotiations. Congress can adjust the interest rate on
the loans later because students don’t start paying off loans
until they graduate. The payroll tax cut would have expired Dec.
31 without action by Congress, which ended up extending the tax
cut through 2012.  Democrats are relying on legislation tailored to female
voters in an effort to brand Republicans as anti-women.  The Senate this month also may consider legislation to
strengthen federal pay-equity laws, said Adam Jentleson, a
spokesman for Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat. The
bill would require employers to meet a higher legal standard to
justify paying a man more than a woman for the same job.  Domestic Violence Bill  House Republicans  this month may advance their version of
the anti-domestic-violence bill. It is similar to a Senate
Republican proposal that would have stripped language from the
Democrats’ bill making more visas available to domestic-violence
victims who aid criminal investigations.  As with youth voters, polls indicate a widening edge for
Obama among women, who in 2008 supported him over Republican
candidate  John McCain .  A Quinnipiac University national poll conducted April 11-17
gave Obama a 10 percentage-point advantage among women surveyed.
He was backed by 49 percent, compared with 39 percent for
Romney. Obama trailed slightly among men, with 43 percent
supporting him and 46 percent backing Romney.  The poll showed Obama with a 40-point lead among Hispanics,
64 percent of whom said they support the president, compared
with 24 percent for Romney.  Birth Control Measure  Senate Democrats saw an advantage for their party by
allowing a March 1 vote on a Republican proposal to let
employers and insurers deny coverage for  birth control  and other
 health services  that violate their religious beliefs.  The 51-48 vote to defeat the measure will be “very
helpful” to Democrats in November, Senator  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, told reporters
at the time. “Ours is a mainstream position shared by not only
Democrats but many independents,” he said.  Aiming at a third constituent group, Senator Chuck Schumer
of  New York  is tying immigration -- the Hispanic community’s
legislative priority -- to a forthcoming Supreme Court ruling on
an  Arizona  immigration law. He said last month that if the court
upholds the law, he will push to advance legislation spelling
out that Congress doesn’t intend for states to enact their own
immigration enforcement strategies.  Democrats are “struggling to try to recreate the coalition
that they had in 2008 by taking salami slices of that coalition
and attempting to talk to them not just through the floor of the
Senate but also with campaign appearances,” said Eric Ueland,
who was chief of staff to former Majority Leader  Bill Frist , a
Tennessee Republican.  “Because it is so forced, it carries a high risk of
ultimately being easy enough to parody and ineffective at the
end of the day,” Ueland said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider in Washington at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  