-- Delta Petroleum Wins Approval of Laramie as Plan Sponsor
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-05-08T21:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/delta-petroleum-granted-approval-of-laramie-as-plan-sponsor.html
Delta Petroleum Corp., an oil and
natural-gas explorer and developer, won court approval of its
chosen restructuring plan sponsor, Laramie Energy II LLC, and
will develop a plan based on a proposed transaction that would
set up a joint venture between the companies.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , granted Delta’s request to develop a plan
of reorganization backed by Denver-based Laramie.  “Laramie is going to contribute all its assets” to the
venture, Piceance Energy LLC, and “will also contribute
$75 million of cash” to Delta, Kathryn A. Coleman, a lawyer for
Delta, told Carey.  Under the proposed restructuring plan, which has yet to be
filed with the court, there would be two entities: the joint
venture and the reorganized Delta, Coleman said.  Delta would get one-third of the equity interest in the
venture and Laramie the rest, according to court papers.  Piceance Energy would hold the companies’ oil and gas,
surface real estate and other related assets in  Colorado ’s
Garfield and Mesa counties. Delta’s oil and gas lease with
Buzzard Creek Elk Ranch in Mesa County would be excluded.  The reorganized Delta would hold the 33 percent equity
interest in the joint venture and all other assets not
contributed to Piceance Energy.  ‘Highest and Best’  After holding informal bidding on April 24 and 25, Delta
determined that Laramie made the “highest and best offer” for
the assets, according to court documents.  The company deviated from its original plan to sell the
assets through a bankruptcy auction, concluding that it could
generate a greater recovery for stakeholders if they allowed
offers to back a recovery plan that could preserve its net
operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes. Delta has
about $885 million in NOLs, which it said could result in about
$309.8 million in tax savings.  Delta, based in Denver, listed $375.5 million in assets and
$310.7 million in debt in Chapter 11 papers filed Dec. 15 when
it sought  bankruptcy protection . The company mostly operates out
of the Piceance Basin in the Rocky Mountain region of Colorado.  Kirk Kerkorian , the billionaire founder of  MGM Resorts
International (MGM) , is Delta’s largest shareholder, owning a
33 percent stake, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Kerkorian invested at least $684 million in Delta.  Delta owes $152.2 million on 7 percent notes due in 2015
and $115.5 million on 3.75 percent notes due in 2037, according
to court documents. The 7 percent notes traded at 69.5 cents on
the dollar as of March 29, and the 3.75 percent notes traded at
60 cents on the dollar as of April 13, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulation
Authority.  The case is In re Delta Petroleum Corp., 11-14006,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in  New York  at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  