-- Democratic Convention Panel Gives Back Wal-Mart Cards
-- B y   M e g a n   H u g h e s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-05-08T20:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/democratic-convention-panel-gives-back-wal-mart-cards.html
The Democratic National Convention is
returning $50,000 in gift cards donated by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., (WMT) 
which has been accused of bribing Mexican officials to speed
expansion there.  The cards were supposed to be used for office supplies. A
person with knowledge of the issue said the convention returned
the cards at the behest of organized labor.  The decision was welcomed in a statement by Joe Hansen,
president of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union and a
critic of the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer.  “The allegations of bribery and corruption against Wal-
Mart are serious and there is no way to know whether these
contributions are tainted,” Hansen said.  A Wal-Mart spokeswoman, Brooke Buchanan, said the gift
cards would be donated to a food bank in Charlotte,  North
Carolina , site of the Democratic convention in September.  “Wal-Mart has a long history of supporting elected
officials and political parties on both sides of the aisle and
will continue to have a presence at both Democratic and
Republican conventions,” Buchanan said in a statement.  Justice Investigation  The world’s largest retailer, Wal-Mart is under
investigation by the U.S. Justice Department for allegedly
bribing Mexican officials to speed the opening of stores in the
early 2000s, according to a person familiar with the probe. The
company said April 21 that it is looking into the allegations.  Unlike previous conventions, the Democrats are trying to
fund this year’s gathering without million-dollar donations from
corporations. Committee officials said the Wal-Mart gift cards
did not violate these rules because they were an in-kind
donation, not a cash contribution.  Democratic officials have pressed labor unions to fill in
the fundraising gap, according to two people familiar with the
matter. The host committee in  Charlotte  is trying to raise $36.6
million for the gathering, which will run from Sept. 4-6.  Republicans have no such ban on corporate donations. The
host committee for the party’s Aug. 27-30 convention in Tampa,
 Florida , is taking corporate donations in trying to raise $55
million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Megan Hughes in  Washington  at 
 mhughes43@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 