-- Deutsche Telekom Gets EU Antitrust Complaint on Slovak Unit
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-08T15:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/deutsche-telekom-gets-eu-antitrust-complaint-with-slovak-unit.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and its unit
Slovak Telekom AS were sent an antitrust complaint by European
Union regulators over claims that the subsidiary abused its
market power to thwart broadband competitors.  Slovak Telekom may have refused to give rivals access to
its Internet networks and may have charged “unfair wholesale
prices,” preventing competitors from providing retail broadband
services at a profit, the European Commission said in an e-
mailed statement today.  “This has hindered the development of the broadband retail
market in Slovakia,” the commission, the EU’s antitrust
authority, said in the statement. Deutsche Telekom, which owns
51 percent of the Slovakian operator, “may be held liable for
the conduct because of the nature and degree of its links with
its subsidiary,” the commission said.  The clash with Bonn-based Deutsche Telecom and its unit
follows last year’s decision to fine France Telecom SA’s Polish
arm Telekomunikacja Polska SA 127.6 million euros ($166
million.) The regulator has pursued dominant phone companies in
other cases, fining  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  in 2007 for
undercutting competitors by selling high-speed services at a
loss.  “Slovak Telekom strongly disagrees with the commission’s
preliminary findings” and is “confident it will prove that it
will prove that it did not infringe” antitrust rules, said
Martin Vidan, a spokesman for the Bratislava, Slovakia-based
operator.  ‘No Basis’  The companies have three months to reply to the EU’s
complaint and may seek an oral hearing to defend themselves.
Under EU rules, companies can be fined as much as 10 percent of
annual sales for breaking antitrust rules. There are no strict
deadlines for antitrust probes. Companies can appeal decisions
at the EU courts in Luxembourg.  “We see no basis for holding Deutsche Telekom liable for
the alleged contravention of antitrust law by Slovak Telekom,”
said Sylvia Braunle, a spokeswoman for the German company. “We
are surprised by the commission’s decision to review these
aspects of liability within corporate groups at all, which is at
odds with its approach to similar cases in our industry” such
as the Polish fines decision.  Telecom Standards  Deutsche Telekom, Telefonica and three other phone
companies were quizzed in March by EU regulators examining talks
on technology standards between the operators.  The telecommunications industry is a focus for antitrust
regulators because it provides “the infrastructure for many
other economic activities,” Almunia said at the time.  Today’s probe involves delaying tactics and unfair terms
offered by Slovak Telekom in contract talks with rivals and a
possible “margin squeeze” by the operator, the commission
said.  “ST set its wholesale prices at a level that made it
impossible for alternative operators to profitably enter and
operate in the retail broadband market in Slovakia,” the
commission said.  Slovak Telekom said its access conditions are “fair and
non-discriminatory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 