-- Dewey’s Losses Rise to One-Day Record of at Least 18
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-08T23:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/dewey-loses-four-partners-to-akin-gump-dechert-firms.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s partner ranks
were depleted by at least 18 more people, the law firms hiring
them said. It was the largest one-day total of departures
disclosed this year as the firm battles to avoid bankruptcy.  Dewey has lost more than a third of its partners since
January amid complaints about its compensation structure and
uncertainty about the firm’s finances. The departures announced
today by their new firms were spread across practice groups
including energy, real estate, and mergers and acquisitions.  The exit of a five-partner team of lawyers, including
mergers and acquisitions partners Richard Climan and Keith Flaum, from New York-based Dewey’s coveted Silicon Valley office
effectively closed that location with only two remaining
partners, according to Dewey’s website.  The Climan-led team announced its switch to Weil Gotshal &
Manges LLP today. Climan, Flaum, Jane Ross and James Griffin
joined Weil’s mergers and acquisitions practice, the firm said
in a statement. John Brockland joined Weil’s technology and
intellectual property transactions practice.  “The addition of these five extremely talented lawyers
will enhance our global M&A and IP capabilities,” Barry M. Wolf, Weil’s executive partner, said in the statement.  Climan said the quality of Weil’s lawyers, the firm’s
culture, its international footprint and its visionary
management were all factors in the decision.  Group Together  “Keeping the group together was phenomenally important to
us,” Climan said in a phone interview. “Weil has a culture
that is fully comparable with the culture of our group.”  Dewey, which ousted Chairman  Steven Davis  last month,
warned staff last week it may have to close if its financial
difficulties can’t be resolved, said a person familiar with the
matter who didn’t want to be identified because it wasn’t
public.  Three partners in  London  and Houston went to  Akin Gump 
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, the firm said today. Dewey energy
attorneys John LaMaster and Marc Hammerson joined Akin Gump in
London, while Steven Otillar moved to the firm’s Houston office,
Akin Gump said in a statement.  The Dewey hires are “a major development” for the energy
transactions team, Akin Gump Chairman R. Bruce McLean said.  “April saw the culmination of several transformational
cross-border deals for our clients, and I know that they will
help us build on that momentum,” he said in a statement.  Duncan Miller, a Dewey spokesman in London, and Angelo Kakolyris in  New York  didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment on the departures.  Dechert London Hire  Dechert LLP also announced today that it hired former
London-based Dewey partner Simon Briggs, making him the sixth
from the firm to join Philadelphia-based Dechert since the
beginning of April.  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP said today it hired
James Carter, co-chair of Dewey’s  International Arbitration  and
Cross-Border Resolution Group. Carter joins WilmerHale as senior
counsel in its international arbitration group, the firm said in
a statement.  Venable LLP said today in a statement that three Dewey
lawyers, Peter Britell, Gordon Davis and Suzanne St. Pierre,
were joining the firm as partners. Venable said it also hired
Susan Golden as counsel and Michael Phillipou and Ashley Dunn as
associates.  Bracewell & Giuliani LLP, based in Houston, said it added
five Dewey partners in the firm’s New York,  Washington  and
Connecticut offices. Among the hires is John Klauberg, Dewey’s
former co-head of the utilities, power and pipelines global
industry group, and Catherine McCarthy, former co-head of
Dewey’s energy regulatory practice. The group will be joined by
an unspecified number of associates, Bracewell said in a
statement.  By last month, Dewey had drawn about $75 million of a
$100 million  credit line  from its banks, a person familiar with
the firm’s finances said. Lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were considering a 120-day extension of the
credit line until a possible combination of the firm with
Greenberg Traurig LLP fell through, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  