-- Discovery Profit on Oprah Network Losses, Earnings Miss
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-08T20:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/discovery-profit-falls-28-after-2011-gain-on-own-network.html
Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , half-
owner of  Oprah Winfrey ’s cable network OWN, fell the most in six
months as profit fell short of analysts’ projections following
more losses at the fledgling cable channel.  The  shares  dropped 6.1 percent to $50.80 at the close in
New York, as Discovery reported it assumed 100 percent of the
losses at OWN in the first quarter. The drop was the steepest
since Nov. 9. The stock has gained 24 percent this year.  OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network has struggled to attract viewers
since its debut last year. As of the first quarter, accumulated
losses amount to more than the $273 million Discovery Health
channel the company contributed to the venture and Winfrey’s own
investment, according to a statement today. Bloomberg reported
last week OWN may have registered losses of as much as $330
million since its inception.  “The company needs to provide investors with a road map
for this business,” said  Paul Sweeney , senior analyst with
Bloomberg Industries. “Specifically, how long will they stomach
these losses before they make a serious change in strategy?”  First-quarter net income dropped 28 percent to $221
million, or 57 cents a share, from $305 million, or 74 cents, a
year earlier,  Silver Spring , Maryland-based Discovery said.
Analysts predicted profit 60 cents, the average of 24  estimates
in a Bloomberg compilation.   Accounting Change  This year, Discovery began recording 100 percent of the
losses at OWN in its “other expense, net” section. Those
expenses rose to $50 million from $7 million a year earlier,
Discovery said, without providing further details.  OWN may break even at the cash flow level in the second
half of next year, Discovery Chief Executive Officer David Zaslav said on a conference call today.  “We remain confident in the growth potential of this
network,” Zaslav said.  Revenue for the quarter rose 16 percent to $1.1 billion,
exceeding analysts’ estimate of $1.06 billion. In last year’s
first quarter, Discovery had a one-time gain of $102 million
after converting Discovery Health to OWN. Excluding that, profit
advanced 8.9 percent for the most recent quarter.  Discovery gets about half of revenue from fees paid by
cable- and satellite-TV providers and has recently seen new
revenue from deals with online distributors such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Viewership growth across the U.S. networks
delivered a 13 percent increase in ad revenue to $329 million.
Distribution fees advanced 23 percent to $337 million.  Ad increases were among the highest in the industry so far
this quarter, according to Sweeney.  The company raised its full-year revenue  forecast  to as
much as $4.65 billion, compared with a previous maximum of
$4.58 billion in February. Analysts anticipated $4.56 billion.  The company also increased its share buyback program by
$1 billion, to $3 billion. During the quarter, Discovery
repurchased 6.9 million shares of its Series C stock for
$288 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  