-- Disney Shares Hit High on ‘Avengers,’ 21% Profit Surge
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-05-09T20:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/disney-profit-rises-21-to-beat-john-carter-shrunken-estimates.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  closed at an all-time
high of $45.02 after posting 21 percent earnings growth and
promising to turn “The Avengers” into a franchise.  Shares in the world’s largest entertainment company rose
1.6 percent in  New York , bringing the year-to-date gain to 20
percent, ranking fourth among the 30 members of the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average. (INDU)   Fiscal second-quarter net income grew to $1.14 billion, or
63 cents a share, from $942 million, or 49 cents, a year
earlier, Burbank, California-based Disney said yesterday after
the markets closed. Excluding one-time items, profit of 58 cents
beat the 55-cent average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The record weekend opening of “Marvel’s The Avengers,”
which debuted after the second quarter ended March 31, is a
focus of investor optimism. Disney is working on a sequel,
racing to get more “Avengers” merchandise in stores and
plotting to get the characters in its parks, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Iger  said.  “My grandchildren’s grandchildren will be watching the
movie,” William Smead, chief investment officer at the $190
million Smead Capital Management in  Seattle , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s just the gift that keeps on giving.”  Given the earnings potential of “The Avengers” and other
Disney franchises the stock is still undervalued, Smead said.
His firm owns 175,000 shares.  The film took in $207.1 million in its U.S. debut last
weekend and over $700 million worldwide since its release two
weeks ago, the company said.  Theme Parks  Disney’s second-quarter sales gained 6.1 percent to $9.63
billion, beating projections of $9.56 billion. The company had a
gain of 5 cents a share, reflecting a $184 million noncash
credit on its investment in UTV Software Communication Ltd. and
$38 million in impairment costs.  “The theme parks and ESPN covered for the movie studio,
and the next quarter the movie studio will pick up,” Smead
said.  Theme-park operating profit leapt 53 percent to $222
million on a 7 percent increase in domestic attendance and
higher average room rates worldwide. Revenue soared 10 percent
at the namesake resorts to $2.9 billion, driven by gains in the
U.S.,  Tokyo  and  Hong Kong . Revenue fell at Disneyland Paris, the
company said.  Sales at Disney’s media networks, including ESPN and ABC,
increased 8.6 percent $4.69 billion, while profit grew 13
percent to $1.73 billion.  “The cable networks, principally ESPN, continue to be the
growth engines for Disney,” said  Paul Sweeney , senior analyst
at Bloomberg Industries. “Investors have long wondered how long
the ESPN growth story can continue. There is no evidence in
these numbers to suggest a slowdown.”  Studio Loss  Disney’s film studio recorded a loss of $84 million in the
quarter, reflecting the failure of the science fiction movie
“ John Carter .” That was at the low end of a company projection
in March for a loss of as much as $120 million.  The loss at the interactive unit narrowed to $70 million
from $115 million. Iger said that business, which designs
websites and games, was on track for profitability in 2013.  “Disney is doing everything they said they would do,”
said Todd Juenger, a media analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  