-- Disney Analysts Raise Forecasts After ‘Avengers’ Debut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-05-08T13:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/disney-analysts-raise-forecasts-after-avengers-debut.html
Captain America  and  Iron Man  have
analysts who cover  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  scrambling.  David Joyce , a Miller Tabak & Co. analyst, yesterday raised
his fiscal 2012 profit estimates for Burbank, California-based
Disney, which reports second-quarter results today, citing the
record $207.4 million box-office debut of “Marvel’s The
Avengers” in the U.S. and  Canada .  Martin Pyykkonen , a Wedge
Partners Corp. analyst, Tuna Amobi of  Standard & Poor’s , and
Brett Harriss, with Gabelli & Co., are considering revisions to
profit forecasts for the world’s largest entertainment company.  The film’s performance will dominate Disney’s earnings call
with analysts after U.S. markets close, even though its initial
impact won’t be clear until results for the current third
quarter are reported in August. Analysts will focus on how the
company will use the film’s success to boost sales through
Disney’s television, theme-park and merchandise arms.  “I’m working on those models as we speak,” Amobi, who is
based in  New York , said in an interview. “There are several
quarters you’re likely to see affected positively by this.”  Disney is expected to report second-quarter profit of 55
cents a share, the average of 22 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, and an increase from 49 cents a year earlier. The
company has said it may post an operating loss of as much as
$120 million at its film studio after the March science-fiction
flop “ John Carter .” Disney’s television networks and theme
parks made up 87 percent of its  $8.83 billion  in operating
income last year.  Raising Estimates  Analysts will be looking to see an “Avengers” boost in
the third quarter and full year, when earnings are expected to
rise 44 cents to $2.96 per share.  Joyce, based in New York, raised his third-quarter profit
forecast for Disney by 3 cents a share to 90 cents, a penny
below the 91-cent average of 28 estimates. The film is already
profitable, he said.  Disney rose less than 0.1 percent to $43.85 at 9:37 a.m.
New York time. The shares jumped 2.1 percent yesterday, after
“The Avengers” blew past estimates for opening-weekend ticket
sales of $150 million to $170 million. The shares have advanced
17 percent this year before today.  The movie alone may generate as much as $1.35 billion in
theaters, suggests Drew Crum, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. With a more modest $1.1 billion box-office take, it would
return as much as $250 million in profit, including television
rights to show the movie, home-video sales and consumer
products, he wrote in a note yesterday.  That doesn’t include the impact on older Marvel films.
“The Incredible Hulk,” released in 2008 by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
Universal Pictures, jumped to No. 20 on the movie-rental chart
on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes yesterday, following “The Avengers”
record-setting opening weekend. The film wasn’t previously
ranked.  TV Shows, Rides  Even harder to calculate is the potential for spinoff
products, such as new television shows and theme-park rides, and
the impact on future films such as “Iron Man 3,” and sequels
to “Thor” and “Captain America.”  With $654.8 million in worldwide ticket sales to date,
“The Avengers” has already surpassed the total of each of the
earlier movies in their entire box-office runs.  The film’s performance underscores the durability of Marvel
characters and Disney’s ability to capitalize on the brand, said
Dave Hollis , executive vice president for distribution at  Walt
Disney Studios .  Beyond the box office, there is a “ton of enterprise-wide
value for ancillary business, whether it be consumer products or
the networks,” Hollis  said in a May 6 interview.  Disney’s film unit, which generated $618 million in
operating profit in its most recent fiscal year, may now be on a
path toward a potential $1 billion in annual earnings, according
to  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst with Wunderlich Securities in
Denver, who rates the stock a hold.  Future Periods  Disney, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger , doesn’t
typically issue profit forecasts when it reports earnings,
making assessments for future periods more difficult. On
conference calls, the company often gives information on
specific units or products. Then it is up to the analysts to
draw conclusions.  Among the variables is how much of the bounty from “The
Avengers” and “Iron Man 3,” scheduled for May 2013, that
Disney must share with  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures . After
it bought Marvel Entertainment in 2009 for $4.2 billion, Disney
bought the rights to the two movies for at least $115 million,
Crum said.  Pyykkonen, who is based in Denver and doesn’t issue buy or
sell recommendations, said he’ll be listening on the call for
details about the Paramount agreement.  Hulk on TV  Television offers possibilities as well. Paul Lee,
president of ABC Entertainment, said last year he wants to
develop a Marvel character into a network TV show.  The Hulk, which critics said stood out in “The Avengers”
with Mark Ruffalo’s portrayal of the brooding, conflicted
superhero, may present that opportunity, said  Tony Wible , an
analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.  Wible also said he expects to see more Marvel characters on
Disney XD, a cable channel directed at boys. The company already
runs an Avengers cartoon there.  At Disney’s interactive unit, an Avengers-themed game for
Facebook users has attracted 7.1 million monthly players,
according the research site AppData.  Exploiting the characters at Disney’s U.S. theme parks may
be trickier.  Universal Studios , which runs the Marvel Super Hero
Island at its Islands of Adventure park in  Orlando , controls the
rights east of the Mississippi River, Jay Carducci, a spokesman
for Disney’s parks unit, said by telephone.  At Disney’s annual meeting earlier this year, Iger said the
company had done preliminary design work on Marvel theme-park
concepts.  “It’s our hope that in a few places around the world,
Marvel characters will appear either in attractions or lands or
in some form to provide entertainment like our Disney characters
do,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  