-- Dodgers’ Finance Chief Wilhelm Resigns as New Owners Take Over
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-05-09T04:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/dodgers-finance-chief-wilhelm-resigns-as-new-owners-take-over.html
Peter Wilhelm resigned as chief
financial officer of the  Los Angeles Dodgers  three days after a
group that includes basketball Hall of Famer Magic Johnson
completed its purchase of the Major League Baseball team.  Wilhelm resigned in a May 4 letter to  Mark Walter , chief
executive of Guggenheim Partners LLC, which financed much of the
record $2.15 billion purchase from  Frank McCourt .  The amount tops the $1.1 billion Stephen Ross paid for the
National Football League’s Miami Dolphins, the previous record
for a U.S. sports franchise.  “The franchise and organization that you purchased is in
fantastic shape,” Wilhelm wrote in the letter, a copy of which
was obtained by Bloomberg News. “Yes, we can all use some
freshening up, and that is a continuous process, but even with
the recent headwinds, the Los Angeles Dodgers will continue to
be a model franchise.”  Joe Jareck, a spokesman for the Dodgers, confirmed the
resignation in an e-mail.  Wilhelm joined the Dodgers in 2007. Before that, he served
as the CFO of McCourt Group, advising on the parent company’s
cash management and strategic investments. He began advising
McCourt in 2001.  McCourt put the Dodgers into bankruptcy in June, claiming
baseball Commissioner Bud Selig forced the team into a cash
crisis by rejecting a new contract with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports,
holder of the club’s TV rights through the 2013 season.  Won Auction  The Johnson/Guggenheim group won an auction for the team on
March 27, beating offers from Stan Kroenke, who owns the NFL’s
St. Louis Rams and Arsenal of English soccer’s Premier League,
and a group led by hedge fund manager  Steven A. Cohen  of SAC
Capital Advisors LP.  Wilhelm in a May 7 letter to his coworkers obtained by
Bloomberg News said they should be proud of what had been
accomplished.  “I hope for each of you, the community, and the worldwide
fan base that 2012 is a year when everyone again comes to know
the true organization, not the media depiction, with a
championship both on and off the field,” he wrote.  Walter will be the controlling partner, allowing him to
vote on behalf of the team on issues brought before the owners
of the 30 MLB clubs.  Later this year, the new owners will have the chance to
sell future television rights, the club’s most valuable asset.  While based in Brooklyn,  New York , the Dodgers became the
first major league team with a black player when  Jackie Robinson 
took the field in 1947. The team moved to  Los Angeles  in 1958.  The Dodgers are in first place in the  National League West 
with a 19-11 record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  