-- Durer, Met Nudes of Patti Smith, Hermaphrodite: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/durer-met-nudes-of-patti-smith-hermaphrodite-review.html
Albrecht Durer (1471-1528) and his
wife did not get along.  She thought he was a “craftsman who produced pictures as a
tailor made coats and suits,” according to Durer’s biographer
Erwin Panofsky.  Frau Durer was wrong: her husband, rarely home, was the
most prolific, inventive and influential artist of the Northern
Renaissance.  “Durer and Beyond: Central European Drawings in the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art, 1400-1700” demonstrates the German
master’s preeminence.  Taken from the Met’s holdings, the handsome, chronological
show of some 100 drawings is complemented by prints, illustrated
books and decorative objects such as stained glass. The artists
were all working in the Holy  Roman Empire  -- basically today’s
Austria, Germany,  Switzerland  and the  Czech Republic .  The star of the exhibit is undoubtedly Durer. He is the
linchpin who brought Northern European innovations south and
Italian innovations north.  In astounding drawings of the Holy Family, musical angels,
a female nude, the head of a woman, a self-portrait and several
studies of a pillow, Durer’s assured hand softens High Gothic
angularity with Italian naturalism and classicism.  Artist as Christ  We can also sense in his figures the first stirrings of the
psychological portrait. In his unfinished oil painting
“ Salvator Mundi ” (c. 1504-5) the artist depicts his own
strong, sensitive face, penetrating eyes and beautiful, curly
locks, holding the orb and raising his hand in blessing, as
Christ -- as “Savior of the World.”  Yet the exhibit also sheds light on the broad spectrum of
Northern European masters, including Albrecht Altdorfer, Hans
Baldung, Martin Schongauer, Hans Holbein the Younger and  Lucas Cranach  the Elder.  “Beyond Durer” begins strongly but is stretched a little
wide and thin. Throughout, however, are surprises and worthy
oddities, such as an anonymous German artist’s watercolor “Male
Nude Lying on a Table (c. 1567). It seemingly bridges Mantegna’s
foreshortened “Dead Christ” far beyond Durer, all the way to
Modernist Surrealism.  ‘Naked Before the Camera’  Just around the corner from “Durer and Beyond” is the
Met’s “Naked Before the Camera,” a show of approximately 90
photographs of the nude, in which there is something to please
practically every taste.  You can’t miss the entrance, where “naked” spelled out in
electric lights seems to be advertising a peep show rather than
a serious exhibition at the Met. Inside the intimate,
chronological exhibition are some bizarre pictures that suggest
sideshow attractions.  There is Nadar’s graphic, medical photograph
“Hermaphrodite” (c. 1890), albums of gruesome crime scenes and
rare skin diseases, images of scantily clad Pygmies and Zulu
girls, as well as the dreamy, stereoscopic daguerreotype “Woman
Reclining on a Lounge” (c. 1854). Taken by an anonymous French
photographer, it is the raciest picture on view, since the
reclining woman is also pleasuring herself.  The strength of this show is in its variety, as told
through one medium and one theme. It includes numerous
approaches to the nude -- anatomical, ethnographic, forensic,
documentary, sexual as well as through the prism of identity and
gender politics.  Thorough to a fault, especially in works by Jim Jager and
Larry Clark, the exhibition sometimes favors diversity over
visual quality.  Tackling the Nude  Long before Greco-Roman antiquity, the nude was a charged,
popular subject. Vaginas and phalluses were common prehistoric
symbols. And a nude, male stick figure is at the center of the
earliest extant composition on the wall of the Lascaux caves.  So it is not surprising that at the advent of the medium in
the 1820s, photographers almost immediately tackled the nude.  In “Naked,” we get beautiful daguerreotypes in which
flesh gleams like porcelain and polished gems, early nudes, both
straightforward and erotic and classic poses by Gustave Le Gray
and Oscar Gustav Rejlander.  While some of the photographs are almost clinical, others
capture the inner life and mystery of Corot’s women in the Met’s
adjacent 19th-century galleries.  There are also Eadweard Muybridge’s studies of figures in
motion,  Diane Arbus ’s nudist portraits, the distorted and
elongated figures by Bill Brandt and Andre Kertesz, as well as
 Robert Mapplethorpe ’s nude portrait of  Patti Smith .  Yet the most compelling 20th-century photographs here are
by Brassai, Man Ray, Irving Penn and Edward Weston. In some of
these masterworks, the human body suggests landscape, monument
and abstract sculpture. These figures are no longer merely
“naked” but, in the classical sense, “nude” -- the human
body reimagined and reformed.  “Durer and Beyond” runs through Sept. 3, while “Naked
Before the Camera runs through Sept. 9 at the  Metropolitan
Museum of Art . Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include articles on the  Paris Triennale  and
author  Hilary Mantel .  To contact the writer on the story: Lance Esplund in  New York  at
 lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 