-- Dutch Retailers Face Profit Blow as Taxes Chill Spending
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-05-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/dutch-retailers-face-profit-blow-as-taxes-chill-spending.html
Retailers in the Netherlands may have
their earnings pinched this year as increased sales taxes and
higher excise duties push prices up at a time when household
confidence is at the lowest level since 2003.  “I am worried about the higher VAT rates and the fact the
Dutch government didn’t come up with a good solution for the
stagnant housing market,” Ton Anbeek, chief executive officer
of furniture retailer  Beter Bed Holding NV (BBED) , said in a telephone
interview.  To meet European Union budget rules, the Dutch government
will boost the highest value-added tax rate on  consumer goods  to
21 percent from 19 percent after reaching an austerity agreement
with opposition parties last month. Excise duties on tobacco and
alcohol will increase starting in October. Dutch consumer
confidence hit the lowest level since 2003 in March, according
to the  Central Bureau of Statistics , after  consumer spending 
dropped 1.3 percent in February.  Retailers such as Beter Bed and shoe-store owner  Macintosh
Retail Group NV (MACIN)  will be hurt the most, compared with grocers
including  Royal Ahold NV (AH)  and  Sligro Food Group NV (SLIGR) , because a
lower food and beverage sales  tax rate  will be maintained,
analysts at ING led by Marc Zwartsenburg said in a May 4 note.  “Austerity measures will impact Dutch retail companies
negatively as consumers feel the squeeze” from higher prices
combined with stagnant government salaries, according to ING.
“The obvious effect is that an average household has less money
to spend or can buy fewer items for the same amount of money.”  Counting Costs  Beter Bed, which has almost 1,200 stores across  Europe 
selling beds and mattresses, said in March that Dutch revenue
began falling in August 2011, before the latest round of
austerity, while sales grew in  Germany . The company is
responding by reducing store sizes in the Netherlands.  “We’ll have to make sure we’ll take the right measures to
keep the costs for beds and mattresses low,” CEO Anbeek said.
“The effect should be neutral in the end.”  Macintosh doesn’t expect a higher VAT rate to affect “the
number of shoes we’re selling,” Chief Financial Officer Theo Strijbos said in a phone interview. A much bigger threat to
earnings is the possibility that “retailers in trouble” will
cut prices, he said.  Macintosh, which owns shoe stores such as Brantano and
Steve Madden, and also sells furniture, said April 25 that it’s
operating under “tough market conditions,” though sales are
rising thanks to the acquisition of Jones Bootmaker in the U.K.  Housing Market  The $800 billion economy in the Netherlands entered a
second recession in three years during the second half of last
year. Unemployment rose to 5 percent in March from 4.1 percent
last June, according to Eurostat, and  house prices  have fallen
more than 10 percent since 2008.  Non-food retailers also will be hit harder than grocers
because some of their earnings depend on the housing market,
said ING, which has hold recommendations on the shares of
Macintosh and Beter Bed. Macintosh’s “Living Division”
accounts for more than one-fifth of the company’s revenue.  The budget package the Dutch government agreed on is meant
to reduce the  budget deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2013. Savings from the package are expected to reach
12 billion euros ($15.6 billion) in 2013, including an increase
of the  retirement age , lower health-care expenditures, a freeze
on civil servant wages and a reform of mortgage rules to reduce
risks to households and lenders.  Beer Production  As of next year, interest payments on new mortgages can
only be deducted from taxable income if the loan is fully paid
back within 30 years. The government also doubled the bank tax
to pull in 600 million euros and announced it will increase
excise duties on tobacco, alcohol and soft drinks to raise 625
million euros.  With duties going up, beer volumes will come down, having
an impact on brewers including  Heineken NV (HEIA)  and  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV (ABI) , Karel Zoete, an analyst at Rabo Securities, said in a
note to investors.  “The gap between Dutch and German excise duties is already
quite big, and increasing that will certainly lead to consumers
starting to buy their beer across the border,” Cees-Jan Adema,
director of the Dutch brewers association, said in a phone
interview. “Our members are very worried.”  A majority of Dutch entrepreneurs say that the measures
will negatively affect business. Still, in a survey of 705
companies, 47 percent of executives said they have become more
positive the Dutch will find a way out of the crisis after the
deal, researcher Panteia said on May 3.  “People now are aware of what is coming and this might
even help  consumer confidence ,” Macintosh CFO Strijbos said.  Sweder van Wijnbergen, professor of economics at the
University of Amsterdam, is also optimistic.  “The negative effects are limited,” he said in an
interview. “We have an extremely open economy and if
consumption is discouraged, imports will decline and that
doesn’t hurt Dutch production that much. The potentially
negative effects on  capital markets  with a larger deficit are
bigger and have direct consequences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  