-- LME Receives a Number of Proposals That May Lead to Takeover
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-08T12:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/lme-says-it-received-a-number-of-proposals-after-deadline.html
The  London  Metal Exchange, the world’s
biggest metals bourse, received multiple proposals that may lead
to a takeover.  The proposals will be considered by the board, the LME said
in a statement today. They were from companies that had been
shortlisted after assistance from Moelis & Co., the LME’s
adviser, according to the statement.  Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. said April 30 that it
was one of several companies looking to buy the LME. CME Group
Inc.,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. made
preliminary offers, three people with direct knowledge of the
matter said in February. Takeover bids for the LME, which
handles more than 80 percent of industrial metals futures, had
to be submitted by yesterday.  Claire Miller, a spokeswoman for ICE in London, Allan Schoenberg, a spokesman for CME in London, and James Dunseath,
a spokesman for NYSE in London, declined to comment.  Chris Evans , a spokesman for the LME, said there’s nothing more to
add to the statement.  The LME may be valued at about $1.3 billion, Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Equity Research Desk, an adviser to hedge
funds, said in February. The LME is owned by 70 of its 94
members, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JP Morgan Chase &
Co. and UBS AG. Any bid will have to be approved by more than 50
percent of shareholders, with the owners of at least 75 percent
of shares backing the move.  Exchange Rankings  Hong Kong Exchanges is  Asia ’s largest bourse, CME
is the world’s largest futures exchange, NYSE Euronext is the
biggest U.S. exchange owner and ICE operates the second-largest
U.S. futures market.  Hong Kong Exchanges is confident about its chances of
acquiring the LME, the  South China Morning Post  reported today,
citing an interview with Charles Li, chief executive officer.  Metals prices rallied in the past decade as demand from
 China , the world’s biggest consumer, overwhelmed supplies from
mines, attracting a surge of interest from investors. The LME
handled a record $15.4 trillion of contracts in copper and other
industrial metals last year, compared with $2.5 trillion in
1999. It operates London’s last open-outcry transactions through
a 6-meter-wide (20-foot) ring in which traders shout out orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  