-- Earning $20 a Day Makes You One of the Lucky Few
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-05-08T19:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/earning-20-a-day-makes-you-one-of-the-lucky-few.html
Buying overpriced coffee at foreign-
owned cafes in developing nations always gets me thinking: How
many hours must the average local work to afford a cup?  For almost half of  Asia ’s citizens, or about 1.8 billion
people, living on less than $2 a day, the answer is sobering.
Take Manila, where the  Asian Development Bank  last week held its
annual meeting. There, a tall Starbucks latte goes for about
$2.60. That’s too steep for many Filipinos; one in four of the
nation’s roughly 102 million people lives on $1.25 a day.  Yet anyone who can afford the above-mentioned beverage is
considered by many to be doing pretty well. Organizations
charged with eradicating poverty tend to view those making $1.25
a day as “extremely poor” and those earning $2 merely
“poor.” Those feeding families on $5, $10 or $20 a day are the
lucky ones, at least financially.  It’s worth defining poverty in a way that doesn’t inspire
eye rolling or passivity. Definitions matter when it comes to
economics and data. When the goalposts are so laughably low, we
mask the true magnitude of the problem and engage in a
collective and dangerous denial.  More than data are being muddied. So are the optics. Asian
cities routinely undergo some serious airbrushing when the
financial intelligentsia come to town: slums, hawker stalls,
children selling water and gum in traffic, prostitutes, beggars,
counterfeit designer-goods booths, stray dogs and other supposed
eyesores are covered up. These window-dressing campaigns are
meant to protect a nation’s image.  Out of Sight  Manila  city officials, for example, erected makeshift walls
to keep the ADB’s visitors from seeing the shantytowns and
garbage-strewn creeks that line the roads from the airport to
five-star hotels downtown. Such efforts feed the wide-eyed view
that  bankers  and Western policy makers tend to have about Asia’s
success in igniting growth and reducing poverty.  In reality, the region is struggling to lift  living
standards  at a time when costs of food, energy and health care
are rising faster than  Europe ’s debt yields. This latter crisis
is getting all the headlines as investors consider the
implications of socialist Francois Hollande running  France  and
the post-election doubts surrounding Greece’s ability to govern
itself. It is the former that poses the bigger threat.  Higher costs and fresh turmoil in markets will exacerbate
 income inequality . The Bo Xilai scandal in  China  is partly a
symptom of the ailment. News that the former Chongqing party
secretary might have run afoul of the law was one thing. It was
quite another when the riches allegedly amassed by Bo’s family
came to light.  Inequality is a global theme these days, even in  the U.S. ,
where the  Occupy Wall Street  movement put a spotlight on the
growing income gap. Asia’s poverty challenge is far greater
because of the sheer scale and the absence of social safety
nets, household savings and living wages.  There’s much we can do to attack inequality: improve public
and private-sector governance; end the corruption that squanders
gross domestic product; improve roads, bridges, ports and power
grids; offer greater access to education and training; increase
agricultural productivity; provide more affordable health care;
strengthen the micro-finance industry; pull more of the poor
into the banking system; and support the aspirations of girls
who, after all, will be raising the men and women of tomorrow.  Social Unrest  Succeeding on these fronts is vital to global stability and
prosperity. Multinational companies are depending on Asia’s
growing cities, expanding populations and middle-class consumers
to pump up profits. Investors are making similar assumptions.
Inequality could breed social unrest instead.  Many economists worry that hunger and poverty will rise.
Increasingly, the trends we thought would make Asians richer --
market-oriented policies, new technologies, urbanization and
globalization -- are doing the opposite for a vast swath of the
populace.  Why have we been so slow to notice? Perhaps our  metrics 
mask the magnitude and immediacy of the problem.  India  is a case in point. It recently  claimed  the number of
people living in poverty declined by 20 percent in the five
years ended in March 2010. Economists cried foul; India had
lowered its poverty line to 28 rupees (53 cents) a day, allowing
more people to get over the bar. China, to its credit, did the
opposite, in late 2011. With the stroke of a pen, it raised its
threshold and knocked almost 100 million people below it.  Quantitative Measure  Granted, few would say someone making $3 or $5 is thriving.
Poverty is a very technical assessment based on a broad spectrum
of indicators, including education, health, nutrition and
purchasing power. The Economist magazine’s  Big Mac Index  or the
above-mentioned Starbucks measure help fill in some blanks, but
the reality is a complicated one. Such figures are meant to
provide a quantitative measure and a frame of reference.  Yet I wonder if it has all gotten too simplistic and too
vulnerable to manipulation and misinterpretation. How we define
poverty colors the economic and political solutions to a
quandary that’s far bigger than many think. When we are failing
a test as basic as measurement, you know we’ve got trouble.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today's highlights: the View editors on  Greece 's political
deadlock and saving the Volcker rule;  Clive Crook on France
and the EU;  Peter Orszag  on the income swings of high
earners;  Edward Glaeser  on the new urban flight; Ali H.
Soufan on the USS Cole trial.   To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  