-- Hedge Fund Officer’s Firing Upheld by N.Y. Appeals Court
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-08T18:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/hedge-fund-officer-s-firing-upheld-by-n-y-appeals-court.html
A former compliance officer at hedge
fund Peconic Partners LLC lost his bid to revive a lawsuit
claiming he was fired after confronting his boss about stock
trades.  The  New York  Court of Appeals, the state’s highest court,
rejected Joseph Sullivan’s appeal of a lower-court decision
dismissing the suit, according to a filing in  Manhattan  today.
State common law generally doesn’t intrude on relationships
between employers and employees, the judges said.  “Nothing in federal law persuades us that we should change
our own law to create a remedy where Congress did not,”
according to the opinion. Five of seven judges voted to affirm
the earlier ruling.  Sullivan said in the complaint that he was fired days after
confronting Peconic’s chief executive officer, William Harnisch,
over sales of Potash Corp. stock in 2008 in Harnisch’s personal
account and those of family members. Sullivan accused Harnisch
of “front-running,” or selling securities in anticipation of
sales by clients.  “We are delighted with the court of appeals’ decision to
affirm the unanimous decision of the Appellate Division and to
put an end to Mr. Sullivan’s smear campaign against his former
employer,” Y. David Scharf, Harnisch’s lawyer, said in a
statement. “Mr. Sullivan’s claims are entirely baseless.”  ‘Doing His Job’  In a dissenting opinion, Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman said
the “majority’s conclusion that an  investment adviser  like
defendant Peconic has every right to fire its compliance
officer, simply for doing his job, flies in the face of what we
have learned from the Madoff debacle.”  “We believe the dissent is the appropriate decision and
hopefully it will be the law of the state,” Daniel Felber, the
New York-based attorney for Sullivan, said in a phone interview.
“As the law now stands, there is no protection for someone like
Mr. Sullivan.”  Felber said he would try to encourage New York state
legislators to change the law.  The lower-court case is Sullivan v. Harnisch, 08-115092,
New York Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  