-- Hedge Fund Trader Charity Finds Musician Gigs at Google
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/hedge-fund-trader-charity-finds-musician-gigs-at-google.html
Bandleader  Nick Hempton  crossed his
fingers when he moved to  New York  from his native Sydney in
2004, hoping the city’s wealth of jazz clubs would immediately
offer plenty of chances to play.  Instead, he struggled for months to get steady work.  “I knew what I was getting myself into,” Hempton, a 36-
year-old saxophonist, said by phone. “It’s a real hustle and
struggle because there are lots of musicians in New York, but I
knew it was the place I wanted to stay.”  Things got better when Hempton learned about  Music for
Tomorrow , a New York-based nonprofit that helps jazz musicians
find work. In December, the charity booked Hempton’s band to
perform at  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s year-end party for staffers and guests
in New York.  “A lot of gigs are coming my way now,” Hempton said.
“Some of these contacts look like they’re going to be regular
customers.”  Launched in 2006 in New Orleans, Music for Tomorrow’s
online booking service initially helped local musicians find
work after  Hurricane Katrina  brought cultural life to a
standstill. As it gradually expanded its service to New York
last year, Anthony DeFeo, a trader at the Manhattan-based Exis
Capital Management Inc., became the organization’s executive
director on a part-time basis.  Spreading Jazz  “We’ve created a way for people to book events, and we’re
spreading awareness of jazz music by creating opportunities for
musicians,” said DeFeo, 28, a Utica, New York native who played
alto saxophone in high school.  The site works this way: A musician or band can register
with the nonprofit for free. Those searching for live jazz bands
can look at the performers’ photos, YouTube.com videos or music
clips on the  site . Music for Tomorrow asks users of its service
to voluntarily make a donation of 10 percent of the band’s
booking fee, which begins at $100 per hour.  “I can check my e-mail to see if it’s something I’m
interested in doing, and they can see if they want my band,”
Hempton said.  The service now has a roster of more than 75 jazz bands for
hire, and it booked 40 performances last year, producing about
$30,000 in income for the musicians, DeFeo said.  Live Showcase  To boost exposure for its musicians in New York, the
nonprofit will host a showcase tomorrow night for some of its
players at  Tutuma Social Club  in midtown  Manhattan . The world
music and Afro-Peruvian-themed basement-level club has become a
haven for emerging musicians since it opened in 2009.  The evening will include a performance by the  Gregorio
Uribe  Big Band.  Chef Christopher Nirschel , who has appeared on
“The Next Food Network Star,” will serve white truffle risotto
with lobster, Peruvian ceviche, jambalaya and orange fennel ice
cream.  “We’re doing a music-paired tasting to enhance the
experience,” said DeFeo. “These showcases lead to bookings and
make people aware of our website.”  Music for Tomorrow’s co-founders include two Dartmouth
College graduates, Brent Reidy, a New York-based arts
consultant, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  investment banker Kabir
Sehgal. Its first event in New Orleans raised $100,000 to aid
musicians and the construction of a National Jazz Center. The
nonprofit’s early supporters included actors Jude Law and  James
Gandolfini  ( HBO ’s “The Sopranos”).  Wynton Marsalis  Today, its board and advisers include Sehgal; Richard
Casavechia, a managing director for mergers and acquisitions at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, who serves as the board’s
executive chairman; Carlos Hernandez, global head of equities at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Grammy Award-winning trumpeter Wynton
Marsalis; actor Blythe Danner; and singer-songwriter Dave
Matthews.  To expand opportunities for the musicians, DeFeo is now
targeting New York’s wedding market. The group will also start
booking bands this year in Atlanta, Miami and  Los Angeles .  “The more gigs we generate on our website, more income is
generated for musicians, more income comes to our site and the
more money we can put back into  New Orleans ,” DeFeo said.  (Music for Tomorrow’s showcase is Wednesday, May 9 at
Tutuma Social Club, 164 E. 56th Street in Manhattan at 7 p.m.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books and  Jorg
von Uthmann  on Paris arts.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 