-- El Nino May Develop This Year, Australian Forecaster Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-08T09:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/el-nino-may-develop-this-year-australian-forecaster-says-1-.html
El Nino conditions, which can parch
 Asia  and bring cooler weather to the U.S., may develop this year
as the Pacific Ocean warms, according to Australia’s Bureau of
Meteorology, citing data from some weather models.  While ocean and atmospheric indicators are currently
neutral, some models may approach or exceed El Nino thresholds
in the second half, the  bureau said  on its website today. In
March, the bureau said that a La Nina event, which can drench
parts of Asia, had passed after peaking in January.  The twin patterns influence weather worldwide and can roil
commodity markets as farmers from  Indonesia  to  Argentina  contend
with drought or battle too much rain. An El Nino in 2006-2007
caused drought in  Australia  that halved wheat production. This
month, soybeans rallied to the highest level in 45 months after
the last La Nina baked South America, wrecking crops.  “During the past fortnight, the tropical Pacific Ocean
reached its warmest state since May 2010,” the bureau said in
the statement. Models indicate that the warming may continue
over the next six months, it said.  El Ninos are caused by a periodic warming of the Pacific
Ocean and the name -- which means “boy child” in Spanish --was
used by Peruvian fisherman to describe the appearance around
Christmas of a warm ocean current off the South American coast.
Its reverse is the La Nina, indicated by a cooling of surface
water in the Pacific, which brings dry weather to parts of  South
America  and rains to  Southeast Asia  and Australia.  La Ninas  The last La Nina, a back-to-back event, ended in January,
the bureau said on March 27. Historically, about 70 percent of
two-year La Niñas are followed by neutral or El Nino phases,
according to the bureau. “No models currently favor a return to
La Niña,” the bureau said today.  Soybean futures on the Chicago Board of Trade rallied to
$15.125 per bushel on May 2, the highest price since 2008, after
a La Nina-driven drought curbed production in Argentina and
 Brazil . The contract for delivery in July traded at $14.69 a
bushel at 4:41 p.m. in  Singapore , 22 percent higher this year.  The chances of an El Nino developing this year are “very
high” according to Marco Antonio dos Santos, an agronomist at
Sao Paulo-based weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia. Weather
models are pointing to the return in the second half, dos Santos
said last week.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  