-- Electronic Arts Drops as Forecasts Misses Analysts’ Views
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-05-08T20:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/electronic-arts-drops-as-forecasts-misses-analysts-views.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-
largest U.S. video-game publisher, tumbled after its forecasts
for the current quarter and fiscal year fell short of analysts’
estimates. The company plans to cut jobs.  Electronic Arts, based in  Redwood City ,  California , dropped
4.3 percent to $14.48 in  New York , for the lowest closing price
since July 6, 2010. In a statement yesterday, the company
forecast a fiscal first-quarter loss of 40 to 45 cents a share,
excluding items. Analysts on average had estimated a loss of 33
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The publisher of “FIFA” soccer and a “ Star Wars ”
multiplayer online game is grappling with shrinking sales of
packaged games and will incur a $40 million charge to cut jobs
and terminate licenses in that older business. A new online
title from PopCap Games, a company acquired last year for as
much as $1.3 billion, won’t be out this quarter, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities.  “They planned on a PopCap social game this quarter, which
is clearly not happening,” Pachter said in an interview.
“There’s also probably a bit of conservatism at play here.”  Sales for the fiscal first quarter ending June 30,
excluding items such as changes in deferred revenue, will be
about $500 million, Electronic Arts said. Analysts were
predicting $586.6 million on that basis.  Retail sales in the current quarter are being hurt by a
lack of titles in comparison to a year ago, when “Dead Space
2” and other properties were released, Chief Executive Officer
John Riccitiello said yesterday on a conference call.  Online Games  Electronic Arts is seeing double-digit growth in sales of
mobile games, titles played for free on social sites such as
Facebook Inc. and on company websites, Riccitiello said.  The company will end the year with about the same number of
employees as it continues hiring outside the package goods area,
according to John Reseburg, a spokesman.  Riccitiello also said the company, as it balances research
and development priorities, will delay a major title into the
next fiscal year. He declined to identify the game. The company
is spending $80 million this year related to titles for a new
generation of consoles, he said on the call.  Electronic Arts projected $4.3 billion in adjusted  revenue 
for the year, short of the $4.51 billion average estimate of 20
analysts. The company forecasts full-year adjusted profit of
$1.05 to $1.20 a share, compared with $1.16 seen by analysts.  Fiscal fourth-quarter  net income  rose to $400 million, or
$1.20 a share, in the period ended March 31, from $151 million,
or 45 cents, a year earlier, Electronic Arts said. Profit minus
some items totaled 17 cents, beating the 16-cent average of 20
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Full-Year Sales  Sales excluding items such as changes in deferred revenue
totaled $977 million, topping analysts’ projections of $958.4
million. Total sales increased 26 percent to $1.37 billion, from
$1.09 billion a year earlier.  Electronic Arts has increasingly made its products, once
sold only as packaged goods, available over the Internet as
consumers spend more money on games online. The company signed
up more than 1.3 million active users for its “Star Wars: The
Old Republic” multiplayer game, down from the 1.7 million users
it reported in March. The game competes with  Activision Blizzard
Inc. (ATVI) ’s “World of Warcraft.”  Digital sales for the quarter nearly doubled to $419
million from $211 million a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  