-- Telefonica App Offers Apple IPhone Users Free Calls
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-05-09T07:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/telefonica-app-offers-apple-iphone-users-free-calls.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s dominant
telecommunications company, is offering a free mobile
communications application for users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone as
it tries to stop customers switching to cheaper rivals.  The TU Me app allows free calls and stores data for users
online. It will be offered worldwide to users of Apple’s iOS
software from today at no cost regardless of the phone operator,
Telefonica Digital Chief Commercial Officer Stephen Shurrock
said in an interview. The TU Me app will offer communication
services including  text messages , calls, sharing photos and
voice-mail, he said.  Phone companies such as  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Vodafone Group
Plc and Madrid-based Telefonica are struggling to adapt as
customers increasingly use calling software such as Skype or the
WhatsApp messaging technology on smartphones. Telefonica is also
losing market share and suffering from declining profitability
as clients switch to cheaper rivals including  Jazztel Plc. (JAZ)   “We certainly see ways to monetize this app with a
business model along the lines of Skype,” Shurrock said,
declining to say how much revenue it could generate or how many
customers may attract this year.  Microsoft Corp.’s Skype is the world’s most popular
Internet-calling service, enabling free voice calls over the
Web.  Digital Unit  Telefonica  fell  0.7 percent to 11.11 euros at 9:15 a.m. in
 Madrid  trading, valuing the company at 50.7 billion euros ($66
billion). Spain’s benchmark IBEX 35 Index dropped 0.8 percent.  TU Me is available for download from the Apple App Store
and a version for phones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android will be
available in coming weeks, Shurrock said. With TU Me, data is
kept online in the so-called cloud, and “interactions are
stored in a timeline format, making it easy to view, scroll
through and keep a history of conversations,” the company said
in a statement.  Last September, Telefonica created a digital unit, with
offices in  London , Silicon Valley,  Tel Aviv ,  Sao Paulo  and
Madrid, in order to pull together digital assets including
Jajah, the  Mountain View , California-based Internet-phone
company acquired in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  