-- Emerald Planning Advanced Biofuel Plant in Louisiana
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-05-08T19:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/emerald-planning-advanced-biofuel-plant-in-louisiana.html
Emerald Biofuels LLC , a closely held
developer of renewable-diesel refineries, will build its first
plant at a  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  site in Plaquemine, Louisiana.  The facility will process natural oils and animal fats into
85 million gallons (322 million liters) of renewable diesel fuel
a year, Golf, Illinois-based Emerald said today in a  statement .  The refinery will help oil companies meet a U.S. government
requirement to purchase 21 billion gallons of advanced biofuels
a year by 2022.  Advanced biofuels  are made from renewable
sources and must reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 50
percent compared to standard fuel, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  Emerald’s plant will use processing technology developed by
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s UOP LLC unit and the Italian
refiner  Eni SpA (ENI) , according to the statement.  Emerald’s renewable diesel will be a “drop-in
replacement” for petroleum diesel that may be used in vehicles
and transported in existing pipelines without being blended with
standard fuels, Honeywell  said  on its website.  The fuel will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by as much as
80 percent compared to petroleum diesel, according to Honeywell.
That’s enough to qualify as an advanced biofuel, according to
the EPA.  Emerald didn’t disclose the cost of the plant. Fieldstone
Private Capital Group will help complete financing before 2013
and construction is expected to begin immediately after that,
according to the statement. Triten Corp.’s International
Alliance Group will be in charge of building the facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  