-- EOG Profit More Than Doubles on Higher Crude Output, Prices
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-05-08T22:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/eog-profit-more-than-doubles-on-higher-crude-output-prices-1-.html
EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , the fourth-largest
U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market value,
said first-quarter profit more than doubled on increased output
of petroleum liquids and higher crude prices.  Net income climbed to $324 million, or $1.20 a share, from
$134 million, or 52 cents, a year earlier, the Houston-based
company said in a statement today. Excluding such items as gains
from asset sales and commodity contracts, per-share profit was
$1.17 a share, 1 cent more than the $1.16 average of 30
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  EOG said crude and condensate volumes surged 49 percent
from a year earlier to 140,800 barrels a day in the first
quarter as prices climbed 15 percent. The company raised its
forecast for liquids growth this year to 33 percent from 30
percent, while boosting the company’s total production growth
target to 7 percent from 5.5 percent.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mark Papa has been
seeking to increase output of crude and petroleum liquids that
are more profitable than gas. The company has acreage in such
onshore U.S. shale formations as the Bakken in  North Dakota  and
 Texas ’s  Eagle Ford .  Gas output in  North America  fell about 9 percent in the
first quarter compared with a year earlier, EOG said in today’s
release, calling that consistent with its “previously announced
projections and pessimistic short-term view” of gas prices.  Revenue Jumps  Revenue jumped 48 percent from a year earlier to $2.8
billion in the first quarter. About 85 percent of the company’s
North American wellhead revenue came from liquids in the first
quarter, Papa said in today’s statement.  Total daily oil and gas volumes in the first quarter rose
9.9 percent from a year earlier to 449,800 barrels of oil
equivalent a day, the company said.  EOG said cash proceeds from asset sales totaled about $565
million through May 1.  Oil futures in  New York  climbed 8.9 percent from a year
earlier to average $103.03 a barrel in the first quarter. Gas
futures plunged 40 percent in the quarter compared with a year
earlier to average $2.503 per million British thermal units.  Today’s earnings report was issued after the close of
regular trading on U.S. markets. EOG rose about 1 percent to
$105 at 5:38 p.m. in after-hours trading.  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Apache Corp. (APA) 
are the largest U.S. independent oil and gas producers by market
value. Such companies focus on oil and gas exploration, not
refining or chemicals.  (EOG will hold an earnings conference call tomorrow at 9
a.m. New York time. To listen, go to
 http://www.eogresources.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  