-- Leonardo’s Lungs Fascinate at Buckingham Palace
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-05-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/leonardo-s-lungs-fascinate-at-buckingham-palace-martin-gayford.html
There are gruesome images of the human
body as meat, animals sliced to display inner organs, and a
morbid obsession with skulls.  It all sounds like a Damien Hirst extravaganza. In fact I’m
describing “ Leonardo da Vinci : Anatomist” at the  Queen’s
Gallery ,  Buckingham Palace , through Oct. 7.  These are the most beautiful depictions of skinned corpses,
muscles, bones, nerves and intestines ever made; and this is the
largest selection -- 87 sheets -- ever displayed. In its way
this show reveals as much about the man, his mind and work as
the recent Da Vinci blockbuster at the National Gallery.  Leonardo (1452-1519) was able to see with astonishing
clarity and, most importantly, translate what he saw into
wonderfully delicate, lucid lines. As a result he can show you
“The Uterus of a Gravid Cow,” or the enormously complex
branching bronchi inside “The Lungs” (both circa 1508), and
make you think “What a fascinating, intricate object!”  Sometimes, especially early in his career, Leonardo used
his abilities to visualize what he hadn’t seen.  When he relied on conventional wisdom of his time, as with
“The Hemisection of a Man and Woman in the Act of Coition”
(1490-2), Leonardo got it badly wrong (he put in extra pipework
suggesting a spiritual connection from the man’s heart and spine
to the woman’s womb).  Queasy Michelangelo  Later, he increasingly looked at real bodies, which must
have been extremely nasty. Dissection of corpses 500 years ago,
before chemical preservatives or easy refrigeration, was a
squalid, smelly affair. Michelangelo complained he had to give
it up because it affected his digestion.  Leonardo himself noted the fear of being “in the company
of these dead men, dismembered and flayed and terrible to
behold.” Why did he do it?  Obviously, he was driven by an urge to know. Half a
millennium ago the roles of artist and scientist were not
separated as sharply as today.  Painters and sculptors such as Leonardo and Michelangelo
moved easily into fields like military engineering. Some human
anatomy was considered a necessary part of a Florentine artist’s
training.  Leonardo, however, went further. He wanted to understand
everything he might paint, meaning everything in the world --
especially human beings. He slowly moved from painting and
sculpture into what we would call science.  Anatomy Project  Some scholars think that the lost “Battle of Anghiari,”
commissioned in 1503 when he was 51, was the last picture he
began. His last years were mainly devoted to such projects as a
treatise on anatomy.  Some of the sheets on display give an idea of what that
painting would have looked like. Leonardo used the powers of
observation of a great artist to make discoveries that were
astonishingly far ahead of his time.  His investigation of “Blood Flow through the Aortic
Valve” (1512-13) describes details of the workings of the heart
which weren’t noted again until 1912.  Leonardo’s book was never finished, let alone published.
Late medieval medical theory wasn’t able to explain what
Leonardo saw -- the circulation of the blood, for example,
wasn’t proposed for another century. Consequently, he hit an
intellectual wall and gave up, discouraged.  All but one of his surviving anatomical drawings eventually
ended up in the Royal Collection, yet no one paid much attention
to them for centuries. This exhibition makes clear how
extraordinary Leonardo’s voyage into inner space truly was.  For more information, go to:
 http://www.royalcollection.org.uk/exhibitions   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Jorg von Uthmann on  Paris
art , Ryan Sutton on  food .  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 