-- Tepco Plan Includes 10% Household Power Rate Rise
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-05-09T01:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/tepco-business-plan-includes-10-household-power-rate-rise-1-.html
(Corrects Hirose’s age in sixth paragraph. This story was
first published on May 8.)  Tokyo Electric Power Co. wants to
raise electricity rates for households by about 10 percent to
cover increased fuel costs under a business plan given to the
government, Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  said.  The request is still being considered, Edano told reporters
today in Tokyo. The Nikkei newspaper in an unattributed report
today said Tepco will officially ask for approval to raise rates
by 10.28 percent.  Tepco’s business plan, submitted on April 27, seeks a 1
trillion yen ($12.5 billion) bailout following last year’s
earthquake and tsunami that wrecked its Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station. Beside the rate increase, Tepco is petitioning
to restart nuclear reactors in its Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant on
the other side of the country from Fukushima.  “The increase in electricity rates and the restart of the
Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant are key to restoring Tepco’s
profitability,” Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at
Mizuho Asset Management Co., said by phone. “It’s still
unclear” whether the utility can execute the plan, he said.  Shares in Tepco rose 3.4 percent, the most since April 6,
to close at 184 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today. The stock
has plunged more than 90 percent since the day before the March
11 disaster caused reactor fuel meltdowns at the Fukushima
station.  New President  In another step toward replacing executives tainted by the
disaster, Tepco will promote Managing Director Naomi Hirose, 59,
to replace President Toshio Nishizawa, Tepco Chairman-elect
Kazuhiko Shimokobe told reporters in Tokyo.  “I personally like Tepco. It is unbearable for me to
abandon the company as it is,” Hirose told reporters, when
asked why he accepted the job.  Hirose, who spent time in sales at Tepco unlike most of his
predecessors, said the company had tended to tell customers what
was best for them and that won’t work anymore.  “Our customers won’t accept such an attitude,” Hirose
said. “I would like to help reform the company.”  Hirose may not last long in the job, Mizuho’s Aoki said.  ‘Sacrificial Pawn’  “He may be only a sacrificial pawn who will be replaced
with someone else later as it’s still at a stage where someone
has to take the chestnuts out of the fire,” Aoki said.  The utility aims for a profit of 105 billion yen ($1.3
billion) in the year ending March 2014, based on a rate increase
and the restart of Kashiwazaki Kariwa, the Nikkei reported,
citing the business plan. Tepco’s net loss for the year ended
March may be about 710 billion yen, the paper said.  Tepco expects to post a loss of 695 billion yen in the
fiscal year ended March 31, compared with a November estimate of
600 billion yen, it said in a statement Feb. 13.  The company plans to release its earnings and a list of new
directors on May 14, Shimokobe said today.  “I want to make a decision as soon as possible” on
whether to approve the business plan, Edano told reporters
today. The plan will be made public after Edano’s approval,
Shimokobe said April 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  