-- Merkel Ally Altmaier Says Germany Will Talk Growth With France
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-05-08T10:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/merkel-ally-altmaier-says-germany-will-talk-growth-with-france.html
Germany  is ready to talk with  France 
about spurring economic growth in  Europe  so long as President-
elect  Francois Hollande  holds to his commitments in the fiscal
pact, the chief whip for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party said.  Peter Altmaier , deputy  Christian Democratic Union  floor
leader, rejected a campaign pledge by Hollande to reopen the
budget treaty, saying the pact was signed by 25 of the European
Union’s 27 leaders in March and cannot be renegotiated. He also
rebutted Hollande’s call for joint debt issuance, saying
“nobody in Europe is talking about euro bonds.”  “My message is: we can talk about many things that
stimulate growth in the end, on condition that the basic
decisions in the fiscal pact are honored and that the policies
of budget consolidation remain unchanged,” said Altmaier told
reporters in Berlin today.  Altmaier’s comments underscore the horse-trading under way
between Europe’s two biggest economies as they try to re-
establish a common front on fighting the debt crisis after
 Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the May 6 election. Merkel, who publicly
backed Sarkozy, is under pressure from Hollande and anti-bailout
parties elected in Greece the same day to ease her insistence on
austerity and focus on creating growth.  Merkel called Sarkozy yesterday evening to thank him for
his “close and trustworthy” collaboration in combating the
crisis, the German government said in an e-mail. She and Sarkozy
are convinced “Germany and France will continue to bear the
responsibility to promote a united Europe through working
together.”  Project Bonds  To encourage growth, “there is a whole range of things you
can do, starting on the European level,” Altmaier said. He
cited European Investment Bank project bonds and redirecting
unused European structural-fund money. The idea of joint bonds
for certain projects came from the European Commission and “we
have to await the proposals,” he said.  “It’s mainly about mobilizing private capital for certain
public projects, which is completely different from euro
bonds,” Altmaier said. “We have no proposal that’s ready for
signing, nor anything else.”  The French election result “is by no means without
opportunities,” Altmaier said, citing “nuances” in Hollande’s
campaign rhetoric that show “he doesn’t fundamentally question
the fiscal pact.”  “I’m very optimistic that the fiscal pact will be ratified
and can come into force,” Altmaier said. The pact was “decided
against the background that the policies of fiscal spending and
ever greater government deficits have defeated themselves.”  That message was reinforced by Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  in an interview broadcast late yesterday on ARD
television.  “The commitments on deficit reduction that every country in
Europe has undertaken will be upheld also by France,” he said.
“I have absolutely no doubt about that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  