-- MetLife Hires AIG’s Townsend to Oversee Expansion in Asia
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-05-08T22:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/metlife-hires-aig-s-townsend-to-oversee-expansion-in-asia.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, hired Christopher Townsend to lead operations in Asia
after the company expanded in the continent with a $16 billion
acquisition in late 2010.  Townsend, 43, joins from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) ’s property-casualty insurance unit, New York-based MetLife
said yesterday in a statement. He will have responsibility over
Japan, Korea, Australia, Hong Kong and China.  MetLife is counting on the region to fuel growth after
buying American Life Insurance Co. from AIG. Chief Executive
Officer  Steven Kandarian  in November reorganized leadership by
giving top managers responsibility for geographic areas. Former
Chief Financial Officer William Wheeler supervises the Americas
and Michel Khalaf, who joined with the Alico purchase, was
assigned to run Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  “With Chris joining MetLife, we will have experienced
leaders in place in all three of MetLife’s geographic regions,”
Kandarian said in the statement.  Asia  operations reported
directly to Kandarian while he sought a head for the region.  MetLife generated more than a quarter of its  revenue 
outside the U.S. last year, compared with less than 15 percent
in 2008. International operating profit jumped 89 percent last
year to $570 million, led by gains in Japan, which Wheeler in
2010 called a “cash machine” for Alico.  Kandarian is refocusing the company’s business mix,
reducing sales of variable annuities to limit risk and
 retreating  from U.S. banking so the company faces less federal
oversight. MetLife sold businesses in Taiwan and the Caribbean
and hired former Credit Suisse Group AG banker Adam Hodes to
head mergers and acquisitions as Kandarian seeks to boost
shareholder returns.  Townsend, who spent 21 years at AIG, was previously
responsible for the Chartis unit’s operations in Australia,  New
Zealand  and the Pacific Islands, according to the statement. He
will join MetLife after fulfilling obligations to Chartis and be
based in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  