-- EU Funds Should Have Fewer Conditions, Merkel Ally Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-08T14:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/eu-funds-should-have-fewer-conditions-merkel-ally-says.html
The euro region’s economy would get a
boost if governments could tap the European Union’s structural
funds without having to supply part of the financing to qualify
for the aid, an ally of German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said.  Euro-area leaders are weighing exemptions from co-financing
for governments that develop major projects to strengthen their
economies, said Gerda Hasselfeldt, the floor chief of Merkel’s
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union . The step
would speed up access to investment cash without compromising
the states’ fragile budget situations, she said.  “Under no circumstances can we stoke the crisis by easing
budget consolidation,” Hasselfeldt, whose CSU is one of three
parties in Merkel’s coalition, said today at a regular press
conference in Berlin. “The proposal of foregoing all co-finance
for some projects still needs to be thrashed out, but I can well
imagine this taking place.”  While the EU has eased access to its structural and
cohesion funds since 2008, governments such as  Greece  are
failing to qualify for the money because of red tape and the co-
finance rules. The funds, which are being negotiated for 2014-
2020, total 347 billion euros ($452 billion) for 2007-2013, or a
third of the EU’s total budget in that period.  Greece was allocated 20.4 billion euros in structural-fund
aid at a co-financing rate of 5 percent for 2007-2013, provided
it met the criteria for the money. By the end of 2011, Greece
had drawn only about 30 percent of the funds,  according  to the
European Commission’s directorate for regional development.  Hasselfeldt said she is “sure” that structural funds and
loans facilitated by a capital increase of the  European
Investment Bank  would provide economic assistance to struggling
euro-area economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  