-- EU High-Frequency Trade Curbs May Hurt Markets, Industry Warns
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-05-08T12:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/eu-high-frequency-trade-curbs-may-hurt-markets-industry-warns.html
High-frequency traders said that plans
by European Union lawmakers to interfere with their strategies
and restrict the speed of transactions would raise investor
costs and harm financial stability.  “It is ironic that growth market exchanges in countries
such as  Brazil ,  Hong Kong  and Singapore are making substantial
investments in technology in order to improve liquidity, whilst
 Europe  is contemplating doing the reverse,” the FIA European
Principal Traders Association, a group that represents high-
frequency traders, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The European Parliament is seeking to bolster last year’s
proposals by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief,
to revamp the region’s market legislation, known as Mifid. The
draft rules were proposed by Barnier to  plug regulatory gaps 
exposed by the financial crisis that followed Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  A bid by the assembly to force traders to keep orders in
the market for at least half a second before canceling them, and
to set EU limits on how many orders a firm may cancel compared
to those it completes, would lead to “higher transaction costs
for end users” and increase the chance of “extreme price
swings,” the FIA said.  Markus Ferber , the lawmaker leading work on the rules in
the parliament, has backed calls for traders to face additional
fees if they exceed a pre-determined limit for excessive numbers
of canceled orders. Arlene McCarthy, a legislator responsible
for a related draft law against market abuse, has called for the
pre-fee limit to be set at 250 cancellations to one completed
order.  Half-Second Rule  Ferber has also called for the half-second rule for traders
to keep orders in the market.  Setting minimum order waiting times would “take European
markets back at least 7 years” and would undo many “of the
improvements in market quality achieved over that time,” the
trade group said. A “one-size-fits-all” ratio of orders to
completed trades would “harm liquidity and discourage
competition in certain asset classes.” The setting of such
ratios is “best left to trading venues,” it said.  Ferber has said that the measures would help to prevent a
repeat of the flash crash that rocked markets in May 2010, and
curb market volatility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  