-- EU’s Rehn Says Carbon Investments Won’t Risk Financial Crisis
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-08T16:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/eu-s-rehn-says-carbon-investments-won-t-risk-financial-crisis.html
Companies with high- carbon emissions 
are unlikely to fall suddenly in value and threaten the
financial stability of the European Union, Commissioner for
Economic and Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn said.  Rehn was responding to a Feb. 16 parliamentary question
from Reinhard Buetikofer, Vice-Chair of the Greens-European Free
Alliance bloc in the European Parliament, about whether the
commission saw “a systemic risk in the high concentration of
high-carbon assets in major European  stock exchanges .”  “The claimed kind of mispricing should hardly be able to
cause adjustments on stock prices that could trigger a systemic
financial crisis,” Rehn wrote in a reply e-mailed today to
Buetikofer’s office and forwarded to Bloomberg.  Banks, funds and institutional investors are increasingly
seeking clarity from government and monetary authorities about
carbon pricing and how greenhouse gas emissions may affect the
value of their investments. Buetikofer’s question echoed a Jan.
19 letter sent to  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  by
Climate Change Capital Ltd. and more than 20 other investors
academics and campaign groups.  The U.K. groups argued that investors may end up with
“stranded assets and poor returns” because of investments in
industries with high carbon emissions. The signatories, who
included Aviva Investors Chief Executive Officer Paul Abberley
noted that five of the 10 biggest companies in the U.K.’s
benchmark stock index, the FTSE 100, were “almost exclusively
high-carbon.”  King, Draghi  King replied that the bank would evaluate whether the
U.K.’s exposure to investments in greenhouse gas-emitting
industries poses a risk to financial stability.  Climate Change Capital also joined more than 20 investors,
academics and lawmakers in writing to European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  requesting he investigate Europe’s
investments in “unsustainable” and high-pollution industries  In today’s response, Rehn said a drop in the value of
carbon-intensive companies seems “unlikely” because they are
propped up by “rapidly” growing demand for commodities such as
oil with limited proven reserves. He said that work to reform
 capital requirements  for banks and insurance funds will improve
their ability to absorb losses.  “Foresight doesn’t seem to be the Commission’s strong
suit,” Buetikofer said in an e-mail. “The systemic criticality
of highly CO2-intense investment cannot be underrated if we
don’t want to expose our economy to dangerous yet avoidable
risk.”  Rehn’s reply, which Buetikofer’s office received today, is
dated May 5. Rehn’s spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail seeking comment, and a call to his mobile
phone was directed to voicemail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  