-- EU Uses Hollande’s Victory, Greek Tumult to Preach Growth
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-05-08T15:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/eu-uses-hollande-s-victory-greek-tumult-to-preach-growth-1-.html
The European Commission appealed for
pro-growth policies after  France ’s first power shift to a
Socialist president since 1981 and Greece’s electoral rebellion
against austerity busted the budget-cutting consensus that has
dominated the response to the debt crisis.  The commission refloated proposals including a 10 billion-
euro ($13 billion) capital increase for the European Union’s in-
house investment bank and the use of EU guarantees for private
bond issues to finance transport and construction projects.  “We are seizing the moment of advancing our previous
proposals now in the new political climate,” EU Economic and
Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Brussels
today.  The climate changed decisively on May 6, when Socialist
Francois Hollande won France’s presidential election and voters
in  Greece  flocked to anti-bailout parties that rejected the
spiral of budget cuts imposed on the country since 2010 as
conditions for staying in the euro.  “The French presidential campaign had the merits of
putting the urgency of growth on the agenda,” Hollande, set to
take office May 15, said in a  Slate.fr interview . He said France
will cease being part of a “duopoly” with  Germany  that imposes
austerity on  Europe .  Berlin Bilateral  Hollande will test his leverage when he visits German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  soon after his inauguration. Merkel’s
post-election congratulatory message today hinted at their
differences, saying the new French leader will face “a time
full of challenges.”  The EU’s president,  Herman Van Rompuy , sought to capture
the pro-growth momentum by calling a special meeting of leaders
on May 23, more than a month before the next scheduled summit.  The commission said it is too early to disclose whether its
pledge of “flexible” enforcement of deficit rules means that
it will grant extra time to countries such as Spain, Italy and
France to erase their budget shortfalls.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
meetings of euro finance ministers, spoke out for a more
balanced approach and said he agrees with Hollande on the
“essentials.”  “Only if savings and growth go hand in hand to form one
European gesture, can the mistakes of the past be prevented,”
Juncker, a past critic of German-French dominance of  crisis
management , told Luxembourg’s parliament today.  Investment Projects  Commission President  Jose Barroso  said he expects national
leaders at a June 28 summit to approve the extra funds for the
 European Investment Bank , which could unleash 60 billion euros
in loans to co-finance projects worth as much as 180 billion
euros.  Based in Luxembourg, the EIB signed loan agreements
totaling 61 billion euros in 2011. It has been run since January
by Werner Hoyer, formerly Germany’s European affairs minister
under Merkel.  The commission urged governments to back plans for
“project bonds” that would enable the EIB to guarantee 4.6
billion euros in infrastructure financing during a two-year
pilot phase. An additional 40 billion euros could be generated
between 2014 and 2020.  That proposal is “not old wine in new bottles,” Barroso
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  