-- Ex-News Corp. Phone Hacker Asks Supreme Court to Block Evidence
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-08T15:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/ex-news-corp-phone-hacker-asks-supreme-court-to-block-evidence.html
News Corp.’s ex-private detective who
was jailed in 2007 for hacking into mobile-phone messages asked
the U.K. Supreme Court to let him withhold evidence in civil
lawsuits that might incriminate him in a criminal case.  Glenn Mulcaire , who served six months in prison for
intercepting voice mail for News Corp.’s News of the World
tabloid, was re-arrested last year as part of a new probe
involving thousands of newly identified potential victims.  Mulcaire “is in the unusual position of having to predict
what he might be charged with,” his lawyer Gavin Millar said at
today’s hearing in  London . “He wants to clarify precisely where
he can and cannot properly claim privilege against self-
incrimination.”  Mulcaire seeks to overturn a Court of Appeal ruling in
February that he must disclose who at the now-defunct tabloid
told him to intercept messages left for  Nicola Phillips , a
former employee of celebrity publicist  Max Clifford .  Phillips also wants to know what information Mulcaire
collected from her messages and to whom he gave it -- a request
that will likely be repeated in other cases if she wins. Millar
argues that Mulcaire would incriminate himself if he turns over
the evidence.  Intellectual Property  The court’s decision may turn on whether the information in
the voice mail is considered intellectual property. Lawyers for
Phillips argued in court papers that the privilege against self
incrimination doesn’t apply when the disputed information is
commercial or intellectual property.  Millar said in court papers that the information is
“personal, not proprietary.”  The ex-detective’s police bail expires May 28, Millar said.
The  Metropolitan Police Service  in London last month gave U.K.
prosecutors files on potential charges against as many as 11
people, including up to four journalists, a police officer and
six members of the public. Millar cited the files today as
evidence of the urgency of Mulcaire’s case.  Mulcaire and  Clive Goodman , a reporter for the News of the
World, pleaded guilty in 2006 and were jailed the next year for
hacking voice mail for members of Prince Charles’s staff.  Police have arrested about 46 people in three current
probes, including the newspaper’s former editors, Rebekah Brooks
and  Andy Coulson , who are scheduled to testify this week at a
media-ethics inquiry triggered by the scandal.  News Corp. (NWSA)  closed the News of the World in July to help
contain the scandal. Mulcaire successfully sued the company over
claims it improperly stopped covering his legal fees after
lawmakers questioned the payments.  Coulson, who lost a bid last year to have News Corp. pay
his legal costs on the same day Mulcaire won his ruling on the
issue, was granted permission to appeal today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  