-- You Hate Taxes, but You’re Not Moving to Nashville
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-05-08T23:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/exodus-from-tiburon-to-texarkana-is-exaggerated.html
(Corrects reference to GDP in seventh paragraph.)  How has the Great Recession reshaped
America? Does the decline in New York’s financial sector herald
the “demise of the luxury city,” as  Joel Kotkin  has  recently 
suggested? Or instead has this watershed meant “the death of
the fringe suburb,” as  Christopher Leinberger  speculates?  In fact, none of America’s diverse living styles is about
to perish. Incomes remain highest in the large, well-educated
coastal cities, even though Kotkin is right that they remain
challenged by the high cost of government. Population growth
remains strongest in the car-oriented cities of the Sun Belt,
even though Leinberger and his Brookings Institution colleagues
are right to note that exurban population growth  has fallen .  The most troubled U.S. locales are the places that just
have far too much housing relative to the level of current
demand, either because they overbuilt during the recent boom or
decades ago during the industrial heyday of the  Rust Belt .  In a national election year, when the whole country must
come together to select a president, we are reminded that this
is a highly diverse country with an astonishing array of
cultures and living arrangements. Liberal Boston academics are
forced to face the political power of suburban Virginians;
conservative Texans confront the electoral clout in  Ohio ’s inner
cities.  Embracing Choice  Economic theory typically embraces choice, whether in
supermarkets or in cities. It is a great thing that Americans
can opt to live in dense cities or sprawling suburbs. As long as
people pay the social costs of their actions, and are not
 subsidized by policies  that artificially favor one living style
over another, then it is splendid that we have plenty of
options, some with sunshine and inexpensive mass-produced
housing and others with high wages and costly apartments.  The tides of history may occasionally make one form of
living appear temporarily triumphant -- as suburbia did, thanks
to cheap cars and  abundant highways , in the 1960s and 1970s --
but soon enough other forces reassert themselves. After 1980,
globalization and new technologies increased the value of ideas
and innovation, which in turn led to a rebirth of those older,
denser cities that were heavy with  human capital .  Which metropolitan areas have managed particularly well
during the Great Recession? I examined three measures of
economic success: unemployment, housing-price stability and
gross domestic product growth. I focus on metropolitan areas
that had more than 200,000 people in 2000. Unemployment is
available from the Bureau of Labor Statistics for 2012; housing-
price data is available from the Federal Housing Finance  Agency 
only for 2011. Figure 1 shows the relationship between
unemployment and housing prices in 2011 divided by prices in
2006 (correcting for inflation). For every 10 percentage-point
increase in price growth, unemployment falls by 0.8 percentage
points.  There is also a reasonably strong correlation between
housing-price growth and growth in real per-capita gross
domestic product from 2006 to 2010, which is the latest year
available from the  Bureau of Economic Analysis  (shown in Figure
2).  As prices rise 10 percentage points, per-capita GDP gains 2
points.  California ’s inland cities, like  Merced , are particular
disasters. Success stories include both idea hubs, like  San
Jose , California, and  Boston , and also energy-intensive areas
like Houston and Lafayette,  Louisiana .  Education has played an outsized role in explaining urban
resilience. Figure 3 shows the link between share of the adult
population with a college degree in 2000 and unemployment in
February 2012. As the share of adults with college degrees
increases 10 percentage points, unemployment (on average) falls
by 1.6 percentage points.  GDP and Education  The connection between GDP growth and education is
positive, but somewhat weaker. As the share of adults with
college degrees in 2000 increases by 10 percentage points, GDP
growth increases by 1.1 points. The connection becomes stronger
for metropolitan areas with more than 1 million people, as shown
in Figure 4, where GDP growth increases by 4.9 percentage points
as the share of adults with college degrees in 2000 increases by
10 percentage points. There is a  complementary  relationship
between cities and skills.  To me, these figures don’t suggest the death of the skilled
city or the  luxury city , either. Places with more education were
earning substantially more in 2006, and they have done better at
withstanding the recession, as well.  New York  itself has done somewhat better than its schooling
level suggests, perhaps because the most important skills in New
York have always been its more ephemeral human capital -- the
talents learned on the trading floor or on the street corner.  But this doesn’t mean the more expensive cities are
trouble-free or that they are doing a great job providing homes
and economic opportunity for middle-income Americans.  Four years ago, in City Journal, I  compared  the lifestyles
of ordinary Americans in New York and Houston and concluded that
Houston was doing a far better job of providing a decent quality
of life for people in the middle of the  income distribution . New
York may be a great place to be a master of the universe, or an
immigrant who lacks the wherewithal to buy the multiple cars
needed for an exurban existence. But when it comes to ordinary
families earning $60,000 to $70,000 a year, Houston delivers.  The Sun Belt metropolises  have grown  dramatically over the
past two decades precisely because they specialize in producing
inexpensive lifestyles, especially affordable homes, for middle-
income Americans.  Population growth  is one measure of urban success that
doesn’t seem to track rising incomes or low unemployment levels.
Figure 5 shows the correlation between growth in per-capita GDP
from 2001 to 2010 and population growth from 2000 to 2010.
Population rose more quickly in those areas, like Atlanta and
Houston, that had less, not more, per-capita productivity
growth.  Why Houston Thrives  On one level, the divergence between population and income
growth reminds us of the diversity of America. Boston thrives
with high education and income and little new housing
construction. Houston thrives, with lower incomes, by providing
abundant affordable homes. Neither urban model appears to be
headed for the trash heap of history.  Yet there are still lessons from recent urban history, and
there are some places that face dramatic danger. Cities such as
New York, Boston and  San Francisco , where prices have stayed
reasonably high, despite the crash, should do more to promote
affordable housing, especially by eliminating the barriers to
new construction. There is demand in these areas, and they would
grow, if only they could build more homes. Their public sectors
are expensive, and future leaders will have to adjust to far
more austerity than in the recent past.  Cities such as Dallas and Houston are doing well with their
low-cost pro-business model, but history has been less kind to
less-educated places. They should be investing more in education
and in urban amenities that will attract the more skilled.  The biggest challenges are in the places like Merced and
 Detroit  that have too much housing relative to the level of
demand. These places have too little education, and lack the
industrial strength that holds up Houston. These areas should at
least focus on educating their children and creating a more
business-friendly environment. Urban decline is slow, even when
urban growth is fast, because housing is a durable good that
takes decades to disappear. The key is to manage decline, by
investing in human capital, in ways that produce hope in the
midst of despair.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Greece’s political
deadlock  and saving the  Volcker rule ; Clive Crook  on France and
the EU ; William Pesek on  Asia’s wealth divide ;  Peter Orszag  on
the  income swings of high earners ; Ali H. Soufan on the  USS Cole
trial .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  