-- Facebook Retail Investors Seen Missing Day-One IPO Surge
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/facebook-s-retail-investors-seen-missing-day-one-ipo-surge-tech.html
Renee Morrison has never bought a
stock in her life, even after more than a decade working in
financial services. That’s about to change as she prepares to
invest $2,500 in social-networking website  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Facebook’s initial public offering, planned for later this
month at $28 to $35 a share, presents the first opportunity for
most of the site’s 900 million users and other retail investors
like Morrison to become stakeholders. Chances are slim that
they’ll be able to capture any of the gains that come on the
first day of trading.  Only institutions with connections to the underwriters will
get to buy at Facebook’s offering price, which means most retail
investors will miss the initial pop -- typically where the bulk
of the gains are concentrated. Of the 10 U.S. consumer Internet
companies that held IPOs in the past year, nine rose in their 
first day of trading, and only three are still higher than their 
day-one closing price. Groupon Inc. and Pandora Media Inc. have
lost more than half their value since then.  “If you’re somebody who’s not wealthy and you really want
to make a Facebook investment, there’s an uphill battle,” said
 Gerard Hoberg , associate professor of finance at the  University
of Maryland . Retail investors are usually “stuck buying in the
aftermarket, and the juicy return is not so easily available.”  Facebook and its holders will sell 337.4 million shares,
according to a May 3 filing, giving the  Menlo Park , California-
based company a valuation of $96 billion at the high end of the
range. Not since  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in 2004 has an IPO received so much
hype, thanks to Facebook’s prevalence on laptops, phones and
tablets, along with an Academy Award-winning movie about founder
and Harvard University dropout  Mark Zuckerberg .  No Bargain  Even for shareholders who get in early, Facebook won’t come
at a bargain. At the high end of the proposed valuation,
Facebook is asking investors to pay 99 times earnings, a higher
multiple than about 99 percent of companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. It would be more costly than every member of
the  S&P 500  relative to earnings except for Amazon.com Inc. and
Equity Residential,  data  show.  Facebook’s fame has drawn individual investors such as
Morrison, 51, who doesn’t use the service, though she says her
two daughters -- ages 20 and 23 -- are addicts.  “I’ve never gotten in on anything at the ground level,”
said Morrison, who runs accounting at  Empyrion Wealth Management 
in Roseville,  California , and is turning to one of its financial
advisers to help her get stock. “I thought this would be the
perfect opportunity to go ahead and give it a try.”  Buying Post-IPO  While Morrison says she’s more excited about the experience
of owning part of Facebook than the potential returns, rookie
investors aiming to make a quick buck have reasons to be
cautious.  Investors who are unable to get in at the IPO price and buy
after the run-up have historically struggled to beat the market.
For those who want to buy Facebook or any other IPO, University
of  Maryland ’s Hoberg recommends purchasing a basket of at least
five stocks for some diversification.  Reality isn’t tempering the enthusiasm. At Scottrade Inc.’s
branch in Pleasanton, California, about 35 miles northeast of
Facebook’s headquarters, Rod Williams has been walking first-
time investors through the process of how to buy Facebook
shares. Inquiries picked up after the company filed its
prospectus in February, said Williams, who’s worked at Scottrade
branches for 12 years.  Limit Orders  Scottrade lets customers make investments online or in
person. Customers can place a so-called limit order, indicating
the highest price they’re willing to pay, before the stock
starts trading. After that, they can also place a market order,
which is an order to buy at the best available price.  Among major Internet brokerage companies, only  E*Trade
Financial Corp. (ETFC) ’s securities unit is listed as an underwriter
for  Facebook ’s IPO. The New York-based company is one of 33
firms that will probably get some allocation of Facebook stock
for clients, though the amounts haven’t been specified.  ShareBuilder, owned by Capital One Financial Corp., is 
expecting increased volume on the day of Facebook’s IPO,
because the trading site caters to a younger demographic, said
Dan Greenshields, president of ShareBuilder.  When LinkedIn Corp., Groupon and Zynga Inc. went public
last year, they each accounted for more than 30 percent of total
orders on the day of their debuts, according to ShareBuilder.  Bull Case: Google  Facebook inquiries are already surging. On May 4, the day
after the company disclosed its initial  price range , Facebook
accounted for 11 percent of all calls and 23 percent of e-mails
from customers, according to ShareBuilder. That’s more than 
double the prior day.  “Our customers are generally in their 30s and probably all
Facebook users,” Greenshields said. “My guess is we’re going
to have pretty big demand.”  Investors seeking a bullish case for buying on day one can
look back to Google’s IPO. The world’s largest search engine
sold shares at $85 each in August 2004. The  Mountain View ,
California-based company jumped 18 percent to $100.34 in its
debut, and investors never looked back. By year-end, the  stock 
had almost doubled from that first-day closing price, and is up
more than seven-fold since the IPO.  Facebook’s initial valuation will dwarf Google’s. At $35 a
share, Facebook’s $96 billion market value would make it the
largest IPO on record for an  Internet company . Google was valued
at $23 billion, or about a quarter of Facebook’s valuation, even
with about half as much annual revenue before its IPO.  Making Hay on Hype  Less savvy buyers are unlikely to care, said  Michael Sha ,
Chief Executive Officer of SigFig, a San Francisco-based
Internet company that helps investors manage their portfolios.  “A lot of time the retail investor isn’t thinking about
valuation,” Sha said. They often “end up being the ones that
buy high,” he said.  Some individual investors are looking to take advantage of
the mayhem. Tim Yuen, a software engineer in  San Jose ,
California, is aiming to buy Facebook shares at $45 to $50 a
share using his TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. account and then
sell if the stock jumps further. He previously tried to acquire
shares on the private market, but couldn’t because the
investment minimum was too high.  “I’ll probably see how well it opens up that morning and
follow it,” Yuen said. “I know there’s a lot of hype for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  