-- Facebook Rival’s Patent Called Invalid by U.S. Court
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-08T18:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/facebook-rival-s-patent-called-invalid-by-u-s-court.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the world’s
most popular social-networking site, won an appeals court ruling
that invalidated a software company’s patent for a network that
lets users communicate on a large scale.  Evidence supported a jury verdict that the  Leader
Technologies Inc.  patent was invalid because the company took
too long to seek protection for its invention, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington   said  in an opinion
posted on its website today.  Closely held Leader sued in 2008, seeking cash compensation
for what it said was Facebook’s use of its invention without
permission. The jury found that Menlo Park,  California-based
Facebook  infringed the patent, an issue made moot by the
invalidity finding.  “The appeals process is supposed to correct legal errors
by juries, not simply root around the record to find new
evidence to justify not overturning a jury that was fooled by
Facebook tricks,” Michael McKibben, Leader’s chairman and
founder, said an interview.  Facebook is meeting this week with hundreds of would-be
investors in  New York  and  Boston  before its initial public
offering that may raise as much as $11.8 billion, the most for
an  Internet company . Facebook said in a statement it was pleased
with the ruling.  Seeking Protection  Inventors are required to seek patent protection within a
year of offering their inventions for sale. The patent
application was filed in December 2003, while Leader was
demonstrating its Leader2Leader software for sale throughout
2002, the court ruled. Lewis Center, Ohio-based Leader argued
its software didn’t use the invention until after December 2002.  The appeals court, which specializes in patent law, said
computer scientists often modify and change software code. In
this case, it said there was no proof the code was substantially
different from what was used more than a year before the
application was filed. “Indeed, the evidence points in the
opposite direction,” the court said.  McKibben said his company will ask the Federal Circuit to
reconsider its decision and may appeal to the  Supreme Court .  Leader, founded in 1997, develops Internet-based systems to
help businesses manage e-mail, voice mail, teleconferencing and
video data, according to the company’s website.  The case is Leader Technologies Inc. v. Facebook Inc.,
2011-1366, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Leader Technologies Inc.
v. Facebook Inc., 08-cv-862, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  