-- FCC Chief Rejects Blame for Higher AT&T Mobile Prices
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-08T18:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/fcc-chief-rejects-blame-for-higher-at-t-mobile-prices.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  price increases for wireless
service aren’t caused by U.S. steps to block the carrier’s
purchase of smaller T-Mobile USA Inc., U.S. Federal
Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said.  “Some have recently argued that the government’s review of
transactions in the wireless space, or let’s be frank review of
one specific transaction, is somehow causing a shortage of
spectrum leading that company to raise prices for consumers,”
Genachowski said today in a speech to a wireless-industry
convention in New Orleans. “But the overall amount of spectrum
available has not changed.”  AT&T Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  in December
said consumers would face higher prices because opposition from
the FCC and Justice Department led the company to drop the $39
billion merger. Stephenson reiterated the criticism at a
conference last week, according to the Wall Street Journal. AT&T
raised wireless data-plan prices by $5 a month in January.  “At its core, the argument -- that competition is bad for
consumers -- is at odds with basic free-market principles,”
Genachowski said. “Competition doesn’t lead to higher prices
for the same product but to lower prices and more valuable
services.”  Wireless Price Concern  The FCC was within its rights to withhold approval from the
T-Mobile deal, said  Jim Cicconi , AT&T senior executive vice
president, external and legislative affairs, in a statement
distributed by e-mail today.  “But it is incorrect when it denies the impact such
decisions have on the price of wireless services,” Cicconi
said. “Basic economics, and the law of supply and demand, apply
to the wireless industry as to all others. In the case of
wireless, without additional capacity, which would have been
created by our transaction, prices rise.”  The FCC is considering Verizon Wireless’s proposed $3.6
billion purchase of spectrum from cable-television providers led
by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  Genachowski didn’t
mention that deal in his speech today.  “Our review of one transaction that crossed the line
simply proves that there is a line -- and the commission will be
diligent,” Genachowski said.  The agency under Genachowski has pushed to open more
airwaves for use by wireless carriers to offer high-speed
Internet service, or broadband. Without adding frequencies for
mobile use, the nation may face a “spectrum crunch” as demand
from customers with devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad
exceeds supply, Genachowski has said.  Wireless carriers are moving to acquire spectrum as the
government decides how to open airwaves now used in some cases
by federal agencies including the Defense Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in  Las Vegas  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  