-- Fed’s Lacker Says U.S. Unemployment Rate ’Very Elevated’
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-08T16:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/fed-s-lacker-says-u-s-unemployment-rate-very-elevated-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said U.S. unemployment remains “very
elevated” because the labor market has become more inefficient
in matching jobs with needed worker skills.  Joblessness at 8.1 percent in April “is still a very
elevated  rate ,” Lacker said in an address to students at a
community college in Greensboro,  North Carolina . Policy makers
are working to assess reasons for the “sluggish” job market,
he said.  Investing in job training and education may more
successfully address the labor market weakness rather than Fed
policy, Lacker said in a speech yesterday. Job openings in the
U.S. rose in March to the highest level in more than three
years, Labor Department figures showed today.  “It is the magnitude of sectoral shifts that is impeding
the effectiveness of our ability to find matches for unemployed
workers,” Lacker said, as workers losing jobs in one industry
must get training to find new opportunities. A comparison of
unemployment to vacant positions “is a measure of that
inefficiency.”  That suggests the natural rate of unemployment may be
rising because it takes time for workers to get trained, Lacker
said.  Job openings in the U.S. rose in March to the highest level
in more than three years, a sign employers may be looking to
take on more staff as the economy grows.  Positions Increased  The number of positions waiting to be filled increased by
172,000 to 3.74 million, the most since July 2008, from a
revised 3.57 million the prior month that was larger than
previously estimated, the Labor Department said today in a
statement posted on its website. Hiring slowed and firings were
little changed.  At the same time, the Richmond Fed president said the
efforts of students to retrain themselves was a sign of longer-
term flexibility rather than a European style “hysteresis.”  “It doesn’t suggest a decay of human capital over time,”
he said. People instead “find another industry to develop the
skills for, welding, machining” or manufacturing. “This is the
kind of thing we have to figure out better ways to encourage.”  The focal point of monetary policy is “keeping inflation
low and stable,” Lacker also said today in his visit to
Guilford Technical  Community College , which was intended to
highlight the success of job-training programs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  