-- Fenerbahce Threatens to Pull Out of Turkey Soccer League
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-05-08T13:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/fenerbahce-threatens-to-pull-out-of-turkey-soccer-league.html
Turkish soccer champion  Fenerbahce (FENER) 
threatened to withdraw from the country’s top competition after
the football federation said some of its executives were
involved in match-fixing.  Vindicating the team while implicating some of its
officials for attempted fixing is “legal homicide” and shows
that the Turkish Football Federation is conducting an operation
against Fenerbahce, jailed Chairman Aziz Yildirim said in a
 statement  posted on the Istanbul-based club’s website.  The soccer authority’s disciplinary board said in a  report 
published May 6 that three Fenerbahce executives, including
Deputy Chairman Sekip Mosturoglu, attempted to fix matches last
season. They were banned from the sport for as much as three
years. The club was cleared of involvement, meaning it won’t
face penalties such as relegation or the deduction of points.  Fenerbahce would also be eligible to compete next season in
the  UEFA  Champions League,  Europe ’s top competition, if it
qualifies and UEFA doesn’t object. The Turkish federation barred
the club from competing this season after the match-fixing probe
was announced. In April, Fenerbahce dropped a case it filed
against UEFA, Europe’s soccer authority, and the federation
seeking 45 million euros ($59 million) in compensation.  Shares in Fenerbahce Sportif Hizmetler Sanayi & Ticaret AS,
the club’s marketing arm, fell 1.3 percent to 57.25 liras at 4
p.m. in Istanbul. They jumped 8 percent to 58 liras yesterday,
boosted by a victory over Trabzonspor on May 6 that preserved
Fenerbahce’s chances of winning this year’s championship, as
well as the federation’s announcement.  Yildirim, who was exonerated in the report, is among about
30 soccer figures jailed pending trial for match-fixing after
prosecutors began an investigation last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  