-- Ford Says Parts Shortages Curtail Ranger Output in Asia
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-05-08T20:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/ford-says-parts-shortages-curtail-ranger-output-in-asia.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , working to reverse
losses in Asia, remains hamstrung by auto parts shortages that
are limiting production of the Ranger small pickup.  Flooding in Thailand last year delayed the start of
production of Ford’s Ranger factory there by two months, Joe Hinrichs, the automaker’s Asia chief, told reporters in
Dearborn,  Michigan , today. The Ranger plant still isn’t
operating at full production because Thai suppliers are
struggling to recover from the floods, he said.  “The supply base is still fragile and overwhelmed in
Thailand,” Hinrichs said. “On any given day, someone will be a
little bit short.”  The new Ranger, which isn’t sold in the U.S., is a key
model for Ford as it attempts to become profitable in  Asia  this
year. The loss of Ranger production was a “significant
contributor” to the $178 million in pretax operating losses
Ford reported in the Asia Pacific and Africa region from October
through March, Hinrichs said.  “The Ranger is a very important product for us -- it is
the Ford truck to the rest of the world,” Hinrichs said.
“There are a number of markets that haven’t received their
Rangers yet.”  Ford hasn’t started selling the Ranger yet in  Indonesia ,
 Vietnam  and the  Philippines , Hinrichs said. The automaker is
having difficulty keeping up with demand in markets where the
Ranger is on sale.  Unfilled Orders  “Last month, we had 11,000 orders in  Thailand  alone that
we hadn’t filled yet,” Hinrichs said. “It’s a very important
product to us and we need to make more.”  The flow of parts to Ford’s Ranger plant began to improve
in late April and is now “close” to full production, he said.
The situation remains unpredictable because all automakers in
the region are ramping up production, which puts stress on
suppliers, Hinrichs said.  “We’re still seeing what I’d call a fragile supply base
across the industry,” Hinrichs said.  Last weekend, an explosion at a supplier plant near Bangkok
killed 12 workers and halted production of a rubber compound
used in car parts, Hinrichs said.  “It’s not a direct supplier to us, but it’s a material
supplier that eventually makes a lot of automotive stuff,” said
Hinrichs, who said he didn’t know the name of the supplier.
“It’s a part of the world where there’s a lot of volatility.”  Ford doesn’t expect the factory explosion to affect Ranger
production, Hinrichs said.  “It’s part of the life you lead over there that’s
different than the more stable, mature markets,” Hinrichs said.
“Every week, there’s always something you have to deal with.”  Ford, based in Dearborn, slid 0.5 percent to $10.61 at the
close in  New York . The shares have fallen 1.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  