-- German Metalworkers Resume Strikes After Pay Talks Stall
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-05-09T12:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/german-manufacturers-union-fail-to-reach-wage-accord.html
IG Metall ,  Europe ’s biggest
manufacturing union, is resuming temporary walkouts today after
a fourth round of talks with German industrial employers failed
to produce a breakthrough last night.  Warning strikes are scheduled at  Sulzer AG (SUN) , Mahle GmbH and
Getrag Group in the southwestern state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, IG
Metall said in a statement. The union and employers are
scheduled to resume talks on May 15. Talks in the states of
Lower Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt also failed to produce a result.  Since April 30, more than 420,000 workers across Germany
have participated in so-called warning strikes, which last for
limited periods, according to IG Metall. The union is demanding
a 6.5 percent wage increase for its 3.6 million members, more
say over temporary employment and guarantees of permanent
contracts for people completing apprenticeships as German
workers seek a bigger share in the country’s economic rebound.  IG Metall  will decide after next week’s meeting whether to
go ahead with unlimited strikes or continue negotiations, Kai Bliesener, a spokesman, said today by phone. A long-term walkout
requires a 75 percent approval by voting union members.  “The employers’ association did not bring any new offer,”
Joerg Hofmann, head of IG Metall in Baden-Wuerttemberg, said
late yesterday at a press conference in the town of Sindelfingen
after the talks ended with Suedwestmetall, the manufacturing-
employers group in the state.  Considering Apprenticeships  IG Metall and Suedwestmetall have formed an expert
committee to discuss temporary employment and guarantees for
permanent contracts for workers completing apprenticeships,
Rainer Dulger, the association’s chief negotiator, said at
yesterday’s press conference.  The sides agreed not to discuss salary demands until
progress is made on the temporary employment and permanent
contracts, he said.  In  Lower Saxony  and Saxony-Anhalt, “the employers didn’t
say anything substantially new and refused to set another date
for negotiations,” Hartmut Meine, IG Metall’s chief negotiator
for the two states, said today in a statement. “We need to come
to a conclusion in the week before the Pentecost holiday” on
May 28 to prevent wider industrial action.  German exports unexpectedly increased for a third month in
March as demand from outside the euro region offset weaker sales
in Europe, according to figures from the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden today. Economists had forecast a drop of 0.5
percent, according to the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Economic Revival  Today’s report is the third in as many days to suggest
 Germany  may have returned to growth in the first quarter after
the economy shrank in the final three months of 2011. Factory
orders and industrial production both rose more than economists
forecast in March.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  defended labor
leaders’ pay demands in an interview published by Focus magazine
on May 5. Germany can afford higher raises than other European
nations because it has undergone years of political and economic
reforms already, Schaeuble was cited as saying.  Ver.di, the main labor union for non-manufacturing workers
in Germany, won  agreements  in late March for as much as a 6.3
percent pay increase by the end of 2013 for state and municipal
employees and yesterday for a 6.5 percent  raise  through January
2014 for workers at phone company  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  The union
is now organizing warning strikes by bank employees.  Chemical Industry Talks  The German chemical-sector union, IG BCE, is also
negotiating a new contract,  demanding  a 6 percent industrywide
pay raise for the 550,000 employees it represents over 12
months.  Baden-Wuerttemberg is home to companies including  Daimler
AG (DAI) , Porsche SE and  Robert Bosch GmbH , and is the union’s
benchmark region for contracts nationwide. Suedwestmetall is
offering a 3 percent raise for the 800,000 people employed in
electronics and metalworking in the state.  “The strikes cause a big damage to the economy,” Dulger
said yesterday. The warning strikes in Baden-Wuerttemberg
“amount to approximately 100,000 working hours lost.” Workers
don’t get paid for the hours they go on strike.  The walkouts have resulted in lost turnover in the
“double-digit” millions of euros for Baden-Wuerttemberg
companies, Suedwestmetall said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Sindelfingen, Germany, via 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  