-- German Industrial Output Rises More Than Forecast
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-08T10:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/german-industrial-output-rises-three-times-more-than-forecast.html
German  industrial output  rose more
than three times as much as economists forecast in March, adding
to signs  Europe ’s largest economy may have avoided recession.  Production jumped 2.8 percent from February, when it
dropped 0.3 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
February output was revised up from a 1.3 percent decline.
Economists forecast a March gain of 0.8 percent, the median of
38 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  shows. In the year,
production advanced 1.6 percent when adjusted for working days.  Germany’s economy shrank in the final quarter of 2011 as
the euro region’s debt crisis damped demand for its goods.
Today’s report is the latest to suggest a second quarter of
contraction -- the technical definition of recession -- may have
been averted as companies tap faster-growing Asian markets.
Factory orders gained a better-than-forecast 2.2 percent in
March and business confidence unexpectedly rose to a nine-month
high in April.  “The debt crisis damps demand for German products in
Europe but Russia, China, India, Brazil and  South Africa  should
generally be able to compensate declining sales,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in Frankfurt. “Germany’s
recovery is also based on strong domestic demand as high
employment, rising wages and increasing investment fuel
consumption and industrial output.”  Improved Outlook  Germany’s benchmark  DAX share index  pared losses after the
report and traded at 6,510 at 12:13 p.m. in Frankfurt, down 0.9
percent today. It is up 10 percent this year. The euro was
little changed at $1.3016.  Production of investment goods rose 2 percent in March and
consumer goods increased 3 percent, today’s report shows.
Construction activity surged 30.7 percent after a 16.9 percent
slump in February due to cold winter weather.  The Economy Ministry said first-quarter production matched
output in the fourth quarter. “Industrial activity is gathering
pace and the outlook has improved markedly,” it said.  Germany’s top three carmakers and their suppliers have
benefited most from thriving demand in China, with first-quarter
profits at Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
 Daimler AG (DAI)  all beating analyst estimates.  At the same time, companies from  Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  to  Beiersdorf
AG (BEI)  are profiting from increased  consumer spending .  With unemployment at the lowest level since reunification,
German workers are securing some of the biggest wage increases
in two decades. By contrast, joblessness in the 17-nation euro
region rose to a 15-year high in March and manufacturing
contracted for a ninth month, adding to signs the economic slump
is deepening.  Decoupling ‘Unlikely’  Italian manufacturing output has been contracting since
August and Spanish industrial production slumped 10.4 percent in
March from a year earlier.  “Demand from China is not going to entirely offset the
weakening demand from the region’s periphery,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at Nomura International
Plc in London. “When you have the third- and the fourth-largest
economies of the euro area in a freefall in terms of industrial
production, it is unlikely that  Germany  can decouple from the
other euro-area countries’ economic cycle.”  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the euro economy
will contract 0.3 percent this year, compared with projected
expansions of 2.1 percent in the U.S. and 7.3 percent in
developing Asia. It predicts 0.6 percent growth in Germany.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last week left
open the door for more stimulus if the debt crisis continues to
weaken the euro-area economy.  “We saw stabilizing economic activity at low levels in the
first three months” of the year, Draghi said after policy
makers kept  interest rates  at a record low on May 3. “The most
recent survey indicators show uncertainty prevailing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  