-- German Stocks Fall on Greek Impasse; BMW, Munich Re Drop
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-08T15:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/german-stocks-fall-on-greek-impasse-vw-munich-re-slide.html
German stocks  fell to the lowest since
January as the leader of Greece’s largest political party failed
to form a government after last weekend’s election, boosting
speculation the nation will leave the euro.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  lost 3.9 percent, leading
automakers lower.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  dropped 2.3 percent.  Munich Re 
declined 3.7 percent after reporting first-quarter results.  The  DAX (DAX)  Index sank 1.9 percent to 6,444.74 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , its lowest level since Jan. 30. The start
of trading was delayed for more than an hour due to a
malfunction on Deutsche Boerse AG’s Xetra system. The benchmark
gauge has still rallied 9.3 percent this year, led by gains in
BMW,  MAN SE (MAN)  and Henkel AG. The broader HDAX Index also fell 1.9
percent today.  “The political direction of  Europe  is entering a new phase
of uncertainty which equity investors don’t like,” said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in
Munich.  Antonis Samaras, the leader of the New Democracy party in
 Greece , failed to forge an agreement to form a government. The
attempt passes to Alexis Tsipras, head of Syriza, the second-
biggest party, which has vowed to cancel bailout terms for the
nation.  Tsipras said he wouldn’t agree to join forces with New
Democracy and Pasok, the two Greek parties that have supported
austerity measures in return for international funds.  Labor Reforms  Tsipras called on the leaders of both parties to withdraw
their pledges to impose the terms in writing by tomorrow when he
is to meet with both of them to discuss forming a government. A
left-wing coalition government would nationalize banks to spur
growth, repeal recent labor reforms and immediately cancel the
bailout accords, he said.  Stocks fell even as a report showed German  industrial
output  rose more than three times as much as economists forecast
in March. Production jumped 2.8 percent from February, when it
dropped 0.3 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , fell 3.9
percent to 67.35 euros. A gauge of automakers was the second-
worst performer of 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Preferred shares of Volkswagen, the world’s second-biggest
carmaker, dropped 2.3 percent to 136.05 euros.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the
third-biggest, slid 2.8 percent to 38.25 euros.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s two largest
banks, slid 2.5 percent to 30.76 euros and 3.4 percent to 1.53
euros, respectively.  MAN, Munich Re  MAN, the German truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen, slid
3.9 percent to 83.76 euros, dropping for a sixth day in the
longest losing streak since August. The stock was cut to hold
from buy at Societe Generale SA.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, fell 3.7 percent
to 103.85 euros even after it returned to profit in the first
quarter as natural-disaster claims dropped and investment income
improved.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, sank 2.7
percent to 16.45 euros.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-biggest sporting-goods maker,
lost 4 percent to 60.36 euros.  TUI AG (TUI1) , the travel company which owns a stake in container
line Hapag-Lloyd AG, dropped 4.1 percent to 5.22 euros.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest
semiconductor maker, declined 4 percent to 6.81 euros.  Gildemeister AG (GIL)  added 1 percent to 15.10 euros as the
German maker of cutting tools reported earnings that exceeded
estimates and confirmed its forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  