-- Gilead’s Truvada Pill Is Safe for HIV Prevention
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-05-09T01:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/gilead-hiv-pill-shown-safe-in-studies-fda-staff-report-says.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s pill Truvada
was safe and effective when used to protect uninfected people
from getting HIV, U.S. regulators said in a  report  indicating
the main concerns are when and how it should be used.  Truvada was “well tolerated” and its ability to reduce
the risk of infection was backed by two studies, the Food and
Drug Administration staff said in a report today. Gilead, based
in  Foster City ,  California , is seeking to sell the drug as the
first pill to keep people from becoming infected.  The FDA asked its advisers to suggest who should get
Truvada; what testing would be needed for administration; and
what educational material should be used for patients and
doctors. The advisers will meet May 10 to discuss the drug, the
subject of debates over its appropriate use and cost.  Decisions to prescribe Truvada “should carefully weigh the
individual risks for acquiring HIV, their understanding of the
importance of adherence to medication, and their potential for
development of renal toxicity,” the FDA staff said today in a
report on the agency’s website. Education and counseling will be
“critically important.”  Gilead  fell  less than 1 percent to $49.46 at the close of
 New York  trading. The FDA isn’t required to follow what the
advisory panel suggests.  Not Expected  Investors aren’t counting on expanded use of Truvada to
boost sales much, said Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with
Deutsche Bank in New York. Instead, they are focused on Gilead
getting new products to market before facing the loss of half of
its revenue from patent expirations beginning in 2018.  “Right now, the company is in a position where they have
flat sales and Truvada isn’t going to fix the patent cliff
problem,” Karnauskas said.  Truvada sales for prevention are estimated to peak at about
$150 million a year, said  Tony Butler , an analyst with  Barclays
Capital  in New York. Insurance reimbursement may be a challenge,
he said.  Debate over the appropriate use of the drug has divided the
AIDS community. Some AIDS advocacy groups say the drug will be a
valuable tool for reducing new cases, particularly within stable
partnerships where one person has AIDS and the other doesn’t.
Others said it may lead to more infections, lower condom use and
might build resistance to the medicine.  The population at high risk for contracting the disease
includes at least 140,000 individuals whose spouses or partners
have the disease, as well as 275,000 gay men who had more than
two partners in the past year and didn’t wear condoms during
sex, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, based in Atlanta.  Three Decades  “Thirty years into the epidemic we can’t dismiss any new
options,” James Loduca, a spokesman for the  San Francisco AIDS
Foundation , said in an interview. “This won’t end AIDS by
itself, but we can’t end it without this.”  Loduca said condoms aren’t enough to stem the tide of new
infections, and using Truvada as a preventative measure would
help if taken correctly.  While the number of people infected with HIV rose to 34
million worldwide in 2009, the virus that leads to AIDS, once a
death sentence, can be reduced to low levels in the blood with
use of combination antiviral medicines such as Truvada.  Michael Weinstein , president of the AIDS Healthcare
Foundation, said approval and prescription of Truvada as a
preventative may lead to less condom use and more infections, as
well as increased resistance to the drug.  Really Paranoid  “Why would you take this medication if you intended to use
condoms?” he said. “You’ve got to be really paranoid about
your pants falling down to wear a belt and suspenders.”  His organization sued the FDA last year after the agency
rejected its Freedom of Information act request for
correspondence between regulators and Gilead. Weinstein said the
studies don’t prove that the pill is effective enough to warrant
approval. The AIDS Healthcare Foundation has lined up speakers
for the public hearing later this week to oppose its
preventative use, Weinstein said.  Barry Zingman , medical director at the AIDS Center at
Montefiore hospital in the Bronx, one of the largest treatment
centers in New York, said he hopes the drug is approved and
plans to offer it to some patients.  $11,000 Cost  He said his big concern is the drug’s more than $11,000 a
year price tag.  “People are really interested in the concept, but there
have been issue related to insurance coverage,” Zingman said.
“Approval would make a significant advance in insurance
coverage.”  Aetna Inc. spokeswoman Tammy Arnold and WellPoint Inc.
spokeswoman Lori McLaughlin said their companies would consider
covering the treatment as a form of prophylaxis if approved by
the FDA. UnitedHealth Group Inc. declined to comment.  Medicare, the federal program for the elderly and disabled,
and Medicaid, the joint state-federal plan for the poor,
typically reimburse for all FDA-approved indications.  If approved, the drug would mostly be given to people at
high risk for infection, like men who have sex with men,
intravenous drug users and sex workers, said  Ken Mayer , medical
research director at the Fenway Institute, the largest AIDS
treatment center in  New England . It would typically be given for
a limited period of time, he said.  “I think it would be a mistake for the FDA not to approve
this indication,” Mayer said. “If we can figure out how to use
this most effectively we can really put a dent in the number of
new infections.”  In a study of men who have sex with men, the drug reduced
the risk of infection by 42 percent, though adherence in the
trail was low, the agency said. In a study of heterosexual
couples where one person was infected, the risk was reduced by
75 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  