-- Gillard Ends 42 Years of Spending Gains for Surplus
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-09T00:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/gillard-ends-decades-of-spending-gains-in-surplus-bid-correct-.html
Australia’s government will cut
spending for the first time in at least 42 years as Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  ends four years of budget deficits,
giving the central bank flexibility to lower  interest rates .  The underlying cash surplus will be A$1.54 billion ($1.56
billion) in the 12 months to June 30, 2013, Treasurer Wayne Swan
said in Canberra yesterday. Expenditures are forecast to fall to
A$364.2 billion next year, the first drop in figures dating back
to 1971. The A$44.4 billion deficit this year is the third-
largest on record and  3 percent  of gross domestic product.  “The surplus years are here,” Swan said in a speech to
parliament after he scrapped a planned corporate tax cut. A
balanced budget will “provide a buffer against global
uncertainty, and continue to give the  Reserve Bank  room to cut
interest rates for families,” he said.  Gillard’s bid for a A$46 billion fiscal reversal risks
slower growth heading into an  election year  with polls showing
the opposition Liberal-National coalition would win in a
landslide. She’s betting tighter budgets will put the onus on
the central bank to further reduce the highest benchmark rate
among major developed nations and win a political dividend in an
economy where 90 percent of mortgages have floating rates.  ‘Very Large’  “The fiscal turnaround is very large,” said Su-Lin Ong,
head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Sydney. “It does keep pressure on the
 Reserve Bank of Australia  to continue to lower rates.”  The 2013 surplus, if achieved, will amount to 0.1 percent
of GDP, the budget showed. That compares with a U.S. deficit
equivalent to 8.1 percent of the economy,  Japan ’s shortfall of
9.5 percent and the euro area’s gap of 4.1 percent of GDP,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australian bonds rallied after the budget, spurred by
concern Greece’s political deadlock will exacerbate  Europe ’s
debt crisis. The benchmark 10-year yield fell as much as five
basis points to a record 3.37 percent. The local currency traded
as low as $1.0093, near the weakest level this year.  Gillard and Swan have struggled to protect the ruling Labor
Party’s electorate from the two-speed economy -- a phrase the
RBA uses to distinguish resource-rich regions in the north and
west that are powering growth and hiring workers, from
struggling tourism, manufacturing and retail industries of the
south and east.  Two-Speed Economy  “The great bulk of Labor supporters are in the slow
lane,” said Shane Oliver, Sydney-based head of investment
strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.  Moody’s Investors Service Vice President Steven Hess said
 Australia ’s Aaa rating with a stable outlook remains intact.
Kyran Curry, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , said that while
there’s no immediate impact Australia’s AAA rating, the strategy
relies on “an accommodative economic outlook that remains
highly uncertain.”  Projected surpluses through 2016 are driven by A$33.6
billion in savings.  The budget papers show spending reductions include A$5.4
billion from defense over four years and A$2.9 billion from the
deferral of an increase in overseas aid by a year. It will also
reduce tax breaks on pensions for higher income earners and
tighten the pharmaceutical benefits scheme to lower costs.  Europe’s Austerity  As Europe faces years of fiscal austerity, Australia’s
budget surplus would make it one of the first developed nations
to emerge from an era of red ink caused by the worldwide
financial crisis that started in 2008.  “In a global economy marked by anxiety and uncertainty,
our nation is a beacon of resilience,” Swan told parliament.  The Treasury forecasts the economy will accelerate to 3.25
percent in the 12 months beginning July 1 before slowing to 3
percent growth the following year. The  unemployment rate  is
predicted to rise to 5.5 percent in the next two years.  Consumer prices will increase to 3.25 percent in the 12
months to June 30, 2013, with the introduction of the
government’s carbon pollution reduction scheme adding 0.7
percentage point, and core inflation will be 2.75 percent, the
budget papers show.  The outlook is similar to the RBA’s growth and inflation
forecasts released last week in its monetary policy statement.  Mining Boom  The Treasury predicts resource industries will expand at an
annual pace of 9 percent, compared with 2 percent for the rest
of the economy over the next two years. Energy and mining
companies will invest a record A$120 billion in the fiscal year
starting July 1, a 150 percent increase from two years earlier,
as part of a A$450 billion resource investment pipeline, the
budget showed.  Swan told parliament yesterday that for much of the country
“this feels like someone else’s mining boom.” In response, he
announced that A$1.8 billion in revenue from the government’s
mining tax will be diverted to increases in family payments.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week cut the overnight
cash-rate target by half a percentage point to 3.75 percent, the
deepest reduction in three years. Traders are forecasting a 54
percent chance the RBA rate will drop to a record 2.75 percent
by October, according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia still has the highest benchmark rate among major
developed nations. Central banks from Europe to  New Zealand  to
 Canada  have policy rates ranging from 1 percent to 2.5 percent.
Rates in Japan and the U.S. are near zero.  Chinese Demand  Stevens is trying to manage an economy powered by demand
from emerging nations including  China  and  India  for  iron ore ,
coal and natural gas. Chevron Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  and ConocoPhillips are among energy
companies spending $180 billion to explore and develop gas
fields in Australia.  Australia is undergoing what the central bank calls
“historically unusual” structural change as the surge in
resource investment and opportunity to bet on China’s growth
drives an appreciation in the  exchange rate .  The Australian dollar has been the best-performing group of
10 currency against the  U.S. dollar  during the past three years,
rising about 31 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  While that strength helps contain inflation by making
imports cheaper, it hurts exporters by making their products
more expensive relative to overseas competitors. BlueScope Steel
Ltd., the country’s largest steel producer, in August shuttered
its export division, and Australian wine exports fell to a 10-
year low in 2011.  Slumping Popularity  Labor-market weakness is taking a political toll on
Gillard, who withstood a leadership challenge from predecessor
Kevin Rudd in February. Her Labor Party trails opposition leader
Tony Abbott’s coalition by 18 percentage points, according to a
Newspoll published in the Australian on May 1.  To help non-resource industries adjust, the government will
allow companies to carry back as much as A$1 million of losses
against tax paid two years earlier. Swan said the measure will
encourage businesses to invest and adapt as they struggle with
the competitive pressure caused by the dollar.  The currency’s extended stretch above parity with the U.S.
dollar is among reasons the government reduced its forecast
collection from the mining tax over the next two years to A$6.5
billion, from A$7.7 billion 12 months earlier.  The government had planned to use the proceeds to cut
company taxes by 1 percent. Swan said he abandoned that proposal
due to a lack of support in parliament and would instead spend
it on increased family benefits and support for businesses.  ‘Dripping With Politics’  The budget “is ambitious for Commonwealth finances but
lacks vision for the broader economy,” Peter Anderson, chief
executive officer of the Australian Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, said in a statement. “The decision to abandon the
company  tax cut  is dripping with politics and a low blow to the
business sector given that the quid pro quo mining tax has
already been legislated.”  Australian employers probably cut 5,000 jobs last month, a
Bloomberg News survey of economists showed before a government
report on May 10. The unemployment rate likely rose to 5.3
percent in April, the highest level since September.  Australia’s jobless rate has held at about 5.2 percent for
the past six months, less than half the level in Europe, where
governments and households are reducing spending in response to
the debt crisis.  “We make a forceful statement ours is one of the world’s
strongest economies and fairest communities,” Swan said in his
speech to parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  