-- Gillard Announces Budget Handout to Win Back ‘Battlers’
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-05-08T22:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/gillard-announces-budget-handout-to-win-back-battlers-.html
Australia ’s government, facing an
election next year, scrapped a planned cut in company taxes to
fund payouts for low- and middle-income earners in its  budget  as
Prime Minister Julia Gillard attempts to counter a slide in
opinion polls.  While the budget detailed A$33.6 billion ($34.1 billion) of
spending cuts over five years in a bid to return to a surplus,
it also contained extra cash payments to parents with school-
aged children, increased funding for dental care and support for
the disabled. Most benefits are means tested, excluding higher-
income earners.  The nation’s first female prime minister is being buffeted
by scandals that have weakened her control of parliament and
threaten to derail efforts to impress on voters her record as a
sound  economic manager  and successful legislator. In the budget
announced in Canberra yesterday, Gillard is looking to
redistribute revenue collected from new taxes on the  mining
industry  and polluters before elections due by the end of 2013.  “Gillard’s banking on this budget to get her party out of
the doldrums,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst at
 Monash University  in  Melbourne . “She’s trying to reclaim the
political agenda by stamping her authority on the debate by
directing people’s attention to the issues that it sees as
important, including helping out low- to middle-class
Australians.”  The mining tax, which won Senate approval in March, will
reap about A$6.5 billion in revenue over two years from
companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group,
government estimates show.  Company Taxes  The government had planned to use the proceeds to cut
company taxes by 1 percent. Gillard said that proposal was
abandoned due to a lack of support in parliament and the money
would be spent instead on increased family benefits and support
for businesses.  “This is about one thing: spreading the benefits of the
mining boom to the Australian community,” Gillard said on
Channel 7 today. “Here is some help for families.”  Australia expects to raise A$24.7 billion in four years
from the carbon tax coming into effect July 1, as the government
seeks to reduce emissions and spur investment in cleaner energy.  The prime minister is banking on softening public
disapproval of the levy on the nation’s 500 biggest polluters by
redistributing some of the revenue raised to “working people,”
she said last week.  Mining Boom  Australia’s economy is being powered by demand for energy
and minerals located in the nation’s north and west from
emerging countries including India and  China , driving a more-
than 30 percent rise in the local currency in the past three
years. That’s put pressure on non-resource industries such as
manufacturing and tourism in the most-populous states of New
South  Wales  and Victoria.  “It’s a battler’s budget,” Ghazarian said, using
Australian slang for the working class that typically makes up
Labor’s core vote. The nation’s unemployment rate, now at 5.2
percent, is predicted by the government to rise to 5.5 percent
over the next two years.  The government says returning the budget to surplus will
give the central bank the flexibility to lower borrowing costs
in a nation where almost 90 percent of  mortgages  are at variable
rates.  Gillard received a fillip on May 1, when the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia lowered its benchmark rate, the highest among major
developed economies, by half a percentage point, to 3.75
percent. She said last month that a rate cut “could deliver
widespread benefits for households and business.”  Family Payments  Treasurer  Wayne Swan ’s budget includes a payment to
families of as much as A$820 for each child in high school. As
well, families with two children will receive an extra A$600 a
year from July 2013 under the Family Tax Benefit program, using
revenue from the mining tax.  The government has also introduced an insurance scheme for
the disabled and boosted its national dentistry health-care
coffers by A$513 million to reduce waiting lists at dentists.  The budget handouts are a “sugar hit to try and save  Julia
Gillard ’s leadership,” Opposition Treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey 
said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview today. “From
our perspective and the Australian people, many will be
bewildered what this budget is meant to deliver.”  Gillard, a former labor lawyer whose party  lacks a majority 
in parliament, is fighting to overcome setbacks that have
weakened her control of the 150-seat lower house.  Tony Crook, a National party member of parliament for
 Western Australia  who voted as an independent, joined the
opposition coalition when parliament reconvened yesterday.  Thomson, Slipper  Gillard on April 29 asked Labor lawmaker  Craig Thomson  to
quit the party in the wake of allegations he used a union credit
card to pay for prostitutes while working for the Health
Services Union before becoming a lawmaker in 2007. Thomson, who
has denied the claims, said he will continue to vote with the
government.  Peter Slipper, the parliamentary speaker on whom Gillard
had relied to solidify her control of the house, last month
stepped aside to deal with fraud and sexual harassment claims
that he denies.  Gillard’s minority government has needed the support of
independent lawmakers and the Green party to pass legislation
following the closest election in seven decades in 2010. She has
battled charges by the opposition that she’s beholden to the
Greens and broke a campaign pledge to oppose the carbon levy. In
February, she saw off a challenge by  Kevin Rudd , whom she ousted
as Labor leader and prime minister two years ago.  ‘Core Market’  The opposition Liberal-National coalition increased its
lead over Labor in a April 27-29 Newspoll survey to 18
percentage points, on a two-party preferred basis that takes
into account the country’s preferential voting system. The
survey of 1,148 people had a margin of error of plus or minus 3
percentage points.  “This budget represents one of the last opportunities
Labor has to reconnect with its core market, the so-called
‘battlers’ of low and middle-income Australia,” said  Andrew Hughes , a political analyst at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “With a range of policies designed to
provide income and taxation relief to this market, the budget
definitely ticks those boxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  