-- Greek Elections Force Germany to Weigh Austerity Endgame
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-08T23:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/greek-elections-force-germany-to-weigh-austerity-endgame.html
Greece’s elections have confirmed its
role as the worst pupil in the euro-area class. But with all
respect to  Paul Krugman  and others, austerity isn’t dead: It’s
now up to Germany to decide whether to ease up, or hold firm and
watch Greece leave the euro.  The May 6 vote showed clearly that Greeks aren’t willing to
accept further cuts. Almost 70 percent of voters backed
political parties -- from anti-Europeans to neo-fascists -- that
oppose sticking to the terms of the two bailouts since May 2010.  There’s now a high likelihood the country will miss its
next deadlines under the 130 billion euro ($169 billion) program
it agreed to in February. That means the European Union and
other exasperated international creditors may soon have to
decide whether to pull the plug, leaving  Greece  to default and
exit the euro. Economists at Citigroup Inc. say the odds of that
happening in the next 18 months are now as high as 75 percent.  The mild reaction of currency and equity markets -- outside
Greece -- after Sunday’s election shouldn’t fool anyone. Letting
Greece go would be a reckless gamble with the future of the
single currency, risking political turmoil and unknown
consequences for the European project as a whole.  Fragile Coalition  The center-right New Democracy party, which came in first
in the election with just 19 percent of the vote, has already
said it’s unable to form a government. Others will now try, but
even if a rickety coalition is assembled, it won’t have a
mandate to stick with the current austerity program.  That makes it hard to see how the parties can form a
government able to meet the May 31 deadline for Greece to
elaborate further deficit reductions worth 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product for 2013-2014. That’s on top of a reduction in
the primary deficit (excluding interest payments) of 8.25
percent of GDP that Greece already made and that affected mainly
pensioners and wage earners, rather than wealthy tax evaders.  No wonder Greek voters are mad. But if the government
misses the deadline, then the so-called troika monitoring
Greece’s  bailout  (the  International Monetary Fund , the European
Commission and the  European Central Bank ) has indicated it would
halt further payments. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
Monday that it was of “utmost importance” that the government in
 Athens  continue its program. Greece is due to get about 30
billion euros, much of it for recapitalizing the country’s
banks, in the second quarter. A little less than 4 billion euros
of bonds come up for redemption over the next month.  Greek officials say that if bailout funds are halted, they
would run out of money to pay pensions and salaries within
weeks. Given that the state power company recently had to be
given emergency funding, the lights might literally go out.  There are two ways to respond. One is to give the Greeks
more time. Even though they are repeat offenders, there are
signs that they are finally on track with the fiscal side of the
program. In March,  bank deposits  finally began to rise, for the
first time since 2009. The alternative is to stick with the
austerity plan’s deadlines and impose more tough love.  Under that scenario, the flow of money would be allowed to
stop, making Greeks understand the true cost of going it alone.
Then, when they hold fresh elections, by candlelight if need be,
the result might be different. If it isn’t, Greece could be
allowed to default and spin out of the euro, strengthening the
remaining currency zone.  Wanting It All  Although an anti-bailout party roared to second place with
17 percent of the vote, and the neo-fascist  Golden Dawn  received
7 percent, making it into parliament for the first time, opinion
polls suggest more than two-thirds of Greeks still want to keep
the euro. They just don’t want the austerity plan that goes with
it. They would now understand that they can’t have it both ways.  The trouble with tough love is that it may not work --
politics isn’t always rational. It also could have unintended
consequences. True, Greece’s debt has been transferred from
private hands to the ECB and other sovereigns better able to
absorb the losses. But a default could cause investors to wonder
just how determined euro-area leaders would be to save Spain,
Portugal and Ireland. That could trigger bank runs and capital
flight in those countries, with ripple effects for  France  and
even  Germany . Those kinds of concerns might help explain why
investors are suddenly snapping up insurance on German debt.  The ultimate decisions will have to be taken by Germany,
the euro area’s unwilling guarantor. So far it has preferred
partial -- and ineffective -- responses to the crisis, rather
than bolder -- but necessary -- steps that we have advocated
before, such as common euro bonds or a firewall big enough to
cover the potential risks. Unfortunately, Germany seems prepared
to offer more partial solutions to  Francois Hollande , France’s
president-elect, as he presses for a growth pact to accompany
austerity.  Three years into the crisis, it is clear that markets need
to be convinced that Greece,  Italy ,  Spain  and others will be
able to pay their sovereign debts, now and in the future.
Otherwise, these countries will pay usurious rates that
exacerbate the meltdown.  Taken as a whole,  Europe ’s finances are sound, and it can
afford to pay: The euro area’s  consolidated budget deficit  last
year was 4.1 percent of GDP, less than half the U.S.’s 9.6
percent. Common euro bonds would fix the problem of shoring up
struggling countries, but would require Germany to pay higher
 interest rates  for credit.  There’s little sign that the German government or the ECB
want to change course. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  oozed
contempt recently when he said that Germany might make some
gestures on growth measures to allow Hollande to “save face.”  Greece’s chaotic election result will force a hard decision
on the euro area soon. The best course would be for Germany to
acknowledge that it will have to risk more by agreeing to some
form of euro bond, boosting demand at home, tolerating a little
more inflation, and giving Greece, Spain and others more time to
meet their fiscal targets.  Any comparison to the 1930s is overblown, but the political
scene in Europe is fragmenting. The rise of anti-European and,
in some cases, xenophobic parties in France, Greece, Italy, the
U.K. and elsewhere is disturbing. If Germany refuses to bend,
then it will, fairly or not, be held responsible for whatever
happens next.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on saving the  Volcker rule ;
Clive Crook  on France and the EU ; William Pesek on  Asia’s wealth
divide ;  Peter Orszag  on the  income swings of high earners ;
 Edward Glaeser  on the  new urban flight ; Ali H. Soufan on the  USS
Cole trial .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 