-- Greek Stocks Sink to Two-Decade Low on Government Impasse
-- B y   S r i n i v a s a n   S i v a b a l a n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-08T14:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/greek-stocks-sink-to-two-decade-low-amid-government-talks.html
Greek stocks  declined to their lowest
level in two decades as the country’s political leaders met for
a second day to try to form a government after an election that
raised questions about the nation’s membership of the euro.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  led losses, tumbling 8.4
percent. Public Power Corp. SA plummeted 7.9 percent.  The  ASE Index (ASE)  dropped 3.6 percent to 620.54 at the close in
 Athens , its lowest level since November 1992. The benchmark
measure has  declined 8.8 percent this year  for the second-worst
performance of 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.  “Depending on its duration, a period of political
uncertainty is likely to have some negative near-term
implications on a number of Greek companies,” Theodore Ritsos,
an analyst at National Securities SA in Athens, wrote in a note
to clients.  Alexis Tsipras, leader of the Syriza party who has vowed to
rip up the terms of Greece’s international bailout, was handed
the mandate to form a government today after Antonis Samaras of
 New Democracy  failed to reach an agreement. Samaras gave up his
bid after almost six hours of talks in Athens yesterday.  Tsipras said he wouldn’t agree to join forces with New
Democracy and Pasok, the two Greek parties that have supported
austerity measures in return for international funds. He called
on the leaders of both parties to withdraw their pledges to
impose the terms in writing by tomorrow when he is to meet with
both of them to discuss forming a government.  ‘Barbaric Bailout’  A left-wing coalition government would nationalize banks to
spur growth, repeal recent labor reforms and immediately cancel
the bailout accords, he said.  “The Greek election result was a vote against a barbaric
bailout,” he said in statements televised live in Athens on
state NET TV. “There will be no 11 billion euros of additional
austerity measures; 150,000 jobs will not be cut.”  National Bank of  Greece , the  country’s largest lender ,
tumbled 8.4 percent to 1.42 euros. Alpha Bank SA,  Greece’s
second-biggest lender  plummeted 14 percent to 72 euro cents.
 Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  plunged 6.6 percent to 21.4 euro cents.  Public Power Corp., Greece’s largest electricity producer,
which is  51 percent owned by the government , sank 7.9 percent to
1.97 euros.  State-run water utilities Athens Water Supply & Sewage Co.
SA and Thessaloniki Water Supply & Sewage Co. fell 6.6 percent
to 3.11 euros and 6.3 percent to 3.28 euros, respectively.  Greek construction company Ellaktor SA lost 7.2 percent to
97.4 euro cents.  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  declined 1.9
percent to 2.08 euros, dropping for a third day.  Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. SA (EEEK)  retreated 2.8 percent to
14.10 euros. The stock was cut to hold from accumulate by Marfin
Analysis, meaning that investors should not buy more of the
company’s shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Srinivasan Sivabalan in London at 
 ssivabalan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  