-- Greek Pro-Bailout Leaders Told by Syriza to Revoke Aid Pledges
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-05-08T15:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/greek-government-mandate-passes-to-syriza-after-samaras-fails.html
Greece ’s Syriza party leader Alexis
Tsipras, charged with forming a government, told his pro-bailout
counterparts they must renounce support for the European Union-
led rescue if there is to be any chance of forging a coalition.  Tsipras said he expected Antonis Samaras of New Democracy
and  Evangelos Venizelos , the former finance minister who leads
the Pasok party, to send a letter to the EU revoking their
pledges to implement austerity measures by the time he meets
with them tomorrow to discuss forming a coalition. Samaras said
he would not do so, and would support a minority government if
necessary.   “The bailout parties no longer have a majority in
parliament to vote for measures that plunder the country,”
Tsipras told reporters in  Athens  today after receiving the
coalition-building mandate from President Karolos Papoulias.
“There will be no 11 billion euros ($14 billion) of additional
austerity measures; 150,000 jobs will not be cut.”  Political wrangling after the inconclusive May 6 election
has reignited European concerns over Greece’s ability to hold to
the terms of a second, 130 billion-euro rescue. Parliament is
split down the middle on the two bailout deals negotiated since
May 2010, as the country at the epicenter of the debt crisis
again risks exit from the euro.  Greek stocks sank to their lowest level in about two
decades amid the political instability. The benchmark ASE Stock
index fell 3.6 percent to 620.54 at the close in Athens, its
lowest since November 1992. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.4
percent. The euro was down 0.5 percent to $1.2991.  ‘Government of Reason’  “We call on the authorities in Greece to quickly move
toward stability so that a government of reason can be formed,”
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told reporters in
Berlin today, saying that he viewed developments in Greece
“with great concern.”  “It’s important for us that the steps that have been
agreed upon with the government be implemented,” Westerwelle
said. “They are not up for negotiation.”  New Democracy  and Pasok, rivals until the country’s crisis
made them partners in a national government last year, are two
deputies short of the 151 seats needed for a majority in the
300-seat chamber. Samaras gave up his bid to forge a government
after almost six hours of talks in Athens yesterday. The risk of
Greece leaving the euro by the end of 2013 has risen to as high
as 75 percent, Citigroup Inc. said the same day.  New Democracy  won the election with 19 percent of the vote,
gaining 108 seats; Syriza came second with 17 percent, winning
52 seats; and Pasok placed third with 13 percent, or 41 seats.  ‘National Salvation’  Tsipras said he aimed to form a government with parties
that would nationalize banks, place a moratorium on debt
payments and cancel the bailout and measures such as labor
reforms and pension cuts. The message from the electorate was
clear, he said.  “Pasok and New Democracy should stop asking, in the name
of national salvation, for a government that will implement the
memorandum and loan accord,” Tsipras said. “This will not be a
national salvation government but a salvation government for the
bailout. That doesn’t interest us.”  Greece meanwhile raised 1.3 billion euros from the sale of
26-week Treasury bills today, with a uniform yield of 4.69
percent, compared with 4.55 percent at the previous auction on
April 10, according to the Athens-based Public Debt Management
Agency. Investors bid for 2.6 times the securities offered.  Coalition Talks  Tsipras met today with the leader of Democratic Left, which
won 19 seats in Parliament and rejects austerity measures. He
was also due to meet with representatives of the Ecologist
Greens party, which didn’t win parliamentary representation, and
with Louka Katseli, a former labor minister in the Pasok
government.  As well as talks with Samaras and Venizelos tomorrow,
Tsipras will meet with representatives of social, labor, health
and education sectors, according to an e-mailed statement from
his Athens-based party. He’s also due to see the head of
Independent Greeks, Panos Kammenos, who has 33 seats.  If Tsipras fails to build a working majority, the onus on
forming a government will pass to Pasok. Each mandate can last
for three days. If the process still fails to yield a coalition,
President Papoulias must try to broker a government of national
unity, the constitution says. If that fails, new elections will
be held.  “A Greek return to the polls in mid-June looks
increasingly likely,” Malcolm Barr, an economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co, wrote in a note. “There is little doubt that the
drop in support for New Democracy, Pasok has raised the
probability of an eventual euro exit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson  at   tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  