-- Greek Default Risk Returns as Bond Maturity Nears
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-05-08T10:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/greek-default-risk-returns-as-bond-maturity-nears.html
Two months after forcing through the
biggest-ever sovereign bond restructuring,  Greece  once again
faces the prospect of becoming the first developed nation to
default on its debt.  The government taking office after this weekend’s election
has 30 days to decide whether to make today’s interest payment
on 20 billion yen ($250 million) of 4.5 percent notes maturing
in 2016, or default. Then, by May 15, officials must decide if
they’re going to repay the 436 million euros ($555 million) due
on a floating-rate note issued a decade ago.  These are among about 7 billion euros of bonds whose
holders took advantage of being governed by foreign rather than
Greek law to sidestep losses suffered under the private-sector
involvement rescheduling, or PSI. Paying the holdouts in full
would arouse the ire of Greek taxpayers, as well as investors
who cooperated with PSI. A failure to pay would signal  Europe ’s
debt crisis is worsening.  “This poses a real challenge to the Greek government,”
said  Mario Blejer , vice chairman of Banco Hipotecario SA in
 Buenos Aires , who ran Argentina’s central bank in the aftermath
of his country’s default. “If they pay, the new emerging
government will be fiercely criticized for paying the foreigners
in full after imposing huge losses on small domestic savers. If
they don’t pay, they can expect much litigation, as we have
experienced here in Argentina.”  Election Fallout  Political leaders struggled to find the support needed to
form a coalition government after Greek voters flocked to anti-
bailout parties on May 6, calling into question the country’s
ability to impose the measures needed to guarantee its future in
the euro. Greece’s financing costs rose for the first time this
year today at a 1.3 billion-euro auction of treasury bills.  Petros Christodoulou, the head of the Greek Debt Management
Agency in  Athens , didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment
about the bond payments. He previously said Greece only has
funds for PSI payments and “no bondholder will get better
economics than the PSI.”  Greece agreed in March to exchange more than 200 billion
euros of bonds for notes with longer maturities and lower
 interest rates  under PSI, cajoling private investors to forgive
more than 100 billion euros and opening the way for the nation’s
international bailout. The restructuring left about 7 billion
euros of holdouts, international bonds issued or guaranteed by
the government, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘It’s Too Late’  “It’s default or pay up,” said Gabriel Sterne, an
economist at Exotix Holdings Ltd. in London and a former
International Monetary Fund official. “There are no other
options. It’s too late.”  The 2023  government bonds  Greece issued in the exchange are
priced at 20.7 cents on the euro to yield 23.1 percent. The
contrast with 10-year German bunds, whose yield fell to a record
1.552 percent yesterday, suggests investors expect a second
Greek restructuring.  Greece has borne the brunt of the euro-region sovereign
debt crisis, with unemployment rising to 21 percent, the economy
shrinking more than 13 percent during the past three years and
the  stock market  losing more than 70 percent of its value since
the previous election in October 2009.  Spain’s Woes  It’s not suffering alone.  Spain , with the region’s highest
jobless rate at 24 percent, is the latest focus of European
nations’ efforts to control their budget deficits. Its 10-year
yield spread versus German bunds has widened to 4.21 percentage
points, from 3 percentage points at the beginning of March. The
Italian-German spread increased to 3.84 percentage points from
3.09 percentage points.  Greece’s foreign-law bonds whose investors are holding out
typically have so-called cross-default clauses, according to
Bloomberg data. A failure to pay principal or interest on one of
those securities allows other note holders to demand immediate
repayment. Dealers don’t quote prices on Greece’s outstanding
foreign-law bonds because they don’t trade.  ABN Amro Group NV, which was nationalized by the
Netherlands in 2008, holds about 1.3 billion euros of Greek
government-guaranteed notes, according to spokesman Jeroen van Maarschalkerweerd. He declined to comment on what action the
Amsterdam-based bank will take in the event of a payment default
on the notes maturing May 15.  Foreign Investment  A failure to pay may compromise swaps and bilateral
investment treaties with Greece, according to Andreas Koutras,
an analyst at ITC Markets in  London .  “How can anyone be expected to do business in Greece or
invest there when the state has declared a moratorium on some of
its bond payments?” Koutras said. “It’s also true that if they
pay up, the headlines won’t look good.”  A payment default might make it harder for Greece to
attract the foreign investment it needs to revive the economy,
said  Luis Costa , an  emerging markets  strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in London. Greece plans to raise 50 billion euros by 2017
by selling or renting assets, including water utilities, ports,
gas companies, regional airports and postal services.  “Default impacts flows of foreign direct investment
because it raises the question of a government’s ability to
honor its long-term commitments,” Costa said. “A default also
makes it very difficult for the borrower to return to
international  capital markets  anytime soon.”  Troika Roadblock  A decision to pay the holdout foreign-law bond investors
may have to involve the so-called troika of the European
Commission, European  Central Bank  and IMF, which are supervising
the country’s bailout.  “If they decide to pay,  Germany  and the troika have to
come up with the money,” said ITC’s Koutras. If Greece doesn’t
pay, the foreign parties “will have to approve it,” he said.  Amadeu Altafaj, a spokesman at the European Commission in
Brussels, said in an e-mail that a decision on whether to pay
holdouts “is a decision of Greece and only of Greece.” An ECB
spokesman in  Frankfurt  declined to comment and an IMF
spokeswoman in  Washington  didn’t respond to an e-mail.  As Greece struggles to restructure its economy and stay in
the euro region, politics may trump longer-term considerations
such as continued access to capital markets. Along with a
decision on the bonds, the new government will be under pressure
to implement 3 billion euros of cuts immediately, followed by
another 12 billion euros in 2013 to 2014, according to UBS AG
analysts led by Stephane Deo in London.  PSI Accord  Greece achieved a high participation rate in the PSI debt
exchange because almost all of its debt was governed by domestic
law. Parliament legislated to insert so-called collective action
clauses, or CACs, into terms of the notes retroactively,
allowing a qualified majority of bondholders to agree on a loss
that holdouts would also be legally obliged to accept.  Bonds governed by foreign law aren’t susceptible to such
treatment by the Greek Parliament, meaning that any decision to
default may land a new government in a foreign court where it
would have to defend its actions.  “So far, everything has been done legally in Greece,”
said Athanasios Vamvakidis, the head European currency
strategist at Bank of America Corp. in London. “Failure to pay
would be clearly illegal. They will lose in court, and it will
cost Greece and the  euro zone  more in the end.”  Argentina , which has faced a series of legal actions by
holders of its bonds, hasn’t raised money in the international
markets since its $95 billion default in 2001, Bloomberg data
show. The holdouts have so far received nothing, according to
Blejer, the former central bank governor, who said that their
attempts to get payment have been “very annoying.”  IMF Regulations  Another Greek pressure point is that a failure to settle
bondholders’ claims threatens to breach the IMF’s rules on not
adding debt when a nation is in one of its programs.  “It would be possibly unprecedented for the IMF to
sanction a build-up in arrears without there being a funding gap
because there isn’t any excuse not to pay,” said Sterne at
Exotix.  At the same time, “payment would hit the headlines,
wouldn’t be seen as fair by some,” he said. “It’s all been
seat-of-the-pants, ad-hoc decisions that have killed domestic
law bondholders. None of it is fair.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  