-- Greece Likely to Exit Euro This Year, FX Concept’s Taylor Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-05-08T13:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/greece-likely-to-exit-euro-this-year-fx-concept-s-taylor-says.html
Greece will probably leave the euro as
soon as next month as the government runs out of cash and
European institutions fail to lend more to the nation, according
to  John Taylor  of hedge fund FX Concepts LLC.  “This summer I think is very likely,” Taylor, founder and
chief executive officer of FX Concepts in New York, said today
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with
 Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen. “The Europeans aren’t going to give
them the money, the  International Monetary Fund ’s not going to
give them an OK. They will be out of money in June.”  Greece raised 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) of 26-week
Treasury bills today at a yield of 4.69 percent, compared to
4.55 percent at the previous auction on April 10, according to
the Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency. Investors bid
for 2.6 times the securities offered.  The nation’s political leaders are meeting for a second day
to try to form a government after New Democracy’s Antonis
Samaras, who won the most seats in Parliament, said he couldn’t
forge a coalition. Another election may be held in mid-June if
politicians fail to form a governing coalition.  The attempt to form a government now passes to Alexis
Tsipras, the head of Syriza. Tsipras ran on a pledge to overturn
 Greece ’s bailout, helping Syriza emerge as the country’s second-
most voted party. He has said he will seek to form a coalition
with other parties that favor reversing the 130 billion-euro
bailout, the country’s second aid package, which came after
Greece carried out the biggest debt restructuring in history.  Greek Debt  “I think that people are feeling the implications of a
Greek exit aren’t so bad,” Taylor said. If Greece leaves the
euro, Europeans will “turn around and huddle together and say,
‘how do I help Portugal and  Spain ?’”  Of Greece’s 266 billion euros of debt, about 194 billion
euros, or 73 percent, is held by the  European Central Bank ,
euro-area governments and the IMF, according to the Greek Debt
Management Office in  Athens . In 2010, before the first bailout,
Greece owed about 310 billion euros, all to the private sector.  Tsipras said in Athens today that he wouldn’t agree to join
forces with New Democracy and Pasok, the two Greek parties that
have supported austerity measures in return for international
funds. He called on the leaders of both parties to withdraw
their pledges to impose the terms in writing by tomorrow when he
is to meet with both of them to discuss forming a government.  The 17-nation euro extended its longest run of declines
against the greenback since September 2008 as German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  rejected government stimulus as the way to spur
economic growth, setting up a clash with French president-elect
 Francois Hollande .  “Merkel is in a position where she can’t go too far to
push the Greeks to stay in or to give too much money to them,”
Talyor said. “I also feel passionately that the euro is
effectively a breakup.”  The euro declined 0.4 percent to $1.30 at 9:01 a.m. in  New
York  after sliding to $1.2955 yesterday, the weakest level since
Jan. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  