-- Green Mountain Strips Founder Stiller of Chairman Title
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/green-mountain-says-stiller-removed-as-chairman-after-stock-sale.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) 
stripped founder Robert P. Stiller of his position as chairman
after he sold shares to meet a margin call at a time when the
company’s trading policies prohibited such sales.  Michael J. Mardy, chairman of the audit and finance
committee, will serve as interim chairman starting immediately,
Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain said in a statement
yesterday. Board member William D. Davis, who also violated the
trading policy, will no longer serve as lead director, the
company said. Stiller and Davis will remain on the board without
pay and won’t serve on any committees, Green Mountain said.  The board turmoil marks a new obstacle for a company
already combating increased competition from other makers of
single-cup coffee brewers and the pods that fill them. Green
Mountain has also been criticized by hedge fund manager  David Einhorn , who in October questioned its accounting practices.  “People who are on the board know what’s going on with
their corporation much more than people on the outside,” Tamar Frankel, professor at Boston University School of Law, said in
an interview. “One of the main issues is  insider trading .”  Together, Stiller and Davis sold about 5.5 million  shares 
at times when the company’s internal trading policy prohibited
trading, Green Mountain said in the statement.  Green Mountain fell as much as 5.1 percent to $25.03 in
extended trading yesterday, after closing at $26.38 in  New York .
The  shares  have dropped 41 percent this year through May 8.  Forced Sales  Green Mountain called the forced sales “disappointing”
and said Stiller and Davis are required to settle outstanding
margin loans by the end of this year.  Stiller told CNBC late yesterday that he didn’t break any
regulations or laws with the stock sale.  “I am really shocked and hurt,” Stiller told CNBC. “I’ve
always been transparent with the board. I think it’s an
overreaction.”  Stiller, who founded  Green Mountain  in 1981 as a small
Vermont cafe and served as chief executive officer from 1981
until May 2007, has put about 12.5 million of his Green Mountain
shares into margin accounts or pledged them as collateral for at
least one loan, according to the company’s latest proxy
statement.  About $125.5 million of Stiller’s Green Mountain stock, or
about 5 million shares, were sold on May 7 to meet margin
requirements after the shares tumbled last week, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
yesterday. Green Mountain on May 2 reported  revenue  that trailed
analysts’ estimates, sending the shares down 48 percent the next
day.  Fifth-Largest Holder  The sale brought Stiller’s stake down to about 8.39 million
shares, making him the fifth-largest holder, from 13.4 million
as of March 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Davis sold about 400,000 shares on May 4 and about 148,000
on May 7, Green Mountain said.  In general,  executives  take out loans backed by their stock
as a way of obtaining funds without actually selling their
shares. Loans are preferable to selling shares, which generate
taxable  capital gains  and can look bad to investors.  If the shares decline in value, lenders will issue a margin
call in which the executives must either pay down the loans or
provide more collateral. If they fail to do so, the banks seek
to recover their loans by selling some of the stock pledged as
collateral in the open market.  In May 2003, Stiller used 1.1 million of his Green Mountain
shares, adjusted for stock splits, to secure a loan from General
Electric Capital Corp., according to filings with the
Corporations Division of the Vermont Secretary of State.  Stock Pledged  In February 2011, Stiller pledged “any and all stocks,
securities and bonds of any kind whatsoever” that were held in
an account with the brokerage Merrill Lynch & Co. to Banc of
America Leasing & Capital LLC, according to another state
filing. The document didn’t say whether Stiller’s Green Mountain
shares were held in this account.  This followed an August 2005 loan agreement with Banc of
America Leasing that Stiller had secured with assets tied to
ElanAir Inc., including Cessna aircraft and flight equipment.
Stiller held a 50 percent stake in ElanAir prior to September
2002, when he acquired the other 50 percent, according to SEC
filings.  Audit Committee  ElanAir, a South Burlington, Vermont-based company that
operates under the name Heritage Aviation, provides travel
services to Green Mountain employees, an arrangement that is
reviewed and approved by the audit committee for Green
Mountain’s board, SEC filings show. According to its most recent
proxy statement, Green Mountain was billed $700,000 for travel
services provided by the charter arm of Heritage during fiscal
2011, up from $400,000 the year before.  Green Mountain’s board amended the company’s internal
trading policy in December to prohibit pledging shares as
collateral as of Jan. 1 and grandfathered Stiller’s and Davis’s
previous positions, the company said yesterday. During a review
of the recent sales, the board found that Davis had pledged
204,000 new shares to a margin loan after Jan. 1, in violation
of the policy.  The company’s governance and nominating committee will
review appropriate board and committee structure and
composition, Green Mountain said in the statement.  Stiller sold $66.3 million of his stake in the company
earlier this year before  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  announced a coffee
brewer that will compete with Green Mountain’s Keurig machine.
He is the second-biggest shareholder of  Krispy Kreme Doughnuts
Inc. (KKD)  and the largest investor in pizza chain  Noble Romans Inc. (NROM) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stiller’s loss of the chairman role should serve as a
“cautionary tale” to other officers to “avoid making margin
loans or margin investments based on your company’s stock,”
said Rick Munarriz, a Miami-based analyst at the Motley Fool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  