-- Green Mountain’s Plunge Forces Chairman to Sell Shares
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-05-08T20:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/green-mountain-s-plunge-forces-chairman-to-sell-shares.html
Robert P. Stiller, chairman and
founder of  Green Mountain  Coffee Roasters Inc., disclosed the
sale of more than one-third of his company stake, some of which
was pledged to cover margin accounts and as loan collateral.  About $125.5 million of Stiller’s Green Mountain stock was
sold May 7 to meet margin requirements after the shares tumbled
last week, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission today. Waterbury, Vermont-based Green
Mountain on May 2 reported  revenue  that trailed analysts’
estimates, sending the shares down 48 percent the next day.  The sale brings Stiller’s  stake  down to about 8.39 million
shares, making him the fifth-largest holder, from 13.4 million
as of March 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stiller, who was chief executive officer of Green Mountain from
1981 until May 2007, has put about 12.5 million of his Green
Mountain shares into margin accounts or pledged them as
collateral for at least one loan, according to the company’s
latest proxy statement.  “When someone has most of their wealth tied to a company
stock, that’s their legal currency, that’s their safety net,”
said Rick Munarriz, a Miami-based analyst at the Motley Fool.  Stiller sold the shares through Deutsche Bank AG and it
wasn’t clear from the filing if he has a brokerage account with
the bank.  In general,  executives  take out loans backed by their stock
as a way of obtaining funds without actually selling their
shares. Loans are preferable to selling shares, which generate
taxable  capital gains  and can look bad to investors.  If the shares  decline  in value, lenders will issue a margin
call in which the executives must either pay down the loans or
provide more collateral. If they fail to do so, the banks seek
to recover their loans by selling some of the stock pledged as
collateral in the open market.  ‘Worst’ Time  “A margin call is a legitimate reason to sell,” Munarriz
said. Still, “it’s the worst possible time” because the share
price is so low.  Green Mountain  rose  8.6 percent to $26.38 at the close in
 New York . The shares have dropped 41 percent this year.  Suzanne DuLong, a Green Mountain spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  In May 2003, Stiller used 1.1 million of his Green Mountain
shares, adjusted for stock splits, to secure a loan from General
Electric Capital Corp., according to filings with the
Corporations Division of the Vermont Secretary of State.  In February 2011, Stiller pledged “any and all stocks,
securities and bonds of any kind whatsoever” that were held in
an account with the brokerage Merrill Lynch & Co. to Banc of
America Leasing & Capital LLC, according to another state
filing. The document didn’t say whether Stiller’s Green Mountain
shares were held in this account.  ElanAir Agreement  This followed an August 2005 loan agreement with Banc of
America Leasing that Stiller had secured with assets tied to
ElanAir Inc., including Cessna aircraft and flight equipment.
Stiller held a 50 percent stake in ElanAir prior to September
2002, when he acquired the other 50 percent, according to SEC
filings.  ElanAir, a South Burlington, Vermont-based company that
operates under the name Heritage Aviation, provides travel
services to Green Mountain employees, an arrangement that is
reviewed and approved by the  audit committee  for Green
Mountain’s board, SEC filings show. According to its most recent
proxy statement, Green Mountain was billed $700,000 for travel
services provided by the charter arm of Heritage during fiscal
2011, up from $400,000 the year before.  Stiller sold $66.3 million of his stake in the company
earlier this year before  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  announced a coffee
brewer that will compete with Green Mountain’s Keurig machine.
He is the second-biggest shareholder of  Krispy Kreme Doughnuts
Inc. (KKD)  and the largest investor in pizza chain  Noble Romans Inc. (NROM) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  