-- Greek Finaning Costs Rise at Bill Auction After Election
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-08T09:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/greek-finaning-costs-rise-at-bill-auction-after-election.html
Greece  sold 1.3 billion ($1.7 billion)
euros of treasury bills and its financing costs rose for the
first time this year after general elections failed to yield a
clear winner capable of forming a government.  Greece sold the 26-week bills today to yield 4.69 percent,
up from 4.55 percent at the previous auction on April 10.
Investors requested 2.6 times the amount sold compared with 2.62
times previously, the Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency
said.  Greek political leaders are meeting for a second day to try
to form a government after New Democracy’s Antonis Samaras, who
won the most seats in Parliament, said he couldn’t forge a
coalition. The stalemate is fueling investor concerns about the
country’s ability to stick to the terms of its European Union
bailout and remain in the single currency.  “With another round of new elections by June looking to be
a reasonably high probability, the political uncertainty in
Greece will remain a big issue for some time now,” Deutsche
Bank AG strategists  Jim Reid  and Colin Tan wrote in a note to
investors today. “It’s also inevitable that there will be much
debate about Greece’s future within the euro zone.”  Anti-Bailout Forces  The attempt to form a government now passes to Alexis
Tsipras, the head of Syriza. Tsipras ran on a pledge to overturn
Greece’s bailout, helping Syriza emerge as the country’s second-
most voted party. He has said he will seek to form a coalition
with other parties that favor reversing the 130 billion-euro
bailout, the country’s second aid package, which came after
Greece carried out the biggest debt restructuring in history.  Citigroup Inc. said yesterday that the election outcome
increases the risk of Greece leaving the euro by the end of 2013
to as high as 75 percent.  Treasury bill sales are the only source of private finance
Greece relies on after the country received the two rescue
packages from the EU and International Monetary Fund. Interim
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  in March secured the second
package, after private creditors wrote down about 100 billion
euros of their bond holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  