-- Greek Government Mandate Passes to Venizelos’s Pasok
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-10T08:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/greek-leaders-given-bailout-ultimatum-as-syriza-begins-talks.html
Greece’s political turmoil entered
its fourth day, with coalition talks deadlocked, raising the
possibility that another election will have to be held as early
as next month.  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader and former
finance minister, is trying to form a government after receiving 
a three-day mandate from President Karolos Papoulias today. Pasok 
yesterday rejected terms for a government set by Alexis Tsipras 
of anti-bailout Syriza party, which then gave up its bid to build
a coalition.  “There is no time to lose,” Venizelos said in Athens
yesterday on state-run NET television. “We can’t take any
decisions that worsen the recession, increase unemployment or
endanger the real economy. That means no new elections, no
instability, no uncertainty: to remain in the euro.”  The standoff has reignited European concerns over Greece’s
ability to hold to the terms of its two bailouts negotiated
since May 2010. With Parliament split and policy makers in
Berlin and Brussels urging Greece to stay the course, the
country at the epicenter of the debt crisis is again facing the
risk of an exit from the euro.  New Elections  Tsipras, whose party came second in the May 6 vote, failed
to reach a deal with other leaders after giving them an
ultimatum to renounce support for the European Union-led rescue
in order to enter government.  New Democracy  leader Antonis Samaras, whose party came in first, gave up trying to forge a
coalition after six hours of talks on May 7.  “New elections are the most likely possibility,” Spyros Economides, a senior lecturer at the  London School of Economics ,
said in a telephone interview. “The coalition math from the May
6 vote just doesn’t add up.”  Tsipras demanded Samaras and Venizelos send a letter to the
EU revoking their written pledges to implement austerity
measures. Both Samaras and Venizelos rejected the request.
Samaras said he was being asked “to put my signature to the
destruction of Greece.”  European governments cannot force Greece to stay in the
euro if Greek citizens decide to leave, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Greek Exit  “They will decide whether to stay in the  euro zone  or
not,” Schaeuble said at a conference sponsored by German
broadcaster WDR in Brussels yesterday. “If Greece decides not
to stay in the euro zone, we cannot force Greece.”  The repercussions of a Greek euro-exit are “potentially
huge,” said Gillian Edgeworth, a London-based economist at
UniCredit. “The chances of  Spain  needing official aid would
increase, with implications for spillover to others.”  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the third-biggest mining company, said any
exit by Greece from the bloc would significantly destabilize the
region’s economy and hurt global confidence.  “Clearly if Greece would leave the euro it would
destabilize the European economy to a significant extent,” Jan du Plessis, chairman of London-based  Rio Tinto (RIO) , told reporters
today in Brisbane. “It’s one of the things we keep an eye out
on all the time.”  The risk of Greece leaving the euro by the end of 2013 has
risen to as high as 75 percent,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said May 7. More
than 50 percent of investors predict a nation to exit this year
as Greece’s election impasse threatens to push the debt crisis
to new depths, according to the Bloomberg Global Poll.  Bailout Policies  Greece’s benchmark ASE Stock index rose 1.5 percent to
624.29 in Athens today at 10:12 a.m. Frankfurt time, after
losing about 10 percent in the previous three days. Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in June rose 0.3 percent,
while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed. The  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.3 percent and the euro was little
changed at $1.2946.  New Democracy  and Pasok, rivals until the country’s crisis
made them pro-bailout partners in a national government last
year, are two deputies short of the 151 seats needed for a
majority in the 300-seat chamber. New Democracy won the election
with 19 percent of the vote, gaining 108 seats, thanks to a rule
that gives the first-place party 50 extra seats.  Syriza came second with 17 percent, winning 52 seats, and
Pasok placed third with 13 percent, or 41 seats. Five parties
opposed to bailout policies are now represented in parliament.  End to ‘Charade’  The Communist Party of  Greece , which opposes the country’s
membership in the EU and has refused to join any coalition
government and called for fresh elections to put an end to the
“charade” of the parties trying to form a government.  Under Greece’s election system, the president can give each
of the three top vote-winning parties a mandate to form a
government that can last for as many as three days. If the
process still fails to yield a coalition, the president must try
to broker a government of national unity, the constitution says.
If that fails, new elections are held.  Tsipras had said he aimed to link up with parties in a
government that would nationalize banks, place a moratorium on
debt payments and cancel the bailout and measures such as labor
reforms and pension cuts.  Samaras said that his party is prepared to support a
minority government as long as it ensures Greece’s membership in
the euro and its national interests.  Merkel Remarks  Venizelos said Pasok’s proposal for a national unity
government with all parties with a pro-European orientation was
the only solution. Greece must remain “safely” within the euro
while pursuing changes to the bailout accord to boost growth, he
said.  International creditors called on Greek leaders to hold to
the agreed terms of their EU-International Monetary Fund
bailouts.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said growth in the euro area must
be spurred through “structural reform” rather than debt-funded
stimulus programs.  “To say this unequivocally: growth through structural
reform is sensible, important and necessary,” Merkel told
lawmakers in Berlin today. “Growth funded by debt -- that will
just lead us back to the beginning of the crisis. We can’t do
that and we won’t do that.”  For now, bailout money is still flowing to Greece. The
European Financial Stability Facility yesterday confirmed that a
5.2 billion-euro ($6.7 billion) tranche will be released by the
end of June, with 4.2 billion euros disbursed today. The
remaining 1 billion euros will be released depending on Greece’s
financing needs.  Under the terms of the bailout a new government will need
to detail savings of 11 billion euros next month. Greece doesn’t
need any more aid until July, German Deputy Foreign Minister
Michael Link said during a parliamentary hearing in Berlin
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  