-- Gupta Seeks to Exclude Rajaratnam Wiretaps From Insider Trial
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/gupta-seeks-to-exclude-rajaratnam-wiretaps-from-trial-1-.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director facing trial over an alleged  insider-trading 
scheme, asked a judge to exclude as evidence wiretap phone
recordings that he said don’t relate to the charges against him.  Gupta said in a filing yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan that 26 recorded phone conversations of convicted
former hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam  that the government put
on the exhibit list for the trial are about stocks and
conspiracies that aren’t part of the indictment against him. The
trial is scheduled for May 21.  “It appears that the government seeks to reprise the
Rajaratnam trial in order to shore up its weak circumstantial
case against Mr. Gupta, resorting to evidence about other
companies and other alleged conspiracies,” Gupta said in his
request to exclude the 26 recordings.  Gupta in a separate filing yesterday asked the judge to
exclude the recording of a July 29, 2008, call between him and
Rajaratnam because, he said, it doesn’t contain direct evidence
of insider trading and would be prejudicial because it could
confuse the jury.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment on Gupta’s filings.  Galleon Group  The U.S. has said three recordings of Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Rajaratnam speaking with his colleagues and employees
should be allowed as evidence against Gupta at his trial,
because the fund manager was a co-conspirator in the insider-
trading scheme.  The conversations highlight how Rajaratnam advanced the
scheme and show that he found Gupta’s tips reliable to trade on,
prosecutors said. Rajaratnam was convicted by a jury last year
of insider trading and sentenced to 11 years in prison.  Gupta is accused of leaking illegal tips to Rajaratnam
about the bank as well as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was
also a director. Gupta has pleaded not guilty to six counts of
securities fraud and one count of conspiracy.  Prosecutors allege that Gupta told Rajaratnam on Sept. 23,
2008, that  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  was about to invest $5
billion in New York-based Goldman Sachs, a tip that allowed
Galleon to earn $43 million.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  