-- Gupta Shouldn’t Argue Selective Prosecution, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-08T23:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/gupta-shouldn-t-argue-selective-prosecution-u-s-says.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of conspiring in an insider-trading
scheme, shouldn’t be allowed to argue he’s being “selectively
prosecuted or singled out,” U.S. prosecutors said.  Gupta is scheduled to go on trial May 21 in  Manhattan 
federal court for securities fraud and conspiracy for allegedly
leaking tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. He
has pleaded not guilty to the charges.  Prosecutors yesterday asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff
to bar Gupta from speculating before the jury about the
government’s motives in bringing the case. They also said
evidence of Gupta’s past charitable contributions and the
purported damage the case has had on his reputation aren’t
relevant.  “Nor can Gupta argue that he was selectively prosecuted or
singled out because the government has not charged other people
who may have engaged in similar conduct,” assistant U.S.
attorneys Reed Brodsky and Richard Tarlowe said in a filing.  Prosecutors also asked Rakoff to keep Gupta from telling
the jury about his potential prison sentence if convicted. Gupta
is charged with six counts of  securities fraud , each of which
carries a maximum prison term of 20 years, and one count of
conspiracy, which carries a five-year maximum. Gupta also faces
a fine of as much as $5 million, prosecutors have said.  Blankfein Deposition  Gupta’s lawyers yesterday asked the judge to exclude from
trial more than 26 wiretapped telephone conversations made by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  of Rajaratnam speaking to
others.  The defense also argued that a July 29, 2008, wiretapped
telephone conversation between Gupta and Rajaratnam -- in which
the two discuss Goldman Sachs acquiring a commercial bank --
should also be excluded because the information conveyed wasn’t
confidential and that the wiretap “is more prejudicial than
probative.”  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , said Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein was questioned under oath as
part of a related lawsuit filed by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Blankfein said in sworn testimony that the
information discussed during the call wasn’t confidential,
Gupta’s lawyer argues.  Publicly Discussed  Blankfein “confirmed” that the information Gupta and
Rajaratnam discussed on the call “was neither confidential nor
material,” Naftalis said, quoting from Blankfein’s deposition.
At the same time as the call, other Goldman Sachs executives
were publicly discussing such an acquisition with clients,
Naftalis said.  “Whatever the senior Goldman executives said to these
people certainly was not confidential or material,” Blankfein
said, according to excerpts provided by the defense.  Blankfein testified at Rajaratnam’s trial as a government
witness, saying Gupta had violated Goldman Sachs confidentiality
policies by discussing the firm’s strategic plans.  During closing arguments in Rajaratnam’s trial, prosecutors
argued the July 29, 2008 call was “business as usual” and
“wasn’t the first time that Mr. Gupta was disclosing what was
going on at Goldman.”  Gupta’s lawyers argue that the government is attempting to
“reprise” the evidence it presented against Rajaratnam, “to
shore up its weak circumstantial case against Mr. Gupta,
resorting to evidence about other companies and other alleged
conspiracies.”  Rajaratnam, who the government alleges is Gupta’s co-
conspirator in the scheme, is serving an 11-year federal prison
sentence.  Relationship ‘Deteriorated’  Naftalis has also argued that the friendship between his
client and Rajaratnam “deteriorated” in 2008, after Gupta lost
$10 million in a failed investment with Rajaratnam. Naftalis
said his client, the former managing director of McKinsey & Co.,
considered suing Rajaratnam.  Prosecutors said in one memo to the court filed yesterday
that information about a proposed lawsuit Gupta considered
filing was “irrelevant” because discussions about the
litigation occurred in September and October 2009, after the
alleged insider-trading conspiracy ended.  If the defense intends to submit at trial any evidence that
he “or anyone acting on his behalf” spoke to a lawyer about
suing Rajaratnam over the lost investment, Gupta will have
waived any attorney-client privilege and the government should
be given access to that material, prosecutors said.  Prosecutors said they would then seek e-mails from McKinsey
and write to the  law firm  Gupta consulted about a lawsuit.
Naftalis’s law firm wasn’t involved, the U.S. said.  Naftalis declined to comment about the prosecutors’ filing.
 Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet
Bharara , declined to comment on Gupta’s filings.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  