-- Libyan Rebels Open Fire in National Government Building
-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-05-08T15:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/libyan-rebels-open-fire-in-national-government-building-1-.html
A group of former Libyan rebels
stormed the national government’s headquarters, demanding unpaid
wages, the  Libya  News Agency reported. Gunfire was heard from
inside the building, eyewitnesses said.  A delegation from the rebels was meeting with government
officials, the Tripoli-based agency reported, citing its
correspondent. Another reporter at the scene, Ismail Mohamed,
said in a telephone interview from Tripoli that he heard
gunshots inside the building. He had no details on whether
anyone had been killed or injured.  The afternoon attack on the building that houses the office
of Libya’s interim prime minister reflected the country’s
security challenges in the months since  Muammar Qaddafi  was
ousted and killed in the end of an eight-month uprising. The
ruling National Transitional Council has struggled to restore
order in the country, with national legislative elections slated
for next month.  The building was seized in the morning by a militia from
Kikla, a settlement in the Jabal Nafusa mountains, 70 miles
southwest of the capital, Abdul Zeli, who was among the Tripoli
militiamen who surrounded the building after the gunmen stormed
it, said in an interview. It wasn’t immediately possible to
confirm a report by Al Arabiya television that two people were
killed in the incident.  Prime Minister Abdurrahim al-Keib’s whereabouts were not
immediately known. He was no longer in the building, Abdul Zeli
said. The streets around the building, which is also near the
headquarters of the National Oil Corp., were blocked off by a
dozen jeeps, each mounted with heavy machine guns.  “We don’t know what is going on. The Kikla guys are inside
the building,” he said. “They say nobody paid them, they want
to be paid.”  The government has made a single payment of 500 dinars
($399) to former rebels, an amount that has failed to appease
many of the fighters who have refused to disband or disarm until
officials grant them more services for their various regions.  -- With assistance from Saleh Sarrar in Tripoli. Editors: Digby Lidstone, Karl Maier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen via Cairo at 
 Cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  