-- Rangers Lose Preferred Bidder as Miller Drops Offer for Team
-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2012-05-08T16:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/miller-withdraws-offer-to-buy-rangers-football-club-pa-says.html
American  Bill Miller , the preferred
bidder for Rangers Football Club Plc, withdrew his bid for the
Glasgow soccer team after finding its preliminary financial
statements were “more optimistic than reality.”  The Tennessee businessman was made the preferred bidder
earlier this month by Duff & Phelps, the administrators for the
team, which is in a form of bankruptcy. Today, in a statement to
the U.K.’s Press Association, Miller said he would withdraw from
the process after several days of looking at the 54-time
Scottish champion’s accounts.  “It became clear to me that preliminary information,
discussions and analysis were, unfortunately, more optimistic
than reality,” Miller said in the statement. “Having no
intention of negatively affecting the potential outcome of the
club’s future and after hearing the message from Rangers
supporters and fans loud and clear (‘‘Yank go home!’’), I
notified the administrators today that I have withdrawn my bid
for Rangers and will not be moving forward.”  Rangers went into administration, a form of bankruptcy, on
Feb. 14, owing creditors as much as 134 million pounds ($216
million), including more than 93 million pounds owed to the U.K.
authorities in two tax disputes and other unpaid taxes.  “We have been informed by his advisers that there were a
number of issues with which he felt uncomfortable including
legacy contracts, the limitation of potential revenue streams
and the expectation of required investment,” the administrators
said today in a statement. They said three other bidders are
interested in buying the team.  Miller, whose company is the world’s biggest maker of tow
trucks, wanted to finish the takeover by the end of the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Farrand at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net  