-- IMF Says Myanmar Plans to Ease Trade Flows by End-2013
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-05-08T04:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/imf-says-myanmar-plans-to-remove-kyat-constraints-by-2013.html
Myanmar plans to scrap all
restrictions on international payments and transfers before the
end of 2013, the  International Monetary Fund  said, making it
easier for companies to buy and sell goods in the country.  The government expects to complete the unification of
multiple exchange rates within the same period after it adopted
a managed float for the kyat last month, the Washington-based
lender said in a  report  known as an Article IV Consultation.
Lifting restrictions too soon risks a flood of imports,
according to Meral Karasulu, the IMF’s Myanmar mission chief.  Moving too fast “would certainly create a significant
drain on the exchange reserves of the country,” she told
reporters in a conference call today. “It would further
undermine probably the quite nascent domestic industries because
they aren’t really competitive and now they would also face even
more competition from international trade.”  Myanmar’s central bank scrapped a 35-year fixed exchange
rate system in April, the biggest financial market policy shift
after President Thein Sein took power a year ago. Moves toward
greater democracy since then have prompted the U.S. and European
Union to ease sanctions, leading investors to scout
opportunities in the Asian nation of 64 million people.  Managing Reserves  Authorities implemented the managed float of the kyat
“quite successfully” and are now working to free up capital
flows and establish a monetary policy framework, Karasulu said
today. The IMF is helping to draft a law to govern the Central
Bank of Myanmar and has recommended it handle all central
banking functions, including managing reserves, a task now
mostly handled by three state-run banks, she said.  “The management of reserves in Myanmar is not up to par
with regards to best practices,” she said. “They have been
managing them extremely conservatively in simple accounts. So
they could have made more money.”  Gross official reserves are projected to rise to $9.9
billion in the 2012-2013 fiscal year, up from $3.1 billion in
2007-2008, the IMF said. The institution is also helping to
resolve Myanmar’s overdue debts, which authorities estimate at
about $5.7 billion, Karasulu said.  “The international reserves of the country remain quite
comfortable and if anything, we do expect those to even get
better because there are significant new natural gas projects
that would increase the foreign exchange revenues,” she said.
“We certainly do not see any complications with regards to the
external balance of payment needs.”  China, India  Bordering  China  and  India  and with the second-largest land
area in  Southeast Asia  behind  Indonesia , Myanmar’s resources
include rubber and natural gas, as well as deposits of gold,
copper and gemstones. Gross domestic product will increase 5.5
percent in financial year 2011-2012, and 6 percent the following
period, the IMF estimates.  “Myanmar could see strong growth if it pursues the
necessary reforms to take advantage of its rich natural
resources, young  labor force , and proximity to some of the
world’s most dynamic economies, including China and India,”
Karasulu said in a statement accompanying the report.  The discussions with Myanmar officials took place in
January and the report was prepared in March. It’s the first
time the government has agreed to make the annual assessment
public, the fund said.  Less Military Spending  Thein Sein has moved to reconnect Myanmar with the West
since taking power 14 months ago, including releasing political
prisoners and convincing opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  to
rejoin the political process. The government has increased
spending on education and health, and plans to reduce military
outlays to 14.5 percent of gross domestic product from 23.5
percent, the IMF said.  IMF economists said rapid changes in Myanmar on a large
scale could make potential mistakes “very costly.” The
government needs to prioritize reforms even as the planned
changes would take time to implement, they said.  “Drastic, over-reaching reforms in many policy areas may
not be realistic, given the capacity constraints and the need to
coordinate across various institutions,” Karasulu said.  The multiple exchange rate system increases transaction
costs, discourages foreign direct investment and trade,
encourages informal activity, and has put appreciation pressure
on the kyat, the IMF said. The government has targeted removing
it before it hosts the Southeast Asian Games in 2013, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  