-- India’s Rupee Falls on Concern Europe Woes Will Slow Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-05-08T11:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/india-s-rupee-falls-on-concern-europe-woes-will-slow-inflows.html
India ’s rupee retreated, reversing
earlier gains, on speculation policy makers will struggle to
attract capital inflows needed to offset the nation’s current-
account deficit.  The BSE India Sensitive Index of shares fell 2.2 percent,
taking its drop this month to 4.5 percent, as Greece’s New
Democracy leader Antonis Samaras said he failed to form a
coalition government following elections over the weekend. The
currency advanced as much as 0.5 percent earlier after Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said yesterday he would delay 
implementing a new rule to reduce  tax avoidance .  “The tax measures have had a positive sentiment impact on
the rupee, but now we have to watch for actual inflows,” said
Sudarshan Bhatt, chief currency trader at state-run  Corporation
Bank  in Mumbai. “If the situation in  Europe  doesn’t improve, it
will be cause for concern as India needs to finance its current-
account deficit.”  The rupee declined 0.4 percent to 53.1462 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its one-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, fell 35 basis points, or 0.35 percentage point,
to 10.65 percent.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade, reached $19.4 billion in the three months through
December, according to central bank data. That was the most
since at least 1949.  Six-month onshore currency forwards were trading at 55.07 a
dollar, compared with 54.70 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 55.16 from 54.83. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  