-- India Pledges Iran Cuts; Naimi Says Prices Too High: Asia Crude
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-05-08T11:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/india-pledges-iran-cuts-naimi-says-prices-too-high-asia-crude.html
India  plans to cut annual oil imports
from Iran by 20 percent while Saudi Arabia is storing as much as
80 million barrels of crude to boost supplies amid prices it
said are too high.  India will curtail its purchases from Iran to 14 million
tons from 17.5 million metric tons in the year ending March 31,
said four Indian officials who declined to be identified because
the information is confidential. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton , on a visit to New Delhi today, called on India to
further pressure Iran over its disputed nuclear program.  The U.S. believes there is sufficient production from Saudi
Arabia,  Iraq  and other Persian Gulf nations for Iran’s customers
to find alternative suppliers, Clinton said yesterday.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, has set
aside supplies “on shore in Saudi Arabia, in pipelines, in
tanks,” Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said in Tokyo today before
board meetings of state-owned Saudi Arabian Oil Co. Crude prices
are “still a little bit high,” he said.  The Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps for June, which measures
the European marker grade’s premium against the Middle East oil,
rose 15 cents to $3.67 a barrel, according to data from PVM Oil
Associates Ltd., a London-based broker. The July EFS was up 8
cents at $3.68.  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when the price for delivery
now is  greater  than that for later, narrowed 4 cents. Swaps for
June were 76 cents a barrel more than August, according to data
from PVM.  The profit from turning a barrel of Dubai crude into fuels
priced in the oil-trading hub of  Singapore  averaged $3.90 during
the last five days, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s up from $3.06 on April 5. The 30-day average is $3.69.  Oman for July delivery settled at $108.90 a barrel at 12:30
p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  