-- India Vows Cuts in Iranian-Oil Imports as Clinton Visits
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-08T10:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/india-vows-cuts-in-iranian-oil-imports-as-clinton-visits.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called on  India  to further pressure Iran over its
nuclear program after officials said the South Asian nation will
curtail its imports of Iranian oil by 20 percent.  “We are aware that refineries have cut their orders and
the actual purchases have been reduced, so we’re encouraged by
what India has done,” Clinton said in an interview with
Bloomberg Radio in  New Delhi . “We think they can do more,” she
said, adding that U.S. officials will continue talks to explore
how India can meet its energy needs while supporting
international efforts to curb Iran’s disputed atomic research.  Asia ’s third-biggest oil importer will cut purchases of
crude from Iran to 14 million tons from 17.5 million tons in the
12 months ending March 31, according to two Indian diplomats and
two refinery officials who asked not to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The officials said
Iranian crude would account for 7 percent of India’s imports in
fiscal 2013, down from 10 percent currently.  In meetings yesterday, Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon and Clinton
agreed that Iran must fulfill its United Nations obligations to
abandon any possible military dimensions of its nuclear program,
according to a State Department official present at the talks
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “The U.S. and India share the same goal, we both want to
prevent Iran getting a nuclear weapon,” Clinton said in New
Delhi today at a joint press conference with Indian Foreign
Minister S.M. Krishna. “India is a strong partner in urging
Iran to live up to its international obligations.”  Afghan Security  Clinton also briefed Singh on efforts to stabilize
Afghanistan after the withdrawal of NATO combat troops in 2014,
and welcomed his support for development in  Afghanistan ,
including plans to host a conference in June to attract private
sector investment, according to the State Department official in
the meeting.  Both Clinton and Krishna urged  Pakistan  today to eliminate
safe havens for Taliban militants along the country’s border
with Afghanistan from where they have attacked U.S. troops and
cities including Kabul.  India says it is reducing its dependence on Iranian oil
even as its energy needs grow. More than 16 percent of India’s
oil, or 21.8 million tons, was sourced from Iran in fiscal year
2009, compared with 17.5 million tons or 10 percent of total
imports this fiscal year, according to two Indian officials.  Alternate Supplies  The top U.S. diplomat urged India to abide by U.S.
sanctions that will penalize financial institutions doing
business with Iran in nations that fail to “significantly
reduce” purchases of Iranian oil before a June 28 deadline.  U.S. sanctions have been an irritant in relations with New
Delhi, which was the second-biggest buyer of Iranian oil last
year. India imports almost 80 percent of its crude and has
growing demands for an economy forecast to expand 7.3 percent in
the year through March 2013, making  energy security  a top
government concern.  The U.S. believes that there is sufficient production from
 Saudi Arabia ,  Iraq  and other Persian Gulf nations for Iran’s
customers to find alternate suppliers, Clinton said. The U.S.
has been helping India find other sources of crude, she said.  While India has abided by several rounds of UN sanctions on
Iran, it has publicly criticized unilateral American sanctions
as an infringement on its sovereignty. U.S. and Indian officials
say that while Singh’s administration doesn’t want to isolate
Iran, an important trading partner and a route for India into
Afghanistan, the government in New Delhi is quietly cooperating
with oil sanctions and seeking an exemption from the U.S.
penalties on financial transactions with Iran.  ‘Vital Stakes’  “India has vital stakes in the Gulf region,” Krishna said
today, standing alongside Clinton. “We have a strong interest
in a negotiated settlement of issues relating to  Iran ’s nuclear
program.” While Iran “remains an important source of oil for
us,” he said, its share of imports is declining.  The U.S. law and a European Union oil embargo that takes
effect July 1 are pillars of a campaign intended to  squeeze 
Iran’s main source of revenue to force it to meet international
demands over the country’s nuclear program. The U.S.,  Europe  and
 Israel  say the program is a cover for developing an atomic
weapons capability. Iran says it’s for civilian energy and
medical research.  Baghdad Talks  Representatives of the five permanent members of the UN
Security Council -- the U.S., Britain,  France ,  China  and  Russia 
-- as well as Germany plan to meet with Iranian officials again
in  Baghdad  on May 23 to negotiate a settlement.  In March, the U.S. issued renewable, 180-day exemptions
from sanctions to 10 EU nations and  Japan , crediting them with
significantly reducing imports of Iranian crude.  Carlos Pascual , the U.S. special envoy in charge of
negotiations with the 12 Iranian oil importing nations that
haven’t yet been granted exemptions, will follow up on Clinton’s
visit with a mission to New Delhi next week, the secretary of
state said in today’s interview.  Clinton said yesterday it was too early to tell whether
India would earn an exemption.  Financial sanctions imposed in the last year have made it
difficult for Iran’s customers to find banks to settle payments
for Iranian oil. A request from Iran’s Parsian Bank to open an
office in Mumbai was rejected because of U.S. pressure, two
people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  In a workaround to pay for Iranian oil without running
afoul of sanctions, Indian officials are establishing a rupee
account at state-run  UCO Bank (UCO)  that Indian refiners can use to
pay for as much as 45 percent of Iranian oil purchases -- and
which Iran may then use to purchase Indian goods in rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  