-- India Approves Annual Budget Seeking to Pare Widest BRIC Deficit
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-05-08T13:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/india-approves-annual-budget-seeking-to-pare-widest-bric-deficit.html
The Indian parliament approved Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee ’s plan for higher taxes to help pare
the widest fiscal deficit among the largest  emerging markets .  Lawmakers ratified the budget, unveiled on March 16, in New
Delhi today. Mukherjee has also proposed subsidy curbs to narrow
the fiscal  gap  to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the
year through March 2013 from 5.9 percent in 2011-2012.  The finance minister yesterday retreated on other plans
outlined in March to clamp down on  tax avoidance , seeking to
salvage investor confidence in Asia’s third-largest economy.
Aside from the budget gap, India is also grappling with a record
trade shortfall that’s pressured the rupee, the slowest economic
 growth  in three years and lingering inflation.  “There is no denying to the fact that GDP has come down
but it is to do with international situation as we are not
insulated,” Mukherjee said in parliament today adding that
collective effort by political parties was needed to speed up
economic recovery.  The budget increased both the service tax rate and the
excise duty to 12 percent from 10 percent. Mukherjee has
proposed to restrict a subsidy program spanning diesel to
fertilizers to less than 2 percent of GDP this fiscal year.  The applicability of the planned General Anti-Avoidance
Rule, or GAAR, will be delayed until the fiscal year beginning
April 2013, Mukherjee said yesterday. The decision spurred the
rupee and stocks.  The currency weakened 0.4 percent to 53.146 per dollar
today, after rising 1.1 percent yesterday. The BSE  India 
Sensitive India of stocks slid 2.2 percent. The rupee tumbled 16
percent last year, the most in Asia.  Deteriorating Outlook  India’s fiscal gap is the worst among the so-called BRIC
nations that also include Brazil, Russia and  China . The nation
also has the fastest BRIC  inflation .  Standard & Poor’s  lowered India’s sovereign credit outlook
to negative from stable on April 25, citing weaker investment
and a deterioration in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade. The move took the economy a step closer to so-called
junk status.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut India’s
repurchase rate by half a percentage point on April 17 to 8
percent, seeking to bolster expansion with the first reduction
since 2009. Inflation was 6.89 percent in March.  The government estimates that  India’s economy  expanded 6.9
percent in 2011-2012, the slowest pace since in three fiscal
years, hurt by costlier credit and slower exports.  Mukherjee said this month that India will focus on a
recovery driven by domestic demand and that he is “confident”
of 8 percent to 10 percent annual growth in India in coming
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  