-- Indiana Voters to Decide Whether to Retire Senator Lugar
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-05-08T16:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/indiana-voters-to-decide-whether-to-retire-senator-lugar.html
Indiana Republican primary voters will
decide today whether to end the U.S. Senate career of  Richard Lugar  in a race that put him on the defensive over his 35 years
in office and occasional compromises with Democrats.  Lugar met yesterday with farmers in rural Otterbain before
campaign stops in three cities north and west of Indianapolis,
where he was mayor before entering the Senate in 1977. A poll
released May 4 showed his challenger, Indiana state Treasurer
Richard Mourdock, leading by 10 percentage points among likely
Republican voters. Hours later, Lugar took the unusual step of
openly appealing to other voters to turn out to aid him.  “If there’s a path to victory for Lugar, it is getting
independents and Democrats out to vote,” said  Jennifer Duffy ,
Senate editor on the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. “It’s a
pretty small needle to thread.”  No Republican U.S. senator who served as long as the six-
term Lugar has been denied renomination. Two Democratic
senators, Kenneth McKellar of  Tennessee  in 1952 and Ellison
Smith of  South Carolina  in 1944, lost primaries as they sought
seventh terms.  Although Lugar, 80, appeared the likely victor just a few
months ago, the race became part of a fight between the
 Republican Party ’s conservative and centrist wings. The
campaigns and outside groups spent money on an avalanche of
television attack ads in the state’s three top media markets of
Indianapolis,  Fort Wayne  and South Bend.  $4.6 Million  Outside groups spent almost $4.6 million supporting or
opposing Lugar and Mourdock, according to the nonpartisan Center
for Responsive Politics. No other 2012 race has attracted that
level of outside spending except the presidential election,
which has generated $95 million in spending by super-political
action committees and other independent groups, the center’s
data show.  Lugar, the top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, is under fire for supporting the $700 billion
financial bailout passed in 2008, shepherding nuclear arms
treaties through the Senate and voting for President  Barack Obama ’s two Supreme Court nominees.  The primary challenge underscores how Republican politics
have changed. Lugar didn’t have a major-party opponent in his
last election in 2006, when seniority and an ability to work
across party lines were seen as assets. He won his three
previous general elections with about two-thirds of the vote.  Club for Growth  Mourdock, 60, is backed by  FreedomWorks , which aids the Tea
Party movement, and the small-government group Club for Growth.
Both groups have flooded the airwaves with attack ads. He was
endorsed by Tea Party favorites Sarah Palin, the 2008 vice
presidential nominee, and Republican representative and former
presidential candidate  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota .  Last week, Mourdock won the endorsement of anti-tax
activist  Grover Norquist  after he signed a pledge by Norquist’s
Americans for  Tax Reform  that, if elected, he will never vote to
raise taxes. Although most Republican senators have signed the
pledge, Lugar has declined, arguing against the value of such
ironclad promises.  Today’s vote will help show whether the Tea Party movement
retains the clout it had in the 2010 midterm elections. That
year, Republican Senators Robert Bennett of Utah and Senator
 Lisa Murkowski  lost their party nominations to candidates
pushing more aggressively for small government. Murkowski then
ran as an independent and won re-election against Republican
nominee  Joe Miller . Bennett was replaced in the Senate by  Mike Lee , a Tea Party-backed Republican.  Control of Senate  Enough voters supported small-government candidates to help
the Republicans take control of the House in 2010. In Senate
races, Tea Party candidates in Nevada,  Colorado  and  Delaware 
were defeated by Democrats, who kept control of that chamber.  The outcome of Lugar’s race holds some risk of a similar
outcome. U.S. Representative Joe Donnelly, an  Indiana  Democrat
and member of the centrist Blue Dog coalition, will run against
the winner of today’s primary. Democrats are convinced that
Mourdock would be easier to beat than Lugar.  Lugar’s spokesman,  Andy Fisher , said the veteran lawmaker’s
campaign was making a massive get-out-the vote drive and could
still win. He said the campaign’s contacts with voters suggest
that new primary voters are prepared to turn out to support him.  ‘Not Outside the Realm’  “There are a lot of people who have not voted in primaries
in the past, but have supported Senator Lugar in the fall, who
say they’re going to vote in the primary,” Fisher said.  Ed Feigenbaum, an analyst who tracks state politics, said
Lugar is the underdog although “it’s not outside the realm of
the possible” that he could win the nomination.  Still, Feigenbaum said, Lugar has had setbacks, including a
challenge to his state residency amid criticism that he hasn’t
spent enough time in Indiana.  A Democratic-controlled county elections board ruled in
March that Lugar was ineligible to vote in his home precinct
because he and his wife registered using the Indianapolis
address of a home he sold in 1977. Lugar reached a settlement
allowing him to change his voter registration address to a
family farm in Indiana.  Feigenbaum said Lugar initially didn’t respond aggressively
enough to Mourdock’s attacks. Then Lugar engaged in attacks ads
that went against his above-the-fray image and created confusion
by criticizing Mourdock on a number of issues, he said.  “Lugar and his people have had a political deaf ear toward
this whole campaign,” said Feigenbaum, editor of the
nonpartisan Indiana Legislative Insight newsletter in
Noblesville.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  