-- India Driving Away Telecom Operators Amid Probe: Tech
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-05-08T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/india-driving-away-telecom-operators-amid-probe-tech.html
India’s mobile-phone industry, once a
symbol of rapid growth, is turning into something else: a
demonstration of the difficulty of doing business there. Some
telecom companies have left and others said they may follow.  India has rewritten tax rules, scrapped 122 licenses
tainted by graft allegations and recommended charging 11 times
more for airwaves in a bid to wrest more money from operators to
help plug the widest  budget deficit  among the biggest  emerging
markets .  Bahrain Telecommunications Co. (BATELCO) , known as Batelco, left
India after its permit was canceled. Emirates Telecommunications
Corp., or Etisalat, has shut its operations in the country.
Shares of billionaire Sunil Mittal’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s
biggest operator, have dropped 8.2 percent this year.  Idea
Cellular Ltd. (IDEA) , controlled by billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla,
has fallen 4.1 percent. India’s Benchmark Sensitive Index, or
 Sensex (SENSEX) , has gained 7 percent.  “It has become a bit of a nightmare,” said  Andrea Williams , who helps manage about $1 billion as head of European
equities at Royal London Asset Management. “Expectations were
higher for telecom than other Indian industries, but as of late
we haven’t seen many decisions that have inspired a lot of
confidence.”  Other Challenges  The telecommunications industry isn’t the only one facing
regulatory and legal hurdles in India. Delays in approvals to
acquire land for coal mining have hampered power generation. In
July, the Supreme Court banned iron ore mining, following
allegations of illegal extraction, in the state of Karnataka,
cutting off supplies to steelmakers.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s
largest steelmaker, and South Korea’s Posco have been waiting
seven years to acquire enough land for steel mills worth a
combined $36 billion.  ArcelorMittal’s billionaire Chairman Lakshmi N. Mittal, who
started an oil refinery in India this month, said the country is
growing more slowly than it can, partly because project
permissions take too long. In December, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , under fire from opposition parties and allies, scrapped a
plan to allow foreign retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
and Carrefour SA, to open outlets.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telenor ASA (TEL) , Idea and Bharti are among
companies that helped to build the world’s second-biggest
mobile-phone market after India opened up the industry in the
1990s. Subscribers have grown 158 times to 919 million since
2001, and competition means users enjoy some of the world’s
cheapest calls.  Lost Revenue  The industry’s troubles started in 2010, when the nation’s
auditor said the 2008 sale of permits to operate mobile-phone
services was “arbitrary and lacked transparency,” and the
government may have lost as much as $31 billion in revenue. The
report sparked the country’s biggest corruption investigation
and led to the arrest of the then-telecommunications minister,
bureaucrats and company executives. All of the accused deny
wrongdoing.  In February, India’s top court scrapped the 122 phone
licenses, including those of Batelco,  Etisalat (ETISALAT) , Telenor and
Russia’s  AFK Sistema (AFKS) , and ordered a fresh auction of airwaves.  Last month, the  Telecom Regulatory Authority of India  set a
reserve price of 181 billion rupees ($3.4 billion) for a fresh
permit spanning the country, compared with 16.6 billion rupees
for similar licenses sold in 2008. Vodafone said the nonbinding
recommendations will do “irreparable harm,” while the Cellular
Operators Association of India called it a “disaster.”  Raising Call Charges  “Indian operators have grown accustomed to certain prices,
so this may seem harsh, but I’m confident that the industry will
prevail,” TRAI Chairman J.S. Sarma told reporters on April 23
in New Delhi. “Over a 20-year projection, these prices are more
than manageable and we will give companies enough time to pay
these prices.”  The proposals, if accepted by the government, will raise
call charges by as much as 30 percent, companies including
Vodafone said in a letter to Telecommunications Minister  Kapil Sibal  on April 27.  “These shortsighted recommendations could singlehandedly
cut the industry’s growth in half,” said D.H. Pai Panandiker,
president of the RPG Foundation, a New Delhi-based research
group. “A sudden tariff hike will drive subscribers away.”  Telenor, the Nordic region’s biggest operator, jumped as
much as 3 percent on April 30 after announcing a “precautionary
measure” of writing down $682 million of remaining value in its
Indian operations. The company has said it will quit  India  if
the airwave recommendations are accepted.  ‘Investors Are Hesitant’  “India is the main reason that investors are hesitant”
about investing in Telenor, Saeed Baradar, an analyst at  Societe
Generale  in London, said in an e-mailed note to clients the same
day. “Removal of that fear will result in at least a 15 percent
to 20 percent re-rating in the stock.”  Meanwhile, India’s Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , under
pressure to avoid a junk credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s ,
is chasing at least 520 billion rupees from operators to help
plug the budget deficit. He accounted for 400 billion rupees
from the sale of spectrum in his budget proposals on March 16
and introduced an amendment to the law after the  Supreme Court 
in January ruled Vodafone’s acquisition of Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd.’s Indian operation in 2007 wasn’t liable for $2.3 billion
in capital gains tax.  Net Sellers  He told lawmakers on April 27 that the proposed change is
to remove “ambiguities” in the law, and it won’t hurt
investment flows into the country.  Foreign funds turned net sellers of Indian stocks in April,
the first month of withdrawals in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee has slipped 5.2 percent against
the dollar since the budget, the worst performance among Asian
currencies.  The government, which said the change to tax law will apply
to deals going back 50 years, has yet to confirm if it will make
a fresh attempt to tax Newbury, U.K.-based Vodafone. The world’s
biggest mobile-phone company said on April 17 that it will seek
international arbitration should India persist with the demand.
Sistema and Telenor, with a combined $5.8 billion investment in
India, have also threatened similar action over their scrapped
permits.  “Once the poster child for foreign investment, India’s
telecom sector has become challenging and difficult due to poor
regulator intent,” said Suresh Mahadevan, a Mumbai-based
analyst at UBS AG. “Prospective investors may now see India as
unfair, with a huge amount of regulatory risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  