-- ING’s Court Victory on Bailout Terms to Be Challenged by EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-08T14:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/ing-s-court-victory-on-bailout-terms-to-be-challenged-by-eu.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s court victory over the
terms of its state bailout will be challenged by European Union
regulators who set the original conditions of the Dutch lender’s
rescue.  ING won a case at the EU’s General Court in March that
required regulators to re-examine the strings attached to the
bank’s rescue by the Dutch government in the wake of the 2008
financial crisis. The court said the commission wrongly
considered a revision of repayment terms as 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) of additional aid to ING on top of 10 billion
euros it received in 2008.  “We will appeal this ruling,” Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for the European Commission, said in an e-mail.  ING was previously ordered by the commission to sell units
to shrink its balance sheet by 45 percent by the end of 2013 and
avoid undercutting rivals on prices for some banking products
for three years or until it repaid the aid. The lender returned
5 billion euros of aid in 2009 after agreeing with the
Netherlands on revised terms. The EU regulator determined that
change amounted to extra aid of about 2 billion euros.  The commission’s appeal doesn’t remove the court’s
requirement for regulators to take a new decision on ING’s
restructuring, said Raymond Vermeulen, a spokesman for the
lender in Amsterdam.  Talks With Commission  “ING has begun discussions with the Dutch state and
together we will have discussions with the European
Commission,” Vermeulen said in a telephone interview.  EU governments spent 1.6 trillion euros to shore up banks
from 2008 to 2010 amid the financial crisis that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to the
commission, most of that in loan guarantees and fresh capital.
The EU must approve large state subsidies and can impose
conditions on the aid.  ING and the Dutch government challenged the terms of the
EU’s approval, which the bank says punished it too harshly for
state help in 2008 and 2009. ING said the regulator
miscalculated the amount of aid and imposed excessive
restructuring demands.  ING was ordered to sell its entire insurance operations,
its U.S. online-banking division and Dutch mortgage lender
WestlandUtrecht Bank before a 2013 deadline.  Earlier this year, ING completed the sale of its U.S.
online bank to Capital One for $9 billion. The company also
disposed of its Latin American insurance operations last year.
The divestment program encountered a glitch as  Europe ’s fiscal
woes scared off potential buyers, making initial public
offerings impossible.  The EU’s plans to appeal the ruling were reported earlier
by Het Financieele Dagblad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 