-- Iran Car Accident Kills IAEA Atomic Inspector
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-05-09T04:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/iran-car-accident-kills-iaea-atomic-inspector.html
(Corrects  South Korea  Foreign Ministry statement in third
paragraph.)  A South Korean inspector from the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  was killed in a car accident
in Iran during a tour to inspect nuclear facilities.  A vehicle carrying two IAEA staff on a mission near the
Khondab complex in the western Markazi province flipped over,
the Fars agency said today, citing a statement by  Iran’s atomic
energy organization . The second person, a Slovak national, was
injured and hospitalized, according to the  Iranian Students News
Agency .  South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said in a text message to
reporters that a 58-year-old national died in a car accident in
Iran at about 11 a.m. local time while traveling to visit the
city of Arak, Markazi’s provincial capital and the site of one
of  Iran ’s nuclear sites.  The accident occurred before a meeting next week between
Iranian officials and the IAEA in Vienna and another later this
month with world powers aimed at resolving a standoff over
 Iran’s nuclear program . The U.S. and its allies say they are
concerned that the Iranian government may develop nuclear
weapons. Iran says its activities are aimed at generating
electricity and for medical research.  Israeli Threats  The IAEA is in touch with the Iranian authorities and with
the inspectors’ families, it said in an e-mailed statement. The
agency gave no further details of what happened.  Threats by  Israel  and the U.S. to carry out air strikes on
Iranian nuclear installations, and Iranian pledges to retaliate,
helped push Brent crude prices to about $126 a barrel in March,
the highest in more than 3 1/2 years.  Prices have declined since Iran and the world powers broke
a 15-month stalemate on the nuclear conflict during talks on
April 14 in Istanbul. Another round is scheduled for Baghdad on
May 23.  Brent oil for June settlement dropped to $111.40 at 3:30
p.m. in  London  today. Odds compiled by Intrade.com that Israel
or the U.S. will strike Iran by the end of this year dropped to
about 23 percent yesterday, from 33 percent at the end of March
and as high as 62 percent in February.  Iran is a signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
and its facilities are under IAEA supervision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  