-- Ireland’s Treaty Opponents Gain Anti-Austerity Ammunition
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-05-09T10:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/ireland-s-treaty-opponents-gain-anti-austerity-ammunition.html
Irish opponents of  Europe ’s fiscal
treaty are drawing inspiration from Athens and Paris as voters
across Europe rebel against austerity.  The Irish hold a referendum on the treaty on May 31, after
Greek and French voters rejected candidates promoting budget
cuts to help solve the euro-region debt crisis. While opinion
polls show the “yes” side ahead, that was also the case before
previous unsuccessful plebiscites in Ireland.  The French and Greek elections “allow the treaty’s
opponents to argue the tide is going out on austerity,” said
Eoin Fahy, an economist at Kleinwort Benson Investors in Dublin.
“The results are damaging for the ‘yes’ camp. Just how damaging
remains to be seen.”  A “no” vote by Ireland, which has pushed through every
measure asked of it since its 2010 rescue, would deal a further
blow to a German-led bloc in Europe that says budget cuts are
essential to tackle the root cause of the 2 1/2-year crisis. In
 France ,  Francois Hollande  became the first Socialist to win the
presidency in 17 years as he defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy  on May 6.
In  Greece , Syriza, which has vowed to renegotiate the terms of
international aid, is trying to form a government.  Irish Voice  “The people of France, the people of Greece are against
the policies of austerity and it is now a moment for Ireland to
add our voice to that,” Mary Lou McDonald, deputy leader of
 Sinn Fein , the largest party opposing the treaty, told reporters
in Dublin on May 7 in comments aired by national broadcaster
RTE. “The best way we can do that is by delivering a resounding
‘no’ vote.”  Ireland must hold a referendum should a treaty alter the
country’s constitution. Irish voters rejected changes to the
European treaty in 2001 and 2008, before the proposals were
passed in reruns. The yield on Ireland’s October 2020 bonds,
regarded as the benchmark, fell 2 basis points today to 6.87
percent while Greek and French borrowing costs rose.  Syriza, a coalition of left-leaning Greek parties, came in
second in the May 6 election as  New Democracy  and the socialist
Pasok party, which support the bailout plan, fell two seats
short of the 151 seats needed for a majority. Syriza was handed
the mandate yesterday to form a government after New Democracy’s
Antonis Samaras failed to forged a coalition agreement.  Hollande is preparing to take office after his anti-
austerity campaign helped him unseat a sitting French president
for the first time in more than 30 years. Hollande has vowed to
reopen the fiscal treaty, complicating the Irish government’s
push to win support for the accord.  Ammunition  The developments “provide the ‘no’ side with the
ammunition to highlight increased opposition to austerity in
Europe,” fixed-income firm Glas Securities said in a note.  To be sure, polls indicate the “yes” side leads in
Ireland. The most recent opinion poll conducted by market
research firm Red C shows that 47 percent of voters back the
treaty, while 35 percent oppose it. Eighteen percent of the
electorate were undecided in a survey carried out between April
23 and April 25 for the Dublin-based  Sunday Business Post .  “My view is that it’s going to pass, but it’s going to be
tight -- and much tighter than the polls indicate at the
moment,” said  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at  Goodbody
Stockbrokers . “It needs to be clarified quickly what Hollande
wants to do, as uncertainty may favor the ‘no’ side.”  No Interference  The Irish government is struggling to turn Hollande’s
victory in its favor, with Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore 
traveling to Paris last weekend to witness the first Socialist
victory in a French presidential race since  Francois Mitterrand .  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said he welcomed the French
president-elect’s focus on growth, after Ireland’s economy
shrank about 15 percent since 2007. In parliament today, he said
Hollande has no intention of interfering in Ireland’s referendum
campaign and that he “fully respects” the Irish situation.  “Hollande doesn’t want to rewrite the whole treaty, he
just seems to want to add an annex on growth,” Fahy said. “So
the government can argue that their opponents’ arguments are
nonsense, but it’s not clear that will gain traction, as people
focus on the austerity measures in the treaty.”  The fiscal compact requires nations to virtually eliminate
structural deficits, creates an “automatic correction
mechanism” and enshrines the new measures in national law.  Ireland’s government has already introduced 24 billion
euros ($31 billion) of budget cuts since the economy went into a
recession in 2008, and there are signs that voters are growing
weary of austerity. Satisfaction with Kenny’s government has
dropped 14 percentage points to 23 percent in the past six
months, according to an  Irish Times  poll published on April 20.  “We have a unique opportunity to deal another strong blow
to the austerity agenda that works only for the bondholders and
rich,” said Paul Murphy, a socialist member of the European
Parliament who is campaigning against the treaty. “We can add
to the momentum against this treaty and potentially sink it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  