-- Israeli Agreement Broadens Netanyahu’s Powerbase
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-05-09T10:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/israeli-agreement-broadens-netanyahu-s-powerbase-for-new-laws.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s
unheralded agreement to team up with Israel’s biggest opposition
party gives him a broad powerbase to steer issues ranging from
budgets and Middle East peace talks to a possible attack on
Iran.  “Netanyahu once again revealed how confident and smart he
is on the political side,” Aaron  David Miller , a senior fellow
at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in
 Washington , said after yesterday’s deal with the Kadima party.
“It broadens and legitimizes the Netanyahu government with
Netanyahu having to pay no price -- at least for now.”  The coalition of Netanyahu’s Likud party and Kadima, led by
Shaul Mofaz, a 63-year-old former general, creates a new
majority of 94 seats in the 120-member Knesset, the biggest
since Yitzhak Shamir commanded 97 seats in 1990. That may enable
Netanyahu to pass a range of legislation that would previously
have proved problematic, including the elimination of most
military service deferments for ultra-Orthodox Jews.  Freed from the demands of religious parties, Netanyahu may
find it easier to make compromises with Palestinians that could
lead to a breakthrough in the  peace process . Netanyahu, 62, may
also have an easier time making controversial decisions, such as
the bombing of Iranian nuclear facilities, since there is less
risk of his coalition collapsing.  ‘Stunning Move’  The coalition agreement is scheduled to be officially
ratified in parliament today, followed by the swearing-in of
Mofaz as a government minister, Knesset spokesman Yotam Yakir
said in a phone interview.  The alliance with Mofaz may reduce the disproportionate
influence of the smaller religious parties, said  David Makovsky ,
director of research at the Washington Institute for Near East
Studies. At the same time, it will probably ensure that Israel’s
leading proponent of an attack on Iran, Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  of the five-seat Atzmaut Party, will remain in office, he
said.  “It’s a stunning move,” Makovsky said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a new world.”  Netanyahu surprised opponents when he reversed his May 6
call for early elections in September, and revealed a pre-dawn
agreement with Mofaz to form a so-called unity government. The
prime minister said later at a Knesset news conference that he
“jumped at the opportunity” because teaming up with Kadima
would provide “stability” to extend his term to November 2013.  Stocks Fall  Israeli  government bonds  dropped for the first time in more
than a week after early elections were canceled, as a result of
concerns that he may be pressured to spend more to appease his
new coalition partners, according Sagie Poznerson, head of
trading at  Leader Capital Markets (LDRC)  Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  That could test the fiscal discipline demanded by Bank of
Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer .  The yield on the 5 percent bond due March 2013 today rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.54 percent at
the 12:02 p.m. The shekel weakened 0.2 percent to 3.8152 a
dollar. Israel’s benchmark stock index, the TA-25, was down 0.5
percent to 1,139.84.  Tensions over the Iranian program helped drive Brent crude
prices to about $125 a barrel in March, the highest in more than
3 1/2 years. Prices fell more than 2 percent on the next trading
day after Iran and the world powers broke a 15-month stalemate
on the nuclear conflict during talks April 14 in Istanbul.
Negotiations are set to resume May 23 in  Baghdad .  Odds compiled by Intrade.com that  Israel  or the U.S. will
strike Iran by the end of this year dropped to about 23 percent
yesterday, from 33 percent at the end of March and as high as 62
percent in February.  ‘Difficult Decisions’  Even so, Netanyahu is sending a message “that there is a
wide coalition government in Israel that can take difficult
decisions regarding Iran if the superpowers appear to be
dragging their feet on the issue,” Rafi Gozlan, chief economist
at I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said
in a phone interview.  Standard & Poor’s  issued a statement yesterday saying its
A+ rating and outlook of “stable” for Israel have not been
affected by the government shakeup.  Under the accord, Mofaz, a former defense minister and
military chief of staff, will become deputy prime minister and a
minister without portfolio, Likud party spokeswoman Noga Katz
said.  Labor Party chief Shelly Yacimovich, whose faction holds
eight seats in parliament and who will now lead the opposition,
told Army Radio the Netanyahu-Mofaz agreement was “an alliance
of cowards.”  Opportunity for Talks  Netanyahu said at the Knesset that Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  should “take advantage of this
opportunity” to restart direct talks. Formal discussions have
been suspended since September 2010, when Netanyahu declined to
extend a 10-month freeze on construction in  West Bank 
settlements demanded by Abbas.  Abbas’s spokesman, Nabil Abu Rudeina, urged Netanyahu to
establish a “coalition of peace, not a coalition of war” and
quickly negotiate a peace settlement, according to the Palestine
News & Information Agency known as Wafa.  Danny Danon , a Likud Knesset member who opposes concession
to the Palestinians, criticized the agreement with Mofaz. The
accord “spells trouble for the Jewish communities” of the West
Bank, he said in an e-mailed statement. “We must not abandon
our traditional partners by moving the coalition to the center
and reviving the political corpse that is the Kadima party.”  Iranian Roots  Mofaz, who was born in Iran, immigrated with his family to
Israel in 1957 and rose through the army ranks to become its top
general. As defense minister, Mofaz oversaw the withdrawal of
troops and Jewish settlements from the  Gaza Strip  in 2005. He
was a member of Likud until 2005 when he departed with former
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to form Kadima.  Netanyahu acted as his government faced political decisions
over the next few months that threatened his coalition’s
stability. He suffered a setback this week when Israel’s High
Court of Justice ordered the destruction of five apartment
houses in the West Bank Jewish settlement of Beit-El, and
criticized the government for trying to stop demolition orders.  In February, the court also invalidated the so-called Tal
Law, which has enabled more than 50,000 students a year in
ultra-Orthodox seminaries to avoid being drafted for military
service that is obligatory for Israeli Jewish men and women.
Shas and United Torah Judaism, two religious parties in the
coalition, are demanding that the exemption be maintained.  Distribute Burden  Mofaz yesterday said the new coalition will pass a law that
will distribute the burden of army service more equally among
the population and said he has new ideas on how to restart peace
talks with Palestinians. He spoke at a joint press conference
with Netanyahu in  Jerusalem .  Mofaz is a pragmatist on the Palestinian issue and on  Iran ,
according to Miller, a veteran of U.S. teams mediating Israeli-
Palestinian peace talks.  The coalition agreement will enable Netanyahu’s government
to move forward with measures to break up corporate monopolies
and increase business competition, analysts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  