-- Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Fined $5.3 Million by U.K. FSA
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-05-08T11:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/mitsui-sumitomo-insurance-fined-5-4-million-by-u-k-regulator.html
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. (8725) ’s
European unit was fined 3.3 million pounds ($5.3 million) by
U.K. financial regulators for serious  corporate governance 
failings.  The unit’s former executive chairman, Yohichi Kumagai, was
also fined 119,303 pounds and banned from working in the
industry, the Financial Services Authority said in an e-mailed
statement today. Kumagai failed to hire a chief underwriter to
manage the expansion of the business in  Europe  and didn’t update
its technology infrastructure, the FSA said.  “Senior management must take responsibility for the firms
that they run,” Tracey McDermott, acting FSA director of
enforcement, said in an e-mailed statement. “Kumagai failed to
respond adequately to the changing risks facing his business
even after they had been pointed out by the FSA.”  The FSA is leading a crackdown on companies that have
insufficient systems and controls to manage risk. Coutts & Co.,
a private bank owned by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, was
fined 8.75 million pounds in March for not having effective
anti-money-laundering controls. Bank of Scotland Plc was
censured by the regulator the same month for similar failings.  Banking executives should be subject to more stringent
corporate governance rules,  Hector Sants , chief executive of the
FSA, said in a speech in London last month.  At Mitsui Sumitomo, the agency said that “despite
receiving clear guidance from the FSA that the management
structure and composition of the board was ineffective,”
Kumagai “failed to take prompt action to remedy the
situation.”  Corporate Governance  Mitsui Sumitomo “accepts the FSA’s final notice and takes
this matter very seriously,” Duncan Gallagher, a spokesman for
the company, said in an e-mailed statement. “The company is
disappointed that during this period its corporate governance
and controls were not up to the standards the company expects.”  Kumagai and Mitsui Sumitomo agreed to settle at an early
stage and qualified for a 30 percent discount on their fines.  Kumagai was transferred from the Japanese parent company
and appointed as executive chairman of the U.K. business in
April 2009, as part of a staff rotation program for senior
managers. Seconded executives often “had only limited
experience of non-Japanese insurance business and U.K.
regulatory obligations,” the FSA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  