-- Liverpool Ends Chelsea’s Bid for Top-Four Finish With 4-1 Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-08T23:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/liverpool-beats-chelsea-to-rebound-from-f-a-cup-final-defeat.html
Liverpool beat Chelsea 4-1 to rebound
from its F.A. Cup final loss to the Blues and end their chances
of a top-four finish in English soccer’s Premier League.  The home team led 3-0 after 28 minutes at Anfield last
night after  Michael Essien  diverted a cross into his own net and
 Jordan Henderson  and  Daniel Agger  scored three minutes apart.
Ramires got Chelsea’s goal five minutes into the second half and
Jonjo Shelvey made it 4-1 after 61 minutes.  The win lifted Liverpool ahead of Fulham into eighth place
on goal difference with one match remaining. The Reds, who trail
city rival Everton by a point and visit Swansea on the final day,
last finished outside the top eight in 1954.  “It was an excellent performance,” Liverpool manager
 Kenny Dalglish  told his club’s website. “The fact that the
supporters can get away from the last home game of the season
with a little bit of a smile on their faces is great.”  Sixth-place Chelsea remains on 61 points, four fewer than
Newcastle and five behind fourth-place Tottenham, which holds
the final qualifying spot for  Europe ’s elite  Champions League .  Chelsea will have to win the May 19 Champions League final
against  Bayern Munich  to qualify for next season’s competition.
If that happens, the fourth-place Premier League team will drop
into the second-tier Europa League, with the top three clubs
entering the Champions League group stage.  Interim manager Roberto Di Matteo last night made nine
changes to the Chelsea team that started the 2-1 F.A. Cup final
victory on May 5, signaling that his focus is on the matchup
against Bayern. Chelsea last missed the Champions League in
2002-03.  Objective Appraisal  “We were depending on other results,” Di Matteo said.
“We need to be objective. It wasn’t the points we lost today
that made the difference.”  Essien deflected  Luis Suarez ’s cross into his own goal in
the 19th minute to put Liverpool ahead. Henderson ran through to
double the lead seven minutes later and Agger then headed in
from a corner.  Stewart Downing missed a penalty for the home team in
first-half stoppage time before Ramires made it 3-1. Shelvey
sealed Liverpool’s biggest league win of the season when he
struck a half-volley into an empty net from about 30 yards (27
meters) after collecting Chelsea goalkeeper Ross Turnbull’s
clearance.  With all 20 teams having played 37 games, the final round
of matches on May 13 will decide the champion, the  remaining
European places  and the last relegation berth.  Blackburn Rovers joined Wolverhampton Wanderers in dropping
down to the Championship two days ago after losing to Wigan.  So far, leader  Manchester City  and second-place  Manchester
United  are guaranteed a Champions League berth next season.
Liverpool is assured of a Europa League spot after winning the
Carling Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  