-- Jaguar F-Type Revisits Swinging ‘60s to Challenge Porsche: Cars
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-05-09T12:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/jaguar-f-type-revisits-swinging-60s-to-challenge-porsche-cars.html
Jaguar  is invoking its iconic E-Type
roadster to challenge Mercedes-Benz and Porsche with its first
two-seat sports car in almost four decades.  The  F-Type , due to be unveiled in September and go on sale
as soon as next April, will be Jaguar’s smallest auto in more
than a half-century as the marque seeks a return to its sporting
tradition following decades spent focusing on luxury sedans.  “If the product can do what the original E-Type did for
Jaguar, it will be a huge boost,” said  Peter Schmidt , managing
director of Warwick, England-based Automotive Industry Data.
“What they’re doing is laudable, it’s good for the brand and
it’s good for the image. But nobody should expect miracles.”  The  E-Type , introduced at the 1961  Geneva Motor Show , was
described by Ferrari founder Enzo Ferrari as “the most beautiful
car ever built,” and became synonymous with the London of the
“Swinging Sixties.” Yet it has taken the $2.5 billion purchase
of Jaguar by  India ’s  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  in 2008 for a pure-bred
sports model to return to favor at the British manufacturer.  Tata, which acquired the Jaguar and Land Rover brands from
Ford Motor Co. and combined them into a single unit, plans to
invest $12 billion over five years to win a bigger slice of an
upscale market dominated by German automakers.  Tata Motors fell 1.2 percent to 292.85 rupees in Mumbai
trading today. The shares have still advanced 64 percent this
year, exceeding gains of 30 percent for  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) , 18 percent at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , parent of luxury carmaker Audi,
and 13 percent at  Daimler AG (DAI) , which owns Mercedes-Benz.  ‘Twin Job’  Jaguar says the F-Type, a production version of its C-X16
concept car minus the hybrid engine, is more than just a
marketing ploy, and that the model will make money.  “We’re too small a company for it not to be a viable
business proposition,” spokesman Angus Fitton said. “It’s got
to pay for itself and generate profit, but it has got to do a
twin job in that it will be a brand-building job as well.”  Jaguar has yet to say how much the F-Type will cost, though
the “speculated price” for the first variant, a convertible,
is about 55,000 pounds ($89,000), putting it in a niche where
there’s little overlap with competitors’ models and helping to
reduce the average age of Jaguar’s customer base, Fitton said.  The third generation of Porsche AG’s Boxster roadster went
on sale in  Germany  last month at 48,300 euros ($62,800), while
the Carrera Cabriolet, the cheapest convertible version of the
Stuttgart-based company’s 911 model, sells for 100,500 euros.  Three Models  The F-Type will also sit between the Mercedes SLK compact
roadster, which costs 38,700 euros, and the Daimler brand’s new
SL, available in  Europe  from March 31 and priced from 93,500
euros, as well as the 31,500-euro TT Roadster and 123,200-euro
R8 Spyder from VW’s Ingolstadt-based Audi. BMW’s only two-seat
convertible is the 36,400-euro Z4.  Jaguar’s current lineup is based on three models, two of
them sedans, with the XJ positioned to compete with the BMW 7-
Series and Mercedes S-Class and the mid-range XF an alternative
to the 5-Series and E-Class from the two German companies.  The third model, the  XK , is available as a four-seat
convertible for 99,400 euros and was regarded as the closest
thing to an E-Type successor when it was introduced in 1996 to
replace the XJS, which itself ousted the 1960s icon in 1975.  The F-Type will be made at Jaguar’s Castle Bromwich plant
near Birmingham,  England . The company, which currently operates
from three U.K. sites, said March 21 it had agreed to form a
venture with Chery Automobile Co. Ltd. to build cars in  China .  The new model will come with a 3-liter supercharged V6
engine tuned to either 335 or 375 horsepower and later with a 5-
liter V8, according to Fitton. With a top speed of 155 miles per
hour, it will only be produced in a two-seat layout.  Production Plans  While that may help restore Jaguar’s sporting credentials
established with the 100-mph SS100 in 1938 and buoyed by seven
victories in the Le Mans 24 Hour Race with models including the
C-Type and D-Type, the F-Type won’t deliver the volumes needed
for the part-sharing and economies of scale required to compete
with larger manufacturers, said Garel Rhys, director of Cardiff
University’s automotive industry research center.  BMW, the Munich-based luxury-car leader, boosted deliveries
13 percent last year to 1.38 million cars and sport-utility
vehicles, while Audi ranked second with 1.3 million autos and
Stuttgart-based Mercedes-Benz placed third with 1.26 million.  SUV-Led  Jaguar Land Rover, by contrast, sold 314,433 vehicles in
the 12 months ended March 31. While that represented a 29
percent increase from a year earlier, deliveries of Land Rover
SUV’s accounted for more than 80 percent of total output.  “You can’t go on like that,” Rhys said. “You need that
volume, you really do. There has to be much more carry-over
between Jaguars and Land Rovers under the skin of the cars.”  The relatively narrow model range also leaves Jaguar
vulnerable to sudden shifts in consumer taste, especially as
buyers begin to switch to smaller, more fuel-efficient models,
according  Andrew Jackson , an analyst at Datamonitor in  London .  “Because they only have three vehicles, they’re somewhat
exposed once they get to the end of their life cycle,” he said.
“The competition could be providing something that might be a
bit cheaper, that looks better or might be better fitted.”  Rhys said he reckons Jaguar Land Rover wants to lift
deliveries to as many as 650,000 a year by 2016 and predicts it
will announce a new model in the next six months aimed at
competing with BMW’s best-selling 3-Series in the small- to mid-
sized sedan market.  “They do need something like that,” he said. “Unless you
have a vehicle with sales of 150,000 a year, you’re really going
to be hard-pressed to justify the Jaguar brand long-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  