-- Japan’s Youngest Billionaire Extends Loss as Gree Plunges
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-05-09T07:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/japan-s-youngest-billionaire-extends-losses-as-gree-plunges-1-.html
Yoshikazu Tanaka, Japan’s youngest
billionaire and founder of  Gree Inc. (3632) , lost $704 million in the
past two days after his social-gaming company declined on
concerns one of its sales methods may be declared illegal.  Japan’s second-biggest operator of social games fell 0.1
percent to 1,650 yen today, extending a record 23 percent plunge
yesterday. The two days of declines wiped out 56.2 billion yen
($704 million) from the value of the 35-year-old Tanaka’s
shareholding, based on calculations by Bloomberg News.  Gree and other Japanese social game-related companies fell
after the nation’s Consumer Affairs Agency said it’s considering
whether a sales method called “complete gacha” violates the
law. The Yomiuri newspaper said May 5 the agency  will ask 
social-network game operators to stop using the system because
it prompts customers to pay excessive fees.  “The situation remains severe” for both Gree and its
rivals, Mitsuo Shimizu, a market analyst at Tokyo-based Iwai
Cosmo Securities Co., said by phone today. “Their profitability
is at risk, depending on the government’s decision.”  Tanaka was  Japan ’s youngest billionaire with an estimated
fortune of $3.5 billion,  Forbes  magazine said in March. His
48.18 percent stake in Gree is now worth $2.32 billion.  ‘Complete Gacha’  Gree and five other companies will cooperate fully with the
government and release guidelines to improve social gaming by
May 31, Tanaka said at a press conference in Tokyo after the
company reported that third-quarter profit almost tripled.  “Even if the ‘complete gacha’ is abandoned, it won’t rock
the foundation of Gree,” said Ryotaro Shima, head of Gree’s
corporate division. “We will consider introducing new services
to spur sales.”  Tomoyuki Akiyama, a spokesman for DeNA Co., the country’s
biggest social-game operator, declined to comment when reached
by phone today.  DeNA fell 1.5 percent after slumping by the daily limit of
500 yen yesterday.  The government agency plans to issue an opinion on the
“complete gacha” system soon, Kazuyuki Katagiri, a section
chief, said by phone yesterday.  The system charges players about 300 yen apiece for virtual
items that can be collected and converted into a rare item once
a certain combination is obtained. The sales method may violate
the law through unjustifiable premiums and misleading
representations, according to the Yomiuri report.  Capcom, Konami Rebound  In one incident, a user’s charges totaled 4 million yen in
two months of playing games with the sales system, according to
the  minutes  of the consumer agency’s panel meeting in February.
Some users also put up rare virtual items on auction sites, the
panel said.  “The companies may need to change their business models,”
Masamitsu Ohki, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based Stats Investment
Management Co., said by phone. “Companies shouldn’t rush to
expand as the very existence of social games is being questioned
and that would deter some investors.”  Capcom Co., the Osaka-based maker of “Resident Evil”
games, jumped 5.3 percent in Tokyo trading today after declining
6.6 percent yesterday. The company said yesterday net income for
the year ending March 31 may rise 46 percent to 9.8 billion yen.  Market ‘May Shrink’  Konami Corp. (9766) , the maker of “Metal Gear Solid” games, rose
7.1 percent after slumping 18 percent yesterday, the biggest
drop in more than a year. The company said in March it agreed to
publish its games on social-network game maker  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s new
platform.  The impact on Capcom and Konami’s operating profit from a
ban on “complete gacha” would be “about 10 percent, if any,”
said Satoru Kikuchi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.
“The drop yesterday was too much.”  A ban could reduce Gree’s net income by 18 percent and
DeNA’s by 6 percent, said David Gibson, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Macquarie Securities Ltd., who has an underperform  rating  on
both companies.  Net income in the three months ended March 31 totaled 13.4
billion yen, compared with 4.7 billion yen a year earlier, Gree
said in a statement today. Sales rose to 46.2 billion yen from
16.4 billion yen a year earlier, it said.  Gree has forecast net income may total between 44 billion
yen and 50 billion yen in the year ending June 30. DeNA
 estimated  profit of 32.6 billion yen in the year ended March 31,
it said Feb. 7.  Japan’s social-gaming market may expand 33 percent from a
year earlier to about 343 billion yen this fiscal year, Yano
Research Institute Ltd. forecast in January. That would be
almost 70 times the 4.9 billion-yen market in 2008, according to
estimates by the researcher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  