-- Jefferson County Makes Alabamians Suffer Cost Boost: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/jefferson-county-makes-alabamians-suffer-cost-boost-muni-credit.html
Cities and towns in  Alabama  are paying
a penalty six months after Jefferson County filed the nation’s
biggest municipal bankruptcy.  Investors demanding extra yield to buy the region’s debt
blame elected officials, especially lawmakers in the Legislature
who have failed to help the county come up with new revenue to
maintain services for its 660,000 residents. Jefferson officials
have fired hundreds of workers and consolidated offices,
lengthening lines for chores such as renewing drivers’ licenses.  Issuers in or near Jefferson County may pay an extra 0.10
percentage point to borrow, said  Mike Dunn , managing director in
Montgomery, Alabama, at Merchant Capital LLC, which underwrites
the most Alabama debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Tom Barnett, finance director of Birmingham, the county seat, said
the premium may be 0.25 percentage point across the state.  “I’m reluctant to buy bonds in Alabama if the Legislature
can’t craft a meaningful tax that’s constitutional,” said Tom Dalpiaz, who oversees $300 million in municipal bonds at
Monument, Colorado-based Advisors Asset Management Inc. “There
are 49 other states to find bonds.”  Alabama issuers’ increased costs highlight the risk from
bankruptcy as municipalities contend with fiscal strains from
the 18-month recession that ended almost three years ago. There
were 13 such filings in 2011, the most since 1994, according to
 James Spiotto , a lawyer at Chapman & Cutler LLP in  Chicago . They
remain rare on a longer horizon: There have been 636 since 1937.  Adding Up  Elevated borrowing costs can add up for Alabama localities,
whose average deal in 2012 is about $16 million, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  For a 30-year issue of that size paying a 3 percent coupon,
a 0.1 percentage point increase would require an extra $317,000
in debt service, according to Alan Schankel, a managing director
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  That could buy 115 school buses seating about 7,500
students, according to GovDeals.com, which sells surplus
equipment.  “The areas in Jefferson County or the areas that might be
affected by the Jefferson County bankruptcy have seen their
spreads widen because there’s always that fear,” said William Ahern, who runs the  Eaton Vance Alabama Municipal Income Fund (ETALX) 
and manages $3.4 billion in total from  Boston . “All else being
the same, you’d rather have a bond that’s outside the area.”  Wage Tax  The county filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 9 after
almost reaching a deal with creditors that would have cut more
than $1 billion from its $3.1 billion sewer debt. It entered
Chapter 9 instead after the Legislature and Alabama Governor
Robert Bentley failed to bridge the loss of $70 million of
annual wage-tax revenue.  A bill that would allow the county to raise taxes passed
the state Senate last week and is in the House. The Legislature
has four days left in its session and county officials are
considering additional budget cuts in anticipation the chamber
won’t act. The revenue shortfall led the county to miss a $15
million bond payment due last month. Jefferson has fired 800
workers in the past year, almost a quarter of the workforce.  Birmingham’s  water works board  was among issuers paying
extra in the wake of the filing.  It sold about $52 million in tax-exempt bonds in March,
with a 10-year portion yielding 2.84 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was 0.53 percentage point more than
similarly rated utility revenue bonds, according to a Bloomberg
Fair Value  index . The board sold tax-free bonds in November
2010, with 10-year debt yielding 0.29 percentage point above the
utility index.  Outlook ‘Overcome’  “We have overcome any negative outlook that those out in
the market may have related to the Jefferson County sewer
situation,”  Michael Johnson , the board’s assistant general
manager for finance and administration, said in an interview.
“Of course, some of that you can’t overcome.”  Jefferson County “remains unique in its underlying
causes,”  Jeremy King , a spokesman for the governor, said in an
e-mail. “We do not believe those factors reflect on the state
as a whole or on other municipalities or state authorities.”  Huntsville, Alabama, about 100 miles (161 kilometers) north
of Birmingham and carrying a top credit grade, also paid a
price. The city is home to  NASA ’s Marshall Space Flight Center.  The city sold bonds April 20 with a 10-year segment priced
to yield 2.22 percent, or 0.16 percentage point above AAA
general obligations, Bloomberg  data  show. In November, two days
before the county’s filing, the city sold 10-year debt 0.04
percentage point above top-grade securities.  Interest Cost  Huntsville, with a fiscal year 2012  budget  of about $229
million, would have saved $61,980 in interest costs on last
month’s 10-year bonds if they were priced at the same spread
over AAA securities as the November debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are some institutional buyers that are staying out
of Alabama right now,” said Phil Dotts, a managing director at
PFM Group in Huntsville, who serves as financial adviser for the
city. “We have not seen that, at least not as it relates to
Huntsville.”  Some municipalities have avoided the public market.
Birmingham privately placed $64 million of debt for a baseball
stadium in December because it “couldn’t take the chance” of
losing  market access , Barnett said.  Declining local-government interest  rates  have helped 
municipalities, including Alabama’s. In trading yesterday, 
30-year AAA debt yields fell to  3.58 percent , 0.05 percentage
point above a record low set in February, according to a 
Bloomberg Fair Value index that started in 1991.    The state’s issuers sold $1.2 billion in munis this year, 
up from $545 million in the same period last year, data 
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Much of the issuance is for refinancing, meaning investors
have fewer new bonds to buy, said Eaton Vance’s Ahern. That
spurs demand for riskier credits.  “In a more normal market, we might see a wider spread
penalty, or even some issuers losing market access,” said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors. “People are generally more concerned
about Alabama issuers, but this kind of environment smoothes
over a lot of those concerns.”  Following are pending deals:  ARIZONA  SPORTS AND TOURISM AUTHORITY plans to sell $177.6
million of revenue bonds as soon as tomorrow. Proceeds will
refinance debt sold to help construct the University of Phoenix
Stadium.  RBC Capital Markets  is the underwriter. (Added May 8)  COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY in  New York  City plans to issue $100
million of taxable bonds as soon as this week to finance capital
projects and refund debt, according to sale documents. The
longest maturity for the bonds is 2042.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is
the underwriter.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the bonds AAA. (Added
May 7)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  