-- Jimmy Choos Luring Indian Women Graduates From Work: Jobs
-- B y   R i n a   C h a n d r a n
-- 2012-05-09T06:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/jimmy-choos-luring-indian-women-graduates-away-from-work-jobs.html
After graduating at the top of her
class in international business at  Ohio State University  in
Columbus, Bavleen Sawhney had the chance to join a top Indian
bank or consulting firm. Instead, she became a personal shopper.  “I’ve told my dad I don’t want to work,” said Sawhney, 22,
who travels around  New Delhi ’s malls in a chauffeured sedan to
browse shoes by Jimmy Choo Ltd. and handbags from Bottega Veneta
Srl for wealthy clients. “A nine-to-five job doesn’t suit me.”  While India has a slew of handicaps that disadvantage women
in the workforce, from low education levels to early marriage
and gender bias, Sawhney is among a growing group of key
potential managers who are opting out as a surfeit of cheap
domestic labor allows more middle-class graduates to stay home.
That’s compounding one of  India ’s worst skills deficits: a
shortage of technical, professional and managerial staff that
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  says is constraining growth.  “Increasing women’s participation in the workforce could
be one of the most powerful ways to boost growth, incomes and
consumption” in India, said Roopa Purushothaman, managing
director and head of research at Everstone Capital Advisors in
Mumbai. “As women become more educated, it appears that they
work less and less,” she said.  The number of women studying for commerce-related degrees
in Indian universities per 100 men almost quadrupled to 63 from
1980 to 2002, while the ratio in engineering and technical
degrees rose to 33 from eight, based on census data, according
to Everstone, which advises on $1.6 billion of private equity
and real estate assets primarily focused on India. Once women
leave college, those gains disappear.  Staying Home  The rate of India’s female graduates entering the workforce
is only about 22 percent, lower even than the rate of illiterate
women finding a job, according to Everstone. In  South Korea , the
ratio of female graduates working is more than 40 percent.  In the  World Economic Forum ’s ranking of gender parity in
economic participation, India is above only  Turkey ,  Saudi Arabia ,
Pakistan and Yemen, a gap that “will be detrimental to India’s
 growth ,” the Geneva-based organization said in a 2011 report.  If even half of India’s working-age women were employed,
incomes would rise by more than 12 percent by 2025 and gross
domestic product would increase by $110 billion in a decade,
said Purushothaman. She was one of the authors of the 2003
 report  from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. with  Jim O’Neill  that
coined the term BRIC for the emerging economic powerhouses of
 Brazil ,  Russia , India and  China .  Biased Boardrooms  The low numbers of women graduates in work are reflected in
India’s boardrooms. Of 1,112 directors in the 100 companies on
the  BSE 100 stocks index , 59, or 5.3 percent, are women -- less
than half the ratios in the U.S. and U.K. -- according to Hong
Kong-based  Community Business , a non-profit organization that
surveyed gender in the workplace in six Asian countries in 2009
and 2011.  Indian women hold 9 percent of jobs at the director level
or higher -- behind all countries except the  United Arab
Emirates  and  Japan , according to a 2011 report by Grant Thornton
International Ltd. Worldwide, women managers average 20 percent
of executive jobs, the London-based consultants wrote.  Addressing the gap is an uphill task in a country with a
tradition of women staying at home and where a lifestyle with
full-time domestic servants is relatively cheap. A helper in
India’s capital will cook and clean for as little as 8,000
rupees ($151) a month, a cost affordable even for many graduate
trainees. Added to that, most companies don’t provide the
facilities and flexibility that would attract women trying to
balance a career and family, said Aparna Banerji, diversity and
inclusion manager at Community Business.  Staff Shortage  “The government and companies need to do a lot more to get
women into the workforce and keep them there,” Banerji said.  Some of India’s most successful companies are taking steps
to try to recruit and keep female graduates amid a shortage of
skilled staff. Information technology and financial services
companies have the most women on their boards, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows. The top three technology companies by revenue,
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , had
the highest percentage of female staff in the workforce -- up to
34 percent.  Software services companies have attracted female graduates
with their portrayal of a youthful, less hierarchical workplace,
offering pick-up and drop-off services for those on late shifts
and flexible hours.  Seeking Talent  Multinationals such as Procter & Gamble India offer
additional maternity leave, while lender  ICICI Ltd. (ICICIBC) , which has
produced seven of the country’s 14 top female financial services
executives, gives young mothers extended time off and more
options when they return to work.  “Having more women is really about having the best
talent,” said Naina Lal Kidwai, country head of  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  in India, which offers flexible hours and sabbaticals to
some executives. That has enabled the bank to retain senior
women managers who may have otherwise quit, said Kidwai, who
joined the board of the lender’s Asia-Pacific operations in 2010.  “Especially for women for whom the economic need is less,
the challenge is finding them work that is interesting and
challenging, and also making them feel rewarded,” said Kidwai.  In an effort to lure back women who have quit work, Mumbai-
based  Tata Group  introduced a Second Career Internship Program
on International Women’s Day in 2008. More than 125 women have
completed the course at India’s biggest business group, with
about one-fifth taking full-time jobs within the group and a
quarter finding work elsewhere, according to Radhakrishnan Nair,
a vice president at Tata Group Human Resources.  Untapped Pool  “This is a huge, untapped talent pool with very valuable
experience and skills,” Nair said in an e-mail. Initiatives
such as SCIP “are necessary to meet the talent crunch.”  Ruma Rao, 35, who took the course in 2009 after an 18-month
break from her previous sales job to have a child, now works in
Tata’s human resources department, with flexible hours that give
her more time with her young daughter.  “Women should be encouraged to stay in the workforce,”
Rao said by telephone. “A lot of women would opt to keep
working if companies offered more options, more flexibility.”  Meanwhile, India has tried to tackle the inequality in
basic education and has stepped up enforcement of working rights
for women. A drive to get families to send their daughters to
school improved women’s literacy levels to 65.5 percent in 2011,
from 53.4 percent in 2001. The government has clamped down on
marriages below the legal age of 18 for women, outlawed pay
discrimination and mandated maternity leave of up to 12 weeks.  Constraining Growth  At a conference in January, Prime Minister Singh said India
would only reap the benefit of its young population provided
they had the education and skills to earn a decent livelihood.
“There is a significant gap between the requirement and the
supply which, unless checked, will constrain our economic
growth,” he said.  The government said in February the economy probably would
expand 6.9 percent in the 12 months through March 2012 from a
year earlier, the weakest pace since 2009.  Parliament is debating a bill that would reserve a third of
its seats for women, a proposal backed by Sonia Gandhi, leader
of the ruling Congress Party, and Pratibha Devisingh Patil, the
country’s first female president, who is nearing the end of her
term in office.  Banerji at Community Business said the country has made
“real progress” to overcome traditional cultural gender bias.
“Consider that women were not even allowed out of their homes
during the time of our grandmothers,” she said.  Those like Sawhney, from the rising generation of wealthy
middle class, provide the government and companies with a new
challenge.  “I wasn’t brought up in an environment where I am expected
to go to an office every day,” she said. “I would have quit
within a week if I’d joined a bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rina Chandran in Singapore at 
 rchandran12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  