-- Job Openings in U.S. Rise to Highest Level Since 2008
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-08T20:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/job-openings-in-the-u-s-increased-in-march-hiring-slowed.html
Employers in the U.S. were seeking to
fill more jobs in March than at any time in almost four years,
showing growing confidence in the  U.S. economy .  The number of open  positions  increased by 172,000 to 3.74
million, the most since July 2008, from a revised 3.57 million
the prior month that was larger than previously estimated, the
Labor Department said today in  Washington . Another report showed
small companies were more optimistic on their outlook.  More vacancies are a sign American companies were planning
to expand at the end of the first quarter, undaunted by the jump
in fuel costs or concerns that global economic growth will slow.
The pickup is a “positive” development after a report last
week showed payrolls in April grew at the slowest pace in six
months, said economist  Lou Crandall .  “Businesses were becoming a bit more willing to commit to
new hires,” Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said in an interview. “The progress is
incremental at best and the levels are still very low.”  Stocks slumped, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
its lowest level in about a month, as  Greece ’s struggle to form
a new government intensified concern the country would exit the
 euro zone . The  S&P 500 Index  dropped 0.4 percent to 1,363.72 at
the close in New York.  Elsewhere, a house-price index in the U.K. fell in April to
a six-month low in April as demand weakened after a stamp-duty
exemption for first-time buyers ended. In  India , Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , in a bid to lift investor confidence,
delayed putting into effect until next year a proposal aimed at
reducing  tax avoidance .  Payroll Dynamics  Today’s U.S. jobs opening report helps shed light on the
dynamics behind the monthly employment figures.  Payrolls climbed by 115,000 workers in April, the fewest in
six months and less than the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed on
May 4. It followed a revised 154,000 gain in March that was
larger than initially estimated.  “The softer payroll numbers that we saw in April raise
questions as to whether that change in tone has carried over
into the second quarter, and the jury is still out,” Crandall
said. “It does suggest that some of the improvement that we saw
in the first quarter was more broadly-based.”  The number of people hired decreased to 4.36 million in
March from 4.44 million the previous month, today’s report
showed. The hiring rate held at 3.3 percent.  Openings at Factories  Manufacturers led the gain in  job openings  for the month as
all industries, except government agencies, looked to expand.  TaShea Mosley, 23, an administrative assistant at a company
that supports ATM/credit card machines in Atlanta, is among
those finding work. She was unemployed for 10 months after
completing two years of college, so she enrolled in Year Up
Atlanta, a training program to help young adults gain
information-technology skills and was hired in February.  “When they saw that training on my resume, they said, ‘OK,
we want this person because they have the skills necessary, they
have the experience,’” Mosley said in an interview last week.
“The economy is struggling to move in the right direction, but
I can see progress being made. Progress is slow, but it’s
coming.”  Confidence among small businesses climbed in April to a 14-
month high as companies said they planned to boost hiring and
spending, according to results of a survey by the  National
Federation of Independent Business  issued today.  Small-Business Confidence  The group’s  optimism index  rose to 94.5, the highest since
February 2011, from 92.5 the previous month. A net 17 percent of
owners said job openings were hard to fill, up 2 points from
March and close to the almost four-year high reached in January.  “Job creation plans, job openings and  capital spending 
plans all increased,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief
economist, said today in a statement. “Hopefully this
performance will hold in the coming months.”  A separate survey from the  Institute for Supply Management 
showed manufacturers projected employment will increase 1.4
percent for the rest of this year, while service companies
predicted a 1.9 percent gain.  In its semiannual forecast, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
also said factory purchasing managers project 4.5 percent sales
growth in 2012, while service providers estimated revenue will
climb 4.8 percent this year.  “The economy in the U.S. is doing reasonably well,”
Donald MacPherson, a senior vice president at W.W. Grainger
Inc., said during a May 3 investor conference. The  Lake Forest ,
Illinois-based company makes motors, power tools and pumps. “We
expect modest growth.”  Leaving Jobs  About 2.15 million people quit their jobs in March, up from
2.07 million in February, today’s report from the Labor
Department also showed. The increase may signal workers are
gaining confidence they can find other work as the economy
grows, which would create more openings for others.  “It’s an indication that more people feel they have
opportunities to find a better job,” said Henry Mo, an
economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . “Job openings will
continue to improve.”  Last week’s payrolls report showed the  unemployment rate 
fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent in April from 8.2
percent in March.  In the 12 months ended in March, the economy created a net
1.9 million jobs, representing 50.7 million hires and about 48.8
million separations, today’s report showed.  Considering the 12.7 million Americans who were unemployed
in March, today’s figures indicate there are about 3.4 people
vying for every opening, up from about 1.8 when the recession
began in December 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  