-- Jubilant Plans 100 Dunkin’ Donuts Outlets in India
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-05-08T09:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/jubilant-plans-100-dunkin-donuts-outlets-in-india.html
Jubilant Foodworks Ltd. (JUBI) , the Indian
distributor of  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ) , plans as many as 100 Dunkin’
Donuts stores in India over five years as fast-food sales grow.  The company will spend as much as 130 million rupees ($2.45
million) to open up to 10 stores in Delhi and its suburbs this
financial year, Chief Executive Officer Ajay Kaul said at a
conference in New Delhi. Jubilant Foodworks opened India’s
second Dunkin’ Donuts store today.  Dunkin’ Donuts will compete in India with companies such as
Cafe Coffee Day, run by Amalgamated Bean Coffee Trading Co.,
Lavazza SpA’s Barista Coffee Co., and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , which
plans to open its first India store in August through its
partnership with  Tata Global Beverages Ltd. (TGBL)   Jubilant Foodworks signed a franchise agreement with
Canton, Massachusetts-based  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  in
February 2011. The Indian company invested about 100 million
rupees in setting up a manufacturing facility, a research center
and an office for the brand last year, Kaul said.  The company is in discussions with other international food
retailers for their entry into the Indian market, Kaul said,
without giving more details.  Shares of Jubilant Foodworks fell 0.6 percent to 1,102.50
rupees as of 2:28 p.m. in Mumbai.  Demand Driver  Demand for brands such as Dunkin’ Donuts’ is being aided by
a rise in the number of Indians who travel, Dev Amritesh,
president and chief operating officer for  Dunkin’ Donuts  India
said.  “People are traveling a lot, getting exposed to what is
happening in countries around the world,” Amritesh said.
“Obviously, consumers want the experience that they see in
other places.”  The fast-food market in India is expected to grow to 146
billion rupees in 2014 from 47 billion rupees in 2010 helped by
a growing, young population, higher disposable incomes, and more
women starting to work, an August report by Noida, India-based
researcher  RNCOS  says.  Jubilant Foodworks’s profit is  estimated  to rise 54 percent
to 297 million rupees in the three months ended March 31, from
the same period a year earlier, according to the median of 17
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company will
report its financial results on May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ; 