-- Israel Early Vote Canceled as Kadima Joins Coalition
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-05-08T14:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/kadima-to-join-netanyahu-coalition-early-poll-cancelled.html
Israeli opposition party Kadima agreed
to join Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s ruling coalition in
a surprise agreement that nullified plans to hold early
elections in September.  “The state of Israel needs stability,” Netanyahu said
today at a Jerusalem press conference, after the deal was
reached early this morning. Under the accord, Kadima leader
Shaul Mofaz, a former defense minister and chief of staff, will
become vice prime minister and a minister without portfolio,
with the next election scheduled to take place as originally
planned in October or November 2013.  The move increases the coalition’s seats in the 120-member
Knesset to 94, giving Netanyahu’s government more leeway to
tackle domestic and foreign policy challenges. Mofaz has said
the government should focus less attention on  Iran  and more on
negotiations with the Palestinians as well as socio-economic
issues.  “This provides Netanyahu’s government with a big unity
government that can tackle a range of topics, including ensuring
equality of military service among Israeli citizens, dealing
with economic disparity and confronting the issue of illegal
West Bank settlement outposts,” said  Gerald Steinberg ,
professor of political science at  Bar-Ilan University  outside
 Tel Aviv .  ‘United Political Front’  The agreement came after the Knesset gave preliminary
approval for early elections yesterday. While Netanyahu was
favored to win, he would still have needed coalition partners,
according to polls published in the last few days. Likud would
have won 31 seats compared with the 27 it holds now, according
to a survey published in the Maariv newspaper.  “This also gives the government a broader consensus if it
decides to take any military actions, including if necessary
against Iran,” Steinberg said.  Mofaz, 63, was born in Iran and immigrated with his family
to  Israel  in 1957. In 1998 he become the military chief of staff
and in 2002 was appointed defense minister in the Likud-led
government of then-Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.  As defense minister, Mofaz oversaw the withdrawal of troops
and Jewish settlements from the  Gaza Strip  in 2005, an operation
that drew criticism from many in the Likud party. Mofaz quit
Likud with Sharon later that year to establish Kadima.  Smaller Parties  If the government needs to make a decision over the next 18
months regarding the Iranian nuclear program, “whether to
attack, or not to attack, it is desirable that there be a wide,
united political front that will have the public behind it,”
Likud Environmental Protection Minister Gilad Erdan told Israel
Radio today.  The alliance with Mofaz may reduce the disproportionate
influence of smaller religious parties, said  David Makovsky ,
director of research at the Washington Institute for Near East
Studies. At the same time, it will likely ensure that Israel’s
leading proponent of an attack on Iran, Defense Minister  Ehud Barak , will remain in office, he said.  “It’s a stunning move,” Makovsky said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a new world.”  ‘Good for Security’  Netanyahu acted as his government faced political decisions
over the next few months that threaten his coalition’s
stability. He suffered a setback this week when Israel’s High
Court of Justice ordered the destruction of five apartment
houses in the  West Bank  Jewish settlement of Beit-El, and
criticized the government for trying to stop demolition orders.  In February the court also invalidated the so-called Tal
Law, which has enabled more than 50,000 students a year in
ultra-Orthodox seminaries to avoid being drafted for the
military service that is obligatory for Israeli Jewish men and
women. Shas and United Torah Judaism, two religious parties in
the coalition, are demanding that the exemption be maintained.  Mofaz today said the new coalition will pass a law that
will distribute the burden of army service more equally among
the population and said he will suggest new ways on how to
restart peace talks with Palestinians.  “I have some ideas about how we can move forward in order
to achieve an understanding with the Palestinians, my idea based
on borders and security arrangements first,” Mofaz said at a
joint press conference today with Netanyahu in  Jerusalem .  ‘Spells Trouble’  Likud parliament member Danny Danon, who opposes concession
to the Palestinians, criticized the agreement with Mofaz. The
accord “spells trouble for the Jewish communities” of the West
Bank and “moves us away from the traditional values of the
Likud,” Danon said in an e-mailed statement.  Netanyahu said at the briefing that Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  should “take advantage of this
opportunity” to restart direct talks. Formal talks have been
suspended since September 2010, when Netanyahu declined to
extend a 10-month freeze on construction in West Bank
settlements demanded by Abbas.  Labor party head Shelly Yacimovich, whose faction holds
eight seats in parliament and who will now lead the opposition,
said at a press briefing the Netanyahu-Mofaz agreement was “an
alliance of cowards” and the “most absurd, disgusting zigzag
in Israeli political history.”  Mofaz is a pragmatist on the Palestinian issue and on Iran,
according to  Aaron David Miller , a senior fellow at the Wilson
Center, a Washington policy group.  “From the U.S. vantage point it changes nothing, either on
Iran or the negotiations with the Palestinians,” Miller said in
an e-mailed comment. “No deal with the mullahs on the nuclear
issue in 2012, but no war either.”  Corporate Monopolies  The coalition agreement will enable Netanyahu’s government
to move forward with measures to break up corporate monopolies
and increase business competition, analysts said.  “Unity restores stability,” Netanyahu said in an e-mailed
statement today. “A broad national unity government is good for
security, good for the economy and good for the people.”  Israel’s benchmark stock index, the  TA-25 (TA-25) , closed down 0.2
percent to 1,145.33. The shekel weakened 0.1 percent to 3.8020 a
dollar at 4:30 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  “The knee-jerk reaction is that political stability is
good for the markets,” said Terence Klingman, senior analyst at
Tel Aviv-based Psagot Investment House Ltd. “But when you dig a
bit deeper our ultimate sense is that it allows the current
government to continue its crackdown on business. There is going
to be more pressure on the holding companies, more regulation in
the communications industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  