-- Keystone Pipeline Divide Shows U.S. Highway Deal Elusive
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-05-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/keystone-pipeline-divide-shows-u-s-highway-deal-elusive.html
Congressional negotiators are clashing
over  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil pipeline, underscoring
the U.S. political challenge in reaching a multiyear surface
transportation plan for the first time since 2005.  House Republicans  made expedited approval of the pipeline,
which would transport Canadian oil through Nebraska to the  Gulf
Coast , a priority yesterday at a conference committee meeting as
they linked  energy security  to transportation.  “This is a jobs and infrastructure bill,” said
Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican who’s chairman
of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Keystone is the
ultimate jobs and infrastructure project.”  The meeting provided the first public display of attempts
by House and Senate lawmakers to agree on a bill the
 construction industry  and state highway officials say is vital
to planning and financing U.S. road, bridge and transit
projects. The Republican-controlled House and Democrat-led
Senate passed in March an extension of transportation programs
through June 30, the ninth short-term bill since the last
multiyear policy legislation expired in 2009.  A new transportation agreement is important because the
roads portion of the U.S. Highway Trust Fund, which pays for
highway and bridge projects, will become insolvent in the fiscal
year that begins in October, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office . U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has said
he doesn’t expect lawmakers to reach a deal before the  U.S.
presidential election  in November.  ‘No Lines’  Senator  Barbara Boxer , who was elected chairman of the
conference, said members would have to work through six sets of
issues including financing, highway safety, the Keystone
pipeline and regulation of coal ash.  The Senate bill is a good working document as it’s paid
for, does away with projects sponsored by individual lawmakers
and streamlines environmental reviews for projects, the
California Democrat said.  “I heard no lines in the sand,” Boxer said, after each of
the 47 conference-committee members spoke.  The key elements for House approval will be reforms to
ensure U.S. highway money is spent more efficiently, no new
taxes, no lawmaker-designated projects, and reduced regulation
to get initiatives approved faster, said  John Mica , chairman of
the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.  Keystone Support  On Keystone,  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , a member of the
Senate’s Democratic leadership, told conferees there was already
a smaller Keystone pipeline in his home state approved under the
federal process.  Nebraska  still needs six months to nine months
to complete permitting, he said.  “The suggestion is if you pass the bill today, gas prices
go down tomorrow,” Durbin said. “Not true.”  Mica, the Florida Republican who was elected co-chairman of
the conference, said in an interview he was pleased with the
number of senators who supported the Keystone project.  “I didn’t realize they had 58 votes in the Senate,” Mica
said. “There were 67 Democrats and 293 votes on our side. It
was a cornerstone of our legislation. There’s very strong
support.”  The Senate passed a two-year, $109 billion plan in March
with bipartisan support. The House failed several times to round
up the Republican votes needed to pass a five-year, $260 billion
proposal and has refused to consider the Senate bill.  The House passed on April 18 another extension, through
Sept. 30, that added language to force the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  to approve the Keystone pipeline and throw
regulation of coal ash back to the states.  Environmental Reviews  The conference committee includes eight House Republican
freshmen, a bow to the influence first-term lawmakers hold in
that chamber. Representative Steve Southerland, a Florida
Republican, invoked the European debt crisis to urge lawmakers
to not fund transportation projects on credit.  “The American people have an expectation that this will be
paid for,” Southerland said.  Both chambers agree on shortening the time it takes for
government to complete environmental reviews and to reduce the
number of transportation programs.  The House’s language puts a 270-day time limit for reviews
that now can take years. It also would enable transportation
planners to waive reviews at times, limit consideration of more
environmentally friendly alternatives and issue default
approvals when regulators take too long to complete their work,
said Deron Lovaas, federal transportation director with the
Natural Resources Defense Fund.  Permit Application  The pipeline project would create about 20,000 temporary
construction jobs, according to TransCanada. The number of
employees needed to operate and maintain the pipeline may be as
few as 20, according to the U.S. State Department, or as many as
a few hundred, according to TransCanada.  TransCanada submitted a new State Department permit
application on May 7. The  Business Roundtable , a group
representing chief executive officers of the largest U.S.
corporations including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
backed the pipeline in a letter to conferees May 7.  The White House said in a statement that it opposes the
House bill for Keystone language that it said circumvents an
established process for determining whether crossborder
pipelines are in the national interest.  The House advocates a provision to stop the Environmental
Protection Agency from regulating coal ash, a toxic residue that
results from coal production.  A 2008 spill of more than 5 million cubic yards of coal ash
slurry in Kingston,  Tennessee , prompted the EPA to propose
regulating the byproducts of burning coal as hazardous material.  The bills are S. 1813, H.R. 7 and H.R. 4348.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  