-- KFC Bet on Africa Middle Class Draws Global Retailers
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-05-09T12:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/kfc-bet-on-africa-middle-class-draws-global-retailers.html
Teddy Muthusi goes to Kentucky Fried
Chicken in  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi, for more than just fried
food: it’s a status symbol.  Muthusi gladly spends 1,870 shillings ($22), a quarter of
the national monthly minimum wage, to treat his girlfriend at
the country’s first U.S.-based fast-food company’s outlet that
opened in August. He can afford what many can’t. About 45
percent of Kenya’s population live on less than $1.25 a day,
according to the World Bank.  “I’m willing to fork out more because it’s cool, it’s
trendy, it’s a great place to be seen, and the food is good,”
Muthusi, a 36-year-old creative manager at Easy FM radio station
said in an interview on April 20, raising his voice above the
pop music blaring through speakers. “Kenyans have that feeling
if you can eat at KFC, you’ve made it.”  Muthusi is one of the upwardly-mobile, young and growing
middle class of consumers in Africa that retailers including
 YUM! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s KFC are targeting to compensate for slower
growth in developed markets. Household spending is set to expand
63 percent to $1.4 trillion in Africa by 2020, home to the
world’s youngest and fastest-growing population, according to a
2010 report by McKinsey & Co.  Doug McMillon, chief executive officer of the international
operations of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest
retailer, will join other executives seeking a foothold in
Africa when the  World Economic Forum ’s annual Africa meeting
begins in Addis Ababa,  Ethiopia ’s capital, today.  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker of luxury
goods,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s biggest soft-drinks producer,
and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  will also be represented at the three-day
conference.  Commodity Boom  Consumer spending  in Africa rose at a faster pace than
India and Brazil in the past decade, according to the World
Economic Forum, as surging commodity prices, debt relief and a
move to freer economies helped to boost economic growth. Sub-
Saharan Africa’s economy will expand 5.4 percent this year, the
fastest-growing region after developing Asian nations, the
 International Monetary Fund  said on April 17.  “With the commodity boom that  Africa  has seen over the
last decade or so, that is building a middle class and there is
a wave of private consumption,” Matthew Searle, sub-Saharan
Africa analyst with Business Monitor International, said in a
phone interview from  London  on April 20. “Whereas previously
Africa has been seen as a commodity source, global multinational
companies are now seeing the importance of it for consumerism.”  Brand Loyalty  The Johannesburg Stock Exchange’s  retailers index  has
gained a third over the past year, compared with a 5.9 percent
increase for the exchange’s All-Share Index. Uchumi Supermarkets
Ltd., Kenya’s only publicly traded retail chain, has doubled
this year.  About 200 million to 300 million people in Africa earn $730
to $3,650 a year, according to Shantayanan Devarajan, chief
economist for Africa at the Washington-based  World Bank .  “That’s a healthy market for consumer-goods producers,”
Devarajan said in a phone interview from  Washington  on May 2.
“This is a very good time for retailers to get a foothold in
Africa. There is a recognition of brand loyalty if you get in on
the bottom floor and you don’t want to be the last one in.”  Investing in Africa doesn’t come without challenges.
Retailers must contend with poor infrastructure for roads,
railways and electricity, which hinders trade.  Poverty Falling  Nigeria, the continent’s largest oil producer, needs as
much as $20 billion over three years to boost power generation,
according to the nation’s Bureau of Public Enterprises. In
Kenya, the government is spending 80 billion shillings to expand
roads in Nairobi to ease congestion.  According to Devarajan, the potential for growth in
consumer spending is greatest in Ghana, where an oil boom fueled
economic growth of 14.4 percent in 2011. Nigeria, Africa’s most-
populous nation of more than 160 million people, and Kenya, East
Africa’s largest economy, that expanded an average 5.6 percent a
year since 2007, will probably also see an increase in retail
demand.  The continent is the last untapped consumer market, Ory Okolloh, head of government relations for  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in sub-
Saharan Africa, said in an interview today. The  Mountain View ,
California-based company owns the world’s most popular Internet
search engine.  Consumer Boom  The number of people in Africa with access to the Internet
may more than triple to as many as 400 million people by 2015,
she said.  While the region is still the world’s poorest, the number
of people living on less than $1.25 a day declined for the first
time during the four-year period that ended in 2009, according
to the World Bank.  Retailers may view Africa’s nascent consumer boom as
reminiscent of  China ’s 15 years ago, said Simon Freemantle, an
Africa analyst at Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,
the continent’s largest lender.  “There is an increasing view to look at Africa through a
different lens than a single-track commodity growth story,”
Freemantle said in a telephone interview on May 3. “The
opportunity now is to try to get brand presence and brand
loyalty at the early stages of growth.”  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara opened its first store in sub-Saharan
Africa in Johannesburg last year, while KFC will open
restaurants in at least seven African countries this year,
including war-torn Democratic Republic of Congo. Wal-Mart, based
in Bentonville, Arkansas, paid 16.5 billion rand ($2.1 billion)
for a 51 percent stake in  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , South Africa’s
biggest food and general-goods wholesaler, last year.  For brand conscious consumers like Muthusi, he’ll pay more
to indulge in some of KFC’s fried chicken every once in awhile.  “You want to be part of that KFC conversation with
friends, on Facebook, in the office,” he said.  -- With assistance by Renee Bonorchis in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
Editors: Nasreen Seria, Gordon Bell, Ana Monteiro, Karl Maier  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  