-- KT Corp. Agrees to Buy 20% Telkom Holding at Lower Price
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-05-08T15:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/kt-corp-reaches-agreement-to-buy-stake-in-telkom.html
KT Corp. agreed to pay  Telkom SA Ltd. (TKG) 
1.08 billion rand ($140 million) less than initially indicated
for 20 percent of  Africa ’s largest fixed-line phone company.  KT,  South Korea ’s biggest phone and Internet provider, will
pay 25.60 rand a share, or about 2.68 billion rand, for the
holding, Pretoria-based Telkom said today in a statement. That’s
29 percent less than a 36.06 rand-a-share offer announced Oct.
14, according to Bloomberg calculations.  “For KT, buying this stake is an acceptable way to get a
toe-hold onto the continent and while KT will bring
institutional knowledge, I don’t think it will solve Telkom’s
problems,” said Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at Cape
Town-based Afena Capital, which manages 20 billion rand and
doesn’t own Telkom stock.  KT Corp. (030200)  is the first Korean company to buy a stake in an
African telecommunications company, said Kim Yoon Jeong, a
spokeswoman for KT in Seoul. Telkom will issue new shares to KT,
diluting the South African government’s stake to less than 50
percent. Telkom plunged to the lowest in more than eight years
on March 30 after saying earnings excluding one-time items
probably fell at least 25 percent for the year through March.  “Telkom’s share price has fallen around 30 percent since
the companies started talking, so it would have been
irresponsible for KT shareholders to continue to pay a
premium,” Dlamini said.  Telkom shares rose 1.5 percent to 23.65 rand at the close
in Johannesburg, paring the decline to 28 percent since Oct. 14.
KT, based in Seongnam, was unchanged at 30,500 won in  Seoul .  Antitrust Complaints  The South African government directly owns 39.8 percent of
Telkom and state-controlled pension fund Public Investment Corp.
holds 10.9 percent.  The deal will go through once  South Africa ’s  Competition
Commission  completes an investigation of antitrust complaints
against Telkom “to the satisfaction of KT,” the company said.  Telkom may have to pay an antitrust fine of as much as 3.25
billion rand for abuse of market dominance and anti-competitive
practice by charging excessive prices for services to other
industry participants. The company has denied the charges.  KT and Telkom will enter into a five-year management
agreement to formalize the relationship and identify areas for
cooperation, the South African company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net 
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net 
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  