-- Kuwait Central Bank Changes Loan-Limit Rules, KUNA Reports
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-05-08T12:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/kuwait-central-bank-changes-loan-limit-rules-kuna-reports.html
Kuwait ’s central bank is changing the
rules that govern loan limits at local banks in a bid to enhance
their ability to lend and boost the economy, the state news
agency  KUNA  reported, citing the governor.  Mohammed Al-Hashel said the new rules allow banks to extend
loans against funding that includes deposits and other sources
such as bonds and sukuk, KUNA reported. They can lend between 75
percent and 100 percent of their funding levels depending on
when the financial resources mature, it said. The new rules,
which replace an 85 percent loan-to-deposit ratio, will take
effect May 11 and be implemented gradually, KUNA said.  The new guidelines “contribute to boosting liquidity at
banks,” al-Hashel said, according to KUNA. The rules “come
within the framework of measures aimed at expanding the lending
capability of banks in a manner that enhances the role required
of them in financing economic development projects,” he said.  Al-Hashel took over as central bank chief in OPEC’s fourth-
biggest oil producer when his predecessor Sheikh Salem AbdulAziz Al-Sabah quit in February after 25 years, criticizing state
spending policies. Kuwait’s central bank has trailed peers in
the Gulf Cooperation Council in encouraging banks to boost
lending to the private sector as  oil prices  near $100 a barrel
give the nations surpluses to modernize their economies.  New Loan Limits  Loans to private companies in Kuwait grew 3 percent in the
year to March, compared with 13 percent expansion in  Saudi
Arabia  and 15 percent in Qatar, central bank data show.  Under the new rules, banks can lend as much as 90 percent
of funds maturing within a year, with the cap rising to 100
percent when the funding maturities exceed one year, according
to KUNA. For financial resources due in less than three months,
the lending limit falls to 75 percent.  “The changes are unlikely to spur lending growth since
banks are already fairly liquid,” Naveed Ahmed, a banking
analyst at Kuwait-based  Global Investment House KSCC (GLOBAL) , said by
phone today. “This would have been effective if lending caps
were the impediment in loans disbursement, which is certainly
not the case in Kuwait.”  National Bank of Kuwait , the nation’s biggest bank, posted
a 0.2 percent increase in first-quarter profit.  Banks in Kuwait have become “overly cautious” since the
global financial crisis “and have since then opted for an
opportunistic lending approach with a very conservative risk
appetite,” Ahmed said. “The situation is further exacerbated
by an acute deficiency of economic impetus within the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  