-- Najib Declares Windfall for Planters Before Malaysia Poll
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-05-08T04:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/najib-declares-windfall-for-planters-before-malaysia-poll.html
Malaysia ’s Prime Minister Najib Razak
announced windfall one-off payments to palm oil planters and
their families today, the latest in a string of giveaways ahead
of an upcoming general election.  The Federal Land Development Authority will distribute 1.69
billion ringgit ($553 million) to more than 112,000 members of
its planters’ cooperative, as well as their wives and children,
the 58-year-old prime minister said. The government has already
raised civil servants’ salaries, announced plans for a national
 minimum wage , and begun distributing 500 ringgit cash handouts
to the poor.  “This is for the settlers who are honest and loyal to the
cause,” Najib told a 40,000-strong crowd, while visiting an oil
palm and rubber plantation in Malaysia’s eastern Pahang state.
“The windfall has nothing to do with the coming general
election. Let the opposition talk.”  The government has been preparing for a possible early
election in May or June, before the due date in early 2013,
according to four officials who spoke in March on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. The poll will be “very
soon,” Najib, was cited as saying on May 5 by the media arm of
his political party, the United Malays National Organisation.  “Since the support from the people is overwhelming, maybe
even tomorrow we can dissolve parliament,” Najib said, with a
smile on his face, after being asked by one plantation worker
today when the election might be held. The prime minister was
speaking in jest, spokesman Akmar Hisham told Bloomberg News.  Stock Listing  The authority, an agency under the Prime Minister’s
Department known as Felda, was set up in 1956 to help the Malays
in the rural areas out of poverty. The payout comes ahead of the
planned June listing of its commercial arm,  Felda Global
Ventures Holdings Bhd. , which manages about 355,864 hectares
(878,984 acres) of oil palm and rubber estates in Malaysia plus
more in  Indonesia , according to its prospectus.  Its farmers, known locally as “settlers”, today form the
backbone of voters in over 50 parliamentary constituencies and
90 state seats in the upcoming elections, according to  Ibrahim Suffian , programs director at the Merdeka Center, an independent
research institute near Kuala Lumpur.  Each family may receive as much as 15,000 ringgit, almost
17 times the government’s planned new monthly minimum wage.  The payment “will solidify the support for the ruling
party among the Felda settlers, their family members and the
supporting staff of Felda management,” Ibrahim said by phone.  The share sale, expected to be as early as this month or in
June, may raise as much as $3.3 billion, two people with
knowledge of the matter said April 27. That would make it  Asia ’s
biggest initial public offering since February 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A trust will be set up to hold 20 percent of Felda Global
shares for the plantation workers after the listing, Najib said.
“The dividend will be very high,” he said, adding that
settlers would also continue to receive payments from their
cooperative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net . 