-- Natixis Financial Products Exits New York MBIA Litigation
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-05-08T18:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/natixis-financial-products-exits-mbia-litigation-in-new-york.html
Natixis SA (KN)  dropped out of litigation
in  New York  state court over the 2009 restructuring of bond
insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , leaving just two plaintiffs in the lawsuits a
week before the start of trial.  Lawyers for Natixis Financial Products LLC, a unit of the
Paris-based bank, said in documents filed yesterday in New York
state Supreme Court in Manhattan that they were discontinuing
the lawsuits with prejudice. No reason was given in the filings.  Most of the original plaintiffs have withdrawn from the
cases, including units of  UBS AG (UBSN) , BNP Paribas SA, Wells Fargo &
Co.,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)   Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  remain as
plaintiffs in the cases, according to yesterday’s court filings.
Banks suing over New York’s approval of the bond insurer’s
restructuring in 2009 are set to argue their case starting May
14.  “We believe the two remaining plaintiffs will either drop
their transformation cases or lose to MBIA in court,” Harry Fong, an analyst with MKM Partners in Stamford, Connecticut, who
has a “buy” rating on MBIA shares, said in a note to
investors.  MBIA, based in Armonk, New York, was sued by financial
institutions after the 2009 split of its main bond-insurance
unit into two businesses. The banks claim the restructuring was
intended to defraud policyholders and rendered MBIA Insurance
Corp. insolvent. Former state Insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo was sued separately under a law that allows court review
of administrative decisions.  Societe Generale  Fong said he wouldn’t be surprised if  Societe Generale  came
to an agreement with MBIA before the start of the trial “given
its announcement several weeks ago that it planned to reduce the
size of its balance sheet.”  Bank of America may elect to continue with the trial as a
settlement would probably require the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based lender to “write a large check” to MBIA to settle a suit
brought against its Countrywide unit, Fong said. MBIA’s losses
in that case are about $3.3 billion and a loss for BofA in the
Dinallo case would be “inconsequential,” he said in the note.  ‘Quite Sensational’  “The likelihood of BofA’s going to trial with MBIA in the
fraudulent conveyance case, which is likely to begin at some
point next year, is much lower, in our view,” Fong said. “And
we believe it is unlikely that BofA will choose to enter a
courtroom in the” other case, “as the evidence may be quite
sensational.”  Rachel Goldman, an attorney with Bracewell & Giuliani LLP
who is representing Natixis, declined to comment on the court
filings in a telephone interview.  Mitch Karig, a New York-based spokesman for Natixis, the
investment-banking and asset-management unit of Groupe BCPE, and
didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment on the
court filings.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for MBIA, declined to
comment.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2010, and
ABN Amro v. MBIA, 601475/2009, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  