-- FAA Whistle-Blowers Ignored as Safety Hazards Persisted
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/new-york-controllers-slept-watched-movies-report-says.html
In the past four years, a half dozen
air-traffic controllers in the Detroit region came forward as
whistle-blowers to report more than 20 allegations of safety
hazards.  Instead of attempting to remedy the situation, the U.S.
 Federal Aviation Administration ’s air-traffic group seemed to
encourage further violations, according to a memo from an agency
investigator.  “Despite continued validation of safety allegations at
Detroit, we found no evidence demonstrating substantive
corrective action remediating these concerns,” the FAA’s
director of audit and evaluation wrote in a Feb. 14 report.  Frustrated by the slow pace with which the FAA handled that
and other complaints of aviation-safety hazards, the agency in
charge of protecting U.S. government workers who raise concerns
about fraud and abuse yesterday alerted the White House and
Congress. The FAA has the highest rate of substantiated whistle-
blower complaints among U.S. agencies, Special Counsel Carolyn Lerner’s preliminary review found.  “Given the recurring and serious nature of these concerns,
I write with a strong recommendation that more rigorous
oversight measures be put in place” at the Transportation
Department and FAA, Lerner said in the letter.  Sleeping Controllers  Lerner’s letter substantiated seven allegations that the
agency wasn’t adequately overseeing airline maintenance and that
flight procedures at times created hazards. Two of the  Detroit 
cases were included among the seven, according to special
counsel records.  The Feb. 14 memo was among the documents Lerner’s office
released yesterday.  Air-traffic controllers in the New York area  slept  on the
job, watched movies, left work early and repeatedly violated
safety rules, the special counsel said in the letter.  The controllers at the facility that monitors traffic in
the busiest U.S. metropolitan flight corridor also used
“careless and casual language” with pilots, leading to at
least one serious incident of planes getting too close,
according to the letter.  At Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport, two
controllers said it was impossible to ensure safety of landings
and takeoffs because FAA procedures couldn’t guarantee that
planes could stay safely separated, according to the letter. The
special counsel agreed, Lerner said.  Lerner, at a press conference yesterday, distributed what
she said were radar tracks of a  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   Boeing Co. (BA) 
DC-9 and a Pinnacle Airlines  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  CRJ-200 almost
colliding in the air on Christmas Day 2009 above the airport,
where Delta operates a hub.  Repeat Complaints  The letter also contained charges that Delta violated FAA
maintenance rules on wiring and fuel tanks, and that planes
departing Teterboro Airport in  New Jersey  routinely got too
close to jets flying to Newark Liberty International Airport.  In four of the seven cases in the letter, whistle-blowers
had to make their allegations twice before the FAA acted, Lerner
said.  The special counsel’s office has received 178 disclosures
from FAA employees since 2007, 87 involving safety issues,
Lerner said.  “This does not seem to be an aberration,” she said.
“This goes way back.”  Supervisors Replaced  Half the safety-related aviation complaints were
substantiated by initial investigations, compared with 5 percent
of complaints that involve other government agencies. Of those
 44 substantiated FAA cases , all but five were later verified in
whole or part by the Transportation Department as well,
according to the letter.  In the  New York  air-traffic facility, supervisors were
replaced and disciplinary action was taken against three
managers in 2011, according to the letter.  The Transportation Department has been working with
investigators on these cases since February 2010 and is
committed to making improvements where necessary, according to
an e-mailed statement.  “We are confident that America’s flying public is safe,”
the department said in the statement.  The New York region’s three primary airports have more than
1.3 million flights a year.  Delta Maintenance  The Transportation Department said it made changes in
response to concerns and other whistle-blower disclosures,
including eliminating the departure procedure in use at
Teterboro. The FAA established an office in 2009 to investigate
whistle-blower complaints, according to the DOT statement.  Delta’s maintenance work was done properly and in
compliance with FAA regulations, and the carrier’s plans were
approved by the regulator in 2008 and 2011, Ashley Black, a
spokeswoman for the Atlanta-based carrier, said in an interview.
Delta was told it needed to revise the wording in its
maintenance documents, which it did, she said.  “At no time did this internal FAA issue impact the safety
of Delta’s fleet,” Black said.  The FAA is considering enforcement action against Delta,
according to Lerner’s letter.  The complaints are similar to issues raised by two FAA
airline-safety inspectors who obtained protection in 2008 after
their complaints that  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  had been allowed to
skip mandated inspections were ignored, former U.S.
Representative James Oberstar said in an interview.  Oberstar, a Minnesota Democrat who held hearings on the
matter while chairman of the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee, said he tried to push the FAA to be
more open to safety complaints.  “FAA should have been responding to these concerns,” he
said.  Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican who now
heads the same committee, urged the FAA in an e-mailed statement
yesterday to examine the latest allegations.  “The special counsel raises some very significant concerns
about aviation safety,” Mica said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  