-- NHL Reaches Tentative Agreement to Sell Coyotes to Ex-Sharks CEO
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-08T04:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/nhl-reaches-tentative-agreement-to-sell-coyotes-to-ex-sharks-ceo.html
The  National Hockey League  reached a
tentative agreement to sell the  Phoenix Coyotes  to Greg Jamison,
the former Chief Executive Officer of the San Jose Sharks.  The NHL has owned the Coyotes since 2009, when it bought
the team out of bankruptcy from  Jerry Moyes  for $140 million.
Jamison and NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman didn’t disclose terms
of the agreement during a news conference last night in Glendale,
 Arizona , where the Coyotes beat the Nashville Predators 2-1 to
reach the Western Conference finals.  “Things are on track and we see light at the end of the
tunnel,” Bettman said. “This is a path, based on everything we
know, that we’re comfortable pursuing.”  Jamison still has to negotiate a new lease with the city of
Glendale for the use of Jobing.com Arena, while the sale would
also have to be approved by the NHL’s board of governors.  The Coyotes moved to Phoenix from Winnipeg in 1995 and in
May 2009 Moyes filed for  bankruptcy protection . He intended to
sell the team to BlackBerry billionaire  Jim Balsillie , who
wanted to move the franchise to Ontario. The NHL opposed the
plan, bought the Coyotes five months later and has said it’s
committed to keeping the team in Glendale.  Jamison ran daily business operations of the Sharks as the
president and CEO of Silicon Valley Sports & Entertainment, a
position he’d held since his promotion from vice president and
chief operating officer in 1996. He was the franchise’s governor
to the NHL and in 2007 was elected by the board of governors to
the league’s 10-person executive committee.  Phoenix has made the playoffs each of the past three
seasons, though this is the first time since 1987 that the team
has advanced past the opening round. The Coyotes will play the
 Los Angeles Kings  for a spot in the Stanley Cup final.  Bettman said he wants the agreement with Jamison to be
completed in weeks and not months.  “It’s the right result for a team that has a terrific fan
base, this is a good sports market, this is a good building,”
Bettman said. “With the right ownership, we think all the
indications for the future can be positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  