-- Nigerian Troops Seize Vessels With Suspected Stolen Crude
-- B y   T o n y   T a m u n o
-- 2012-05-08T12:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/nigeria-arrests-vessels-with-suspected-stolen-crude-correct-.html
Nigerian troops arrested two tankers
laden with crude suspected to be stolen from coastal fields in
Degema in the southern Rivers state, a military official said.  Troops on patrol seized Oxo and Ani carrying more than
250,000 metric tons, or about 1.8 million barrels, of crude,
Brigadier General Tukur Buratai, commander of the joint military
 task force  in charge of security in the oil region, said in an
interview today in Port Harcourt, the state capital.  “Operatives of the joint military task force arrested the
suspects at Awoba,” a coastal town in Rivers state, he said.
Twenty-six crew members, including 21 Ghanaians and five
Nigerians, were arrested, Buratai said.  Nigeria is  Africa ’s largest crude producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. imports. At least 150,000 barrels a day
of oil is lost to theft, resulting in increased production
costs, reduced revenue and major environmental impacts, Ian Craig, Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s vice president for exploration
and production in sub-Saharan Africa, said Feb. 21.  Shell, the largest producer in  Nigeria , yesterday said two
leaks were reported on its Trans Niger Pipeline in Rivers state
after suspected thieves cut the link with hacksaws. The company
on May 4 delayed loadings for Bonny Light crude because of theft
and illegal bunkering on its Nembe Creek Trunk Line. Shell
declared force majeure, a legal clause that allows it to miss
scheduled deliveries for circumstances beyond its control, and
shut 60,000 barrels a day from the line to allow for repairs.  International producers including Shell, Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Chevron Corp., Total SA and Eni SpA run joint ventures with the
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump about 90
percent of the country’s 2.4 million barrels a day crude output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Tamuno in  Port Harcourt  at 
 mmbonye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  