-- Nokia Siemens, Ericsson Win T-Mobile LTE U.S. Contract
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-08T13:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/nokia-siemens-ericsson-win-t-mobile-lte-u-s-contract.html
T-Mobile USA Inc. awarded multiyear
network-equipment supply contracts to  Ericsson AG (ERIC)  and Nokia
Siemens Networks Oy to build a national long-term-evolution
network in the U.S.  The contracts cover LTE network installation at 37,000 cell
sites as part of a $4 billion network modernization plan
designed by T-Mobile parent  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , which has said
it will fund the work with  cash flow  from Bellevue, Washington-
based T-Mobile. The contracts end in 2013.  T-Mobile, which lost 1.65 million monthly-contract
customers last year as the only carrier without the  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPhone, is trying is trying to catch its competitors in the LTE
race.  Verizon Wireless  is more than a year along in LTE, while
 AT&T Inc. (T)  offers the service in 35 U.S. markets.  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  plans to start LTE in six markets around midyear.  While T-Mobile doesn’t carry the iPhone, later this year
customers can bring their unlocked devices to the carrier’s
network, Neville Ray, the company’s chief technology officer,
said. The iPhone 4S uses 1900-megahertz spectrum and after
upgrades at T-Mobile this year it will be compatible with both
AT&T and T-Mobile’s network, Ray said, speaking to reporters
last night at a dinner in  New Orleans  as part of the  CTIA
International Wireless  event  The contract is a significant development for Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia Siemens Networks, which has struggled in a
market dominated by Zurich-based Ericsson AG. T-Mobile says it
will reuse some of its existing airwaves and include some of the
spectrum it acquired from AT&T earlier this year for the LTE
network construction.  “We’re making great progress on our four billion dollar 4G
network transformation,” Ray said in a statement. Ray also said
he expects nationwide LTE coverage in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  