-- Obama to Pressure Congress on Jobs, Economic Proposals
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-08T18:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/obama-to-pressure-congress-on-jobs-economic-proposals.html
President  Barack Obama  sought to renew
pressure on Congress to act on his proposals for  job creation 
and economic growth, the dominant issues in the campaign for the
White House.  With six months to go before Election Day and polls showing
Obama tied with presumptive Republican challenger  Mitt Romney ,
the president today used the backdrop of the College of
Nanoscale Science and Engineering at the State University of  New
York  in Albany to present a “to-do list” for lawmakers.  “There’s no excuse for inaction,” Obama said. “The only
way we can accelerate the job creation on a scale that is needed
is bold action from Congress.”  Since the $447 billion jobs plan he proposed last September
was blocked by congressional Republicans, Obama has sought to
rally support for individual components, including spending on
infrastructure and aid to the states that cut budgets and shed
public employees as tax revenues fell.  Obama’s five-point list includes offering companies a tax
credit for moving their manufacturing back to the U.S., making
it easier for homeowners to refinance and renewing tax credits
for clean energy development.  Hiring Credits  Obama also is asking Congress to approve a tax credit for
small businesses that create new jobs or raise wages this year,
and to create a Veterans Job Corps to help post-Sept. 11
veterans find work as police officers and firefighters.  In his campaign to win a second term, Obama is seeking to
make the case that while the recovery has been uneven, the U.S.
is making progress. He has also tried to tie Romney to the
Republican majority in the  House of Representatives  that Obama
blames for blocking measures that would boost growth.  Obama’s economic message was set back last week when the
Labor Department reported U.S.  employers  added 115,000 workers
to payrolls in April, fewer than forecast and the smallest gain
in six months. While the jobless rate fell to 8.1 percent, it
was largely because people left the  labor force .  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and private-equity
executive, used the May 4 jobs report to criticize Obama’s
stewardship of the economy, calling it a “sad time in America
for people who want work and can’t find jobs.”  Research and Development  Obama highlighted his support of government-private
partnerships to enhance science and technology education and
development. The College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering in
Albany is the product of agreements between New York state and
technology companies, including  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  It awarded the world’s first doctoral degrees in
nanoscience in 2004.  In September, IBM and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, announced plans to invest $4.4 billion over
five years to develop a nanotechnology venture in New York,
creating or retaining almost 7,000 jobs, according to the
governor’s office. To support the private investment, the state
agreed to put $400 million into the nanoscale science college in
Albany.  Nanotechnology is the design and engineering of materials
and devices at an atomic or molecular scale. They are used in
medicine, electronics, biomaterials and energy production.  Today marked Obama’s third visit to this part of upstate
New York since he took office. He gave a speech in September
2009 at Hudson Valley Community College in Troy and in January
2011 visited General Electric’s Schenectady operations to tour
the turbine factory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Albany  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  