-- Obama Gains as Falling Gas Prices Blunt Republican Attack
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-05-08T13:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/obama-gains-as-falling-gas-prices-blunt-republican-attack.html
Declining gasoline prices have blunted
what only a month ago was one of the leading Republican lines of
attack against President  Barack Obama .  After an almost uninterrupted rise since mid-January,
average national retail gasoline prices have fallen 17 cents
since April 4, according to the American Automobile Association.
The $3.76 per gallon national average yesterday was 20 cents
lower than the same day a year ago.  A plunge in crude oil markets and gasoline futures
yesterday suggest further easing ahead for prices at the pump.  The trend toward lower fuel prices is now “a small
positive” for Obama’s re-election prospects, though likely to
be overshadowed by broader economic concerns such as job and
income growth, said Christopher Wlezien, a political science
professor at Temple University in Philadelphia and co-author
with Robert Erikson of the forthcoming book “The Timeline of
Presidential Elections.”  The greatest political impact will probably be the
“absence of bad news” for Obama in an area that his political
adversaries have sought to make a focal point of the campaign,
said  Andrew Kohut , president of the nonpartisan Pew Research
Center in  Washington .  Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee, said in a March 18 “Fox News Sunday” interview there
is “no question” Obama was to blame for rising gasoline
prices. The Republican called for the firing of the “gas-hike
trio,” the secretaries of the Energy and Interior departments
and the head of the Environmental Protection Agency.  TV Campaign  Americans for Prosperity, an organization backed by oil
interests, two weeks ago began airing its third television
commercial since November, a $6.1 million campaign attacking
Obama’s green- energy  policies.  In April, 16,991 negative ads aired in various parts of the
country and 13,748 of them -- or 81 percent -- focused on
energy, according to data provided by New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  As gasoline prices were nearing their peak for the year,
Obama mounted a two-day, four-state tour March 21-22 to defend
his energy policies. He included a stop at an oil-storage hub in
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the starting point for the southern leg of
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  Keystone Pipeline  Obama rejected Keystone, which would carry crude from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to refineries on the  Gulf Coast , in January
because he said a congressional deadline didn’t allow enough
time to review the potential risks to an aquifer in  Nebraska , a
step Republicans including Romney say has contributed to higher
fuel prices.  Obama invited TransCanada Corp. to reapply for a permit for
a new pathway, and the Calgary-based company did so last week.  As gasoline prices have receded, so has their immediacy as
a concern among voters.  In a monthly Gallup Poll on the most important problems
facing the country, the portion of responses mentioning gasoline
prices declined to 3 percent in questioning May 3-6 from 8
percent in a poll taken April 9-12. Some participants gave
multiple answers.  Despite the attacks on Obama’s energy policies, most voters
didn’t primarily blame the White House for the run-up in
gasoline prices and therefore probably won’t credit Obama for
the decline, said  Dan Schnur , a campaign adviser to Republican
presidential candidate  John McCain ’s first bid for the White
House in 2000.  Voters Blame Mideast  Sixty-six percent of Americans primarily blamed  oil
companies  and Middle East nations taking advantage of tensions
with  Iran  for the higher prices, according to a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted March 8-11. Only 23 percent said the
White House was more at fault.  Even so, the incumbent president politically benefits or
suffers as gasoline prices influence the public’s sense of
economic well-being, said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in Washington.  “Any time there’s good news and there are fewer pocketbook
problems, it’s good for the incumbent,” Rothenberg said. “The
White House has to be relieved.”  Gasoline prices can have a “visceral impact” on
consumers’ psyches, because they are prominently displayed on
signs across the country and because of the role they play in
family budgets, said Schnur, now director of the Unruh Institute
of Politics at the University of  Southern California  in  Los
Angeles .  While gasoline accounted for 4.1 percent of  consumer
spending  in March, fuel prices have a disproportionate impact on
middle- and lower-income families.  In 2010, when prices at the pump averaged $2.84 during the
year, gasoline purchases consumed 4.8 percent of the budget for
middle-income households and 6 percent for lower-middle-income
households, according to the most recent data from the Bureau of
Labor Statistics’  Consumer Expenditure Survey . Among the bottom
fifth, gasoline costs were more than 10 percent of income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  