-- Occupy London Tour Shows Bankers Profiting Amid Poverty
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-05-08T23:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/occupy-london-tour-shows-bankers-profiting-amid-poverty.html
Bank security guards in London lock
the doors when they see Liam Taylor coming.  At a time of protests in March 2011, the secondary school
teacher and a dozen others pushed through the revolving doors of
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s headquarters in the  Canary Wharf  financial
district of London. He led placard-waving chants to protest
bonuses and tax avoidance.  The British bank was handing out 65.5 million pounds ($106
million) to eight executives, including Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond , whom Taylor has never met. Meanwhile, the
council of the poverty-mired surrounding London neighborhood of
 Tower Hamlets  was slashing 72 million pounds from its taxpayer-
funded budget.  Here, where two worlds collide, the 26-year-old umbrella-
toting teacher plays an active role in the Occupy London protest
movement. Tower Hamlets has one of the highest rates of young
people receiving jobless benefits in London, the highest
proportion of poor children and older people in England and the
worst child poverty in the U.K.  In its midst is Canary Wharf, a privately owned, guarded
riverside oasis of wealth where Taylor leads Occupy tours every
couple of weeks. Nine of the world’s biggest banks trade, lend
and advise clients here. His message: This is where the wealthy
1 percent enrich themselves by avoiding tax, racking up debt,
selling risky investments and using public funds for bailouts.
They do so at the expense of the remaining 99 percent, who bear
the burden of higher taxes and fewer public services, he says.  World’s Highest Salaries  “These huge glass towers you can see around us are all in
Tower Hamlets, and yet Tower Hamlets remains the borough with
the highest rate of  child poverty ,” says the soft-spoken
Taylor, who has blue eyes and cropped red hair. “The bonuses
are being paid out of money which should have been paid in tax
to provide public services.”  (To see data, photos and video of Tower Hamlets and Canary
Wharf, click  here .)  Canary Wharf is the base for companies that pay some of the
highest salaries in the world. They include Barclays and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  of the U.K., Switzerland’s  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and the European operations of U.S.-based Citigroup Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Protests over economic inequality erupted around the world
again last week. After a year of Occupy and trade union
demonstrations in London, the sense of unfairness is growing as
support for the U.K. government erodes. The ruling coalition of
Conservative and Liberal Democrat parties lost hundreds of seats
in last week’s local-council elections, although London’s
Conservative Mayor  Boris Johnson  retained office.  Scale of Inequality  British austerity measures are taking effect just as the
U.K. enters its first double-dip recession since the 1970s. The
budgets of Tower Hamlets and the deprived boroughs of Hackney
and Newham were cut the most among  London neighborhoods  last
year while wealthy Richmond-upon-Thames’s was reduced the least.  Income inequality among working-age people has  risen faster 
in the U.K. than in any other wealthy Western country since
1975, according to the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation & Development. London and the finance industry are
the driving forces behind the rise, according to Mark Stewart,
an economics professor at the University of Warwick.  “There is a groundswell of increasing concern with the
scale of inequality,” says Richard Wilkinson, coauthor with
Kate Pickett of the book, “ The Spirit Level .” They make the
case that more-unequal societies have lower life expectancies
and more mental illness, violence, teenage pregnancies and
incarceration, resulting in less trust.  ‘Out of Stock’  Nowhere is the divide between rich and poor more evident
than in Tower Hamlets and Canary Wharf. Many of Canary Wharf’s
95,000 workers travel to and from the skyscrapers on trains that
pass under or over the 240,000 residents of Tower Hamlets.
Taylor’s students say commuters on trains look right through
them. A four-lane highway and railway separate Canary Wharf from
the rest of the borough. There are guarded checkpoints for cars.  Canary Wharf’s shiny underground malls are decked with
advertisements for products including a  Citigroup (C)  account for
those with an “international lifestyle.” The grubby streets of
Tower Hamlets feature empty spaces covered with graffiti:
“Sorry! The lifestyle you ordered is currently out of stock.”  Taylor moved to Tower Hamlets in 2008 and soon began
teaching history and citizenship as the financial crisis
unfolded. He had just graduated from one of the oldest colleges
in one of the most elite universities in the world --  Balliol
College  of Oxford University -- where “The Wealth of Nations”
author Adam Smith and the welfare-state pioneer William
Beveridge studied.  U.K. Bank Rescue  The son of government-employed social workers, Taylor was
born the same year that former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher’s Big Bang financial deregulation triggered a massive
expansion of the U.K. banking industry. That spurred demand for
the giant trading-floor spaces of Canary Wharf.  Taylor watched as lenders took multibillion-pound
government rescues.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  got bailouts in October 2008. The British
government propped up banks with 1 trillion pounds in capital
and guarantees. While Barclays didn’t cede an equity stake to
the U.K., the bank did benefit from government liquidity support
along with all lenders, former CEO  John Varley  said in 2010.  The gross domestic product of the U.K. is still more than 4
percent below its peak in early 2008, while net debt has almost
doubled to 1.02 trillion pounds since then. In May 2010, the
Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  took office with a
mandate to halt the government’s debt spiral.  Sense of Injustice  Cameron pushed through cuts to spending on public services
including hospitals and schools such as Taylor’s, where about 60
percent of students are poor enough to get free meals. Taylor’s
sense of injustice boiled into anger, and he evolved into a
political campaigner convinced that the finance industry creates
inequality rather than wealth.  “My entire life I’ve been told that banks are a good
thing, that they bring lots of money into the economy and that
we shouldn’t do anything about them,” Taylor says. “It’s time
for a bit of hearing the other side of the argument.”  Tower Hamlets takes its name from the villages that
surrounded the  Tower of London , the famous 946-year-old
fortress. It was the site of gatherings during the Peasant’s
Revolt of 1381. The modern borough is crammed with shops, cafes
and street markets selling vegetables and garments such as
brightly-patterned kaftans. More than 20 percent of the
population is of Bangladeshi origin.  Canary Wharf bankers looking northeast can see the concrete
blocks of the Robin Hood Gardens estate, where Bangladeshi women
grow spinach in flowerbeds and where laundry dries on balconies.
Terraced houses and government-owned flats are packed in among
historic buildings that survived bombs in the Battle of Britain.  Canary Wharf Jobs  The borough stretches north to the stadium built for this
summer’s Olympic Games and west to the City of London, the
ancient financial district built around  St. Paul’s Cathedral  and
the  Bank of England . While the Olympics are managed from Canary
Wharf by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive Paul Deighton, none of the events will take place in Tower Hamlets.  Until the 1980s, Canary Wharf was the largely derelict site
of disused River Thames dockyards. Construction of one of the
world’s biggest financial centers was a pioneering
“regeneration project,” according to Howard Dawber, strategic
adviser to Canary Wharf Group Plc, the company that manages and
develops the district. Companies there employ about 9,000 people
from Tower Hamlets, and Canary Wharf has generated 720 million
pounds of contracts for local businesses, he says.  People from the two worlds don’t know much about each
other. When a reporter asked 50 people in Canary Wharf on Feb.
20 which borough they were in, 37 said they didn’t know.  Welfare Overhaul  “It’s a bit strange that this is all part of Tower
Hamlets, because it’s not poor,” said Eloise Hillman, an
information technology consultant, as she walked among the
skyscrapers of Canary Wharf, where she works. “It’s not run-
down, and it’s banking and financial and rich.”  From the other side of the tracks in Tower Hamlets, Barbara
Williams can see the tower-top signs of capitalist icons such as
Citigroup from her balcony. Walking through the streams of
suited workers makes her feel “worthless,” she says.  “They think they’re above me, that I’m not worthy to share
the same air as them,” says Williams, 33, an unmarried mother
of two. She has lived on government welfare since bearing her
first child at the age of 17.  With no savings and 13,000 pounds of debt, Williams
estimates she will have to earn 24,000 pounds a year to maintain
her standard of living without government benefits. In April,
she found a job at a company that provides holidays for the
disabled. It pays 16,000 pounds a year.  “We didn’t cause the crisis,” Williams says. “The
government and the people with the high-paid jobs caused it.”  Royal Navy Veteran  The aim of the welfare overhaul is to “recreate a culture
of independence and self-reliance,” said David Freud, the
government minister for welfare reform who is a great-grandson
of  Sigmund Freud  and a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  investment banker, in a
speech in April. The system has trapped people in joblessness
and benefit dependency, he said.  That isn’t the way John Jones sees the benefit changes.
Wounded twice serving in the Royal Navy during World War II, he
worked 50 years as a plumber and paid taxes to fund the British
welfare state. Now blind, with prostate cancer and arthritis of
the hands, the 91-year-old says he feels let down.  A representative of Tower Hamlets visited to tell him the
borough council would discontinue his midday caregiver’s visit,
Jones says. That means no warm food or drink until evening.  “She said it’s all to do with the money,” says Jones, who
keeps the ashes of his wife in an urn by a sofa. “I was very
upset about it.”  Taylor’s School  The cutbacks may bring wrenching change to the borough,
says Tower Hamlets  Mayor Lutfur Rahman . A new cap on housing
benefits may force 6,000 people to move, he estimates. While the
mayor declines to discuss Jones’s case, he says he wants to
protect the most vulnerable.  At  Langdon Park School  where Taylor teaches, the spending
cuts became evident soon after Cameron gained power in May 2010.
Teacher pay was frozen. A multischool program to increase
participation in sports -- dubbed by politicians as part of the
Olympic Games legacy -- was cut in 2010. Headmaster Chris Dunne,
who coordinates the project for a group of schools, mobilized
students to join in a protest at Parliament.  “With the end of this program, there will be no Olympic
legacy,” Dunne says. While he is negotiating to share the cost
of continuing it with other schools, his own school’s budget
faces a 330,406-pound deficit because it is currently carrying
the expense of the program. The 62-year-old educator has led the
institution for 20 years.  Public Speaking Champion  Taylor’s classroom is in a temporary block looking south
across a running track toward Canary Wharf. The sun glints off
the square glass towers, which peek over concrete housing units.
The classroom walls are decorated with displays on the
industrial revolution and world religions. The school has about
890 students ages 11 to 16 and specializes in sports such as
soccer, cricket, tennis, basketball and volleyball.  Headmaster Dunne says he can’t recall a student ever
getting work experience in Canary Wharf.  John Parry , a fair-haired 15-year-old student at Langdon
Park, won the Tower Hamlets  public speaking competition  this
year, sponsored by Lloyd’s of London, the world’s oldest
insurance market. He says he would be glad for an opportunity to
work at Canary Wharf, and yet he sees his prospects for going to
university dimming since the government almost tripled fees to
as much as 9,000 pounds a year. Parry sees Canary Wharf as a
place for people from another class.  Bonuses Versus Benefits  “You can do anything if you want to do it, but I think it
would be harder for someone like me to get there,” says Parry,
who wears a black sweater and the school’s black-and-yellow tie.
He can see Canary Wharf from his bedroom window. The son of a
scaffolding builder who worked on the Olympics site, he says he
is thinking of becoming a plumber and a property developer.  The drumbeat of service cutbacks amid bank bonus payouts
helped make 2011 a year of protest rolling across the U.K. Days
after Taylor led his band into Barclays that March, 250,000
public-sector workers marched through London objecting to cuts
to education and health care. The government was carrying out
the biggest fiscal consolidation since the Second World War.
Banners said: “Cut bonuses, not benefits.”  Last August, social tension across London flared up in the
worst riots since the 1980s. Thousands of young people looted
shops after a peaceful protest over a police shooting in the
north of the city turned violent. Police arrested thousands
after shops, buses and cars were burned.  Occupy London Encampment  In October, Taylor joined  Occupy London  in pitching tents
outside St. Paul’s Cathedral. During the four-month encampment,
participants created a university in a tent and held twice-daily
discussions on the cathedral steps about war, corporate
corruption, poverty and pollution. They fed homeless people,
attracted support from artists and politicians including the
American civil rights figure Jesse Jackson, and criticism from
some bankers who told them to get jobs. Taylor showered at home
on the way to work at the school.  One Sunday evening in November, protesters were preparing
to debate the role of the  City of London Corporation,  which
manages the old financial district around the cathedral. The
corporation traces its roots back more than 1,000 years, and
officials have long defended and promoted the finance industry.  City of London Debate  Stuart Fraser, as the corporation’s policy chairman,
personifies the industry that Occupy participants criticize. He
has worked in the City for a half-century after starting as a
stockbrokers’ messenger. The 66-year-old learned of the planned
debate from Twitter, he says, and walked over to participate.  “I just went along and said if you are going to talk about
it, you might as well have the arch-evil person here,” Fraser
says. He found three speakers discussing whether the corporation
should be dissolved, with no one to challenge them, he says.  Over succeeding months, Fraser continued to defend the
industry against complaints it didn’t pay enough tax while
adding to economic inequality. One sunny day in March, Fraser
strode into an interview in the 600-year-old Guildhall in the
City and extolled the benefits of the finance industry,
including 63 billion pounds of taxes paid in 2011.  At the same time, protesters are having an impact, Fraser
says. He credits the movement with elevating inequality on the
national agenda. On March 8, the City agreed to join Occupy
protestors in backing a campaign by the Tower Hamlets-based
organization Citizens U.K. to pay higher wages to cleaners and
other workers.  ‘Failure of Ambition’  Some people on both sides of the railway tracks are trying
to break down the barriers that contribute to inequality.
Rushanara Ali, a Labour member of Parliament from Tower Hamlets,
helped start  Fastlaners , a two-week finishing school to prepare
university graduates for jobs in Canary Wharf and elsewhere. It
provided training in teamwork, office etiquette, posture, voice
and dress. She and a Tower Hamlets nonprofit, the Young
Foundation, got government funding and office space from Canary
Wharf Group.  Local people need that kind of help to overcome the
psychological obstacles to economic opportunities, says Ali, 37.
Born in Bangladesh and raised in Tower Hamlets, she was educated
at Oxford University’s St. John’s College.  “There has been an absolute failure of ambition in terms
of getting the business community to work closely with the local
community,” says Ali, who wears her dark hair long and favors
trouser suits.  Barclays Mentor  Fastlaners’ funding ran out in 2011 and wasn’t renewed by
the new government. Though an opposition MP, Ali is still
working to close the opportunity gap. She and the  Young
Foundation  are promoting another program called UpRising,
designed to pair up young people with mentors from companies in
Canary Wharf and elsewhere.  Vikash Gupta was one of the mentors at a twilight reception
Ali attended one evening in February. He is a Barclays banker
for clients with more than 10 million pounds to invest. Gupta,
35 and born in India, works above the foyer that the teacher
Taylor invaded a year ago.  “The biggest inequality we can address is the level of
confidence and ambition and accessibility,” says Gupta. The son
of a soap maker from Jharkhand and a mother who was married at
the age of 13, Gupta was the first in his family to go to
university, studying mechanical engineering at Bangalore
University.  59 Pound Haircut  He is mentor to Andrew Jude Rajanathan, a 24-year-old
graduate of  Queen Mary, University of London  in Tower Hamlets
and of the London School of Economics. Rajanathan inherited his
family house at the age of 20 when his Sri Lanka-born father
died. While at university, he worked to pay the mortgage and
support his mother.  Rajanathan works at  Liv-ex , an online market for fine wine,
and says equality campaigners have “very valid” concerns,
which the government can address with more support for
entrepreneurs and work for those leaving school.  Gupta himself sees the divide between Tower Hamlets and
Canary Wharf as he walks from his riverside apartment with
manicured lawns. He crosses under the railway to reach the New
Look barbershop in Tower Hamlets not far from Taylor’s school. A
good haircut there costs 7 pounds, compared with 59 pounds for
the cheapest cut at the Toni & Guy salon in Canary Wharf.  When Gupta suggested distributing leaflets in Canary Wharf,
barber Ali Hussain’s response surprised him, Gupta says. Hussain
said he had never been to the business district, where he
thought entry required a security pass, Gupta says.  Taylor’s Occupy Tour  Taylor, who makes 29,000 pounds a year, started his free
Occupy tours of Canary Wharf last November. The visits began as
a way of educating the public after Canary Wharf Group obtained
an injunction against protestors, Taylor says.  On a chilly January evening, Taylor waits at the top of the
shiny metallic escalator leading from the Canary Wharf subway
station. A guard jokes that Taylor should demand higher pay for
security people. The tour lasts a little more than an hour and
draws between four and 25 people each time, plus trailing
guards. The teacher insists he is motivated by justice and not
by the politics of envy. Taylor begins by quoting C.S. Lewis.  “The greatest evil is not now done in those sordid dens of
crime that Dickens loved to paint,” he says, reading from
notes. “It is conceived and ordered in clean, carpeted, warmed
and well-lighted offices by quiet men with white collars and cut
fingernails and smooth-shaven cheeks who do not need to raise
their voices.”  “Arguably, the kind of offices that we see around us here
right now,” Taylor says.  ‘Doomed, Cursed Building’  A century ago, the area was full of ships delivering goods
from all over the world, Taylor says. The American author Jack
London called it “one unending slum.” Today, “the only things
traded are the figments of bankers’ imaginations,” Taylor tells
the tour group.  The first stop is a tower occupied by  JPMorgan. (JPM)   “This is the most doomed, cursed building in financial
history,” Taylor says. It was originally intended for Enron
Corp., the world’s largest energy trading company before its
2001 bankruptcy filing because of accounting fraud, he says.
Then Lehman Brothers moved in. The securities firm filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008 because of
too much debt and risky real estate investments.  Taylor shepherds his group on to Barclays, taking questions
from university students.  “Barclays bank is systematically avoiding tax,” the
teacher tells his tour.  Barclays Tax Payments  While bankers were grilled on the matter last year in
Parliament, Barclays maintains it obeys tax law. In response to
questions last year from lawmakers, the bank disclosed that in
2009 it paid 113 million pounds of U.K. corporation tax. That
worked out to 4.5 percent of the bank’s U.K. pretax profit of
2.5 billion pounds. The statutory rate then was 28 percent.
Barclays said losses on writedowns reduced the amount owed.  “Barclays is not evading taxes,”Diamond, the Barclays
CEO, told a Treasury Committee hearing at the House of Commons.
“We are complying with both the spirit and the letter of the
law.” Last year, the 60-year-old American executive called for
bankers to be better citizens.  The company’s 2011  citizenship report  shows that almost
46,000 employees did 418,000 hours of volunteer work. The bank
reported paying 1.7 billion pounds of corporate tax globally
last year, and 300 million pounds in the U.K.  Teachers’ Pension Protest  On a warm March day, Taylor joins thousands of fellow
London teachers in a march on Parliament. The government is
raising teachers’ retirement age to 68 from 65 and requiring
higher contributions without increases to salaries. As they pass
through Trafalgar Square, the teachers chant, whistle and wave
colorful banners and placards.  “What do we want? Fair Pensions!” the teachers shout.
“When do we want them? Before we die!”  Taylor carries a black backpack with a water bottle and a
Mars bar in the side pocket. He holds up a banner bearing the
name of his school. Marching, protesting, occupying and guiding
tours are the tools Taylor says he has to help rebalance the
world.  “If you’ve got money and you’ve got connections, you’re
heard,” Taylor says. “And if you don’t have money and don’t
have connections, you’re invisible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  