-- Lockheed’s Next F-35 Tied to Testing Progress, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-08T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/lockheed-s-next-f-35-tied-to-testing-progress-u-s-says.html
The next contracts for  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 jet, the U.S.’s costliest weapons program, will be
tied more closely than previous ones to testing, assembly and
software progress, the Pentagon’s program manager for the
fighter said today.  Six of the 31 aircraft in the next round won’t be awarded
until Lockheed Martin, the world’s biggest defense contractor,
meets at least five criteria, including successful review this
year of the latest software release, Vice Admiral David Venlet
told the Senate Armed Services Committee’s airpower panel,
according to a prepared statement.  The steps are the latest efforts to control costs for the
$395.7 billion acquisition program. The first four contracts for
63 jets are exceeding their combined target  cost by $1 billion ,
according to congressional auditors.  “The development program is taking longer and costing more
to overcome technical issues,” Venlet said in prepared
testimony. “The strategy continues the department’s rigorous
management control.”  “It is important that Lockheed Martin dependably perform
and establish confidence that the F-35 is a stable and capable
platform,” Venlet said.  70% Increase  The F-35’s total acquisition cost has increased 70 percent,
to $395.7 billion last month from $233 billion in late 2001 when
the development phase began. The costs are calculated in
comparable, inflation-adjusted “then-year dollars.”  The program’s projected “life cycle cost” -- including
development since 1994, production of 2,443 jets and 55 years of
support -- increased to $1.51 trillion from $1.38 trillion in
2010, Pentagon officials told reporters March 30.  The new approach “buys quantities based upon development
and test progress,” Venlet told the panel in his statement.  “This strategy provides a means to have control -- a dial
-- on production that is informed by demonstrated performance
against the 2012 plan,” Venlet said.  It also seeks a reduction in the “concurrency,” or
overlap between production and testing, that has forced
retrofits when problems cropped up, he said.  Venlet said Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin has
agreed to the plan, which takes effect with the contract signed
for this fiscal year’s 31 aircraft and as many as 29 proposed
for fiscal 2013.  The House committee that authorizes military spending and
the defense appropriations subcommittee this week approved the
29. The Senate hasn’t made final its version of the bill.  Passing Criteria  To receive funding for six of the 31 aircraft, Lockheed
Martin will need to meet at least five criteria, Venlet said.  Among them are a successful review for Block 3 software,
the most advanced; progress at improving the speed at which
retrofits are made to assembled aircraft after testing
deficiencies are uncovered; and progress in meeting 2012 flight
test and durability test goals.  Lockheed Martin said today the F-35 completed 123 test
flights in March totaling 223 flight hours -- a monthly record
in the 11-year-old system development phase.  Venlet said the aircraft’s overall basic designs “are
sound and will deliver.”  Software development, “coupled with flight-test execution,
will remain the major focus,” Venlet said. “I have observed
past and current performance by industry on software that gives
me concern about the ability to deliver full capability within
the current schedule,” he said.  Venlet said the program’s parallel development and
production have resulted in aircraft retrofits that “are very
real and affect schedule and cost in hardware, software, test
and production.”  The overlap will decline as the program approaches the end
of development in 2016, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  