-- Oettinger Willing to Back Measures to Boost EU CO2 Price
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-05-08T13:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/oettinger-willing-to-back-measures-to-boost-eu-co2-price.html
European Union Energy Commissioner
 Guenther Oettinger  said he’s willing to support measures aimed
at boosting carbon prices in the bloc’s market to 10 euros ($13)
or more to encourage investment in clean technologies.  “With 6 to 8 euros there’s no relevant signal to investors
in the market,” he told reporters in Brussels today. “Nobody
knows at this moment whether we’ll get growth in our European
economy, what the development will be in 10 years, so we need
the best level of flexibility to follow market developments.”  EU permits for December rose as much as 3.4 percent to 6.95
euros a metric ton following Oettinger’s comments. The 27-nation
bloc is considering options to improve the world’s biggest cap-
and-trade carbon market after a recession cut industrial output
and prices in the region’s emissions trading system slumped to a
record low of 5.99 euros last month on oversupply.  Oettinger said temporarily withholding a certain number of
permits is his “preference” for now, adding that more
expertise is needed on the impact of potential measures to curb
supply.  His comments indicate he’ll probably back a proposal
planned by EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  to delay
some sales of carbon permits starting in 2013, when the bloc
begins auctioning most allowances after giving most of them to
companies for free in the first two trading periods since 2005.  Draft Proposal  The EU may submit a draft proposal by the middle of July to
member states to revise the auctioning timetable, with a view to
voting in September, an official with knowledge of the matter
said last week.  After a vote in the Climate Change Committee, which
includes representatives of member states, EU measures that are
subject to this  procedure  need to undergo a three-month scrutiny
by the European Parliament and national governments. The process
typically takes about five months from a vote to adoption.  The 62 percent decline in carbon prices in the past year
prompted calls on the EU from companies including  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s largest oil company, and EON AG,  Germany ’s
biggest power generator, to improve the cap-and-trade system.  “It needs to be revitalized and I may even say re-
engineered in the future,” Klaus Schaefer, the head of EON
Ruhrgas and EON Energy Trading, told a conference in Brussels
last month.  1.1 Billion Tons  The emission caps that the EU program imposes on more than
12,000 facilities were set before the debt crisis and economic
slump. The market will be oversupplied by permits covering about
1.1 billion tons of CO2 by 2012, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. This surplus may be transferred into the eight-
year Phase 3 starting in 2013.  The planned review of the auctioning rules would change the
timing of sales, while keeping intact the amount of allowances
to be sold in the next phase, according to the European
Commission, the EU regulatory arm.  Separately, EU  member states  and the  European Parliament 
are in talks about amending a draft energy savings law by
including in it an option for the commission to propose a
temporary set-aside of carbon permits as of 2013. The amendment
is unlikely to pass after national governments have signaled
they object to a link to the ETS rules in legislation on a
different policy area.  Any eventual permanent cancellation of permits that could
be temporarily withheld under a set-aside proposal would require
a revision of the ETS law in a separate process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  