-- Oil-Rich Angola’s Ruling Party Split Over Succession
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-05-09T14:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/oil-rich-angola-s-ruling-party-split-over-succession.html
Angola’s ruling party is gripped by a
struggle over who should succeed President Jose Eduardo  dos Santos , amid public rallies calling for the leader of Africa’s
second-largest crude producer to quit after 32 years in power.  As the  Popular Movement  for the Liberation of Angola gears
up for an election due by Sept. 5, dos Santos, wants Manuel Domingos Vicente, the former head of state oil company Sonangol
EP, to be his deputy. Other party leaders favor the political
experience of Vice President Fernando da Piedade Dias dos Santos, said analysts such as Justin Pearce, a doctoral
candidate at London’s School for African and Oriental Studies.  “Vicente’s succession to the presidency would leave the
structure of political and commercial power and influence
fundamentally unchanged,” Pearce said May 3 in an e-mailed
response to questions. “That is the most comfortable option for
dos Santos as he contemplates retirement.”  Angola, a former Marxist state wracked by a 27-year civil
war that ended in 2002, produced about 1.8 million barrels of
crude a day, pumped mainly by companies such as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA. (FP)  Angola supplied 2.6
percent of U.S. oil imports in February, according to Department
of Energy data. China imported 15 percent of its crude from the
southern African country in March, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  Vicente is “seen as someone who’s popular with the  oil
companies  because he was effective and good to do business
with,” said Diarmid O’Sullivan, a researcher for  Global
Witness , a London-based advocacy group. “But Angola’s economy
and Angola’s future prosperity is based on oil and their record
for using that oil for the benefit of the people is terrible.”  ‘Reliable Source’  Transparency International  ranked Angola at 168 of 182
countries in its 2011 corruption index.  “Angola is among the most reliable sources of supply in
 Africa , presenting neither the chronic instability of  Nigeria 
nor the political uncertainties under way further north in the
aftermath of the Arab Spring,” Philippe de Pontet, an analyst
for the Eurasia Group based in Washington D.C., said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Most changes are incremental.”  David G. Eglinton, a spokesman for Houston-based Exxon,
declined to comment on the election process or Vicente’s move
from Sonangol to the government. Chevron and BP didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Crude for June delivery fell as much as $1.84 to $95.17 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $96.08 at 3:54 p.m.  London  time. Brent for June
settlement was at $112.06 a barrel, down 0.6 percent, on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Vicente’s Oil Role  “The greatest issue of uncertainty is the succession of
dos Santos in Angolan politics,”  Alex Vines , head of the Africa
program at  Chatham House  in London, said in a telephone
interview. “That is the one thing we don’t know.”  The MPLA’s policy-making central committee will choose
candidates after a meeting of its political bureau, party
spokesman Rui Falcao said in an interview on April 28. Neither
meeting has been scheduled, he said.  Dos Santos, 69, appointed Vicente, 55, as minister of
economic coordination on Jan. 30 and may choose to resign after
the election before his term ends, Sebastian Boe, an analyst at
IHS Global Insight in London, said by e-mail. Nando, 62, may
appeal to an older segment of the MPLA because of his age and
roots within the party, he said.  “Vicente faces a lot of internal criticism for not being a
long-time member of the MPLA and having relatively little
experience in those circles or the military,” Boe said.  Jobs and Development  The election campaign will focus on jobs and incomes, with
the MPLA saying continuity and experience are needed to maintain
development, Pearce said. The government forecast growth of 12.8
percent this year for an economy that expanded 3.4 percent in
2011, according to the  International Monetary Fund . That
compares to an expected 5.4 percent this year for sub-Saharan
Africa, up from 5.1 percent in 2011, according to the IMF.  About half a dozen anti-government rallies, inspired by the
Arab Spring and sometimes including sons and daughters of MPLA
members, have been held in Luanda, the capital, and other cities
over the past year, sparking clashes with police.  “I am very concerned with the human rights situation and
the problem of corruption of authorities who don’t respect the
law,” said Former Prime Minister Marcolino Moco, a member of
the ruling party. “Demonstrators have been tortured in broad
daylight.”  Divided Opposition  The MPLA’s adversary in the civil war and the main
opposition group, the Union for the Total Independence of
 Angola , suffered a split when its former parliamentary chief,
Abel Chivukuvuku, 54, broke with Unita leader Isaias Samakuva
and set up his own party in March.  Chivukuvuku’s Ample Convergence for the Salvation of
Angola, or Casa, is trying to tap into dissatisfaction with the
two main political parties, particularly among the youth, who
compose more than 60 percent of Angola’s  19 million  people.
Several hundred students attended the party’s April 3
convention.  The split will help the MPLA maintain its majority in the
220-member parliament where it holds 181 seats compared with
Unita’s 16.  ‘Degree of Dissatisfaction’  The MPLA increased its power vis-à-vis the president after
the constitution was changed in January 2010 to end direct
elections, said Markus Weimer, an analyst at Chatham House.
Instead, the leader of the party with the most votes is declared
president. The party hasn’t fulfilled three promises since
December to name its list of candidates.  “The long delay indicates there is indeed some degree of
dissatisfaction with the party-list choice and in particular the
No. 2 spot,” said Weimer. “It would seem that the party holds
some real power.”  Dos Santos may be delaying a list of MPLA candidates to
work out a compromise with party leaders and to avoid street
protests against his rule, Africa’s second-longest after
Equatorial Guinea President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo. Both
came to power in 1979.  Moco, who was fired as premier in 1996 after saying he
wanted to run for president, said dos Santos remains the
country’s dominant political force.  “The regime is completely for the president,” he told
reporters last month in Johannesburg. “Angola’s not a one-party
state; it’s a one-person state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  