-- Oil a ‘Little Bit High,’ Saudi Arabia’s Al-Naimi Says
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-05-08T07:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/oil-a-little-bit-high-saudi-arabia-s-al-naimi-says.html
Saudi Arabia is storing as much as 80
million barrels of crude to boost supplies amid international
prices that are “still a little bit high,” according to the
country’s oil minister  Ali al-Naimi .  The nation, the world’s largest oil exporter, has set aside
supplies “on shore in Saudi Arabia, in pipelines, in tanks,”
al-Naimi said in  Tokyo  today before board meetings of state-
owned Saudi Arabian Oil Co., of which he is chairman.  Brent crude  in  London , a benchmark price for more than half
the world’s oil, rose as much as 20 percent this year, prompting
concern among producers and consumers that the global economic
recovery may be derailed. While futures have fallen to a three-
month low, they are still up 4.8 percent in 2012.  OPEC is “working hard to bring the price down,”
Secretary-General Abdalla el-Badri said last week.  Saudi Arabia ,
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’s biggest
producer, is pumping oil at 10 million barrels a day, al-Naimi
said April 13 in Seoul. That’s close to the fastest rate in at
least 31 years, according to official data.  The kingdom still has about 2.5 million barrels a day of
spare production capacity, al-Naimi said today. It is storing
crude “because of the situation in the world,” he said,
without elaborating.  Power Generation  Inventories of 80 million barrels are equivalent to less
than one day of global consumption, which is forecast by the
 International Energy Agency  at 89.9 million barrels a day this
year. The stockpiles “have nothing to do with” the country’s
power-generation requirements, al-Naimi said.  Saudi Arabia’s “main motivation” for building crude
stockpiles is to meet an expected increase in domestic demand
for power output,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in a report
April 25. The country probably added 390,000 barrels a day to
world consumption as it boosted inventories by 35.4 million
barrels from December to February, according to the bank.  Saudi demand for electricity typically gains during the
summer months when temperatures rise. More than 50 percent of
installed power-plant capacity is idle in the winter, Saleh al- Awaji, the chairman of  Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO)  said in Singapore
on April 17.  Brent crude for June settlement was at $112.54 a barrel,
down 0.6 percent, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange at 3:19 p.m. Singapore time today. It rose as high as
$128.40 on March 1 amid concern Western sanctions aimed at
halting Iran’s nuclear program would disrupt Middle East
supplies.  West Texas Intermediate oil for June delivery was at $97.04
a barrel, down 0.9 percent, in electronic trading on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange. WTI has fallen 1.8 percent this year,
after climbing as high as $110.55 on March 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  