-- Hollande Must Betray His Supporters to Save Them
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-05-08T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/hollande-must-betray-his-supporters-to-save-them.html
French voters are deluding themselves
if they think the man they just elected president offers a
viable alternative to the departing Nicolas Sarkozy.  Francois Hollande ’s socialist program is inoperable. Let’s
hope he understands that. If he doesn’t already, he soon will.  Hollande’s campaign was a throwback to  Francois Mitterrand ’s failed socialist experiment of the early 1980s. The
new president doesn’t oppose Europe’s fiscal pact because it
needlessly imposes too much austerity too soon -- which is true.
He opposes the very idea of structural reform. In  France  the
government already spends 56 percent of  gross domestic product .
Hollande now promises, among other things, to hire tens of
thousands of extra civil servants and roll back Sarkozy’s
increase in the  retirement age  from 60 to 62.  He can’t think of a public spending program he doesn’t
like. His rhetoric is stridently anti-capitalist. And he
proposes to pay for this further expansion of government with
higher taxes -- including a new top income tax rate of 75
percent.  France isn’t starting from a position of fiscal or
financial strength.  Capital markets  were already nervous about
its prospects. They will stamp on any conscientious attempt by
Hollande to keep his crazy promises -- and if that happens, the
wider crisis in the euro area will flare again. The question
isn’t whether the crowds in Paris celebrating the return of good
old-fashioned socialism will get what they want -- they won’t.
The question is whether Hollande will row back from his campaign
pledges quickly enough to avert disaster.  Tactical Judgment  The mood of jubilation among France’s unreconstructed
leftists will make it difficult. And Hollande doesn’t have much
time. Mitterrand took from 1981 to 1983 to discover that his
policies constituted the alternative that  Margaret Thatcher  had
in mind when she said, “There is no alternative.” Hollande may
have just days to come to the same revelation. Looming
parliamentary elections complicate the tactical judgment.
Hollande needs voters to give him the majority in next month’s
vote for the legislature. He can’t betray his supporters before
then.  Whether it’s sooner or later, Hollande will be forced to
acknowledge reality, and the disillusionment of the French left
will be terrible.  But if it’s sooner, some good could come of his election.
The European Union needs to replace or at least modify the
fiscal pact that binds its member governments to curb public
borrowing at once. It also needs an easing of monetary policy
and steps toward a closer fiscal union, which would lift the
threat of insolvency from its distressed sovereign borrowers.
Germany has set its face against all these measures.  If Hollande tries to disinter the French socialist project,
the gruesome results would strengthen the conviction of German
chancellor  Angela Merkel  that brutal austerity is the only way
for the euro area to overcome its problems. The situation would
then go from bad to worse, and the stresses on the EU itself
would be enormous. But if Hollande can pivot in time to a milder
program of coordinated fiscal moderation, high but not punitive
taxes, and long-term control of public spending -- policies not
that different from his predecessor’s -- Merkel and the Germans
may choose to bend.  That’s possible because Sarkozy’s defeat was a defeat for
Merkel, too -- her biggest to date. She had allied herself with
the outgoing president, at one point even offering to campaign
for him. (Sarkozy ultimately declined.) Governments that yielded
to the German formula for recovery-through-austerity have been
falling all across  Europe .  Renewed Uncertainty  There was another election on Sunday -- in  Greece . The two
main parties had promised to honor the terms of the country’s
bailout agreement with the EU and the  International Monetary
Fund . Both were routed, and the country was plunged into renewed
uncertainty.  This worsening turmoil doesn’t advance German interests. It
threatens economic ruin. Merkel’s refusal to bend is building
resentment against her country’s dominant role in EU policy
making. If Merkel wants to preserve that standing she’ll have to
be more pragmatic.  Merkel’s officials have already been in touch with
Hollande’s team, and a possible compromise on fiscal policy is
taking shape. There’s talk of an increase of capital for the
 European Investment Bank  and jointly guaranteed bonds to finance
new infrastructure investment. If that happens,  Germany  will
insist it’s not a renegotiation of the fiscal pact, but a
supplementary agreement. The commitment to fiscal control isn’t
being softened, Merkel will say, but new measures to spur growth
can be adopted alongside. Whatever.  A deal of the sort being discussed wouldn’t go far enough
but it would be a move in the right direction. Full fiscal union
won’t happen in the foreseeable future, because Germany would
have to be willing to explicitly subsidize other countries, and
the other EU states would have to be willing to let Germany
dictate their fiscal priorities. That requires large-scale
constitutional re-engineering. For the moment, it’s out of the
question.  But this isn’t an all-or-nothing choice. Europe needs to
find a middle way. For the EU to be a going concern, it must
combine some degree of mutual fiscal support with a measured
surrender of fiscal sovereignty. Joint “project bonds” for
infrastructure would be a start.  Wisely, Hollande’s campaign was more about posture than
specifics. We know he’s against austerity and for taxing the
rich -- but he hasn’t drawn up a budget. That must wait, he
says, until auditors have checked the government’s books. This
could give the new president cover to rethink his position on
longer-term fiscal control and structural reform. If he does
that and insists on short-term fiscal moderation, whether this
is deemed a renegotiation of the fiscal pact or merely a
supplement to it, his election might help Europe.  But Hollande can’t be a good thing without letting his
supporters down. That’s a hard truth to contemplate in your
first week in office.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Greece’s political
deadlock  and saving the  Volcker rule ; William Pesek on  Asia’s
wealth divide ;  Peter Orszag  on the  income swings of high
earners ;  Edward Glaeser  on the  new urban flight ; Ali H. Soufan
on the  USS Cole trial .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 