-- Olympic Sponsors BP, EDF to Restore Confidence
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-05-08T23:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/olympic-sponsors-bp-edf-to-restore-confidence.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and  Electricite de France SA 
will be using their  London  2012 Olympics sponsorships to shake
off associations with oil spills and reactor meltdowns.  BP, an official  sustainability partner  based in the host
city, is rolling out biofuels made from sugar cane and grasses
to fuel to more than 5,000 vehicles. EDF,  Europe ’s largest
nuclear generator and owner of 15 U.K. reactors, will  supply
power  as London seeks to map and limit the carbon dioxide
footprint of the games for the first time. EDF was named an
Olympics partner in July 2007 and BP signed on a year later.  Since then, the meltdown of three reactors at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant in March last year and the 2010 Macondo oil spill
in the  Gulf of Mexico  drew global attention and outrage. EDF
 shares  have dropped about 50 percent since the accident in
 Japan , while BP is 30 percent  lower  than it was before the Gulf
disaster. London 2012 is an opportunity to restore confidence in
their brands, according to  Jonathan Reynolds , a director at Said
Business School’s  Oxford Institute  of Retail Management.  “The Olympics is rich in analogies and metaphors which can
help businesses reestablish themselves,” Reynolds said in a
telephone interview. “It is a large and specific event -- not
just a general value halo effect -- and there are relatively few
of those events around.”  $1 Billion Sponsorship  London Olympics organizers raised more than 700 million
pounds ($1.1 billion) in domestic sponsorship, including from
shopping mall-owner  Westfield Group (WDC) , British Airways and BT
Group Plc. Bidding for the seven tier-one sponsors started at 40
million pounds. Neither EDF nor BP would comment on how much
they paid to be associated with the games.  “Companies like BP and EDF use events like the Olympics,
which are seen as universally positive things, and their
businesses are not universally positive,” Greenpeace Senior
Climate Advisor Charlie Kronick said in an interview. “If BP
wants to trial advanced biofuels they’ve got thousands of petrol
stations around the country. They’re taking advantage of the
highest-profile event in the country to blow the trumpet for
something that’s a tiny part of their business.”  BP’s biofuels will be mixed with gasoline or diesel at a
concentration of as much as 24 percent, resulting in about a 10
percent improvement in carbon dioxide emissions, Mike Sharrock,
the company’s  London 2012 (CSUZ)  partnership director, said.  Positive Event  “The London 2012 sponsorship has enabled us to get
involved in a hugely positive event and put lots of energy into
that,” Sharrock said in an interview, adding the games aren’t
linked to BP’s clean-up in the Gulf and the company didn’t
consider stepping back after the disaster.  EDF said April 23 that 80 percent of the electricity for
the games will come from its existing nuclear fleet, with the
remainder from renewable generation assets.  “Events at Fukushima made it even more important for us to
engage people in an open dialogue about the role of nuclear as a
part of a low carbon supply mix,” EDF Energy’s London 2012
Program Director Gareth Wynn said in an interview. “Our
partnership with the Olympic and Paralympic Games is one way in
which we can help stimulate an informed debate.”  The total  emissions footprint  of London 2012 will be around
3.4 million tons of carbon dioxide, which includes pollution
caused by travel, according to David Stubbs, head of
sustainability for the organizing committee. About 430,000 tons
will be caused by the event itself. Efficiency measures will
offset failed plans to get 20 percent of the power used from on-
site renewable energy projects, Stubbs said.  No More Renewables  “The nation will get no more renewables as a result of EDF
and the London 2012 Organizing Committee’s work on the
Olympics,” said  Shaun McCarthy , who chairs the Commission for
Sustainable London 2012. “Nuclear may be lower carbon, but
they’re not adding anything new, so it’s not contributing to the
U.K.’s lower carbon agenda.”  Events from decades earlier are still haunting another
Olympic sponsor.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , which signed a 10-year
sponsorship agreement with the  International Olympic Committee 
in 2010, should be removed because the 1984 Union Carbide Corp.
gas leak in Bhopal that killed thousands of people, the Indian
Olympic Association said in a letter to the IOC in December.  “The very presence of this company is against the spirit
of the Olympic ideals,” acting president Vijay Kumar Malhotra
wrote. The IOC said it had considered the tragedy when
discussing the partnership with Dow, which will make a fabric
wrap for the Olympic stadium.  ‘Toxic Stain’  “As the company that now bears responsibility for the
Bhopal tragedy, Dow is not a sustainable company,” said
Meredith Alexander, who resigned from the Commission for a
Sustainable London 2012 over the dispute. “The decision to give
Dow the wrap contract is a toxic stain on the conscience of
London.”  Dow Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said opposition
to the sponsorship is “beyond belief” because his company
acquired Union Carbide 17 years after the accident.  In Gulfport,  Mississippi , Derrick C. Evans, a managing
adviser at the Gulf Coast Fund for Community Renewal and
Ecological Health, says he’s still getting over the fact that BP
is a sustainability partner.  “What’s important is that Olympics not be an event or
opportunity for bad behavior to be camouflaged,” Evans said in
an interview in London. “If you lay down with dogs, you get up
with fleas. The connection with BP is just egg on the face of
this city and country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  