-- Factories in U.S. Grow Less Optimistic About Sales
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-08T14:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/optimism-among-u-s-factories-eases-for-2012-ism-survey-says.html
Manufacturers in the U.S. became less-
optimistic about 2012 sales growth than at the end of last year,
while service companies grew more upbeat, according to a survey
by the  Institute for Supply Management .  Purchasing managers at U.S. factories said they anticipate
sales will grow 4.5 percent this year, less than a 5.5 percent
December prediction, according to the Tempe, Arizona-based
group’s semiannual  forecast  issued today. By contrast, service
providers estimated revenue will climb 4.8 percent this year, up
from the 3.1 percent forecast in December.  Factory managers remain confident enough that they estimate
spending on new equipment will climb by 6.2 percent in 2012,
compared with a 1.9 percent increase projected in December,
today’s report showed. Service providers forecast a 3.6 percent
pickup in investment.  “Manufacturing continues to demonstrate its strength and
resilience in the midst of global economic uncertainty and
volatility,” Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the group’s factory
committee, said in a statement.  Manufacturers projected employment will increase 1.4
percent for the rest of this year, while service companies
predicted a 1.9 percent gain.  “The economy is in the U.S. is doing reasonably well,”
Donald MacPherson, a senior vice president at W.W. Grainger
Inc., said during a May 3 investor conference. The  Lake Forest ,
Illinois-based company makes motors, power tools and pumps. “We
don’t expect significant tailwinds from economic growth over the
next several years. We expect modest growth.”  Raw Materials Costs  Factory leaders see the cost of raw materials rising 2.3
percent this year, the report showed. Service providers see a
2.6 percent increase in input costs this year.  Earlier this month, the ISM reports showed manufacturing
unexpectedly  expanded  in April at the fastest pace in almost a
year as orders picked up. The ISM’s factory index climbed to
54.8 in April from 53.4 the prior month, figures showed May 1.  Two days after the factory gauge was released, the ISM
services gauges showed those industries  grew  at a slower pace
during the month. The ISM reported that its index of non-
manufacturing companies declined to 53.5 in April. For both
indexes, readings greater than 50 signal growth.  “We’re very pleased that the economy is on a steady path,
certainly not robust, but steady,” Douglas Stotlar, president
and chief executive officer of freight transportation company
 Con-way Inc. (CNW) , said during a second quarter earnings call on May
2. “We’re anticipating that we’ll just see that same type of
demand through the reminder of the second quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  