-- Orix Considers Ending Moody’s Contract After Downgrade Review
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-05-08T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/orix-considers-ending-moody-s-contract-after-downgrade-review.html
Orix Corp. (8591) , the Japanese financial
firm under review for a three-level downgrade by Moody’s
Investors Service, said it may end its contract with the rating
company because such an assessment wouldn’t reflect Orix’s
business performance.  Chief Financial Officer Haruyuki Urata would ask Moody’s to
withdraw its rating should it go ahead with a cut of that size,
he said yesterday through Orix spokesman Atsushi Horii. Moody’s
said on March 19 that it may lower Orix from the current A3 to
Baa3, the lowest investment grade, to reflect changes to the
rating company’s method for evaluating non-bank financial firms.  Orix plans to sell about 270 billion yen ($3.4 billion) in
 bonds  this year as it grows in  Asia  and the Americas, Urata said
last month. The absence of Moody’s ratings would have little
impact on Orix’s funding because it issues most of its bonds in
yen and domestic investors rely on ratings by Japanese
companies, said Yusuke Ueda, a credit strategist at Bank of
America Corp.  “They should be able to tap a local rating firm like Japan
Credit Rating Agency instead when selling bonds at home and in
 emerging markets ,” Ueda said. “Moody’s downgrading, if
realized, wouldn’t affect Orix’s yen-denominated bond sales or
those in currencies of emerging nations such as  China .”  Tatsuya Inada, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Moody’s,
declined to comment on Urata’s remarks. Moody’s said in March
that its review of Orix and six other Japanese finance companies
will reflect their “standalone” credit quality.  Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd. classes Orix’s debt at A,
the sixth-highest grade, with a stable outlook.  Standard &
Poor’s  has an A- rating for the Tokyo-based company, four levels
above junk, also with a stable outlook.  Bond Sale Plans  Orix plans to sell about 200 billion yen in bonds to
Japanese retail and wholesale investors to replace debt maturing
in the year ending March 2013, Urata said in an April 25
interview. It also aims to sell 70 billion yen in notes
denominated in U.S. and Australian dollars and currencies of
emerging nations including  Malaysia , he said.  The leasing and credit services provider forecasts net
income climbed 15 percent to 77.5 billion yen in the year ended
March 31. It is scheduled to report earnings on May 10. Nine-
month profit rose 35 percent from a year earlier to 68.8 billion
yen, helped by growth in its aviation leasing business abroad.  “It would be a big chance to buy Orix’s bonds if Moody’s
downgrades Orix and it causes a brief sell-off,” Takayuki Atake, chief credit analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., wrote
in a note dated April 27. “A downgrade would be based on
Moody’s rating methodology and have nothing to do with Orix’s
real creditworthiness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 