-- Mortgage Putbacks Must Change, Former Freddie Credit Chief Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-08T21:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/mortgage-putbacks-must-change-former-freddie-credit-chief-says.html
Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  should
charge more to guarantee mortgages if lenders make loans with
underwriting flaws, rather than punish banks after debts default
by demanding repurchases, according to  Freddie Mac (FMCC) ’s former
chief credit officer.  “The way it should be paid for is not through a call on
your balance sheet, but through the price,” said Ray Romano,
who earlier this year joined  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) ’s U.S
mortgage-insurance unit. “What we’ve done as an industry is
we’ve provided investors a put option against changes in
economic conditions for a risk they were supposed to take.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled
mortgage-finance companies that are being supported by
injections of taxpayer capital after being seized in 2008, have
been using so-called putbacks to lessen the costs of their
bailouts amid record foreclosures.  The two companies and their regulator, the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, are aware that repurchases are “potentially
cutting off a really sizable portion of the marketplace” by
pushing lenders to avoid new loans that might default, Romano
said today at a Mortgage Bankers Association conference. That,
in turn, can depress home prices and damage the firms.  One solution would be for  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac to
review samples of new loans for defects, and then offer more
expensive pricing to lenders with error rates that exceed some
benchmark, said Romano, a senior vice president at Genworth.
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHFA are exploring various
approaches to the issue, he said at the event in New York.  Costs to Lenders  Repurchase demands from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and
increased efforts by private investors mean the costs to lenders
aren’t close to subsiding, said Thomas Cronin, a managing
director at Collingwood Group LLC, and Michael Lau, an executive
vice president at Phoenix Capital Inc.  A “secondary” wave of repurchases is set to hit regional
banks and other smaller lenders as bigger banks target the
companies they bought loans from after being forced to bear
losses by the ultimate purchasers of the debt, said Brendan
Keane, a senior vice president in the advisory and valuation
group at CoreLogic Inc. His company works with firms both
pursuing and defending against putbacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 