-- Toshiba Forecasts 83% Profit Increase, Beating Estimates
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-05-08T08:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/toshiba-forecasts-83-profit-increase-beating-estimates.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the world’s second-
largest maker of flash memory chips, predicted profit will rise
83 percent as sales recover from a slump caused by the strong
yen, falling prices and natural disasters.  Net income may increase to 135 billion yen ($1.7 billion)
for the year ending March 31 from 73.7 billion yen for the
previous 12 months, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement
today. The  forecast  was higher than the 127.6 billion-yen
average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Toshiba’s TV business may remain unprofitable this year,
Corporate Executive Vice President Makoto Kubo said today in
Tokyo. The company has also said it will focus on flash memory
used in smartphones and tablet computers, while reorganizing its
less-profitable discrete semiconductors, which are used for
single functions such as transistors.  “To beat the expectations, Toshiba needs to show how it
will improve its flash memory-chip and TV businesses,” Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said before
the announcement. He said the company is expected to “improve”
revenue and profit this year.  Revenue may rise 4.9 percent to 6.4 trillion yen this
fiscal year, Toshiba said, after dropping 4.7 percent last year
as the surging  yen  eroded the value of overseas sales while the
March 11 earthquake in Japan and flooding in  Thailand  disrupted
production. Operating income from electronic devices and power
and industrial systems is projected to rise, the company said.  Nuclear Reactors  The electronics and industrial group, which makes products
from aerospace components and nuclear reactors to  notebook
computers , will benefit should global semiconductor revenue rise
at a faster pace this year as forecast by research company IDC.
Toshiba is also expanding its power-systems business and won
four orders this year for  steam turbines  at power plants in
countries including  India  and  the U.S.   Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
selling, general and administrative expenses, may rise 45
percent to 300 billion yen this fiscal year, Toshiba said.  Toshiba  rose  2.9 percent to 317 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading before the earnings announcement. The stock has advanced
0.6 percent this year, compared with an 8.6 percent gain in
 Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Flash Memory  The company will shut three factories that make discrete
chips in Japan and transfer about 1,700 workers by the end of
September, it said in November.  Semiconductor sales may rise by between 6 percent and 7
percent industrywide this year, IDC  said  April 30. Global chip
revenue rose 3.7 percent to $301 billion in 2011, as demand from
wireless-device makers offset declining revenue from personal
computer manufacturers, IDC said.  Among acquisitions announced last fiscal year, Toshiba took
a 60 percent stake in Swiss electronic-metering company
Landis+Gyr AG to boost its energy management sales. The
chipmaker plans to close its transaction to buy  Western Digital
Corp. (WDC) ’s 3.5-inch hard-disk drive manufacturing equipment this
fiscal year, Toshiba said in March.  Toshiba Tec Corp. (6588) , half owned by Toshiba, will acquire
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s point-of-sale terminal
business for about $850 million, the company said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  