-- Hungarian Stocks Fall, Extend Longest Losing Streak in 9 Months
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-05-08T15:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/otp-bank-declines-second-day-leading-hungarian-stocks-lower.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP)  led Hungarian stocks to
their longest losing streak in nine months as Greece’s biggest
party failed to form an agreement on a new government,
increasing concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will deepen.  Shares in OTP, Hungary’s largest lender, dropped 1.6
percent to 3,648 forint by the close in Budapest. The benchmark
BUX stock  index  retreated 1.4 percent in a fifth day of losses,
the longest series of declines since August.  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) ,
Hungary’s biggest refiner, slumped 0.9 percent to 16,845 forint.  European stocks fell after Greece’s New Democracy leader
Antonis Samaras said he failed to form a coalition government
following the weekend election, passing the opportunity to the
second-biggest party, which has vowed to renegotiate the
conditions for a bailout. French Socialist Francois Hollande’s
election as president added to concern European governments will
ease austerity measures aimed at ending the crisis and data on
U.S. and European labor markets boosted bets the global economy
is weakening.  “It’s due to the negative sentiment, which started with
last week’s U.S. data and on top of that came the French and
Greek election results at the weekend,” Balint Hada, head of
research at Budapest-based broker Quaestor Zrt., wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg on Hungarian shares.  The forint depreciated 0.6 percent to 288.28 per euro by
5:23 p.m. in Budapest, weakening for a fourth day.  Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted eastern member,
has struggled to start talks on a fresh aid package of its own
from the  International Monetary Fund  for more than five months.
The government may not obtain the  credit line  until late summer
or the fall,  Mihaly Varga , Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s chief
of staff, said in a television interview today.  “It’s an important question how long foreign investors’
patience will last,” Hada said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  