-- Paul Ryan Agrees Banks Shouldn’t Trade Like Hedge Funds
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-08T23:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/paul-ryan-agree-banks-shouldn-t-trade-like-hedge-funds.html
We were as surprised as everyone to
hear what U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  told
constituents at a meeting on May 4.  “If you’re a bank and you want to operate like some nonbank
entity like a hedge fund, then  don’t be a bank ,” the House
Budget Committee chairman and the Republicans’ leading policy
wonk said. “Don’t let banks use their customers’ money to do
anything other than traditional banking.”  We agree. Although Ryan didn’t say so, he was endorsing the
Volcker rule in the Dodd-Frank financial reform law. Inspired by
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , the rule is
supposed to stop federally insured banks from making speculative
bets for their own profit -- leaving taxpayers to bail them out
when things go wrong.  Banks have both explicit and implicit federal guarantees,
so the market doesn’t impose the same discipline on them as,
say, hedge funds. For this reason, the Volcker rule should be as
airtight as possible.  Recent Bloomberg News stories about huge trading positions
taken by the London branch of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief
investment office help drive home the point. Operating much like
a hedge fund, the investment office built a position that may
have totaled $100 billion in a credit-derivative index known as
the CDX, which tracks the default risk of a basket of companies.  Skewed Prices  Although their precise size and purpose aren’t known, the
trades -- bets that companies in the index wouldn’t default on
loans -- generated distortions in a $10 trillion market. For a
while, the price of the index actually diverged from the price
of default insurance on the individual companies underlying it.
The skewed values adversely affected investors and others who
relied on the instrument to hedge hundreds of billions of
dollars of bond holdings.  The trades also stirred debate among U.S. policy makers
wrangling over the Volcker rule, complicating the job of
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , who is leading the
industry charge against the rule. Dimon sought to downplay all
the fuss as a tempest in a teapot. If so, it’s a very large
teapot. “It’s a big portfolio,” Dimon said in a conference call
with investors. One sign that the chief investment office may do
more than hedge can be seen in its daily trading risk -- it’s
about the same as JPMorgan’s investment bank, which includes
Wall Street’s biggest stock- and bond-trading units.  In truth, the London trades fall into a gray zone in the
Dodd-Frank law. The act gives regulators discretion to exempt
“risk-mitigating hedging activities” for “individual or
aggregated positions” from the proprietary trading ban. JPMorgan
argues that it was following the letter of the law because its
trades were meant to hedge the bank’s overall portfolio risk. If
the  Federal Reserve  and other bank regulators agree, they could
write a Volcker rule that allows such trading to continue.  We don’t mean to pick on JPMorgan, but such large positions
could be speculation masquerading as market making. (The Volcker
rule permits banks to conduct legitimate market making.) After
all, taking large speculative positions in derivatives markets
is a tempting shortcut to profits and bonuses. Almost any trade
by a large bank could be made to look like a hedge -- and
regulators would be hard-pressed to prove otherwise. The problem
is that giant trading positions can backfire as easily as they
can pay off.  We urge regulators not to view such portfolio-hedging
trades as benign. The final Volcker rule, which could come as
early as this summer, should require banks to put boundaries
around trading activity with a risk profile that includes
estimates of losses under various worst-case scenarios.
Regulators should approve these profiles and have the ability to
monitor compliance.  True Market Making  Regulators could also look at how long a trading desk has
been holding its inventory of securities. The average for a big
market-making operation should be a matter of days. And they
should know what percentage of trades a desk makes with clients,
versus with other securities dealers. If most trades are with
customers, the bank is probably doing true market making.  Overseas regulators are considering alternative approaches
that could work just as well. The U.K. allows banks to conduct
proprietary trading as long as they split their banking and
securities activities into independent, separately capitalized
entities, an approach known as ring-fencing. The European Union
is considering requiring risk profiles and higher  capital
requirements  for securities that aren’t easily sold.  Banks say these rules will impair their ability to act as
market makers in service to clients, harm liquidity in bond
markets, and impose costs that will reduce lending and slow the
economy. What banks don’t mention is that depositors’ money will
be safer, taxpayers won’t have to bail out big banks that suffer
large trading losses, and financial crises and recessions may
occur less often. Even Paul Ryan seems to agree: That’s a lot of
upside.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Greece’s political
deadlock ; Clive Crook  on France and the EU ; William Pesek on
 Asia’s wealth divide ;  Peter Orszag  on the  income swings of high
earners ;  Edward Glaeser  on the  new urban flight ; Ali H. Soufan
on the  USS Cole trial .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 