-- Prince Harry, Peter Westmacott, Jill Biden, Soldiers
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-08T14:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/prince-harry-peter-westmacott-jill-biden-soldiers.html
England’s Prince Harry, on his first
visit to Washington, stopped by the residence of British
Ambassador Peter Westmacott yesterday afternoon.  At the outdoor reception he met Second Lady  Jill Biden 
among the 125 or so guests. The prince, 27, wore a blue suit
and a crown of red hair and looked relaxed. Tomato and cheese
sandwiches were nibbled, tea was sipped.  The son of Prince Charles, he served as a second lieutenant
in the Blues and Royals of the Household Cavalry Regiment in the
Afghan War. Prince Harry chatted with groups of injured American
and British soldiers.  Many of them, including double amputees, participated in
last week’s  Warrior Games  in  Colorado Springs , where wounded
military members compete against one another in Olympic-style
events.  Robin Lineberger, principal for Deloitte Consulting LLP,
admired the “can do” attitude and said that seeing the
soldiers overcome their disabilities made him think twice before
“whining” about his own physical limitations. Deloitte is the
games’ presenting sponsor.  Lineberger was joined by Charlie Huebner, the chief of
paralympics for the U.S. Olympic Committee, Hunter Biden, the
vice president’s son, and architect Leo Daly on the mansion’s
back lawn, which had sprouted tables with dainty floral
arrangements.  ‘Enough Seats?’  “Are there enough seats?”, asked Westmacott, as he talked
to British Private Scott Meenagh.  Corporal Claire Edwards of the British Army had damaged her
femur in  Iraq . She said Warrior Games is a competition where
“we all are equal,” adding that her British teammates did
enjoy giving the “Yank” team a run for their money. She got to
meet the prince but said she avoided “ginger jokes.”  Following remarks by Westmacott, Jill Biden, in a yellow
cardigan and floral dress, praised the prince for his work on
behalf of military families and thanked the soldiers for
“showing us what it looks like to triumph over adversity.”  Before leaving the reception, Prince Harry picked up a
shovel and helped plant a tree on the lawn in honor of his first
visit to the nation’s capital and the queen’s jubilee
celebration year.  The prince went on to the  Washington  Ritz-Carlton, where he
received the Atlantic Council’s 2012 Distinguished Humanitarian
Leadership Award for his work on behalf of injured servicemen.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
and  Richard Vines  on food.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 