-- Promise Meets Poverty in Plastic-Free Asia Tiger Wannabe
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-05-08T23:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/promise-meets-poverty-in-plastic-free-asia-tiger-wannabe.html
On landing in Myanmar, prepare to
travel back in time, cut off from the rest of the world. Your
smart phones won’t work here, and your plastic is no good.  I experienced the effects that years of international
sanctions have had on this former military dictatorship that is
turning its back on North Korea and its face toward democracy.
My pockets lined with cash, I tried to rent a local mobile phone
at the airport, only to have the saleswoman reject my $100 bills
one-by-one because they were not “new” and showed folds,
creases, crinkles or other negligible imperfections.  Feeling destitute, though resolving to spruce up my  paper
money  with an iron at the hotel, I hitched a ride in a taxi with
one of a constant stream of predatory Western businessmen
spilling into Myanmar’s nascent metropolis, bragging along the
way about how they will make a killing off the next Asian Tiger.  Driving past a landscape where billboards for Seoul-based
 Samsung (005930)  cast long shadows over ramshackle noodle stands off an
unpaved road, there is a palpable sense of a country on the cusp
of a Gold Rush. As I arrive at Traders, one of a handful of
hotels that boast of providing Wi-Fi, the bar in the lobby was
crowded with businessmen hatching deals.  I have an afternoon to acclimatize before joining the
bubble of reporters, mostly from Bangkok, who are piggy-backing
on United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s third trip to
Myanmar to set foot in a country where journalists’ visas are
still hard to get.  Colonial Rangoon  So I embark on a stroll to Yangon’s historic Strand hotel,
a relic of the British colonial era where a room costs $400 a
night in a country where the average wage is $1 a day. In the
immediate surroundings, tree branches sprout from the windows of
what must once have been Europeans’ stately homes. The  effect
of lush decrepitude and bubbling outdoor commerce is reminiscent
of  Vietnam  before its economic surge. What is striking is the
absence of scooters, so ubiquitous elsewhere in  Southeast Asia .  The cheeks of many Burmese women bear the marks of a
yellowish paste they rub on their face for protection from the
sun. Most men wear longyi, sheets of colored, often intricate
cloth casually folded at the waist and running down to their
feet.  The next day, I am achingly jet-lagged, my body still on
New York time, as I board a UN plane and fly to Myanmar’s
capital, Naypyidaw, which means Royal City of the Sun. It lacks
any of the true splendor of the ancient temples of Pagan or the
former royal capital of Mandalay farther north that transport
visitors to the Land of the Golden Pagodas. A fellow journalist
in the motorcade describes it as a cross between Xanadu and
Legoland.  Bad Taste  The instant city was built at breakneck speed, fueled
partly by a burst of paranoia when the ruling generals decided
to retreat 322 kilometers (200 miles) inland -- to the hottest
spot in the country -- to deter an invasion, mindful that the
British conquered  Burma  by sea in the 19th Century. Also aware
of public discontent in Yangon, a city of 4 million, the
generals left for their new capital in 2005.  In Naypyidaw, ministries are miles apart, separated by
green expanses, golf being the signature sport of the country’s
1 percenters.  Along a deserted concrete highway, a solitary
figure directing non-existent traffic waves us into the
presidential palace, erected on neoclassic columns capped with
gold and surrounded by an artificial moat with a fountain,
bridges and hundreds of transplanted trees and shrubs.  Nascent Transformation  I am curious to see President  Thein Sein , 67, the ex-
general who’s spearheading Burma’s nascent transformation from
military dictatorship to wannabe democracy. Dwarfed in a room as
big as two tennis courts, with human-sized vases overflowing
with fake flowers, he seems courteous yet inconspicuous as he
greets the visiting VIPs, though I am quickly ushered out before
I can form any lasting impression.  This is a city built on a scale that expects greatness, yet
it looks more like an abandoned lunar colony. A 20-lane highway
the size of an airport runway leads to a vacant sprawl of 31
red, green and yellow pagoda-like buildings. This is the new
parliament.  Inside the vast assembly hall, rows of high-ranking
military officers occupy a quarter of the seats on the far
right, a reminder of the power the army still wields in a
country that spent decades in the grip of generals who looked to
 China  and  North Korea  for inspiration.  ‘The Lady’  After addressing the lawmakers, many of whom look lost and
unclear about their duties, Ban returned to Yangon to meet for
the first time with  Aung San Suu Kyi , whom authorities barred
him from seeing in 2009. It’s a first for me, too. I freely
admit that I was nervous about seeing Burma’s  Nelson Mandela .  To prepare for the occasion, I had devoured a copy of “The
Lady and the Peacock,” Peter Popham’s timely biography of the
Nobel Peace Prize laureate. I was delighted to discover that
though she was educated at Oxford, she had been awarded a third-
class honors degree, just as I was, and had spent a few years in
 New York  doing low-level work at the UN under Secretary-General
U Thant, a fellow Burmese. Somehow, all this made this living
democracy icon seem within reach.  Still, nothing prepared me for standing a few meters from
Burma’s most revered person, known simply as the “The Lady.”
The white lakeside colonial home where she was confined for 15
years has an effortless grace and beauty, much as she does,
despite the fact that parts of it are visibly run down.  Father’s Daughter  Decamped to her garden, sweating profusely under a canopy,
the media circus waited for Suu Kyi, recently elected to
parliament, to emerge. I had muscled my way into the house with
the camera spray to catch a glimpse of a reluctant celebrity,
dressed simply with a white flower in her hair. A portrait of
her father, a general who fought for Burma’s independence from
the British in the 1940s, was in the background, along with a
miniature Statue of Liberty.  Though frail looking and advancing in years, Suu Kyi, 66,
exudes a quiet fortitude. She is barred by the constitution from
becoming president because she was married to an Englishman, and
it’s unclear who will fill her shoes in 2015 elections. After
years in the political wilderness, the biggest challenge her
party faces is formulating an economic policy that transcends
its battle cry for democracy.  With all the talk of change, it’s hard not to share the
frustration of the everyday Burmese. Over the course of two days
of interviews with residents ranging from aspiring garment
workers to computer entrepreneurs, the common complaint was that
there is no foundation on which to build a modern economy. Where
are Burma’s roads, electricity, schools, hospitals, even water
supply?  Rich in Gems, Timber  Talking to people in the street, from a maker of hand-woven
tissue holders to an importer of Revlon cosmetics, I got the
uncomfortable feeling that average workers have paid the price
for being shunned by the outside world, not the aging junta
leaders the West sought to punish with blanket sanctions, asset
freezes and travel bans.  I consider the challenges that Burma, endowed with gems and
timber, will face as it tries to emulate its booming Asian
neighbors. The country is just beginning to write this new
chapter in its history, and it, too, will have to find its own
path toward embracing new economic opportunities without losing
sight of its rich heritage.  On my final day, I lost my mobile phone and my Burmese
interpreter offered to call my number to locate it. Accustomed
to New York, I told him not to bother, though he went ahead
anyway.  I was wrong. A  taxi driver  drove an hour out of his way to
return the phone.  Perhaps this was a sign that the character of the Burmese
people will prove my Western cynicism wrong in a land rich not
only in natural resources, but now also in hope.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Myanmar at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  