-- Prudential Sues Morgan Stanley Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-08T17:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/prudential-sues-morgan-stanley-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-
largest U.S. life insurer, sued Morgan Stanley over the purchase
of $1 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, made
untrue statements and omitted material facts before Prudential
bought RMBS certificates issued with 41 mortgage-loan
securitizations from July 2004 to August 2007, according to the
complaint filed in state court in Newark, New Jersey.  “A high percentage of the mortgage loans backing the
certificates have defaulted, been foreclosed upon, or are
delinquent,” according to the complaint. Poor loan performance
“caused a massive decline in the value of the certificates and
Prudential investment losses in excess of $350 million.”  The bank falsely claimed mortgages met underwriting
guidelines, homes securing loans were legitimately appraised,
and the bank properly transferred titles, according to the
complaint filed April 25. Pools of home loans securitized into
bonds were a central part of the housing bubble that helped send
the U.S. into the biggest recession since the 1930s.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New York-based
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , and  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Newark-based
Prudential, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Saxon Review  Morgan Stanley faced similar lawsuits in recent months from
investors including Asset Management Fund, Bayerische Landesbank
and  MetLife Inc. (MET)  On April 3, the  Federal Reserve  ordered the
bank to review foreclosures conducted by its Saxon mortgage
servicer before the unit was sold and compensate injured
borrowers.  Prudential claims Morgan Stanley violated the New Jersey
Uniform Securities Law, engaged in common law fraud and
negligent misrepresentation, and interfered with the insurer’s
contractual rights. It seeks compensatory and punitive damages.  The case is Prudential v. Morgan Stanley, L-3080-12,
Superior Court of New Jersey, Essex County ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  