-- Putin Entices Oil Investors to Bankroll Kremlin Return: Energy
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-05-08T17:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/putin-entices-oil-investors-to-bankroll-kremlin-return-energy.html
President  Vladimir Putin  has begun
revamping  Russia ’s petroleum taxes to increase government
revenue in his third term and maintain oil and gas flows that
underpin his power atop the world’s largest energy exporter.  He proposed the first tax breaks for pumping unconventional
reserves such as shale oil at a meeting with energy officials
four days before being sworn in yesterday. While shale is
booming in the U.S., such harder-to-extract unconventional
reserves in Russia provide just 4 percent of total production.  The incentives boost ventures planned with Western oil
companies whose technology is needed by state-owned oil producer
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  to help Russia’s $1.5 trillion economy grow. As
these projects may take years to deliver their first crude,
Putin proposed a separate tax change to bring in more immediate
income -- raising taxes as much as fourfold on natural gas,
hitting the thousands of wells that are already producing.  “The increased gas taxes and fiscal incentives for
unconventional oilfields are all geared to one end -- to get the
maximum out of the energy sector for the state coffers both in
the short and long term,” Lilit Gevorgyan, a Russia analyst at
IHS Global Insight in  London , said by e-mail.  Last month, as premier, Putin granted a separate group of
tax breaks to offshore energy projects that have since coaxed
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and Statoil ASA to form alliances
with Rosneft, whose stock trades below its 2006 sale price.  While international oil companies may gain more access to
Russia’s natural resources in Putin’s new administration, his
return to the Kremlin pushed thousands of protesters onto the
streets of Moscow a day before the inauguration, which
opposition leader Sergei Udaltsov called “illegitimate.”  Wave of Protests  The protests followed a wave of rallies against the results
of the Dec. 4 parliamentary election, which was marred by
complaints of vote-rigging. Putin won the vote on March 4 to
return to the presidential office for a third term.  Oil and gas together contribute about 17 percent of gross
domestic product and half of Russia’s  federal budget  revenue,
according to government estimates. Oil production increased less
than 2 percent annually during the last two years after rising
3.1 percent in 2009, according to  Energy Ministry data .  Putin, 59, returned to the Kremlin seeking a balance
between carrying out social promises made during the election
campaign and luring new investment into energy assets as Soviet-
era fields and infrastructure mature. New fields in the Arctic
and harder-to-extract reserves in Siberia are more costly and
need newer technology.  Exxon, Eni Deals  Within the past month Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil
producer, signed exploration deals with Exxon, Eni and Statoil,
putting stakes in foreign projects within reach for the Moscow-
based producer that wants international reserves to boost value.  Rosneft’s  shares  traded in Russia have lost 9.7 percent
this year, compared with gains of 14 percent and 16 percent
respectively for Russian and Chinese  oil companies  OAO Lukoil
and Cnooc Ltd. Italy’s Eni advanced 3.2 percent in the period,
and Exxon lost 1.9 percent. Repsol YPF SA, whose Argentine unit
was expropriated, fell 42 percent.  “Now that Russian electioneering is done, international
deals appear to be the first order of business, offering more
hope for international oil companies in offshore development,”
Julia Nanay of PFC Energy said in a May 3 research note.
“Russia may need even more foreign oil investment now to
generate revenues for the populist pledges of Putin’s
campaign.”  Social Spending  Putin may seek to boost social spending to fulfill promises
made during his campaign that coincided with a wave of protests
following parliamentary elections won by his party  United Russia .
He vowed to boost pensions and salaries for state workers and
the military, pledges that will contribute to a 4.8 trillion-
ruble ($160 billion) increase in spending through 2018,
according to estimates by Capital Economics Ltd.  With petroleum prices high, oil and gas revenue amounted to
5.64 trillion rubles of the budget revenue of 11.37 trillion
rubles last year, according to the  Finance Ministry .  In his push for tax incentives, Putin said in May 3 the
measures will help Russia “play even bigger role on global
energy markets.” Putin’s predecessor,  Dmitry Medvedev , has
called reliance on raw materials “humiliating” and
“primitive,” in his four-year push to focus on development of
high-technology industries.  Crude oil, refined products and natural gas made up 67
percent of Russian exports last year, up from 49 percent in 2000,
according to a presentation by the Agency for Strategic
Initiatives prepared for the government.  Levy Quadrupled  With aging traditional fields in western Siberia and
production at Rosneft’s new offshore ventures years ahead, the
government shifted the tax burden on the gas sector by doubling
the mineral extraction tax for OAO Gazprom, state-run gas
exporter, and quadrupling the levy for its smaller independent
rivals from July 1, 2015.  “This will help Putin in the short term,” Gevorgyan said.  Gazprom’s tax rate will reach 1,062 rubles ($35) per 1,000
cubic meters of gas, or about $1 per 1 million of British
thermal units. That’s nearly half of U.S. natural gas prices,
which dropped to an intraday low of $1.902 per million British
thermal units on April 19 and traded at about $2.34 yesterday.  Proposed measures, while convenient at the start of Putin’s
new six-year regime, may not be sufficient to overhaul the
energy sector and maintain production levels.  “It is unclear if the returning president will initiate a
long overdue reform of the energy sector’s tax regime,”
Gevorgyan said. “One of the changes needed in this respect is a
move from production-based tax to profit-based tax.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  