-- Trader Kupersmith Pleads Guilty to Fraud in New York
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-08T20:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/trader-kupersmith-pleads-guilty-to-fraud-in-new-york.html
Scott Kupersmith, who was charged with
taking part in a scheme involving $60 million in illegal stock
trades, pleaded guilty to fraud and grand larceny in  New York ,
according to the  Manhattan  district attorney’s office.  In April, Kupersmith’s lawyer said he planned to enter the
plea. Prosecutors said Kupersmith, 47, used assumed identities
to create five shell companies employed in the scheme and
defrauded at least six broker-dealers of more than $830,000.  Kupersmith pleaded guilty to grand larceny in the first and
second degrees, and scheme to defraud in the first degree
yesterday, said Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. Kupersmith set up and
controlled companies including Northbrae Capital Group Inc.,
Fullerton Capital Group Inc., and Oxford Smith Advisors LLC,
according to court records.  Kupersmith, of  Boca Raton ,  Florida , and formerly of Alpine,
 New Jersey , was arrested in Florida in October after a joint
investigation by the U.S. attorney’s office in New Jersey and
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to court
documents and a  statement  from Vance’s office. He’s in federal
custody in Essex County, New Jersey.  ‘Free-Riding’  Kupersmith and others are accused of taking part in a
scheme known as “free-riding,” where a customer buys or sells
securities in a brokerage account without having the money or
securities to pay for them, according to a court document filed
by federal prosecutors in New Jersey.  “Free-riders” typically cover their purchases by buying
shares of the same security on the same day through another
firm, and attempt to profit from short-term price changes
without putting personal assets at risk, according to the court
filing.  He hasn’t pleaded in the federal case yet, according to
Vance’s office.  Kupersmith and associates opened more than three dozen
brokerage accounts in 2008 and 2009, prosecutors said in the
court filing. He traded securities including shares of  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU) , the owner of  China ’s dominant search engine, and  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , the parent company of the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
prosecutors said.  Broker-Dealers  He bought about $64 million worth of securities, and made
more than $1.2 million through the illegal trades, according to
a statement from Vance’s office. The broker-dealers, which
include Morgan Keegan & Co., William Blair & Co. and JPMorgan
Securities LLC, lost more than $830,000, Vance’s office has
said.  Kupersmith also solicited investors for a hedge fund he
claimed to control, telling them it had an annual return of
about 30 percent and that he had personally made more than
$1 million in the past year, prosecutors said. He told investors
their principal was guaranteed, and told at least one potential
investor that he would get a return of about 43 percent every
three months.  The New York case is People v. Kupersmith, 04360-2011, New
York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan). The federal cases are U.S.
v. Kupersmith, 11-mj-03750, and Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Kupersmith, 11-cv-06277, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  