-- Rand Drops to 3-Week Low, Yields Rise as Road Agency Head Quits
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-08T13:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/rand-drops-as-greece-government-negotiations-damp-risk-appetite.html
The rand declined to a three-week low
and bond yields rose after the head of the national roads agency
resigned amid concern the government will have to pay the body’s
debts, adding to the country’s fiscal deficit.  South Africa ’s currency retreated as much as 1.2 percent to
7.8917, the weakest level since April 17. It traded 1.1 percent
weaker at 7.8822 per dollar as 3:27 p.m. in Johannesburg, the
worst performer among emerging-market currencies monitored by
Bloomberg. The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
climbed five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.65
percent, the highest since May 1.  Nazir Alli resigned as chief executive of the South African
National Roads Agency Ltd. today after the Pretoria High Court
last month prevented Sanral, as the agency is known, from
starting electronic tolling on 185 kilometers (115 miles) of
roads around Johannesburg after consumer and labor groups pushed
for a delay. The halt increases the likelihood that the
government will have to repay 20 billion rand ($2.6 billion) of
the agency’s debt.  “In the longer term this might have an impact on the
credit quality of government, and it might have a negative
impact on our sovereign ratings,” Michael Grobler, an analyst
at Afrifocus Securities in Cape Town, said by phone. “The
 ratings agencies  keep referring to political risks, this might
add to those.”  South Africa will help Sanral meet its debt obligations for
the next six to seven months, with the National Treasury having
to redirect funds toward it, Director General Lungisa Fuzile
told lawmakers in Cape Town today. The government can “never
walk away” from Sanral’s liability, he said.  “This makes you wonder about stability in other areas,”
Ian Cruickshanks, head of strategic research at Nedbank Group
Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone. “It reflects on the
government, and it has an impact on sentiment.”  Credit Rating  South Africa’s credit-rating outlook was cut to negative by
 Standard & Poor’s  in March because of slower economic growth and
a risk the government may not be able to control spending.  Fitch
Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service have lowered their
outlooks since November.  The rand also weakened as  Greece ’s political leaders meet
for a second day in a bid to form a government following an
election that raised concern about the nation’s euro membership.  As voters across  Europe  rebel against austerity measures
imposed to stamp out the debt crisis, Citigroup Inc. said
yesterday the risk of Greece leaving the euro by the end of 2013
has risen as high as 75 percent. New Democracy leader Antonis
Samaras said he failed to forge an agreement to form a Greek
government after weekend elections. The attempt will pass to
Alexis Tsipras, the head of Syriza, the second-biggest party,
which has vowed to cancel bailout terms for the nation.  ‘Debt Crisis’  “This has all the makings of the next leg to the euro zone
debt crisis,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based
ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today. “If history is
anything to go by, it could usher in fresh bouts of volatility
on global risk markets. The rand’s vulnerability might very well
translate into a dollar rally.”  The euro declined against the yen after French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s preferred
partner for enforcing debt reductions, was defeated by Socialist
Francois Hollande. The euro region buys 22 percent of South
Africa’s exports.  The rand stayed weaker after the central bank reported that
the nation’s gross gold and foreign currency reserves fell 1.5
percent to $49.9 billion in April.  The South African  Reserve Bank  doesn’t target a level for
the rand and won’t intervene in  currency markets  to weaken or
strengthen the currency, Governor Gill Marcus said yesterday.
The rand may be moderately overvalued at current levels, Marcus
said, without giving an estimate of overvaluation.  “There is an incorrect perception that the Reserve Bank
attempts to keep the  exchange rate  strong in order to help with
inflation,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  