-- Rangers Beat Capitals 3-2 in Overtime as Coyotes Win NHL Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-08T04:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/rangers-beat-capitals-3-2-in-overtime-as-coyotes-win-nhl-series.html
The  New York Rangers  beat the
Washington Capitals 3-2 in overtime, taking advantage of a late
high-sticking penalty to score the tying and winning goals in
their National Hockey League playoff game.  The Rangers, seconds away from falling behind three-games-
to-two in the best-of-seven first round series, tied the game on
 Brad Richards ’s power-play goal at the 19:53 mark of the third
period. It was the latest the Rangers have ever scored a tying
goal in the postseason.  Richards knocked in a rebound 15 seconds after Washington’s
Joel Ward was given a four-minute double minor for a high stick
to Carl Hagelin’s face that drew blood. Ward was still in the
penalty box when Marc Staal ripped a slapshot over the shoulder
of Capitals goaltender Braden Holtby 1:35 into the overtime
period at  New York ’s Madison Square Garden.  “In overtime, it’s a kick in the gut when you lose it
because it happens so quickly and it’s pretty exciting when you
win it,” Rangers coach  John Tortorella  said.  The Rangers now have a 3-2 lead in the series and can
advance to the Eastern Conference finals with a Game 6 victory
on May 9 in Washington. The past four games in the series have
been decided by one goal.  “It’s not over yet,” Capitals forward  Alex Ovechkin  told
reporters. “We were so close, but not close enough.”  Derek Morris and Martin Hanzal scored for Phoenix as the
Coyotes moved into the Western Conference finals with a 2-1
victory over the  Nashville Predators  last night.  The Coyotes won their series 4-1 and next face the Los
Angeles Kings for a spot in the Stanley Cup finals.  Rangers Pull Out Win  The Rangers took a 1-0 lead last night on a first-period
goal by Anton Stralman before Brooks Laich got the equalizer for
the Capitals midway through the second period. John Carlson then
put the visitors ahead 4:20 into the final period.  After the Rangers pulled goaltender  Henrik Lundqvist  for an
extra skater in the final minute, Ward was sent off when his
stick hit Hagelin in the mouth during a faceoff in front of the
Capitals’ net. With the home crowd chanting “Let’s go
Rangers,” New York won the faceoff and  Ryan Callahan  had two
shots stopped by Holtby before Richards slid the loose puck past
the  Washington  goaltender with 6.6 seconds left.  “To be able to get that one for them and hear the Garden
explode -- I haven’t heard it that loud since I’ve been here,”
Callahan said.  The top-seeded Rangers, who were eliminated from the
playoffs by the Capitals in 2009 and 2011, are seeking to reach
the conference finals for the first time since 1997.  The Capitals have lost nine of 11 playoff series when
trailing three games to two.  Tonight, the  New Jersey Devils  can reach the conference
finals with a Game 5 win against the Flyers in Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  