-- RBC’s Nixon Says ‘Transformational’ Purchases Hard to Do
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-05-08T20:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/rbc-s-nixon-says-transformational-purchases-hard-to-do.html
Gordon Nixon , chief executive officer
of  Royal Bank of Canada , said he doesn’t expect the bank to make
many “transformational” acquisitions.  Nixon said regulatory hurdles and “the overall
marketplace” will make it more difficult for  Canada ’s biggest
bank by assets to achieve the same pace of acquisitions it did
from 2000 to 2008.  “We will still look at making acquisitions that we view as
strategic,” Nixon, 55, said today at the Bloomberg Canada
Economic Summit in Toronto.  Canada’s six-largest lenders have spent about $40 billion
worldwide buying bank assets in the past five years, taking
advantage of their relative strength. Some global banks,
weakened by a financial slump and European sovereign debt
crisis, have been forced to sell businesses to meet higher
 capital requirements  under new global banking rules.  Nixon also said a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service
“would not have a material impact” on being able to arrange
financing for clients.  Moody’s said Feb. 15 it may cut Royal Bank’s  credit rating 
as much as two levels, as part of a review of 17 global banks
and securities firms. Moody’s put the ratings of the 17 firms
under review in February because the companies “face challenges
that are not fully captured in their current rankings.”  Less Rhetoric  Nixon also said Canada’s real estate and housing markets
are in “reasonable shape” and he’d like to see less
“rhetoric” on a market correction.  “We feel pretty good about the housing market,” Nixon
said. “When we look at the overall marketplace, there might be
pockets of vulnerability but we remain quite comfortable.”  Nixon also said people still have the ability to make
mortgage payments, despite historically high consumer debt
levels, as long as the  Bank of Canada  maintains balanced
policies.  “As long as  interest rates  are low they can service those
levels, but if you start to get a significant increase in
interest rates, or increasing in things like unemployment, it
wouldn’t be a good thing,” Nixon said. “I think ensuring that
the appropriate balance is kept in check is good policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  