-- Treasury Yields Reach 3-Month Lows After Auction Demand
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-05-08T21:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/treasuries-remain-higher-on-3-year-note-auction-demand.html
Treasuries rose, with yields falling
to a three-month low, as  Greece ’s struggle to form a government
bolstered demand at a $32 billion U.S. three-year note auction
to the highest level since January.  The bid-to-cover ratio on the notes, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.65. Thirty-year bond yields touched the lowest level since
February as Greece faced the prospect of becoming the first
developed nation to default on its debt, two months after
forcing through the biggest-ever sovereign bond restructuring.
The U.S. will sell $24 billion in 10-year notes tomorrow and $16
billion of bonds the next day.  “It’s the risk-aversion trade,” said  Brian Edmonds , head
of  interest rates  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “The
market was well bid on fears out of  Europe .”  The  yield  on the current three-year note fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.36 percent, at 4:59 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The
0.375 percent securities maturing in April 2015 rose 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 2/32.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year  note  fell three basis
points to 1.84 percent, after touching the least since Feb. 3.
Thirty-year bond yields lost three basis points to 3.03, also
reaching the lowest level since Feb. 3.  ‘Ham-on-Rye’  Valuation measures show Treasuries are near the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.75 percent, close to
the most expensive level ever of 0.79 percent reached on Feb. 2.
A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  The securities sold today drew a yield of 0.362 percent,
compared with a forecast of 0.365 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven of the Fed’s primary dealers.  “It’s ham-on-rye,” said  Thomas Roth , senior trader in  New
York  at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “Given what’s going
on with Europe again, there was pretty good demand. With fear
out there, it’s probably a good point for people to put their
money. At least you know you are getting it back.”  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 35.7 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 37.5 percent for the past 10 sales.  Auction Detail  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 11.2 percent of
the notes at the sale, the most since November and compared with
an average of 10.3 percent for the past 10 auctions.  Three-year notes have returned 0.2 percent this year,
compared with a 0.4 percent gain for Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Treasury is selling $72 billion in notes and bonds this
week. The sales will raise $35.3 billion of new cash as maturing
securities held by the public total $36.7 billion, according to
the  U.S. Treasury .  “Tens and bonds are riskier on the curve,” said Roth of
Mitsubishi UFJ. “If you are just looking to park money, you are
not doing it in the 10-year or the bond.” The yield curve
measures the difference between short- and long-term interest
rates.  Greece Politics  Treasuries were supported as Greece’s political leaders are
struggling to form a coalition government after voters turned to
anti-bailout parties at the May 6 election, calling into
question the country’s ability to impose the measures needed to
guarantee its future in the euro.  Alexis Tsipras, whose Syriza party placed second in Greek
elections on May 6, said he would forge ahead with plans to form
a coalition government of left-wing parties after he was handed
the mandate by President Karolos Papoulias.  The difference between the 10-year  swap rate  and the yield
on similar-maturity  U.S. debt  widened to as much as 15.75 basis
points, the most since Jan. 13. Swap rates are usually higher
than Treasury yields in part because the floating payments are
based on interest rates that contain credit risk. Swap rates
serve as benchmarks for investors in many types of debt,
including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  Treasuries investors reduced bets the securities will
advance and raised neutral positions to the highest in a month,
according to a weekly survey by JPMorgan.  The proportion of “net longs” was cut to zero from six
percentage points last week as the level of outright longs
dropped to equal the level of outright shorts that was unchanged
at 17 percent. A long position is a bet that an asset will
increase in value, while a short is a wager it will decrease.  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.25 percent by the end of
the second quarter, according to analysts’ forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. They will rise to 2.52 percent by year-end, a
separate survey shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  