-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Falls 3-Month Low on Greece Boost
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-08T15:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/treasuries-snap-gain-before-three-debt-sales-this-week.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields to the lowest level since February, as Greek leaders
struggled to form a government, underscoring political risk in
the euro region and adding demand for the safest assets.  The 30-year bond yield touched the lowest level since
February as  Greece  faced the prospect of becoming the first
developed nation to default on its debt, two months after
forcing through the biggest-ever sovereign bond restructuring.
Three-year note yields also approached a three-month low as the
government prepared to sell $32 billion of the securities in the
first of three note auctions this week totaling $72 billion.  “The problem is there’s no resolution to any of these
things happening in  Europe ,” said Tom Tucci, head of Treasury
trading in New York at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
“Rates are going to stay here for a long period of time. People
keep insisting these yield levels aren’t sustainable, yet we
continue to move to higher prices every day.”  The 10-year  yield  fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 1.81 percent at 10:24 a.m.  New York  time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note due February
2022 advanced 1/2, or $5 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 21/32.
The yield declined to the lowest since Feb. 3.  The yield on the 30-year bond dropped six basis points to 3
percent.  Valuation Measures  Valuation measures show Treasuries rose to near the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the  Federal Reserve , touched negative 0.75
percent, close to the most expensive level ever of 0.79 percent
reached on Feb. 2. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  “The market is concerned about the risks and the stability
of Europe,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at
CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The difference between the 10-year  swap rate  and the yield
on similar-maturity  U.S. debt  widened to as much as 14.25 basis
points, the most since Jan. 17. Swap rates are usually higher
than Treasury yields in part because the floating payments are
based on  interest rates  that contain credit risk. Swap rates
serve as benchmarks for investors in many types of debt,
including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The Fed bought $4.7 billion in notes maturing from May 2018
to April 2019 today as part of its program known as Operation
Twist to replace shorter-term debt with longer-term securities.  Greek Politics  Greece’s political leaders are struggling to form a
coalition government after voters turned to anti-bailout parties
at the May 6 election, calling into question the country’s
ability to impose the measures needed to guarantee its future in
the euro. Alexis Tsipras, whose Syriza party placed second in
Greek elections on May 6, said he would forge ahead with plans
to form a coalition government of left-wing parties after he was
handed the mandate by President Karolos Papoulias.  The gain in Treasuries was tempered before this week’s
supply. In addition to today’s three-year auction, the
government will sell $24 billion of 10-year debt tomorrow and
$16 billion of 30-year bonds on May 10.  Three-year yields were little changed at 0.36 percent after
falling to 0.35 percent yesterday, the lowest since Feb. 8.  Debt Sale  The securities scheduled for sale today yielded 0.38
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.427 percent the
previous time the notes were sold on April 10. Investors bid for
3.36 times the amount of available debt last month. The average
over for the past 10 sales is 3.38.  “We haven’t been able to price in any meaningful
concession for this week’s auctions,” Lyngen of CRT Capital
said. “The three-year most likely won’t require much. It’s not
a difficult issue to take down.”  Three-year notes have returned 0.2 percent this year, while
10-year securities advanced 1 percent, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. Thirty-year bonds, which are among the most
sensitive to inflation because of their long maturity, tumbled
2.3 percent.  Treasuries investors reduced bets the securities will
advance and raised neutral positions to the highest in a month,
according to a weekly survey by JPMorgan.  Net Bets  The proportion of “net longs” was cut to zero from six
percentage points last week as the level of outright longs
dropped to equal the level of outright shorts that was unchanged
at 17 percent. A long position is a bet that an asset will
increase in value, while a short is a wager it will decrease.  Ten-year notes  yield  1.6 percentage points more than the
upper end of the Fed’s target range for overnight bank loans,
the smallest difference in three months, based on closing
prices. The average over the past five years is 2.08 percentage
points.  “The market is very expensive,” said Kei Katayama, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $62 billion in  Tokyo  at Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest securities
company. “If the European situation clears up, then Treasury
prices should correct.”  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.25 percent by the end of
the second quarter, according to analysts’ forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. They will rise to 2.52 percent by year-end, a
separate survey shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  