-- Regeneron’s Arcalyst Fails to Win Panel Backing for Gout
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-08T20:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/regeneron-s-arcalyst-fails-to-win-panel-backing-for-gout.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  failed
to win the backing of advisers to the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  to expand the use of the autoinflammatory drug
Arcalyst to include patients undergoing gout treatments.  An advisory panel voted 11-0 against approval of the
injection, citing inadequate safety data, at a meeting today in
 Silver Spring ,  Maryland . The  FDA  isn’t required to follow the
panel’s recommendations. Arcalyst was cleared for sale in
February 2008 to treat a rare genetic autoinflammatory disease.  The proposed expanded use of the medication is meant to
help patients stay on gout treatments that can cause painful
flares of joint pain. FDA staff raised concerns in a May 4
 report  that Arcalyst’s benefit may be too small to justify a 1
in 244 risk of developing cancer. Arcalyst was linked to six
cases of malignancies, including prostate and breast cancers.  “There is a role for this drug or this type of drug,”
Lenore Buckley, the chairwoman of the panel and a professor of
internal medicine and pediatrics at Virginia Commonwealth
University School of Medicine in Richmond, said after the vote.
“I just don’t think we have the data yet.”  The FDA has until July 30 to decide on expanded approval
for Arcalyst, which would add $128 million to $200 million to
Regeneron’s annual sales of the drug by 2015, according to two
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The drug  generated  $20
million last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regeneron  rose  less than 1 percent to $130.93 at the close
in  New York . The shares have more than doubled this year.  FDA Discussions  The panel voted 6-5 that Arcalyst works to treat gout
flares and 8-3 that Regeneron’s safety data on the treatment is
inadequate.  “We are disappointed by the committee’s recommendation,”
Tarrytown, New York-based Regeneron said in a statement. “We
look forward to further discussions with the FDA.”  The medicine is meant to be taken for 16 weeks and
Regeneron only studied the drug for that long. Panel members
said cancer isn’t typically associated with a drug such as
Arcalyst and want the company to do a longer study to rule out a
risk. The panel also wanted to see longer study because some
patients likely will use the drug for more than 16 weeks, which
Regeneron said is the most-vulnerable period for gout flares.  Regeneron can’t police how long doctors prescribe and
patients use the treatment, David Blumenthal, a panel member and
assistant professor of medicine at  Case Western Reserve
University  in  Cleveland , said at the meeting.  Patient Options  Patients in the placebo group experienced a mean of about
one gout flare each over the 16-week treatment period compared
with a mean of 0.29 to 0.35 per patient taking Arcalyst. FDA
staff also said that Regeneron conducted studies on patients
capable of taking other treatments including anti-inflammatories
and colchicine.  The panel said Regeneron should possibly limit Arcalyst’s
use to patients who can’t take the other therapies.  “There is a small population” that can’t use the other
treatment,  Tuhina Neogi , associate professor of medicine and
epidemiology at the Boston University School of Medicine and a
panel member, said during the meeting. “There is an unmet need,
but I don’t feel comfortable in the entire gout population.”  Gout treatments include  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Uloric
and a generic version allopurinol. They lower levels of uric
acid, or bodily waste, that cause gout in excess levels, which
manifests through joint pain, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . Regeneron is seeking approval of Arcalyst
to prevent gout flares for people initiating uric-acid lowering
therapies.  Allopurinol breaks up uric acid crystals that can cause
flares of joint pain that may lead patients to stop taking their
medication, the company said. About 750,000 gout patients begin
taking allopurinol each year, according to Regeneron.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  