-- Richard Lugar Was Too Polite for Today’s Republicans
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-05-08T23:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/richard-lugar-was-too-polite-for-today-s-republicans.html
Republican moderates are no longer a
dying breed. With Tuesday’s defeat of Senator  Richard Lugar  of
Indiana, they are dead.  Known as  Richard Nixon ’s favorite mayor when he ran
Indianapolis back in the 1970s, this rock-solid Republican is no
longer Republican enough. As defined by the Tea Party, Lugar was
“ Obama’s favorite senator ,” a reference to Lugar’s welcome to
the newbie from  Illinois  in 2005. Of course, Lugar voted against
most of his “friend’s” agenda,  including  against President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, but never mind.  In the Tea Party’s  Republican Party , it is no longer enough
to vote conservatively. You must have the demeanor of a zealot.  The man who defeated Lugar, Indiana State Treasurer Richard Mourdock, is purity itself. Not for him to dignify a Democrat by
talking to him. He loves the  “broken” version  of Congress:
ideologically extreme, scornful of compromise, unmoved by facts
or evidence, dismissive of the legitimacy of its political
opposition. Mourdock is not one to let cooperation darken his
door. “I feel more frustrated with Republicans than Democrats,”
 he says . “It is not bipartisanship we need. It is principle.”  The Lugar-Mourdock race was the  Tea Party ’s marquee contest
this cycle, the one that promised annihilation of an infidel.
The Tea Party hoped to mount a challenge to Utah Senator  Orrin Hatch ’s re-election bid, but its favored candidate chose not to
run and Hatch moved sharply right. Going after Senator  Olympia Snowe  of  Maine  would have been satisfying, but she decided to
retire.  A Heartland Icon  That left only a Republican icon from the heartland. Many
of Lugar’s accomplishments required some element of that hated
principle, bipartisanship. The Tea Party worked to make
everything good he did look bad.  Take his signature accomplishment as chairman and ranking
member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee: He conceived,
fought for and got passed a law to control nuclear weapons, an
effort more important every day as terrorists chase loose nukes.
But passing landmark legislation gets you nothing but suspicion
if it was done in collaboration with a Democrat, Senator Sam Nunn. Therefore 1991’s  Nunn-Lugar Act  (note the placement of
Lugar’s name) is diminished by its provenance.  As his party moved right, Lugar’s  American Conservative
Union rating  slumped from the 90s to the 70s over the past few
years. Lugar had a raft of conservative votes -- including
against the despised health-care law -- but they were lost in
his votes in favor of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the
stimulus, Obama’s Supreme Court nominees (even though he
shepherded Bush’s nominees through the Senate), the Dream Act
(which Hatch sponsored back in the day) and the debt-ceiling
increase. Heresies, all.  More than Lugar’s votes, there is his mild manner. Even
when behaving as the Tea Party requires, Lugar did it without
the requisite bombast and disdain for the other side.  Throughout his career, the safest place in the Capitol has
been between Lugar and a camera. For a reporter with a notebook,
however, he is a godsend, unfailingly polite and patient. If you
don’t understand how weapons of mass destruction are making
their way from  Kazakhstan  to al-Qaeda, it’s not because he
didn’t explain it thoroughly. Eating his daily lunch of yogurt
and an apple at his desk, never swanning around at night, Lugar
has the sober demeanor of a priest or insurance adjustor.  But Lugar made a few mistakes that Mourdock capitalized on.
Famously frugal, Lugar stopped keeping a residence in his home
state, sleeping at a hotel on trips home. He counted the family
farm as his residence and didn’t bill the government for trips
there.  A Quiet Farmer  A farmer by nature who speaks quietly and in full
sentences, Lugar is as plain as the Amish who dot his state. He
was so popular for so long in  Indiana  that he forgot how to
campaign. He didn’t face a primary challenge after his first
election to the Senate in 1976; in 2006, he had no Democratic
opponent.  In Mourdock, however, he had a formidable challenger. For
the Tea Party, Mourdock may be the perfect candidate -- with the
single imperfection that he actually holds office, thereby
disqualifying himself as a pure political outsider. (At least
Mourdock has never worked in the devil’s playground of
Washington.)  Although Mourdock never misses a chance to eat rubber
chicken, Lugar was scarce at party events until he found himself
with a real race on his hands. Mourdock is backed by Sarah Palin
and  Grover Norquist , while Lugar has refused to sign Norquist’s
no-tax pledge.  Mourdock’s ads turned Lugar into a cartoon. One quoted the
president saying that he’s “worked with Republican senator Dick
Lugar to pass a law,” cutting off the part  where Obama says 
“that will secure and destroy some of the world’s deadliest
unguarded weapons.” Mourdock’s message to Indiana Republicans:
Vote for me and you will never have to worry about the
horrifying possibility that your senator will befriend Obama.  Mocking, exaggerated, courting confrontation -- Mourdock is
what Republicans long for. Lugar is modest and reasonable. His
time served worked against him. Because he has a house in
 Washington , he was declared to be of Washington. Getting
important things done was no excuse. Gone are those halcyon days
of  George W. Bush  when No Child Left Behind, tax cuts, the
Patriot Act and TARP passed on bipartisan votes. This is a year
when every Republican presidential candidate rejected the notion
of trading $10 in spending cuts for each dollar in increased
revenue.  In other words: If a Democratic president favors something,
it is automatically toxic. All polls show Lugar would have been
the stronger candidate against a Democrat in the fall, but party
purists would rather be right than win. Farewell, Mr. Lugar. Not
now, but someday, you will be missed.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Greece’s political
deadlock  and saving the  Volcker rule ; Clive Crook  on France and
the EU ; William Pesek on  Asia’s wealth divide ;  Peter Orszag  on
the  income swings of high earners ;  Edward Glaeser  on the  new
urban flight ; Ali H. Soufan on the  USS Cole trial .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 