-- Richard Ruzika, Ex-Goldman Commodities Trader, Dies at 53
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-08T19:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/richard-ruzika-ex-goldman-trader-jets-tight-end-dies.html
Richard Ruzika, the former commodities
chief at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., has died after a stroke
following knee surgery last month. He was 53.  He died yesterday at  Stamford  Hospital in  Connecticut , Joe Howley, his business partner and family spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. He had been in intensive care since April
22 when a blood clot caused the stroke, three days after surgery
on his left knee at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut, Howley
said.  Ruzika, who signed with the  New York Jets  in 1981 as a
tight end and then quit during training camp, left Goldman Sachs
in 2011 after almost 30 years with the New York-based bank. He
was planning to start a hedge fund, Dublin Hill Capital in
Greenwich, where he resided, with Howley and Lance Bakrow.  Ruzika was a “terrific people person, quite admired and
affable and very approachable,” Lloyd C. Blankfein,  Goldman
Sachs (GS) ’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview. He was also “very smart and a very, very
good business person and so he ran some of our most complex
businesses.”  Blankfein said Ruzika was “the picture of health” the
last time he saw him shortly before his stroke. “He looked 10
years younger than the previous time I’d seen him,” Blankfein
said. He was “very healthy and working out and getting set for
something other than what happened,” Blankfein said.  Goldman Sachs Career  Ruzika joined Goldman Sachs as a silver and gold trader in
1982, the same year that Blankfein began there as a gold
salesman. Ruzika moved up the ranks becoming head of natural gas
trading in 1996 and two years later helped start the bank’s
electricity business, according to a February 2011 memo to
employees announcing his departure. He was named a partner in
1998 and was picked as global head of commodities in 2000.  In 2006 Ruzika was named co-head of global macro trading
before he was picked to run Goldman’s special situations group
the following year. That group, which invests the firm’s own
money, generated 9 percent, or $4.1 billion, of companywide
revenue in 2007, according to an internal document. Ruzika was
promoted to the bank’s management committee in 2008.  Thomas K. Montag, who spent 22 years at Goldman Sachs and
is now co-chief operating officer at Bank of America Corp., said
Ruzika was “everything you would want in a partner.”  Richard Mark Ruzika was born on April 16, 1959 in  Brooklyn ,
New York, and raised in West Hempstead on  Long Island .  Football Career  He played football at  Columbia University  in  Manhattan ,
where he was listed at 6-foot-6, 244 pounds his senior year, and
graduated in 1981 with a bachelor’s degree in economics. After
signing with the Jets of the  National Football League , he
decided he no longer wanted to play and left training camp,
according to a New York Times article at the time.  Ruzika stayed involved with Columbia. Last year the school
 said  he gave $1 million toward a new sports center at the
school’s athletics complex. In 2000 he endowed a scholarship
fund. Ruzika also served on the Columbia  College Board  of
Visitors and received the school’s John Jay Award for
distinguished professional achievement in 2006.  Dublin Hill Capital suspended plans to start a hedge fund
after Ruzika suffered the stroke. Dublin Hill had planned to
trade a macro strategy, which seeks to profit from broad
economic trends, with a focus on commodities.  Ruzika is survived by his wife, Ruthanne, two teenage
children and an elder brother.  To contact the reportes on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  