-- RIM Names Operating, Marketing Heads as Turnaround Sought
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-08T20:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/rim-appoints-tear-operating-chief-boulben-marketing-head.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , bolstering
its executive ranks as the BlackBerry maker attempts a
turnaround, named a  Sony Corp. (6758)  manager as chief operating
officer and a LightSquared Inc. official as head of marketing.  Kristian Tear, a former executive vice president at Sony
Mobile Communications, will take the operations job, Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM said today in a statement. Frank Boulben, who
was executive vice president at LightSquared after a career at
European wireless carriers, will be chief marketing officer.  The appointments are the first major personnel additions
for Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins, who took charge in
January from co-founders Mike Lazaridis and  Jim Balsillie . While
the new executives bring global experience, they both come from
companies that have struggled themselves. That makes it hard to
tell if they can orchestrate a comeback, said Sameet Kanade, an
analyst at Northern Securities Inc.  “Neither of these professionals have been involved in a
successful turnaround of this magnitude,” said the Toronto-
based analyst, who has a  sell rating  on RIM’s stock. “We expect
these appointments to benefit RIM’s international strategy more
than the immediate short-term need, which is to fix its product
strategy and regain market share in  North America .”  BlackBerry 10  The company is banking on the BlackBerry 10 operating
system to resurrect its smartphone lineup, which has lost market
share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android. RIM’s
sales tumbled 25 percent last quarter, with U.S. revenue
plummeting more than 50 percent.  RIM’s share of U.S. smartphone subscribers shrank to 12
percent in the period, making it a distant third in the
industry, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Android accounted for 51
percent of the market, while the iPhone had 31 percent.  RIM’s stock rose 1.6 percent to $12.01 at the close in  New
York , following five days of declines. The shares have lost
almost three-quarters of their value in the past year.  Before his stint at Sony, Tear worked for Ericsson AB in
 Europe ,  Asia  and Latin America.  “Sony, for all intents and purposes, is out of the
smartphone game and we expected an appointment of a COO to be
made from a caliber of strong potential candidates within the
North American arena,” Kanade said. Boulben, meanwhile, has
experience with wireless carriers, which may be helpful during
the introduction of BlackBerry 10 phones this year, he said.  Boulben oversaw brand and consumer marketing at
LightSquared, a company that is considering bankruptcy after
failing to get regulatory approval for its nationwide wireless
network. Before that, he worked for European carriers  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  and Orange SA.  Boulben expressed confidence today that the BlackBerry
could become relevant again.  “We all know how fast the mobile arena evolves and with
the BlackBerry 10 platform, I believe RIM will once again change
the way individuals and enterprises engage with each other and
the world around them,” he said in the statement. “I could not
resist the opportunity to be part of that transformation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  