-- Romney Support Among Senior Citizens Transcends Medicare Stance
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/romney-support-among-senior-citizens-transcends-medicare-stance.html
The master-gardener meeting, the
bridge tournament, and a heated match of seven-card draw poker
leave little time for politics at the Via Linda senior citizens’
center in Scottsdale, Arizona. Yet ask about President  Barack Obama  and former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  and it
doesn’t take long to determine the preferred candidate.  “He has some very socialistic leanings and believes in big
government,” Lu Ittner, 86, a retired surgical nurse, said of
Obama. “He is destroying our economy with his policies.”  While Obama so far dominates Romney among many demographic
groups -- women, younger voters, middle-aged voters, blacks and
Hispanics -- the presumptive Republican presidential nominee has
a solid lead among the nation’s senior citizens. Some of the
most reliable voters, those 65 and older represented 16 percent
of the electorate in the 2008 election,  exit polls  show.  A CNN/ORC International  poll  taken April 13-15 showed
Romney led Obama, 54 percent to 39 percent, with seniors. Among
those supporting Romney, 58 percent said their vote would be
more against Obama than for Romney.  Medicare Changes  The Republican’s strength among seniors comes even though
he has said he generally supports a plan put forward by House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican,
that would gradually raise the Medicare eligibility age to 67
from 65 and turn it into a voucher-like program where future
seniors would receive subsidies to purchase health care on the
open market.  Romney, who turned 65 in March, has also said he’d raise
the Social Security retirement age for younger people and index
benefit increases for higher-income retirees to inflation
instead of wages.  Democrats have sought to link Romney to the Ryan budget.
Obama, 50, said during an April 3 speech that the changes in
Ryan’s proposal would “ultimately end Medicare as we know it.”  Obama’s campaign has deployed Vice President  Joe Biden , 69,
as its top surrogate to senior citizens, including in the
battleground and retiree-heavy state of  Florida . During an April
19 stop in Phoenix, Biden reminded an audience that he knows
what it’s like to be a grandfather, telling those gathered that
grandchildren “love you and like you all the time,” unlike
your own children.  Most Competitive States  Some of the states projected by analysts from both parties
to be the most competitive in November’s election are among
those with the greatest concentrations of elderly, including
Florida,  Pennsylvania  and  Iowa , U.S. census data shows.  “For most seniors, Governor Romney’s record is a black box
right now,” said  Ben LaBolt , Obama’s re-election campaign
spokesman. “But when they find out that he has proposed turning
Medicare into a voucher program making seniors pay thousands
more out of pocket each year and gutting funding for Social
Security, these numbers will move.”  Romney’s campaign had no immediate response.  His preferred status among more seniors follows a trend of
recent national elections.  In 2008, Senator  John McCain , 75, of Arizona beat Obama
among seniors, 53 percent to 45 percent. The advantage for
Republicans grew even greater in the 2010 midterm election, when
the party won control of the U.S. House. In that election, 59
percent of older voters supported Republicans in congressional
races.  Younger Voters  While Romney, a grandfather of 18, enters this general
election campaign ahead among seniors, Obama maintains an
advantage among younger voters. A survey by Harvard University’s
Institute of Politics released last month showed the president
with a 17-percentage-point lead among Americans ages 18 to 29.  A  report  published in November by the non-partisan Pew
Research Center in  Washington  found that older voters tend to
hold more restrictive views on social issues such as abortion
rights and gay marriage and also have a growing unease -- even
anger -- about the direction the country is headed. That has
moved them more toward the Republican side since 2006, according
to the study.  Some of the animosity toward Obama at the senior center in
Scottsdale is likely the result of Arizona traditionally being a
loyal Republican state. Since 1952, it has backed one Democratic
presidential candidate:  Bill Clinton  in 1996. In 2008, McCain
carried his home state over Obama, 54 percent to 45 percent.  ‘Not This Time’  Taking a break from a 1,000-piece jigsaw puzzle featuring a
Pennsylvania farmers’ market scene, Roger Fieldhouse said he
regrets his vote for Obama in 2008.  “Not this time,” the retired pay telephone salesman said.
“He says one thing and his staff does something else. I guess
you don’t call it lying, but it’s not telling the truth.”  Fieldhouse, 81, said he’s most troubled by Obama’s January
decision to reject a  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  proposal to build an oil
pipeline through environmentally sensitive parts of  Nebraska .
Still, he doesn’t express much excitement about Romney.  “I won’t be voting for someone,” he said. “I will be
voting against someone.”  Gerry Clough, 72, a retired oil industry chief financial
officer, called Obama “incompetent,” and said there was “no
way I would for someone as evil as Obama.”  Clough said seniors are more supportive of Romney because
they’re more experienced in life.  “They rose in a country with more morality,” he said.
“They grew up thinking that being a parasite was not a good
thing.”  Obama, whose campaign is  considering  whether to actively
compete in Arizona due in part to its growing Hispanic
population, has some supporters at the senior citizens center.
Pat McIntire, 72, said Obama entered office amid a declining
economy and should get credit for stabilizing the country.  “I like what he’s done so far, after the disaster we
had,” said McIntire, who retired from marketing and sales. “It
takes a while to build a country back up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Scottsdale,  Arizona , at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  