-- Romney Attacks Obama’s ‘Old School’ Policies in Michigan
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-05-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/romney-criticizes-obama-s-policies-for-hurting-middle-class.html
Presumed Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  returned to his native state of Michigan
yesterday to criticize “old school” liberal policies of
President Barack Obama that he said have cost the middle class
income, jobs and amenities including vacations.  Romney, on a day when three more primary victories moved
him closer to officially clinching his party’s nomination, said
he would champion free enterprise, smaller government and more
manufacturing jobs.  “Obama promised change, hope, but reality won out,”
Romney said in a speech to several hundred people at a community
college in Lansing, Michigan. “His four years have been
disappointing, a catastrophe for some of us.”  Romney’s comments represented a counterattack after Obama,
in his first official re-election campaign appearances, branded
the former  Massachusetts  governor as a “rubber stamp” for
Republican policies that hurt the middle class.  The stop in Michigan was Romney’s first since his three-
percentage-point win in the state’s Feb. 28 primary helped him
thwart former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum ’s challenge.  With U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  as the only
other active candidate in the Republican race, Romney cruised to
primary victories yesterday in  Indiana , North Carolina and West
Virginia. He got about 65 percent of the vote in Indiana and
North Carolina, with most precincts reporting in the Associated
Press tally, and was close to 70 percent in West Virginia.  Romney now has more than 900 delegates of the 1,144 needed
for the nomination, according to the AP.  North Carolina Amendment  Also yesterday in  North Carolina , voters approved an
amendment to the state’s constitution defining marriage as
between a man and a woman. With 94 percent of precincts
reporting, the amendment was favored by 61 percent, opposed by
39 percent, according to AP. The state already has a law
prohibiting same-sex marriage.  The passage came two days after U.S. Vice President Joe Biden said in a national television interview that he supported
gay marriage -- a position that goes further than Obama’s
stance. Obama backs equal rights for gays, while stopping short
of endorsing same-sex marriage.  Romney’s mid-day Michigan appearance signaled that his
campaign may intend a serious general-election challenge to
Obama in a state where his father, the late  George Romney , was
an automotive executive and governor.  Fighting for Michigan  To win  Michigan  -- reliably Democratic in every
presidential vote since 1992 -- Romney must overcome the
backlash stirred by his previous opposition to the federal
bailout of the U.S. auto industry.  “I think he’s going to pull out all the stops here,”  Bill Ballenger , publisher of Lansing-based Inside Michigan Politics,
said of Romney.  An early April  survey  of 600 likely voters by Lansing-based
EPIC/MRA found Obama leading Romney, 47 percent to 43 percent.  In Lansing, Romney blamed Obama’s policies for helping to
erode the standard of living for many middle-class Americans.  “For a lot of folks, things like vacations, movies and
restaurants are things of the past,” he said.  Romney said that as president he would promote more freedom
for Americans to choose health insurance and schools, and would
repeal “Obamacare,” the national health-care law. He would
also reinvigorate U.S. manufacturing with new policies for
energy, trade and labor, he said.  Auto Bailout  “Government will be the partner, not the master,” Romney
said in his 22-minute speech. “Government will be small enough
for business to grow fast enough.”  The appearance came amid a flap over Romney’s recent claims
that he influenced Obama’s decision to rescue  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and Chrysler Group LLC. Romney had opposed a government-assisted
bankruptcy for the automakers in a  New York  Times editorial in
2008.  Romney’s taking credit for the auto industry’s comeback
during an ABC television  interview  in  Cleveland  is
“preposterous,”  Ben LaBolt , an Obama campaign spokesman, said
in a conference call with reporters.  “This is a candidate who will literally say anything, who
thinks his statements don’t matter,” LaBolt said.  Romney’s appearance at a community college was ironic
because college tuition in Massachusetts soared when he was
governor there, said Mark Brewer, chairman of the Michigan
Democratic Party. He also said a GM plant near the auditorium
where Romney appeared would have been closed if Romney had his
way and denied federal aid to the automaker.  ‘Morning-After’ Pill  Romney is also traveling to raise campaign money. Among his
fundraising stops in  Florida  next week is the Miami-area home of
Phillip Frost, chairman of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
whose products include Plan B One-Step, a so-called “morning-
after” pill for women who have unprotected sex.  The company’s website says the drug contains the ingredient
found in many birth-control pills and “should not affect or
terminate an existing pregnancy.”  That’s at odds with what Romney has said about it.
Campaigning in  Colorado  in February, he described the drug as
“abortive pills” and called the Obama administration’s
decision to require employers to cover them in their health
plans as “a violation of conscience.”  Romney’s campaign spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, didn’t respond
to a request for comment on how the candidate, who opposes
abortion rights, could accept support from the maker of
“abortive pills.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  