-- Russia Stocks Retreat for a Sixth Day as Crude Oil Prices Slide
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-08T15:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/russian-stocks-fluctuate-on-putin-s-reform-promise-oil-weaker.html
Russian stocks fell for a sixth day as
the price of oil fell and police detained hundreds of protestors
at rallies over the past two days.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  closed less than 0.1 percent lower
at 1,384.02 by the end of trading in Moscow. The index lost 5.9
percent last week. OAO  Tatneft (TATN) , a Russian regional oil producer,
tumbled 3.2 percent, while OAO Rosneft fell 3 percent. Aluminum
producer United Co. Rusal lost 1.9 percent. The dollar-
denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  fell 0.5 percent to 1,481.06.  Oil,  Russia ’s main export earner, fell for a fifth day
after  Saudi Arabia ’s Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said prices are
“still a little bit high” and a survey signaled that U.S.
inventories rose to the most in more than 21 years. Mass
protests in Russian cities that erupted in December after
disputed legislative polls flared up again the day before
Putin’s May 7 inauguration.  “The returning president is facing a difficult third term
in the light of street protests following the Dec. 4, 2011
parliamentary elections,” Lilit Gevorgyan, an analyst at HIS
Global Insight, said by e-mail yesterday. “The protests not
only tarnished his image of a well-loved popular leader but also
brought to light the already simmering anger over corruption and
lack of reforms.”  Stocks traded today even as the country observed a public
holiday. The market will be closed tomorrow for Victory Day.  Putin, whose first eight years in the Kremlin saw average
economic growth of 7 percent as  oil prices  rose fivefold, signed
at least a dozen decrees after being sworn in yesterday and said
Russia was beginning a “new stage” in its development.  ‘Transition Period’  Putin’s ability to deliver on election pledges, reassert
Russia’s dominance among neighbors and compete with the U.S. for
global influence may depend on him finding the cash to pay for
programs including a 23 trillion-ruble ($766 billion) military
upgrade.  Russian lawmakers voted today to approve Dmitry Medvedev as
the country’s prime minister. Medvedev, speaking at the Russian
parliament, said the state must limit interference in the
economy and pledged to improve the country’s investment climate.
Medvedev also said Russia’s budget deficit may be capped at 1
percent of gross domestic product after a “transition period”
and that economic growth rate is “insufficient.”  A total 24 billion shares changed hands on the Micex,
according to data on the exchange’s website, down from the 53.7
billion traded May 4.  ‘Rely Heavily’  Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter and the largest
producer of nickel and palladium, received almost 50 percent of
budget revenue from oil and gas sales last year, according to
government estimates.  “The new president is likely to rely heavily on the energy
sector to fund the expensive social-spending projects important
for his political popularity,” Gevorgyan said.  Crude oil for June delivery tumbled 2.2 percent to $95.78
in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Urals
crude, Russia’s main export blend, retreated 0.9 percent to
$110.11.  Russia-focused equity funds recorded back-to-back outflows
in the week ended May 2 for the first time since December,
posting net outflow of $18 million, according to EPFR Global
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  