-- RZB to Raise Up to 1.4 Billion Euros by Issuing New Stock
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-05-08T08:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/rzb-to-raise-up-to-1-4-billion-euros-by-issuing-new-stock.html
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG,
the owner of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , plans to raise as
much as 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion) in a rights offering
that may exceed the needs for a planned capital swap.  RZB, which is 89 percent owned by eight Austrian regional
cooperative banks, will use most of the proceeds to cover a 840
million-euro capital swap designed to help it meet  capital
requirements  by the European Banking Authority, it said April
20. RZB is canceling so-called participation capital that’s not
recognized by the EBA and redeeming it with the funds raised in
the share sale, effectively swapping one for the other.  The possible excess proceeds are “due to technical reasons
and reasons of stock law” and may not be entirely taken up by
shareholders, Gregor Bitschnau, an RZB spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  RZB and Raiffeisen, which operates in  Austria  and in 15
former communist countries, are filling a 2.1 billion-euro
capital gap found by the EBA, which was exacerbated by losses in
 Hungary  last year. The lenders have addressed most of the
shortfall by reducing risk-weighted assets, and by making
capital EBA-compliant.  At the same time, RZB and its owners have resisted a share
sale at publicly traded Raiffeisen, of which they own 78.5
percent, to help raise capital. Such a deal isn’t planned “in
the near future” while it remains an option, Michael Palzer, a
Raiffeisen spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Uniqa Cash Call  While it denied a share sale to Raiffeisen, RZB is
underwriting a 500 million-euro cash call at insurer  Uniqa
Versicherungen AG (UQA) , of which it owns 45.7 percent, Uniqa said
last week.  The bank’s shareholders, led by Raiffeisenlandesbank NOe-
Wien AG and including  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , can
subscribe to two new shares for every 11 they own, or as many as
1.1 million new shares at 1,270 euro apiece, according to a
regulatory filing in Austria’s official gazette today. The
subscription period ends May 22, and the new shares will be
issued by June 1.  RLB NOe-Wien holds most of the participation capital after
it bought an extra 340 million euros at the end of last year.
That was due to a deal in which it sold minority stakes in
Raiffeisen’s Czech and Slovak units to Raiffeisen to clean up
the shareholder structure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  