-- TSA Arrests Raise Questions of Who Screens the Screeners
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-05-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/tsa-arrests-raise-questions-of-who-screens-the-screeners.html
The arrests of U.S. Transportation
Security Administration employees on charges of accepting bribes
from drug-smugglers is escalating calls from Republicans to
overhaul an agency under fire for patting down young children
and senior citizens.  “They’re hiring people without checking out their
backgrounds,” Representative  John Mica , a  Florida  Republican
who heads the House transportation committee, said in an
interview. “It’s almost every week. We’ve had another drug
ring. We’ve had smuggling. We’ve had them stealing out of
people’s luggage.”  Questions about how effectively the 52,000-employee TSA is
screening its screeners have added to other embarrassments for
the agency, including purchases of equipment that didn’t work,
checkpoint confrontations between agents and members of
Congress, and missing a loaded gun that got onto an American
Airlines flight at the Dallas-Fort Worth airport in January.  The issues may come up in the House as soon as May 9, when
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and Mica’s
panel jointly hold a  fourth hearing  on TSA practices.  Representative Paul Broun, a Georgia Republican, called in
April for TSA Administrator John Pistole’s resignation. He asked
the House Homeland Security Committee on May 1 to hold hearings
to investigate TSA officers’ “misconduct, unprofessionalism and
corruption.”  Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, started a
petition this month to eliminate the agency, created by Congress
to take over airport security after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. In January, the Kentucky Republican set off a false
alarm while passing through a screening machine, then refused to
submit to a pat down.  Background Checks  The arrest April 25 of two current and two former TSA
screeners at Los Angeles International Airport marked the third
bribery case involving agency employees this year. Also in
April, a TSA screener admitted to accepting $1,200 in bribes
from drug traffickers sending the narcotic oxycodone from
Florida to  Connecticut  through an airport in  White Plains , New
York.  Agency officers have also been accused of stealing iPads,
cash, laptops and jewelry from baggage.  “This pattern suggests there’s something wrong in the
vetting process TSA uses in hiring and screening its own
people,” said Robert Poole, director of transportation studies
at the Reason Foundation in  Los Angeles , which advocates for
free market solutions to policy issues. “It’s certainly a
question Congress should be asking.”  All TSA security officers undergo thorough criminal
background checks, submitting their fingerprints to the FBI and
cross-checking names against terrorist watch lists, Kawika
Riley, a TSA spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Growing Theft  Applicants are supposed to be disqualified for any  one of
28 criminal offenses  ranging from interference with navigation
to espionage, treason and felony arson. Theft and bribery
felonies are on the list, as are unpaid taxes, child support
arrears or $7,500 in delinquent debt.  It’s the same process airports use in vetting workers who
have access to secure areas.  The TSA said in a 2008 post on its official blog that more
than 200 employees had been fired for theft. Last year, taking a
closer look at agency numbers, the news website  New York  Press
concluded the number had expanded to about 500.  Since January, TSA agents have been accused of stealing
iPads and smuggling travelers’ personal items out of the airport
in a hidden jacket pocket. Agents were sentenced to jail terms
after being convicted of stealing $40,000 from a checked bag at
New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport.  Employee Temptation  TSA screeners typically start part-time, and wages depend
on the local cost of living. A starting screener at  Newark  earns
$15.74 an hour, while the same position in Columbus,
 Mississippi , pays $13.96, according to job postings.  “Wherever you combine fairly low-paid employees with
temptation, whether it be drug money or expensive bottles
passing through their hands, you’re going to have larceny and
malfeasance,” said George Hobica, founder of
Airfarewatchdog.com, a consumer travel website.  Some level of corruption can be expected in any agency,
said former Homeland Security Secretary  Michael Chertoff . The
TSA must keep refining its practices and upgrading working
conditions for screeners, who are under extreme stress from a
monotonous job and dealing with frustrated travelers, he said.  “The New York Police Department is a phenomenal police
department, but from time to time you hear of cases of cops who
kill somebody or take bribes from organized crime,” Chertoff
said in an interview. “It doesn’t mean you throw out the police
department, it just means you have to be vigilant.”  Unpopular Work  The House voted last year to cap the number of full-time
TSA screeners at 46,000. The agency had 52,269 full-time
equivalent positions devoted to  aviation security  last year,
according to budget documents. The agency doesn’t specify how
many of those employees are screeners. TSA Administrator  John Pistole  has said the agency employs about 14,000 part-time
screeners.  “There’s always going to be a recurrence of embarrassing
incidents,” said Stewart Verdery, a former Department of
Homeland Security assistant secretary, now a lobbyist with
Monument Policy Group in  Washington .  “The case is a good reminder that background checks have
to be ongoing,” he said in an e-mail. “There’s a reason
Congress has been insisting on refreshed checks for security
officials.”  Closed-Circuit Cameras  Pistole, speaking at the  National Press Club  in March, said
theft has been an issue at the security administration, other
U.S. agencies and airlines, and is a security concern.  The TSA uses closed-circuit cameras in checked-baggage
areas to deter theft and rebut false accusations of stealing,
Pistole said. In cases where the video shows theft has occurred,
the agency fires the individuals and seeks criminal
prosecutions, he said.  Mica has proposed turning over the hiring and managing of
airport screeners to private companies, making the TSA a smaller
agency focused on determining which individuals pose risks.  Private security companies can be held to a higher standard
than the government, said Stephen Amitay, federal legislative
counsel for the  National Association of Security Companies  in
Washington.  Companies would face penalties or the cancellation of a
contract for any criminal activity, Amitay said. TSA standards
are treated as minimums that companies would exceed to employ
and retain a better-performing workforce, he said.  “There’s a strong incentive for the company, its managers
and screeners to make sure that everyone is abiding by the
requirements of the contract,” Amitay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  