-- Sandberg, Schmidt Join Obama as College Commencement Speakers
-- B y   L i s a   W o l f s o n
-- 2012-05-08T18:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/sandberg-schmidt-join-obama-as-college-commencement-speakers.html
Facebook Inc. Chief Operating Officer
 Sheryl Sandberg , Google Inc. Chairman Eric Schmidt and U.S.
President Barack Obama are among this year’s lineup of college
commencement speakers.  Sandberg will stand at the dais at Harvard Business
School’s ceremony on May 23, while Schmidt will address
graduates at the University of California, Berkeley, on May 12,
and then students at Boston University on May 20. Obama is the
featured speaker at Barnard College’s commencement on May 14.  Colleges vie to enlist the most influential speakers, many
of whom are alumni of the schools. This year, the range at
selective campuses, including those in the Ivy League, come from
across media, education, politics and sports.  Harvard’s class of 2012 will hear speeches on May 23 from
Democratic Congressman Barney Frank of Massachusetts and
comedian Andy Samberg. Journalist  Barbara Walters  will speak at
Yale’s Class Day on May 20, and author Michael Lewis addresses
Princeton University graduates on June 3. Spelman College’s May
20 ceremony will include a keynote address from  Oprah Winfrey .  Wendy Kopp, Teach for America Inc.’s chief executive
officer, is the keynote speaker at Dartmouth College’s ceremony 
on June 10, while Geoffrey Canada, CEO at Harlem Children’s 
Zone Inc., will address University of Pennsylvania graduates on 
May 14.  The sports world will be represented when Jerry Reinsdorf,
chairman of the Chicago Bulls and the Chicago White Sox,
addresses Northwestern University’s graduation on May 11.  Mark Murphy , CEO of the Green Bay Packers, will speak at Colgate
University’s commencement on May 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 