-- Santorum Endorses Romney as Republican Nominee
-- B y   J i m   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-08T16:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/santorum-endorses-romney-as-republican-nominee.html
Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum ,
almost a month after he dropped out of the presidential race,
endorsed  Mitt Romney  to be the Republican nominee against
President  Barack Obama .  “We both agree that President Obama must be defeated,”
Santorum, 53, said in an e-mailed statement last night. “It
will require all hands on deck if our nominee is to be
victorious. Governor Romney will be that nominee and he has my
endorsement and support to win this the most critical election
of our lifetime.”  Santorum ended his presidential campaign on April 10. While
he was still an active candidate, the former Pennsylvania
senator had repeatedly called Romney, 65, “uniquely
disqualified” to be the party’s standard-bearer in the November
election.  He based the attack largely on Romney’s success as governor
of  Massachusetts  in enacting a health-care program that in
crucial respects was a model for the federal law Obama pushed
through Congress in 2010. Both plans require individuals to
purchase health-care insurance.  Santorum had drawn support from socially conservative
Republicans who are skeptical of Romney’s stance on such issues
as abortion and same-sex marriage.  ‘Spirited Race’  Romney today commended Santorum for having run “a spirited
race,” saying in a statement that the former Pennsylvania
senator’s “commitment to conservatism energized millions of
Republicans.”  Romney said he and Santorum “share an absolute commitment
to reversing the failing policies of the Obama administration.”  In his statement last night, Santorum said Romney “clearly
understands that having pro-family initiatives are not only the
morally and economically right thing to do, but that the family
is the basic building block of our society.”  In exiting the race, Santorum -- the last remaining
opponent with any chance of stalling Romney’s drive to the
nomination -- delivered a 13-minute speech that made no mention
of his rival. The two men then met privately before a campaign
event on May 4 in Pittsburgh without revealing what was
discussed.  Campaign Suspended  Santorum suspended his campaign two weeks before the
Pennsylvania primary as it became clear he was at risk of losing
his home state to Romney.  After belatedly being declared the winner of the lead-off
Iowa caucuses, Santorum established himself as the main
alternative to Romney when he swept contests in Minnesota,
Colorado and  Missouri  on Feb. 7. After that, he fell just short
of Romney in crucial primaries in  Michigan , the front-runner’s
native state, and Ohio, a political bellwether.  Romney victories in the March 20 Illinois primary and
Wisconsin’s April 3 contest intensified pressure from
influential Republicans for Santorum -- his campaign facing
mounting debts -- to step aside to promote party unity.  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  ended his
presidential bid on May 2, leaving Representative  Ron Paul  of
 Texas  as Romney’s only remaining opponent for the Republican
nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Rubin in Washington at 
 jimrubin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  