-- Sany May Cut Excavator Target as China Construction Cools
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-08T10:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/sany-may-cut-excavator-target-as-china-construction-cools.html
Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) ,  China ’s
biggest maker of excavators, may cut its unit-sales forecast for
this year as government efforts to curb property speculation
slow construction.  “Given the weak market, I think there’s a need to adjust
our sales target,” Xiang Ru’an, the company’s vice president,
said in a May 5 phone interview. The company, based in Changsha,
 Hunan province , had expected to boost sales 41 percent from last
year to 29,000 excavators, he said, without elaborating on the
size of the potential target cut.  Nationwide excavator sales plunged 41 percent in the first
quarter, according to the China Construction Machinery
Association, as falling house prices and a slowdown in new
railways damped demand. The slump has weighed on Sany’s sales
even as its wins market share from  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and Caterpillar
Inc., and adds bigger models used in mining.  Sany aims to boost its share of China’s excavator market to
20 percent among major brands from 13.8 percent last year, Xiang
said. The company plans to win customers with large, low-cost
models that can compete with overseas makers’ products, he said.  “We will keep the market-share goal,” Xiang said. “This
is the key for staying competitive.”  The company’s first-quarter market share climbed 7
percentage points to 18 percent, according to an April 28
statement. Sales totaled 7,000 excavators, it said, without
giving year-earlier numbers.  Mining Demand  Sany expects mining to account for as much as 20 percent of
its excavator sales this year from less than 10 percent last
year, Xiang said. Construction’s share will probably slip to
about 30 percent from more than 40 percent, he said.  The  company , run by China’s second-richest man, Liang
Wengen, fell 0.5 percent to 14.81  yuan  at the close of trading
in  Shanghai . It has climbed 18 percent this year, outperforming
the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index’s 11 percent gain.  To help boost sales overseas, Sany last month completed the
360 million euro ($470 million) acquisition of German concrete-
pump maker Putzmeister Holding GmbH. China Communications
Construction Co. has also agreed to use Sany concrete-pump
trucks, excavators and crawler cranes for a project in Qatar.
The work includes developing a port and a stadium for the 2022
soccer  World Cup .  China’s home prices fell to a 14-month low in April as the
government pledged to maintain property curbs, according to
SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real-estate website
owner. Construction of new rail lines has slowed after a fatal-
train crash and monetary tightening last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  