-- SAP Said to Conduct Informal Talks With MobileIron
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-05-08T22:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/sap-said-to-conduct-informal-acquisition-talks-with-mobileiron.html
(Corrects spelling of  Norwest Venture Partners  in the
fifth paragraph).  SAP AG (SAP) ,  Europe ’s biggest software
maker, approached MobileIron Inc. about a possible acquisition
to expand in programs for smartphones and tablet computers,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Walldorf, Germany-based SAP met with closely held
MobileIron about buying the company sometime from late February
to early March, said the people, who declined to be named
because the discussions were private. A senior SAP executive led
informal talks, which are no longer active, one person said.
Clarissa Horowitz, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-
based  MobileIron , said “we have never spoken to SAP.”  MobileIron is now focused on raising a round of financing
before a possible initial public offering next year, three
people with knowledge of the plans said.  MobileIron’s software helps corporations manage and protect
data that employees access on personal smartphones and tablets,
a market that’s growing as businesses curb reliance on Research
In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry and devices built on Microsoft
Corp.’s mobile software. With MobileIron, SAP could expand in
software for Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad, as well as devices
running Google Inc.’s Android software.  The company has raised $57 million from investors including
 Sequoia Capital , Norwest Venture Partners, Foundation Capital
and Storm Ventures.  SAP is also considering other U.S. targets in cloud
computing and mobile applications, two of the people said. Scott
Behles, a spokesman for SAP, said he couldn’t comment on
speculation as a matter of policy.  100,000 Customers  SAP  supplies  business software for managing finances and
operations to more than 100,000 customers such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., Exxon Mobil Corp. and Coca-Cola Co. SAP has made
deals to add applications for mobile devices and cloud-computing
as its clients lessen reliance on traditional data centers.  In December, SAP bought SuccessFactors Inc., a maker of
online human resources software, for $3.4 billion. Two years
ago, SAP bought Sybase for a reported $5.8 billion, adding
software that helps run business applications on iPads and other
devices. Last month, SAP said it would buy Syclo LLC for an
undisclosed sum, gaining inventory-management software for
mobile devices.  MobileIron’s applications let corporate customers load
software onto smartphones and tablets, control data security
policies and track usage when workers are abroad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net 
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net .
Thomas Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  