-- Savient Creditor Tang Loses Bid to Bar Debt Deal
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-08T13:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/savient-creditor-tang-loses-bid-to-bar-debt-deal.html
Savient Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SVNT) , maker of
the gout medicine  Krystexxa , defeated a creditor’s bid for a
court order blocking a debt transaction, allowing it to raise
about $44 million and extend maturity on half of its debt.  Savient, based in East Brunswick,  New Jersey , was sued
April 30 by creditor Tang Capital Partners, an investment fund
focusing on the life sciences, which contended the drugmaker is
insolvent and asked a judge to appoint a receiver.  “With this transaction, Savient believes that its cash and
cash equivalents provide sufficient liquidity for at least the
next two years,” David Norton, the company’s interim chief
executive officer, said in a statement today.  The transaction involves exchange of some notes for
warrants and senior secured debt, cancellation of more than
$100 million in notes and issuance of about $171 million in new
notes, according to the statement.  For a Delaware Chancery Court hearing yesterday, lawyers
for Tang said Savient “has no reasonable prospect of continuing
its business successfully” and will be “cash-flow insolvent in
short order,” according to court papers.  Tang asked Judge Sam Glasscock to block the re-
capitalization transaction, saying it would hurt the company and
stockholders. Glasscock denied Tang’s request for a temporary
restraining order, according to court electronic records.  ‘Abject Failure’  Tang objects to the company’s support of the new gout
treatment, saying Savient’s only “significant” product is “an
abject failure,” according to Tang’s complaint.  Savient is “gambling tens of millions of dollars in cash
each quarter on an impossible dream,” San Diego-based Tang
said.  Savient said in a February report to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission that “physicians may be reluctant to
treat patients with Krystexxa because of the potential for
extremely severe adverse reactions,” including allergic
anaphylaxis, according to court papers.  The case is Tang v. Norton, CA7476, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  