-- HSBC Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Emerging-Markets
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-05-08T16:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/hsbc-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-emerging-markets.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, said first-quarter profit rose 26 percent, beating
analysts’ estimates, helped by increased income at its
securities unit and a decline in U.S. loan losses.  Pretax profit, excluding losses on the revaluation of
HSBC’s own debt, rose to $6.8 billion from $5.4 billion in the
year-earlier period, the London-based bank said in a statement
today. That beat the $5.9 billion median estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Investment-banking revenue climbed 12
percent after bond markets recovered in Europe.  “The first quarter has been an impairments story for
HSBC,” said Chirantan Barua, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein
Research in London who has an outperform rating on HSBC. “if
you look at the U.S. subprime book, it’s holding up.”  Impairments for bad loans in the U.S. fell by about $500
million from the year-earlier period, when a moratorium on
foreclosures was a greater drag on earnings. The lender, which
operates in about 85 countries, has set aside more than $65
billion for souring loans in  North America  following its 2003
purchase of Household International Inc., which lent to U.S.
customers with subprime credit.  “Markets remain volatile with high levels of debt and
regulatory and political uncertainty in developed economies,
contrasting with an encouraging outlook in faster-growing
markets,” Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said in the
statement. “Our performance in April has been satisfactory.”  Investment Bank  HSBC  shares rose  as much as 3.4 percent before erasing
their gains as the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 Index declined. They
closed 1.2 percent lower at 548.6 pence, giving the bank a
market value of about 100 billion pounds.  Pretax profit at the investment bank, which is overseen by
Samir Assaf, rose 5 percent to $3.08 billion. It profited from
an improvement in trading after the  European Central Bank 
provided unlimited three-year loans to the region’s lenders
through its Longer Term Refinancing Operation. That offset a
decline in revenue from equity trading, HSBC said.  HSBC itself took $300 million in the second round of the
LTRO in February, the bank said.  Sales at the lender’s foreign-exchange business, which is
overseen by co-heads of global markets Jose-Luis Guerrero and
Spencer Lake, rose 30 percent to $957 million.  Gulliver Plan  Gulliver, 53, is part-way through a plan to cut as much as
$2 billion of expenses by the end of this year as he battles
wage inflation in  emerging markets  and prepares for stricter
capital rules that will crimp earnings. The core Tier 1 capital
ratio, a measure of financial strength, improved to 10.4 percent
from 10.1 percent at the end of last year, HSBC said.  The CEO has announced about $6 billion of asset sales since
last May as the bank sheds jobs and redeploys capital in faster-
growing markets. HSBC completed the sale of its U.S. credit card
unit to Capital One Financial Corp. for a premium of $2.5
billion last week. It’s also in talks to sell operations in
 Pakistan  and  South Korea .  Gulliver also plans to eliminate 30,000 jobs by the end of
next year. Staff numbers were 14,000 lower at the end of the
first quarter compared with the year-earlier period, at 285,000,
the bank said today.  U.S. loan impairments fell 30 percent from the year-earlier
period, when HSBC logged an additional $400 million charge
because of a foreclosure moratorium that began in late 2010. The
U.S. housing market slump has eased, with data last month
showing the smallest 12-month drop for the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values since February 2011.  Brazil Charges  The drop in impairments is “almost entirely to do with the
commercial mortgage loan portfolio and the cards and retail
services portfolio,” Finance Director Iain Mackay said in a
call with analysts today. More U.S. customers also paid down
delinquent loans after receiving their tax returns in the
quarter, he said.  Lower impairment charges in North America were offset by
higher charges in  Latin America , particularly  Brazil , where more
clients are failing to pay back loans after a “rapid rise in
lending balances in previous periods,” HSBC said.  Brazil “won’t become another Household” for HSBC,
Gulliver said on the conference call. He said the bank had a
$250 million increase in impairments in  South America ’s most
populous nation, whose economy slowed after its central bank
raised  interest rates .  Cost Reductions  HSBC followed  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in increasing the amount it’s
putting aside to compensate Britons who were improperly sold
payment protection insurance. The bank earmarked an additional
$468 million after taking a $440 million charge last year.  The bank’s cost efficiency ratio, excluding losses on the
revaluation of HSBC’s own debt, improved to 56 percent from 59
percent as revenue increased on the same basis by $1.2 billion.  “Overall costs must have gone down, and that’s a good
achievement for a growing bank,” said Barua.  Net income fell 38 percent to $2.58 billion from $4.15
billion. Pretax profit, including the revaluation of HSBC’s own
debt, acquisitions and sales of businesses and other charges,
fell 12 percent to $4.3 billion. Credit valuation adjustments
require banks to book losses when the value of their debt rises,
and gains when it declines, on the theory that a loss, or
profit, would be realized were the bank to repurchase that debt.  HSBC acquired Household for $15.5 billion and gained almost
50 million U.S. clients. It stopped taking new business in 2009
and had about 8.8 million active customer accounts at the end of
2011, according to a company filing. HSBC North America returned
to profit in 2010 after three years of losses, asset sales and
more than 6,000 job cuts.  The lender has been asked by U.K. regulators to monitor the
crisis in the euro region and make appropriate plans for
“dislocation,” Gulliver said on a conference call with
journalists today. “We’ve been fully participating in that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  