-- Scottish Widows Adds U.S. Stocks as Managers Overhauled
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-05-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/scottish-widows-adds-u-s-stocks-as-managers-overhauled.html
Scottish Widows  Investment
Partnership, the Edinburgh money manager that’s overhauling its
stocks business, expects the U.S. economic recovery and
developments in shale gas to help boost performance.  Stock picks in recent months include software maker
SolarWinds Inc.,  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) , the online travel-
recommendation service spun off from Expedia Inc. in December,
and flooring company  Mohawk Industries (MHK)  Inc., according to
William Low, head of global equities.  “I’m not saying the U.S. is the most perfect economy in
the world and is going through fantastic growth in the way it
would have done in the mid-1990s, but it’s in a better position
than many other economies today,” Low said in an interview at
his office in the Scottish capital.  Scottish Widows, part of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , is in
the middle of a revamp after sub-par returns, leading to the
departure of 27 money managers including Peter Cockburn, its
head of U.K. stocks. The company, which oversees about 140
billion pounds ($226 billion), will decide on who is staying
later this month, with nine of the 14 remaining positions in the
team researching and picking stocks under review.  “There’s a lot of fantastic talent here but unfortunately
there aren’t seats at the table for all of them,” Low, who
joined the firm in April last year from BlackRock Inc. to run
global stocks business, said on May 3.  Picking Stocks  Low’s group picks stocks and then applies the investment
strategy across the range of products they manage, he said. He
is responsible for a total of about 3 billion pounds.  Shares in Austin, Texas-based  SolarWinds (SWI)  has soared 68
percent this year, while TripAdvisor, located in Newton,
 Massachusetts , is up 60 percent and Mohawk Industries from
Calhoun,  Georgia , advanced 23 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced in the country, expanded in the first quarter
at a 2.2 percent annual rate, according to Commerce Department
figures released last month. That followed a 3 percent pace in
the prior quarter and compared with the 2.5 percent median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The 20 million-pound  SWIP Global Fund  ranked 64 out of 215
peers over the past year, losing 2.45 percent, compared with an
average decline of 5.35 percent, according to Morningstar Inc.
It gained 26.5 percent over the past three years, trailing the
average 31 percent advance and ranking 130th of 187 funds.  Wal-Mart Added  Low said in an interview in February the firm added to
Wells Fargo & Co. shares and also bought Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
the world’s largest retailer. About 54 percent of the money in
global stocks is invested in the U.S., he said.  The decline in domestic energy prices related to shale gas
and the functioning of credit within the economy are two reasons
why Scottish Widows Investment is bullish on the U.S., Low said.
Natural gas prices have fallen 23 percent in the U.S. so far
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The dollar declined 3 percent against the euro in the first
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a weak dollar and a reindustrialization of the
U.S. going on, so it’s actually cheaper to set up and build
businesses,” he said. In addition, the decline in prices and
export potential for shale gas mean “longer term the
implications are actually quite massive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  