-- Seau’s Brain Seen Offering Special Insight Into NFL Hits
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/seau-s-brain-seen-offering-special-insight-into-nfl-hits.html
For several years, researchers have
been trying to understand a condition that’s haunting players of
contact sports with symptoms similar to  Alzheimer’s disease .  The tragic death of Junior Seau, the former professional
football player who shot himself last week, has the potential to
provide valuable clues, researchers said.  Seau, 43, played almost 30 years of football from high
school through the  National Football League . Now his family is
weighing whether to donate his brain to research. If so, his
longevity may offer new insight into the condition known as CTE,
or  chronic traumatic encephalopathy , said Julian Bailes, a
former Pittsburgh Steelers team physician who now runs one of
two major medical centers studying the ailment.  Seau is “way out on the spectrum, considering how long he
played,” said Bailes, chairman of the neurosurgery department
at NorthShore University Health System in Evanston,  Illinois .
“The thinking more and more is that the risk is cumulative.”  Bailes has identified CTE in the brains of other
professional football players who have died, including the
Steelers’ Mike Webster, Justin Strzelczyk and Terry Long, he
said by telephone. None played as long as Seau. The average
career of a National Football League player is 3.2 years,
according to the NFL players union.  “Altogether the science has only examined 60 or 70
brains,” Robert Fitzsimmons, a lawyer in Wheeling,  West
Virginia , said in a telephone interview. “The more researchers
and the more brains that we have to evaluate, the better data we
get, and the more we learn about this devastating condition.  ‘Early Stages’  ‘‘We are still in the early stages of this research,’’ said
Fitzsimmons, who successfully sued the NFL retirement plan for
disability for Webster, who was 50 when he died in 2002.  CTE is thought to be a progressive condition that affects
those with a history of repetitive brain trauma, including
concussions. It was initially discovered in boxers in the 1920s,
according to the website of the  Boston University  Center for the
Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy. Behavioral symptoms include
impulse control problems, depression, aggression, memory loss
and eventually, dementia.  Researchers aren’t sure whether the athletes’ condition as
they get older is due to a sped-up version of the aging process,
or whether CTE is a separate, distinct neurological illness,
said Gregory Ayotte, director of consumer services for the  Brain
Injury Association of America  based in Vienna, Virginia.  ‘‘We see this, but we don’t know what causes it,” Ayotte
said by telephone. “Would it have happened anyway?”  Seau, a 12-time Pro Bowl linebacker who retired from
football in 2010 after a 20-year career spent mostly with the
 San Diego Chargers , committed suicide May 2 by shooting himself
in the chest at his home in Oceanside,  California , according to
the San Diego County medical examiner’s office.  Dedicated to Science  Former Chargers chaplain Shawn Mitchell, a pastor with New
Venture Christian Fellowship, said the family is debating
whether to donate Seau’s brain to science.  They will decide “within days,” he said. “They’re
bringing in what they call elders, who are personal friends and
guides who help them during times such as this.”  Bill Johnston, a spokesman for the Chargers, said the team
had no direct information about the family’s decision.  While there’s been no motive attributed to Seau’s decision
to shoot himself in the chest, it echoes previous deaths of NFL
players Dave Duerson, an 11-year veteran who played for the
 Chicago Bears , and Ray Easterling, an 8-year player with the
 Atlanta Falcons .  Duerson, Easterling  Duerson, whose four children have filed a wrongful death
suit against the NFL, also shot himself in the chest last year,
leaving behind a note saying he wanted his brain to be studied
by the researchers at Boston University’s center.  The group there has reported that it found abnormalities in
his brain, particularly in the areas that influence impulse
control, emotion and memory.  Easterling, 62, one of seven former players who sued the
NFL last August in Philadelphia over the league’s handling of
concussions, shot and killed himself last month at his Richmond,
Virginia, home. His widow, Mary Ann Easterling said he began
showing signs of  brain damage  20 years ago, including insomnia
and depression, leading to dementia.  It’s not known where Seau’s brain would go, should the
family decide to donate. The  Boston University scientists  who
studied Duerson’s brain have declined to say if they’re talking
with Seau’s family.  ‘Thoughts and Prayers’  “It is our policy to not discuss any completed, ongoing or
potential research cases unless at the specific request of
family members,” said Jenny Eriksen Leary, a spokeswoman, in a
statement. “Our thoughts and prayers are with Mr. Seau’s
family, his many friends and former teammates.”  NorthShore’s Bailes said he has no agreement to do research
on the brain.  “I hope we get to look at it, but even if we don’t, the
last thing we want is for it not to be examined at all,” he
said. “I’m not sure what we’d find, but it would give us an
idea of what happens to someone who’s had as much exposure as he
had, someone who was seemingly doing well until right at the
end. You begin to accrue more and more cases. That’s part of how
you build scientific evidence.”  Christopher Randolph, a neurologist at Loyola University in
 Chicago , said there are still more questions than answers
surrounding CTE research.  In July 2011, Randolph presented research at the
Alzheimer’s Association International Conference in Paris that
compared football players with similar civilians split two ways,
those who were the same age as the players and an older group
showing signs of mild cognitive impairment. The football players
matched best with the cognitive-impaired group, he said.  Cognitive Reserve  That suggests the problem may be that concussions somehow
lessen the cognitive reserve, or the brain’s ability to resist
damage over time, Randolph said in a telephone interview.  Randolph also worries that media coverage of CTE since the
deaths of Duerson and Easterling, and now Seau, may discourage
depressed football players from seeking treatment.  “Imagine you’re a retired football player and you’re
depressed,” he said. “You’re thinking you’re hopeless and
there’s no future and probably it’s due to CTE and you’re going
to get demented and die. That’s different than thinking you’re
depressed but with the right treatment you’ll get over it.”  Lack of Data  Conclusive data doesn’t exist on whether NFL players
experience depression, substance abuse and suicide at a
different rate than the population as a whole, Randolph said.
Besides the concussions, NFL players have different lives than
most people: an early and brief period of fame, with an outsized
paycheck. Many of these athletes then fade into obscurity, and
some also quickly spend their money, he said.  “I don’t know if that necessarily contributes to what
we’re seeing, but it’s a complicating factor,” Randolph said.
Patterns of substance abuse and depression also exist in other
sports, such as baseball, where fleeting fame and fortune are
common and concussions are rare.  Pete Carroll , coach of the NFL’s  Seattle Seahawks , said
professional athletes need help making the transition after
their playing days are over.  “Getting ready for that is more significant than people
think and it’s more difficult being a player of the magnitude
and scope that he lived by,” Carroll said of Seau in an
interview May 4 on Fox Sports Radio. “These guys need care, and
they need consideration and help because it’s such a difficult
transition and nobody’s ready for it. And it can really take
away a whole reality for some of the guys, and we need to help
them as much as we can.”  Studying Players  Randolph said his group is trying to recruit a large sample
of former NFL players to compare with similar members of the
population, short term to see if they have a higher risk of
depression, dementia, and cognitive impairment, and over time to
see how the problems may change.  “That’s never been done,” he said. “That way you can
look at the correlation in a group between pre-death behaviors
and autopsy results.”  Kirk Pope , a plaintiff lawyer at Pope, McGlamry,
Kilpatrick, Morrison & Norwood based in Atlanta, said in a phone
interview that lawsuits have been filed against the NFL on
behalf of roughly 1,500 former players alleging damages
associated with concussions and brain injuries.  Pope’s firm represents 170 of those players who have a
variety of health concerns, including chronic headaches,
sleeping difficulties, personality changes and  memory loss , he
said.  Some players “are suffering symptoms of dementia at a very
early age,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  