-- Sell in May, Buy Utilities, Bernstein Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-05-08T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/sell-in-may-buy-utilities-bernstein-says-technical-analysis.html
Investors should buy  utilities  because
the group tends to do better from May through October, when the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index averages its worst six-month return
of the year, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  A gauge of utilities has risen at an average annualized
pace of 12 percent from May through October since 1970, compared
with a gain of 4.5 percent for the S&P 500, according to data
compiled by Bernstein. The group was the second- worst performing 
among 10 S&P 500 industries, falling 1.7 percent this year
through yesterday, as investors snapped up financial and
technology shares in anticipation of an economic rebound.  “With political risk rising in  Europe  and U.S. economic
indicators showing tepid growth, we believe investors should
consider holding high yielding, low beta regulated utilities
during the traditionally low return, high volatility months of
May through October,”  Hugh Wynne , a New York-based analyst with
Bernstein, wrote in a note yesterday.  The  S&P 500  has lost 2 percent this month as concern about
Europe’s debt crisis intensified and data on the American labor
market missed economists’ forecasts. The index rallied 29
percent from an October low to a four-year high on April 2 amid
better-than-expected economic reports and corporate earnings.  The market’s  historical pattern  of lower returns from May
to October, first noted by the Stock Trader’s Almanac in 1986,
spawned the Wall Street axiom “sell in May and go away.”  The pattern typically reverses during the rest of the year.
Since 1970, the S&P 500 returned an average 8.1 percent from
November through April, while utilities lagged behind with a 4.4
percent increase, according to data from Bernstein.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  