-- Senate Republicans Block Student Loan Rate Freeze Plan
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-05-08T19:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/senate-republicans-block-student-loan-rate-freeze-plan.html
U.S. Senate Republicans blocked
Democrats’ proposal to cover the cost of a one-year freeze in
government student loan  interest rates  by requiring some
professional services firms to pay withholding taxes on their
income.  The Senate, in a 52-45 vote with 60 required, didn’t
advance the plan to avert a July 1 increase in college-loan
interest rates to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent. No Republicans
joined Democrats in voting to advance the measure.  “Republicans claim that they want to stop student-loan
interest rates from doubling this summer,” Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  told reporters after the vote. “That’s what
they say. But Republicans showed today that it’s only talk.”  Republicans said they opposed the measure because they
wanted a chance to offer another way to cover the $6 billion
cost of the interest rate freeze.  President  Barack Obama ’s press secretary,  Jay Carney , said
in a statement that more than 7.4 million students’ loan
interest rates will double unless Congress acts.  Carney said the administration is pleased that Republicans
“now profess to be concerned about this coming rate hike. But
now it’s time for them to stop refighting old political battles
and prove they’re serious by proposing a real solution.”  S Corporations  The Democrats’ bill would finance it by requiring law,
accounting and other professional services firms with three or
fewer shareholders to pay withholding taxes on annual income of
more than $250,000. The firms, known as S corporations,
currently can treat their income as profit and avoid the
withholding tax.  “We all agree we’re not going to allow the interest rate
to go up,” said Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a
Kentucky Republican. “It’s ridiculous that we’re having these
kind of show votes on the floor when we could sit down and
negotiate an outcome, and that’s what will happen. It ought to
happen sooner rather than later.”  Senate Republican leaders said they back a bill passed by
the House that would cover the proposal’s cost by abolishing a
public-health fund created by Obama’s health-care overhaul.  Before last month’s House vote, Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, said Democrats had supported taking $5 billion
from the fund to finance an extension of a payroll tax cut.  ‘Fluff’ is Gone  Reid said today that “any fluff that was in that program
is gone” and added, “some would say we’ve cut far too much out
of it.” He said he would have allowed a vote on the Republican
proposal to pay for the measure if Republicans had agreed to
take up the Democratic proposal.  The House passed its bill, H.R. 4628, on a 215-195 vote
April 27, during the same week that Obama visited three college
campuses to press Congress to continue the lower interest rate.  Democrats are trying to “drive a wedge between Republicans
and a constituency they are trying to court” before the
November elections, McConnell said today in a Senate floor
speech.  “It’s not exactly a state secret that Senate Democrats
have turned the Senate floor into an extension of the Obama
campaign,” McConnell said.  ‘Fiscally Responsible’  The Obama administration yesterday endorsed the Senate bill
and has said it would veto the House bill because of its method
of financing the interest-rate freeze. In a statement, the White
House said the Senate bill would cover the rate freeze “in a
fiscally responsible manner.”  Democratic leaders haven’t said whether they will seek to
bring another student loan proposal to the floor before July 1.  “Obviously we’re not going to let this thing die,”
Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, told reporters today.
“We’ll figure something out.”  Congress could adjust the interest rate on the loans later
because students don’t start paying off loans until they
graduate.  The bill is S. 2343.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  