-- Sidestepping Rotation, Dodd-Frank, Sallie Mae: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-08T12:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/sidestepping-rotation-dodd-frank-costs-sallie-mae-compliance.html
Companies that issue securitized debt
may have to change their credit-ratings provider at least every
four years as part of a possible European Union compromise to
promote competition in assessing such securities.  Businesses would be able to sidestep the rotation rule if
they use at least four ratings suppliers at the same time,
according to an EU document on the proposed measures obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The rule, intended to “mitigate the risk of conflict of
interest and to enhance competition,” would apply to
securitized debt and other types of so-called structured finance
instruments, according to the draft compromise drawn up by
Denmark, which holds the EU’s presidency. “Smaller” credit-
ratings companies would be exempt from the measure.  The Danish proposal would water down plans by  Michel
Barnier , the region’s financial services chief, that would have
forced businesses to switch ratings company every three years.
Barnier proposed that the measure should apply to all of a
company’s debt issuance, not just structured finance.  The Danish plan, dated May 7, follows discussions with
officials from the other 26 national governments in the region.  The credit-ratings law requires approval by national
governments and by lawmakers in the European Parliament, before
it can come into effect. Denmark is targeting a May 15 deal
among ministers on the rules, which would also allow investors
to sue ratings firms in cases of gross negligence or misconduct.  Compliance Policy  Counting Costs Slows Dodd-Frank Rules After Wall Street Lawsuits  Business lobbyists and Republican lawmakers who failed to
stop the Dodd-Frank Act from becoming law have managed to put
the brakes on many of its provisions a second way: cost-benefit
analysis.  A series of legal challenges from business groups against
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ended in a federal
court ruling last year that the agency didn’t adequately analyze
the cost of a new rule. In the months since, the agency’s rule-
making has ground to a near-halt, with just 24 SEC economists
working full-time to provide cost-benefit analyses for dozens of
proposed policies, including 28 unfinished Dodd-Frank rules.  Now lawmakers are trying to write the cost-benefit strategy
into law. Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican,
said the goal is to save taxpayers money while also weakening
the ability of regulators to implement Dodd-Frank.  The strategy has spread to target other federal agencies as
well. In December, two groups representing Wall Street firms
filed suit against the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
arguing that a rule to limit speculation used a flawed cost-
benefit analysis. Last month, the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and
the  Investment Company Institute  filed a similar lawsuit
challenging a CFTC rule affecting mutual funds.  Roel Campos, a former SEC commissioner, said the court
decision combined with pressure from Capitol Hill could prevent
the SEC and other agencies from moving forward with a wide
variety of rules, not just those required by Dodd-Frank.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Fined $5.3 Million by U.K. FSA  Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. (8725) ’s European unit was fined 3.3
million pounds ($5.3 million) by U.K. financial regulators for
serious corporate governance failings.  The unit’s former executive chairman, Yohichi Kumagai, was
also fined 119,303 pounds and banned from working in the
industry, the Financial Services Authority said in an e-mailed
statement today. Kumagai failed to hire a chief underwriter to
manage the expansion of the business in Europe and didn’t update
its technology infrastructure, the FSA said.  The FSA is leading a crackdown on companies that have
insufficient systems and controls to manage risk. Coutts & Co.,
a private bank owned by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , was
fined 8.75 million pounds in March for not having effective
anti-money-laundering controls.  At Mitsui Sumitomo, the agency said that “despite
receiving clear guidance from the FSA that the management
structure and composition of the board was ineffective,”
Kumagai “failed to take prompt action to remedy the
situation.”  Mitsui Sumitomo “accepts the FSA’s final notice and takes
this matter very seriously,” Duncan Gallagher, a spokesman for
the company, said in an e-mailed statement. “The company is
disappointed that during this period its corporate governance
and controls were not up to the standards the company expects.”  Kumagai and Mitsui Sumitomo agreed to settle at an early
stage and qualified for a 30 percent discount on their fines.  SEC Hiring Investigator to Review Complaints About Its Watchdog  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is planning to
hire an outside investigator to probe complaints about the
agency’s  internal watchdog unit  after its top official stepped
down amid complaints about his work.  “An individual has raised allegations of misconduct by
former and current employees in the office of inspector
general,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said yesterday in an
e-mail. “The matter was promptly referred to the Council of
Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency. We are also in
the process of hiring an independent investigator to review the
claims.”  Nester didn’t say whom the agency would hire or specify the
allegations and targets they would pursue.  The SEC hasn’t had a permanent inspector general since
January when H. David Kotz resigned after four years in the
post. Kotz was lauded by lawmakers for his scrutiny of SEC
missteps in overseeing financial firms. His decision last year
to refer former SEC General Counsel  David Becker  to federal
prosecutors for possible criminal ethics violations stemming
from his work on policy related to Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme
helped spark the backlash.  The former SEC watchdog, who is now a managing director at
Gryphon Strategies in Washington, declined to comment yesterday
on the outside investigation.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who defended
Kotz during his time at the SEC, questioned whether the agency
should pursue an investigation.  A spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation didn’t
respond to a telephone call after normal business hours for
comment on behalf of the inspectors general panel.  Google Said to Be Under India Investigation in Antitrust Case  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is under investigation by India after a dating
website complained that the world’s biggest search engine
violated the nation’s antitrust laws, a government official with
direct knowledge of the matter said.  Consim Info Pvt., which operates  BharatMatrimony.com , filed
a case with the  Competition Commission  of India in February, and
the probe may last six to 12 months, the official said, asking
not to be identified citing policy. The Wall Street Journal
first reported the case yesterday.  The Mountain View, California-based company is being
investigated in India for the first time over charges that
AdWords, Google’s advertising unit, profited by luring two
Indian dating websites into a bidding war over keywords on the
company’s online search engine, the person said.  Google’s local unit said in an e-mail statement that it
hasn’t received any communication from India on the matter and
was unable to comment. Consim’s media department in the southern
city of Chennai didn’t respond to an e-mail.  Google has come under pressure from global antitrust
agencies.  German Regulator Reviewing Rhoen Klinikum Derivatives Trading  Germany’s financial regulator is reviewing whether insider
trading occurred in derivatives tied to  Rhoen Klinikum AG (RHK) ’s
shares before  Fresenius SE (FRE)  announced a takeover offer for the
German hospital operator on April 26, a spokeswoman said.  The regulator, known as BaFin, received tips about the
trading, said Sabine Reimer, a BaFin spokeswoman, in a telephone
interview. Such a review is standard in a takeover, she said.
Dow Jones Newswires also reported the review yesterday.  Norway FSA Says Banks Adjusting to Stricter House Loan Rules  Norwegian banks have adjusted their mortgage lending
policies to stricter guidelines established by the country’s
financial watchdog in December, Norway’s  Financial Supervisory
Authority  said in a statement yesterday.  Separately, Norwegian companies said prospects have
improved “slightly” since January while output growth over the
past three months has been “somewhat” stronger than expected,
a central bank survey showed.  Sallie Mae to Compete With U.S. for Fixed-Rate Student Loans  SLM Corp. (SLM) , the student lender known as  Sallie Mae , plans to
offer its first fixed-rate private loans this month to compete
with government-backed loans, which have more protection for
borrowers.  Interest rates on the loans will range from 5.8 percent to
12.9 percent, depending on credit history and underwriting
standards, Newark, Delaware-based SLM said yesterday in a
statement. The rate on the government’s  Stafford  unsubsidized
student loan, which is set by Congress, is 6.8 percent.  Outstanding education debt in the U.S. has reached about $1
trillion, according to the federal Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau. The CFPB is looking into the private student-loan market
and has begun accepting  complaints  about providers.  SLM expects to write $3.2 billion in private loans this
year, according to an April 18 statement. Most private student
loans offer variable rates. Unlike credit-card and other types
of private-issued debt, private student-loan debt cannot be
discharged in bankruptcy.  Facebook May Avoid $14 Billion in Corporate Tax, Telegraph Says  Facebook (FB)  may avoid as much as $14 billion in corporate tax
when it stages its initial public offering next week, the Daily
Telegraph reported, citing filings.  A loophole in U.S. tax law means Facebook can claim a large
tax credit when its staff, including founder  Mark Zuckerberg ,
and early investors in the social network site take up hundreds
of millions of share options, the newspaper reported.  Facebook said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that if all options were taken up before the
end of 2012 a tax deduction of about $14 billion would be
generated, according to the newspaper.  Courts  Harmed Investors Receive $44 Million From Nacchio Settlement  A Former Qwest Communications International Inc. CEO’s
settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, has
resulted in more than $44 million returned to investors harmed
by fraud, the  Justice Department  said May 3, BNA reported.  Joseph Nacchio , who was CEO of Quest, harmed the company
with other executives in a “massive financial fraud,” DoJ
said.  The funds were returned pursuant to Nacchio’s settlement
with the SEC, cleared by the court early last year. The money
was dispersed to the 112,210 victims who incurred losses on
Qwest securities they purchased during the fraud scheme.  Following his conviction, Nacchio was sentenced to 70
months in prison and he was ordered to forfeit the $44.6
million, which represented the net proceeds he received from the
fraud scheme, DOJ said. He also was ordered to pay a $19 million
fine, which was paid to a fund for victims of crime.  Nacchio falsely reported about $3 billion in revenues
between 1999 and 2002.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Nacchio, 1:05-cv-00480, U.S. District Court, District of
Colorado (Denver).  Stolen HSBC Data Allowed by Paris Court in Tax Probe, AFP Says  A Paris appeals court refused a bid by the heiress to
fashion designer Nina Ricci to end a tax evasion investigation
because it was based on account data stolen from  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , Agence France-Presse said May 6, citing her lawyer.  Arlette Ricci disputed the validity of using the data,
stolen by a former HSBC employee and seized from his home in
2009, in pursuing her for allegedly hiding wealth in HSBC
accounts in Switzerland to evade taxes, AFP said, citing Jean-
Marc Fedida, her lawyer.  Fedida didn’t immediately respond to calls by Bloomberg
News for comment on the decision.  Interviews  Germany’s Kampeter Says Markets Demand Budget Consolidation  Financial markets expect euro-area governments to adhere to
their pledges to reduce debt and accept no alternative policy to
that fiscal stance, German Deputy Finance Minister Steffen
Kampeter said.  “There is no market-accepted alternative to budget
consolidation, said Kampeter yesterday at an open hearing on the
debt crisis in parliament in Berlin.  Following elections in France and Greece May 6, there is no
reason to amend tighter budget practices enshrined in the as yet
unratified Fiscal Compact treaty, Kampeter said. Greece must
adhere to the terms of its bailout, he added.  The  European Central Bank  has indicated that it supports
Germany’s demand that policy to spur economic growth in the
euro-area be limited to boosting member states competitiveness,
he said.  Comings and Goings  Finra Names Robert Colby Chief Legal Officer Effective June 18  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority named  Robert
Colby  as chief legal officer effective June 18, according to a
statement on its website.  Colby is currently a partner in the Washington office of
 Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP .  FCC Nominees Blocked on LightSquared Handling Clear U.S. Senate  The U.S. Senate approved two Federal Communications
Commission nominees who were held up by a Republican lawmaker
challenging the agency’s handling of Philip Falcone’s
LightSquared wireless venture.  Jessica Rosenworcel, a Democrat, and Ajit Pai, a
Republican, will bring the commission to its full membership of
five for the first time since a Republican commissioner left in
June to join Comcast Corp. and a Democrat retired. The nominees
cleared the Senate by unanimous consent.  The  Senate Commerce Committee  approved Rosenworcel and Pai
in December to join the independent agency led by Chairman
 Julius Genachowski , a Democrat.  Senator Charles Grassley had prevented a vote by the full
Senate because he said the FCC didn’t answer questions about
whether it gave favorable treatment to LightSquared.  Blais May Be Chairman at Canada Broadcast Regulator, Globe Says  Canada’s Harper government, which is preparing to fill the
post of chairman of the country’s federal Radio-television and
Broadcast Regulator, may tap Jean-Pierre Blais for the post, the
Globe and Mail reported, citing ‘‘industry players” it did not
identify.  Blais would be “relatively compliant” with the policies
of Prime Minister and Conservative Party leader Stephen Harper’s
government, the Globe and Mail said, citing unnamed Telecom
industry insiders. He also would try to keep the agency out of
the news, the people said, according to the Globe and Mail.  Officials of the Harper government declined to comment on
who they plan to appoint to the position, according to the
newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 