-- Silver Forecasters Bullish as Funds Retreat From Slump
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-05-09T12:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/silver-forecasters-bullish-as-funds-retreat-from-slump.html
At a time when  hedge funds  are
reducing bullish silver bets by the most in two years, analysts
predict a rally as manufacturing expands from China to the U.S.,
boosting demand for the precious metal most used in industry.  Money managers cut wagers by 68 percent in two months as
futures tumbled 22 percent, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. Prices will rally to average $35.40 an ounce in the
fourth quarter, the third-highest on record, according to the
median of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of
Fresnillo Plc, the largest producer, will rise 25 percent in the
next 12 months, based on the average of seven forecasts.  Silver, the most volatile metal tracked by Bloomberg, rose
more than twice as much as gold this year on mounting confidence
the global economy will skirt another recession.  China ’s factory
output gained for a fifth month in April and U.S. manufacturing
grew at the fastest pace in a year. Industrial demand from solar
panels to batteries to film accounts for about 53 percent of
consumption, the Washington-based Silver Institute estimates.  “A greater amount of confidence in the global economy
generally means higher growth and that means more silver
demand,” said David Jollie, an analyst at Mitsui & Co. Precious
Metals Inc. in London and the most accurate forecaster in last
year’s London Bullion Market Association survey of silver
prices. “If you look out beyond the end of the year, you can
still see reasons to be bullish.”  Electronics Industry  The commodity rose 3.4 percent to $28.855 this year on the
Comex in New York, compared with a 1.3 percent gain for gold.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities gained
0.2 percent since the start of January and the  MSCI (MXWD)  All-Country
World Index of equities gained 5.5 percent. Treasuries returned
0.6 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Demand from the electronics industry will jump 5.5 percent
to a record 8,314 metric tons this year, compensating for a 4.4
percent drop in photography to 2,346 tons as consumers switch to
digital cameras, according to Morgan Stanley. Total fabrication,
which includes applications such as solders and coins, will
reach an all-time high of 28,677 tons, the bank estimates.  Investors will probably buy an additional 750 tons through
exchange-traded products backed by the metal this year, mostly
reversing a 793-ton decline in 2011, Barclays Plc projects. They
are holding a total of 17,575.7 tons in ETPs valued at about
$16.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
1.6 percent more than at the start of the year.  Glut of Metal  The investment purchases will still leave a surplus
estimated at 3,415 tons by Barclays for this year. A glut of
metal has been no bar to rallies in the past four years, with
prices almost tripling since the end of 2008.  There are signs investment demand is weakening, with sales
of U.S. silver coins tumbling 40 percent to the lowest since
February last month, data on the U.S. Mint’s website show.
Holdings through ETPs declined 1.4 percent since March 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An economic slowdown may also curb purchases by
manufacturers. American employers added 115,000 jobs in April,
the fewest in six months, Labor Department figures showed May 4.  Some investors may be deterred by silver’s price swings.
The 100-day historical volatility for futures is at 36.2
percent, higher than gold, platinum, palladium and the main
industrial metals traded on the  London  Metal Exchange, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “For the average individual trader trying to make his way
in these markets, trading silver is just a mug’s game,” said
 Dennis Gartman , the author of the Suffolk, Virginia-based
Gartman Letter who has been trading for about 35 years. “The
randomness of the movements keeps me on the sidelines.”  Domestic Production  Demand also may be weakening in China, the second-biggest
user after the U.S., with March imports 36 percent lower than a
year earlier, customs data show. That may be in part because of
record domestic production, with mine output increasing 11
percent to 3,232 tons last year, almost twice as much as a
decade ago, the Silver Institute estimates.  Stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the Comex in  New
York , which traded a daily average of $9 billion of silver this
year, expanded 21 percent since the start of January, bourse
data show. Inventories reached 142.1 million ounces (4,421 tons)
on May 1, the highest level since September 1997.  Speculators held a net-long position of 10,565 futures and
options in the week ended May 1, down from 33,503 at the end of
February and the lowest since January, CFTC  data  show.  Options traders are more bullish, with the three biggest
contracts conferring the right to buy metal at prices higher
than now, Comex data show. The most widely held gives owners the
right to purchase silver at $40 by the end of June.  Monetary Fund  Fresnillo (FRES) , based in Mexico City, will report a 10 percent
drop in net income to $807.2 million this year, according to the
median of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
would still be the second-highest profit on record. Its shares
fell 12 percent to 1,346 pence in London trading this year and
will reach 1,686 pence within 12 months, the forecasts show.  The shares almost doubled since the end of 2009 on optimism
another global recession would be avoided. World output shrank
5.2 percent in 2009, the World Bank estimates. While the
 International Monetary Fund  expects a 0.3 percent contraction in
the 17-nation euro region’s economy this year, it is projecting
world growth of 3.5 percent. The Washington-based group raised
its global forecast by 0.2 percentage point on April 17.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose to 53.3 in April,
from 53.1 in March, the statistics bureau and logistics
federation reported May 1. A figure above 50 indicates
expansion. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory
index climbed to 54.8 last month, the highest since June, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said the same day.  “The long-term  bull market  is still very strong,” said
 Charles Morris , who oversees about $2.5 billion at HSBC Global
Asset Management in London. “Silver spends more time going
nowhere than it does going up, but when it goes up it tends to
do it very quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  