-- Six Months Into Alabama County Bankruptcy, Services Fray
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-05-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/six-months-into-alabama-county-bankruptcy-services-fray.html
In  Alabama ’s most populous county,
twisted tree limbs are strewn on the ground months after a
tornado ripped them down. Potholes pockmark roads and parking
lots, including one the size of a pizza that swallowed the
county manager’s front tire. Government credit cards were
rejected when maintenance workers tried to buy supplies.  These are symptoms of the financial collapse of Jefferson
County, population 660,000, which six months months ago filed a
record $4.2 billion municipal bankruptcy. The county’s inability
to provide services once taken for granted is becoming
increasingly noticeable as hundreds of workers leave.  “The county is just falling apart,” said Judy Hall
Collins, a Jefferson County real-estate agent. She said she
struggles to persuade buyers to look at houses in Jefferson.
“There’s a stigma now. It seems like you hear about something
else every day.”  Debate over the idea that government takes in more revenue
than it needs, and wastes too much of it, has come to define
modern politics. Americans for  Tax Reform , a Washington group
led by anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist , says on its website
that it has collected pledges from 279 members of the U.S. House
and Senate that they won’t raise taxes. The unraveling of
Jefferson, home to the city of Birmingham, provides an unusual
opportunity to see what happens when a government suddenly loses
a fourth of its income.  Bond Penalty  Municipalities in Jefferson are straining to pay for
services the county used to provide. Cities and towns in the
state also pay a penalty as investors demand extra yield to buy
the region’s debt. Issuers in or near Jefferson County may pay
an extra 0.10 percentage point to borrow, said Mike Dunn,
managing director at Merchant Capital LLC in Montgomery.  The county missed a $15 million general-obligation bond
payment and says it can’t pay any more unless state lawmakers
break a legislative deadlock to allow local officials to impose
new taxes. The state Senate last week agreed to allow an
increase, and the House is considering a similar measure.  If lawmakers don’t act, the county is preparing to make
more cuts, among them eliminating meal delivery for the elderly
poor and building inspections, said County Commissioner Jimmie
Stephens.  Financial Deterioration  Jefferson County’s financial demise began more than three
years ago, the result of corruption and bad bond deals involving
its sewer system. The situation worsened last year, after the
state  Supreme Court  struck down a wage tax that had generated
about $70 million per year -- a quarter of the county’s revenue.  The county’s budget this year is $217 million, down from
$312 million in 2010, a 30 percent decrease.  The county began its fiscal year with a $40 million revenue
shortfall, though officials say they have lowered that by
eliminating jobs. The county cut 800 of 3,500 in the past year.  Jefferson filed for bankruptcy in November after lawmakers
failed to deliver their part of a September bargain struck with
holders of the sewer debt, led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The
agreement required the Legislature to create an authority to
oversee the system and improve the revenue situation.  The county’s distress is mounting. Its hospital for the
indigent ended cancer and pregnancy care. Its website
disappeared for two days in April after one of the employees who
maintained it left.  Credit Cards  Stores temporarily stopped accepting county charge cards
after its credit limit was cut without warning, said  Jeff Smith ,
the general services director.  The county didn’t have enough staff to open envelopes
containing residents’ property-tax payments. It had to get help
from the state.  The wait for license plates at the courthouse in Birmingham
increased after the county closed three other offices. The line
often snakes into a square lined with live oaks, where the
county has installed two portable toilets to accommodate those
waiting. In February, two elderly residents waiting in line
fainted and were carried away by ambulance.  Jefferson relented and opened one of the shuttered offices
last month, with a pothole outside. County Manager Tony Petelos,
who arrived for the opening, said a tire on his Chevy Tahoe
rolled into it, causing a “tremendous thud.” The county later
repaired the hole.  Employees Quit  Employees are fleeing, Petelos said.  “We are downsizing weekly,” Petelos said. “They’re
taking other jobs, retiring early.”  Cities within Jefferson are paying for more police to make
up for fewer county patrols and trying to keep up with road
repairs. Jefferson did little to pick up debris after a twister
hit in January, reversing its previous practice.  “The only source of debris pickup was two  pickup trucks 
for thousands of cubic yards of destruction,” said Kenny
Clemons, executive director of the Jefferson County Mayors
Association, which represents mayors from 32 cities in
Jefferson.  In 8,400-resident Fultondale, the city has added five
workers to its 55-person payroll handle jobs previously done by
the county. The city has been paying for extra work out of its
reserves, which it will be able to do only for about another
year, said Mayor Jim Lowery. Fultondale applied for a one-time
federal grant to fix a road that the county previously repaired.  Jefferson’s Jails  “We would never have had to pave a road like that,”
Lowery said. “It would be like the federal government saying
‘We’re not going to do the interstates anymore. Here, they’re
yours.’”  “I realize now how much the county was carrying us,”
Lowery said. “We counted on them.”  At the county’s jail in Birmingham, there are about 1,200
inmates in a building designed to handle 968 -- the result of
Jefferson’s inability to operate a second jail 14 miles (23
kilometers) away. Some floors are 40 percent beyond their
capacity.  Conditions are dangerous, said Captain Ron Eddings, a jail
supervisor.  “It was unheard of here to have an inmate put his hands on
a guard,” he said. “We have had three deputies badly beaten
already this year. We had no legitimate rape reports in the four
years I’ve operated the jail. This year we’ve had four.”  Single Officer  A single corrections officer in a booth watches inmates
wearing black-and-white striped uniforms in four glass-walled
wards. Built for 12 prisoners, each holds about 40. Two officers
used to staff the booth.  At night, four men sleep in 10-by-7 foot cells built for
one.  “That’s my mat and that’s my space there,” said Terry  Joe
Allen , 32, who was in jail for driving without a license. he
pointed to an area near the toilet. “Can you believe it?”  The other jail, in Bessemer, sits empty, except for a few
inmates who pass through for several hours at a time awaiting
hearings in a neighboring courthouse.  The county can’t pay to operate the 415-bed facility. It
was closed in 2009, as the county’s financial difficulties
escalated.  Bunks are being used to store confiscated illegal bingo
machines. In a kitchen built to feed hundreds, steel tables are
empty and spotless, and pots and pans dangle from racks
overhead.  Expanding Government  The county’s budget expanded too much when times were good
and should now contract instead of raising taxes, said
Representative Arthur Payne, a Republican from Jefferson County.  “The county needs to balance their budget,” Payne said.
“That’s what families and businesses do when you lose
revenue.”  County officials said they have made the government more
efficient as they cut. Without new taxes, “I don’t know if the
government can actually run,” said Stephens, also a Republican.  If the Legislature lets the county raise taxes, it will
probably reinstate the wage tax, Petelos said. Some revenue may
be used to restore services, though Petelos said the county
hasn’t decided which ones.  Tax money would also be used to make payments on general-
obligation bonds. The bill moving the Legislature wouldn’t allow
money from a new tax to cover sewer-bond payments. Jefferson is
paying sewer-bond holders only what’s left over after operating
expenses, which hasn’t been enough to make full interest
payments.  People and businesses are avoiding the county -- or
leaving.  “You have people thinking about placing a regional office,
and they’re going to ask what is going to happen to Jefferson
County,” said Stan Smith, a real-estate agent in Birmingham.
“And we can’t tell them. So they go to another county, or
 Mississippi .  Collins, the Jefferson real-estate agent, said she asked
about 100 colleagues at a conference last month to raise their
hands if they thought the county’s struggles hurt sales.  Every hand in the room went up, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham, Alabama at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  