-- Slim Takes Alierta Rivalry to Europe With KPN Offer
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-05-08T20:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/slim-takes-alierta-rivalry-to-europe-with-kpn-offer.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) ’s 2.6 billion-euro
($3.4 billion) offer to boost its stake in Dutch phone company
 Royal KPN NV (KPN)  pitches billionaire  Carlos Slim  against  Telefonica
SA (TEF) ’s Cesar Alierta in some of Europe’s most competitive markets.  America Movil is bidding for as much as a 28 percent
holding in the Netherlands’ former telecommunications monopoly,
whose stock had slumped 30 percent this year. Among KPN’s assets
are German mobile-phone carrier E-Plus, which vies for the
country’s No. 3 spot with Telefonica’s O2, and the Simyo
wireless brand in Madrid-based Telefonica’s home market.  Slim last tried to acquire a major western European
operator in 2007 with an offer for a stake in  Telecom Italia
SpA (TIT) , before he was beaten by Alierta, Telefonica’s chairman and
chief executive officer. The 72-year-old Mexican is returning
after Europe’s three-year debt crisis left the region’s phone
assets at bargains while subscriber growth is slowing in markets
such as Brazil and Mexico, where Telefonica competes directly
with  America Movil . KPN said the offer is too low.  “The deal gives Slim more geographical options in Europe,
especially in  Germany ,” said Bruno Lippens, who helps manage $9
billion at  Pictet Asset Management  in Geneva, including KPN
shares. “There’s a lot of logic in consolidating Germany, for
instance, into three players, with O2 or Vodafone buying KPN
assets there. In today’s market, Slim has more financial
flexibility than Telefonica.”  Worst Performer  KPN said in a statement that America Movil’s offer of 8
euros a share in cash to increase its 4.8 percent stake
“substantially undervalues” the company. The Dutch operator
said it will seek further clarification of America Movil’s
intentions and also will examine all strategic options.  A representative for Mexico City-based America Movil
declined to comment today. In its statement late yesterday, the
company said it expects to win approval from Dutch securities
regulators and carry out the offer by the beginning of June.  KPN, based in The Hague, rose 17 percent to 7.58 euros at
the Amsterdam close after earlier jumping as much as 22 percent.
Before today, the stock was the worst performer this year on the
Bloomberg  Europe  Telecommunication Services Index.  America Movil fell 8.2 percent to 17.13 pesos at the close
in Mexico City, the biggest decline since Oct. 24, 2008.  ‘Strategic Shift’  The transaction is disappointing for America Movil
shareholders who were seeking a big dividend or more share
repurchases, said Carlos Sequeira, an analyst at Banco BTG
Pactual SA in Rio de Janeiro.  “America Movil’s investment in KPN is relatively small,
but the shift in strategy is what concerns us,” Sequeira said.
“A more important expansion into Europe may mean America
Movil’s investors will receive less cash than what they had
hoped for.” Sequeira lowered his recommendation on America
Movil shares to “neutral” from “buy.”  KPN is among western Europe’s cheapest telecommunications
stocks, trading at a price-to-earnings ratio of 7.5 times before
today’s surge, less than half the regional industry average of
17 times, according to data on 40 companies compiled by
Bloomberg.  KPN’s ratio of net debt to Ebitda, a measure of liquidity,
was 2.46 times, up from 2.15 a year earlier. The ratio was
smaller than Telefonica and  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  and larger
than  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   German Competition  E-Plus, with 23 million wireless customers at the end of
the first quarter, is under pressure after it became the only
one of Germany’s four mobile operators to fail to secure
wireless spectrum in the coveted 800-megahertz band. That means
E-Plus will have to partner with rivals to expand service.  O2 Germany boosted its customer base by 6 percent last year
to 24.5 million. O2 and E-Plus compete with Deutsche Telekom AG
and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  in the largest European wireless market.  Slim, a  New York  Yankees fan who still drives his own car
around Mexico City, entered the phone industry in 1990, buying
the state-run phone company in a privatization sale. He learned
his business acumen from his father, a Lebanese immigrant who
acquired property in Mexico City to take advantage of cheap real
estate during the upheaval of the 1910 revolution.  ‘Growing Headache’  “The most obvious place to create value within KPN is
through the sale or merger of its subscale German business with
the assets of Telefonica,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst
at Sanford C Bernstein in  London . “Slim is buying an option to
build incremental pressure and a growing headache for Alierta
when it comes to a potential negotiation of KPN assets in
Germany.”  KPN’s German business has an enterprise value, which
includes debt, of 8.7 billion euros, according to her estimate.  Alierta, who studied law at  Zaragoza University  and has a
MBA degree from  Columbia University , has repeatedly denied that
Telefonica will pull out from other European countries including
Germany, the U.K. or the Czech Republic. He told investors in
London last year that outperforming rivals in these markets is
one of his top strategic priorities in addition to tapping the
industry’s growth in  Latin America .  Alierta, 67, a former chairman of Spanish tobacco company
Tabacalera SA, has been on Telefonica’s board since 1997.  ‘Clear Impact’  In  Spain , KPN has about 400,000 customers under the Simyo
brand, which resells minutes using France Telecom SA’s Orange
network, said  Alfonso Pastor , a marketing director of KPN in
Spain. KPN is looking for strategic options for the business.  Telefonica is the largest phone operator in Spain with more
than 47 million customers, of which 24.2 million are mobile
clients.  Slim’s move “has a clear impact even as the truth is that
KPN has almost nothing in Spain,” Telefonica Chief Operating
Officer Julio Linares said today at an industry event in  Madrid .
“We are continuously seeking opportunities to sell small
assets. That’s our willingness.”  Following an expansion in Latin America since the 1990s,
and its 2010 takeover of Brazilian operator  Vivo Participacoes
SA (VIV) , Telefonica is now struggling to cut debt and revive its
Spanish business as the sovereign debt crisis prompted consumers
to cancel subscriptions or switch to discount services. Alierta
in December cut a dividend forecast for the first time in a
decade. He announced 6,500 job cuts last year and has halted
major acquisitions.  Cutting Costs  America Movil’s alliance with KPN will pave the way for
agreements such as roaming, marketing and joint purchasing,
Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said on a
conference call, calling its investment “long-term” and
“strategic.”  “It clearly would be a possibility to continue to look at
Europe, but we cannot run before we walk,” Garcia-Moreno said.
“We first have to get a better sense of the market, a better
sense of the industry, consumers, generally a better
understanding of the industry before we can make other moves.”  In addition to assets in the Netherlands, Germany and
Spain, KPN also owns the Belgian mobile-phone operator that
sells services under the Base brand. KPN said it has started
reviewing the future of the unit, which people familiar with the
matter estimated may fetch about 1.8 billion euros in a sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  