-- Smart-Meter Defiance Slows $29 Billion U.S. Grid Upgrade
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-05-09T20:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/smart-meter-defiance-slows-adoption-of-29-billion-grid.html
A growing consumer backlash against
new wireless digital technology for measuring power usage is
slowing U.S. utilities’ $29 billion effort to upgrade their
networks.  States including California,  Maine  and Vermont have
responded to customer concerns about higher bills and safety by
offering them the option of keeping their conventional devices
for an extra charge.  The fee may discourage drop-outs from the “smart-meter”
program, in which household usage data is transmitted over radio
waves to local utilities such as  PG&E Corp. (PCG) , Central Maine Power
Co. and  Central Vermont Public Service Corp. (CV) , which can use the
information to charge higher rates during times of peak demand.  “Charging fees for opting out is pretty outrageous,”
Charles Acquard, executive director of National Association of
State Utility Consumer Advocates, which represents 44 consumer
groups in 40 states, said by telephone.  Escalating consumer opposition is delaying efforts to
deliver power more efficiently because the gadgets anchor next-
generation transmission grids. Several utilities, including one
owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , are holding
off on roll-out plans until regulators decide whether they can
force consumers to pay costs for the technology that utilities
also refuse to pick up.  Smart meters, so called because they allow real-time usage
monitoring, originally were pitched by the industry as a boon to
consumers for increasing control over consumption. While the
effort won grants from the Obama administration, consumer
advocates say benefits have yet to materialize as promised.  Rising Opposition  A minority of customers complained the devices instead
raise their bills, compromise privacy and risk their health with
electro-magnetic fields emitted by the wireless technology. In
California, more than 50 local governments are opposing use of
the smart meters, according to Joshua Hart, director of Stop
Smart Meters, a  Santa Cruz  County-based consumer group.  At the behest of state regulators, utilities such as San
Francisco-based PG&E and Edison International of Rosemead,
 California , plan to use the meters to offer plans that would
charge higher rates during peak usage-times such as summer heat
waves or winter storms. The devices also promise to save
utilities money by eliminating meter readers, shortening
response times to power failures, and allowing for remote
switching when turning service on or off.  While the companies anticipate cost savings, they’ve pushed
for the expense of buying and installing the new meters to be
passed on through customer bills.  Holding Off Deployment  The meters are key to the “smart grid” being rolled out
nationwide to increase delivery flexibility. Investment by
utilities in the new grid has totaled $15.4 billion through the
first quarter of 2012 and is projected to increase by another
$13.4 billion through 2015, said Theodore Hesser, an analyst for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Not all companies are plowing ahead. In November,
MidAmerican Energy Co., a utility owned by Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway, told Iowa regulators it was waiting to deploy electric
smart meters while it assesses how other power companies address
complaints.  Alliant Energy Corp. (LNT) ’s Iowa utility told state regulators
that concerns about raising customer bills and rapidly changing
technology were among the reasons keeping it on the sidelines.  Last fall,  Connecticut  delayed its decision on  Northeast
Utilities (NU) ’ proposal to install 1.2 million smart meters, saying
it needed time to establish a state policy on the technology.  How Consumers Benefit  Even if a minority of customers keeps their old meters,
PG&E still will be able to realize savings from the upgrade,
said Helen Burt, PG&E senior vice president and chief customer
officer.  PG&E “wants to accommodate” residents who don’t want a
wireless meter and is reaching out to inform residents about the
benefits of tracking energy use on its website and signing up
for energy conservation programs, Burt said.  Edison International (EIX) ’s Southern California Edison, the
state’s second-largest utility, said about 28,000 customers have
asked for a delay of a smart meter installation out of 4.9
million customers, said Ken Devore, director of the utility’s
smart grid program.  That will not interfere with its program that can offer
benefits such as tracking and saving on energy use, he said.
“These are safe, secure and high quality devices,” he said.  Allowing Meter Choice  An increasing number of states are moving to motivate
consumers to go along by permitting utilities to charge those
who refuse the meters to pay an extra monthly fee. State
regulators see “smart” technology as a way of reducing power
consumption during periods of peak demand, reducing the need to
build expensive  power plants  and easing the potential for black-
outs from capacity that can’t keep up with urban growth.  Nine U.S. states including Texas and  Michigan  are either
considering allowing customers to decline a smart meter or are
allowing for that option, according to state regulatory filings
and an April 2012 report from the Edison Electric Institute, a
Washington-based industry lobbying group.  In  Vermont , the legislature passed a bill on May 4 that
would eliminate a fee utilities may now charge to customers who
refuse a wireless smart meter, according to Aaron Adler, counsel
with the Vermont Legislative Council. The bill still needs the
governor’s signature to become law.  In California, most customers will have to pay an initial
fee of $75 and then a monthly charge of $10 to keep their
traditional meter. At PG&E, fees could hike monthly power bills
on average by about 12 percent, based on an average bill of $84,
said Greg Snapper, a PG&E spokesman.  About 26,800 PG&E customers out of 5.4 million have decided
to keep their mechanical meters, Snapper said in an e-mail.  More Accurate Measurement  More than 90 percent of PG&E customers now have a smart
meter as part of a more than $2.2 billion program to deploy at
least 9.7 million wireless electric and gas units, Burt said.  The utility’s roll-out of the devices, which started in
2006, has been fraught with complications including customer
accusations that the smart meters were overcharging. In 2010,
state regulators commissioned a study that found the
measurements were reliable. Burt of PG&E said the devices are
more accurate than traditional analog meters.  Regulators and utilities also point to government studies
that say the devices are safe. In 2011, the California Council
on Science and Technology, a state-created technology advisory
board, said in a report it found no evidence from scientific
studies that smart meters were harmful and the devices emit far
less radio-frequency energy than microwaves or mobile phones.  Meeting Safety Guidelines  Smart meters must meet Federal Communications Commission
guidelines on emission levels and those that meet the standards
and are installed properly are safe, agency spokesman Neil Grace
said.  California regulators have approved smart meter programs
and decided households that don’t want a wireless unit should
pay for the costs of continuing to use their old devices, said
Terrie Prosper, a spokeswoman for the California Public
Utilities Commission.  Utilities, which back the state-imposed fees, say charging
consumers for keeping their old mechanical meters will pay for
the workers dispatched to homes and businesses each month to
record usage by hand, the old-fashioned way.  About 27 million smart meters have been installed as of
September 2011, according to the Institute for Electric
Efficiency, a Washington-based research group financed by
investor-owned utilities. By 2015, about 65 million, or about
half, of U.S. homes will have a wireless meter, according to the
group.  ‘Model for Broadband’  Those opposed to the state-driven mandates say forcing
customers to use smart meters is like making someone pay to have
a high-speed Internet connection.  “We kind of like the model for broadband, where nobody is
forced to take it, but people see the value in it and are
willing to pay more for it,” said Mark Toney, executive
director of the Utility Reform Network, a San Francisco-based
consumer advocacy group.  Catharine Gunderson, 59, a retired teacher, said she
installed a cage around her traditional meter on her home in
Santa Cruz, California, to prevent PG&E from swapping them for a
wireless unit.  “I feel like it’s extortion,” Gunderson said about the
opt-out fees. Gunderson said she’s concerned about the health
effects of smart meters and recently paid to keep her
traditional meter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 