-- Solar Is Europe’s Most-Installed Power Source, Lobby Says
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-05-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/solar-becomes-europe-s-most-installed-power-source-lobby-says.html
Solar power became the most-installed
energy source in  Europe  last year for the first time as
subsidies drove investment to records, the  European Photovoltaic
Industry Association  said.  Installations of photovoltaic panels in the region surged
63 percent to 21.9 gigawatts, surpassing all new wind and gas-
fired power capacity combined, a report set to be presented
today by the trade group shows. Wind and gas plants connected in
2011 amounted to about 9.5 gigawatts each, it said.  European countries installed 75 percent of global capacity,
benefitting from lower panel prices and guaranteed premiums for
the energy. As they have for the past decade, photovoltaic
markets again grew faster than expected both in Europe and
around the world, according to EPIA.  Global installations reached 29.7 gigawatts last year,
compared to 16.8 gigawatts during 2010, the new report shows.
Italy and  Germany  accounted for 60 percent of this market with
9.3 and 7.5 gigawatts, respectively.  These market shares are unsustainable, and such fast growth
globally is set to slow as countries reduce subsidies, according
to the Brussels-based association. While the industry is
weathering a period of uncertainty, over the medium and long
terms the prospects of continued growth are good, it said.  For 2012, EPIA forecast a drop in new European solar
capacity to anywhere between 21.6 and 9.4 gigawatts, a range
that highlights the economic uncertainties the region faces.  Power Generation  Solar panels installed in Europe last year generated almost
30 percent of the electricity produced by all new  power plants 
in the region, the report shows. They generated about 26
terawatt-hours, at the same level of gas plants, which have
higher efficiency.  The trade group said if installations levels for solar and
wind power remain stable next year, they will produce enough
electricity to compensate for the eight German nuclear reactors
closed in 2011, though atomic power typically can run round the
clock.  While Europe amounted for the majority of new global solar
capacity last year, other markets are set to reduce this share.
Non-European markets are showing signs that they may soon shift
this balance in their favor, led by  China , the U.S. and  Japan ,
according to EPIA.  The lobby group sees new global solar capacity of about
20.6 to 41.4 gigawatts in 2013, rising to between 38.8 and 77.3
gigawatts in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  