-- Some Asian Currencies Rise, Led by Korean Won, on German Data
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-05-08T10:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/some-asian-currencies-rise-led-by-taiwan-dollar-on-german-data.html
Some Asian currencies rose, led by
 South Korea ’s won, after better-than-estimated German factory
data tempered concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  Germany , the euro region’s biggest economy, reported
yesterday that factory orders jumped 2.2 percent from a month
earlier in March, more than 0.6 percent in February and the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey for 0.5 percent. Markets
fell across Asia yesterday as election results in France and
Greece put at risk austerity measures targeted at cutting budget
deficits. Official data late yesterday showed Taiwan’s exports
dropped by the most in three months.  “The German data helped sentiment,” said Singapore-based
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.
“Generally, we still see a weaker trend for Asian currencies as
the focus remains on the European situation. The  Taiwan  export
data was disappointing and is symptomatic of renewed concerns
surrounding the Asian growth outlook.”  The won advanced 0.3 percent to 1,135.68 per dollar at the
close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Philippine peso climbed 0.2 percent to 42.272. Taiwan’s dollar
closed little changed at NT$29.370, while Malaysia’s ringgit
fell 0.1 percent to 3.0570.  Taking a Breather  French president-elect  Francois Hollande  is calling for
austerity measures to be delayed. The Greek government, which
took office after last weekend’s elections, has 30 days to
decide whether to make a 20 billion yen ($250 million) interest
payment due today on 4.5 percent notes maturing in 2016, or
default. Greek political leaders will meet for a second day
today in a bid to form a government.  “The currency market is taking a breather after the recent
decline, but gains will be limited with lingering uncertainties
in  Europe ,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency analyst
at Woori Futures Inc. “Investors will refrain from betting
strongly on a position with no major economic data due in the
next couple of days.”  Taiwan’s dollar halted a four-day decline on speculation
the central bank will tolerate faster gains to stem inflation,
even after exports declined. Overseas shipments fell 6.4 percent
in April from a year earlier, compared with a 3.2 percent
decline in March, as Europe’s debt crisis and slower Chinese
growth crimped demand for its electronics products.  ‘Fight’ Inflation  Consumer prices on the island increased 1.44 percent last
month from a year earlier, following a revised 1.25 percent
advance in March, statistics bureau data showed yesterday.  “The central bank may allow gains in the Taiwan dollar to
fight imported inflation,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income
trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “People will prefer
safer assets like  government bonds  if they see more
uncertainties in Europe.”  China ’s  yuan  was little changed at 6.3080 per dollar in
Shanghai, from 6.3079 yesterday, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The  People’s Bank of China  set its daily
 fixing  0.09 percent stronger at 6.2804, strengthening it for the
first time in four days. The currency is allowed to trade up to
1 percent on either side of the  reference rate .  Excessive adjustment of the yuan’s exchange rate could hurt
the economy, Yi Gang, head of the currency regulator, said in
remarks published yesterday. Yi reiterated the yuan is no longer
“obviously undervalued” and is near an “equilibrium level.”  “There’s more room for yuan appreciation if Europe’s
economy improves, which would help Chinese exports,” said
Edmond Law, deputy head of foreign exchange at BWC Capital
Markets in  Hong Kong .  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht was little changed at 31 per
dollar, from 30.96 on May 4. Markets were closed there for a
holiday yesterday. Indonesia’s rupiah declined 0.6 percent to
9,246.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  