-- Soros to Contribute $2 Million to Aid Democratic Groups
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/soros-to-contribute-2-million-to-aid-democratic-groups.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros , who
gave more money to outside political groups in 2004 than anyone
else, is pledging $2 million this year to two pro-Democratic
organizations, a spokesman said yesterday.  Soros, founder of Soros Fund Management LLC, will give $1
million to American Bridge 21st Century and $1 million to
America Votes, spokesman  Michael Vachon  said in a letter to
“friends and colleagues.”  American Bridge is a research group that will focus on
Republican candidates, and America Votes is a coalition that
includes unions, environmentalists and women’s groups. Both
organizations are based in  Washington .  “As he has in the past, George is focusing his political
giving in 2012 on grassroots organizing and holding
conservatives accountable for the flawed policies they
promote,” Vachon wrote.  Soros contributed $23.7 million in 2004 to pro-Democratic
political organizations, more than any other donor, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group.  This year, he hasn’t contributed to Priorities USA Action,
the political action committee backing President  Barack Obama ’s
re-election. Last year, he gave $175,000 to two super-PACs
supporting congressional Democrats.  ‘Strategic Support’  American Bridge was founded by David Brock, who also set up
the media watchdog group Media Matters.  “American Bridge is committed to being a permanent part of
the progressive community by providing strategic support to
organizations across the country and working to influence
elections in 2012 and beyond,” Brock said in a statement.
“Thanks to investments by progressive leaders like Mr. Soros,
we have been able to build a cutting edge organization that we
will continue to build upon in order to keeping providing
effective and efficient services to the progressive movement.”  Obama has 10 times more money in the bank than the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee, former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney . The pro-Romney super PACs
have been able to reduce Obama’s financial edge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 