-- Sotheby’s Addresses Labor, Governance at Annual Meeting
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-08T18:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/sotheby-s-addresses-labor-governance-at-annual-meeting.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  defended its labor practices
and corporate governance at the auctioneer’s annual meeting, as
shareholders and union members pressured it to resolve a nine-
month lockout of art handlers.  “The plans are to do our best at the bargaining table,”
Board Chairman Michael Sovern said at the hour-long meeting.
“It does take two, you understand.”  Sovern said extra security and temporary labor costs
haven’t been “material” and are less burdensome in the long
term than acceding to contract demands of Local 814 of the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Jason Ide, president of
the union, has called Sotheby’s an inflexible negotiator.  While shareholders endorsed management’s recommendations on
all proposals, Sotheby’s General Counsel Gilbert Klemann
announced that a Teamsters proposal opposing automatic executive
payouts in a takeover got 39 percent of votes. The Teamsters had
said immediately vesting some stock-payment plans amounts to a
“golden parachute” that disregards executive performance.  In his prepared remarks, Sovern thanked former director
 James Murdoch , who “served with distinction” on the board for
two years. Ide asked Sovern why Sotheby’s stuck with  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s deputy chief operating officer during the initial months
of that company’s phone-hacking scandal.  “Murdoch was never charged with any wrongdoing,” Sovern
said, later adding that Murdoch made a presentation to the
board’s nominating and governance committee “conveying his
innocence.” Murdoch resigned from the board in March.  Five art handlers who own shares in Sotheby’s attended the
meeting. Thomas McAllister, who has worked at Sotheby’s for 23
years, contrasted its $171.4 million profit last year with his
own finances since the July 29 lockout.  “My family isn’t doing well,” McAllister told Sovern.
“There is not a party in my household.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 