-- South African Cabinet to Get Shale Gas Study by End-July
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-05-08T14:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/south-african-cabinet-to-get-shale-gas-study-by-end-july-1-.html
South African Mines Minister Susan Shabangu said a technical report on shale gas will be submitted
to the Cabinet in July at the latest after exploration was
suspended last year.  The Department of Mineral Resources is “almost ready to
submit” the report, she told reporters today near Hotazel in
the Northern Cape. A moratorium on shale-gas licensing was due
to expire in February.  The government last year halted plans for hydraulic
fracturing as it studied the environmental repercussions of
allowing companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Falcon Oil &
Gas Ltd. and Bundu Oil & Gas (Pty) Ltd. to employ the practice.
Fracking, which involves blasting water mixed with sand and
chemicals underground to free trapped hydrocarbons from shale
formations, has already been banned in  France .  South Africa , a net oil importer that’s threatened by power
shortages, has the fifth-largest technically recoverable gas
resources of 32 countries, an initial  assessment  commissioned by
the U.S. Energy Information Administration shows. The nation has
about 485 trillion cubic feet of shale, according to the study
that was published last year.  Developing one-tenth of that may boost the economy by about
200 billion rand ($27 billion) a year, a study by Johannesburg-
based research company Econometrix Ltd. and commissioned by
Shell showed earlier this year.  Shale gas can play an important role in energy production,
Energy Minister Dipuo Peters said March 29. The government is
“cognizant of the controversies associated with shale-gas
extraction processes such as ground water and soil
contamination, however with ongoing developments I am confident
that these challenges will in the not-so-far future come to
pass,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   Carli Cooke at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  