-- Spouses With Careers on Hold Help Propel Women to Top Jobs
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-05-08T20:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/spouses-with-careers-on-hold-help-propel-women-to-top-jobs-1-.html
Women who reach the upper ranks of
Canadian companies often have husbands who have cut back their
careers, or quit their jobs altogether to support their wives,
three top woman bankers said.  “When you look around at our bank, all of the women in the
most senior management positions have families and also have
husbands who have chosen to scale back their careers so that
their wives can do the 24-7,” said Wendy Hannam, executive vice
president in international banking at Scotiabank. “We have a
ways to go in  Canada  for that dynamic -- the stay-at-home dad --
to become socially acceptable.”  Hannam spoke on a panel about women in financial markets at
the Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit in Toronto today. The panel
also discussed executive boards and European quotas that mandate
gender balance. Women have faced more pressure to be flexible
than men in achieving career ambitions as they seek to achieve a
balance with family life, they said.  “You want to support your family and have that family time
and insure you support your spouse in achieving their career
potential,” Janice Fukakusa, chief financial officer at  Royal
Bank of Canada . “We’re seeing people coming to terms with that
choice earlier on in their careers.”  Colleen Johnston, chief financial officer at TD Bank Group,
said women needed to change their language to mentor the future
generation of female bankers. RBC is Canada’s largest lender,
followed by TD and Scotiabank.  ‘Barriers and Obstacles’  “We talk a lot about barriers and obstacles and
challenges, and we’ve really got to start talking about the
successes and the joy of great careers,” Johnston said.  “As women we tend to use the word ‘sacrifice’ more than
men do,” she said. “When you combine it with talk of ‘boys’
clubs’” that may discourage young women.  Fukakusa said that it makes business sense for a bank’s
workforce to reflect its client base. In retail banking, the
huge majority of the decision-makers are women, and  Royal Bank
of Canada (RY)  has been able to expand its percentage of female
managers in recent years. In the investment-banking unit, women
have had a tougher time moving up the ladder, in part because
the culture is still male-dominated.  “When you have a more diverse talent base, performance
goes up,” she said.  TD’s Johnston said corporate boards are increasingly able
to add more women without mandated quotas such as those in place
in  Norway  and expected to take hold in France and  Spain  in
coming years.  ‘Improve Diversity’  “I am not an advocate of quotas, I think enlightened
organizations will get there,” Johnston said. “Canadian
organizations need to improve diversity at the board level but
they need to get there the right way. It has to be a
meritocracy.”  TD’s board is composed of 40 percent women, who have been
recruited from management ranks beyond retired chief executives,
Johnston said.  “Recruiting and thinking about the next level of
management really opens up the talent pool,” she said. “These
changes require a little bit of courage in looking at business
models.”  “The truth is there hasn’t been a lot of progress in the
last few years,” she said. “I personally think this is going
to be a great era for women as they start to take their rightful
place on Canadian boards.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Cecile Gutscher in
Toronto at   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Paul
Badertscher at   pbadertscher@bloomberg.net  