-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Switzerland (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-08T21:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-switzerland-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Switzerland :  On May 2, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Switzerland.  Faced with headwinds from the euro area debt crisis and a strong
currency, the economy slowed down in late 2011, and inflation
turned negative as exchange rate appreciation was passed through
to import prices. While export growth has weakened, the external
sector continues to perform relatively well, thanks to specific
sectoral strengths and high investment income flows. The outlook
for 2012 is of a gradual recovery, as foreign demand picks up, the
economy adapts to the higher level of the exchange rate, and  monetary
policy  remains accommodative. However, downside risks, especially
from external developments, are significant.  Monetary policy had to contend with severe  exchange rate  appreciation
pressures in the summer, when safe haven flows from the euro area
crisis intensified and the Swiss franc reached close to parity
vis-à-vis the euro (a real effective appreciation of over 30
percent since end-2007). After bringing the policy rate to zero
and effecting a massive liquidity expansion, in early September
the Swiss National Bank committed to defend an exchange rate floor
of 1.20 Swiss francs per euro, moving away from the floating regime.
The exchange rate has since traded closely to the floor, and the
negative inflation differential with trading partners is helping
undo the real appreciation.  With loose monetary conditions, domestic mortgage credit and real
estate prices continue to rise briskly, and concern is growing that
a bubble may be forming, endangering exposed domestically-oriented
banks and insurance companies. To address this risk, a government
working group has recommended strengthening the macroprudential
toolkit by introducing the Basel III counter-cyclical capital
buffer (CCB), improving the classification of risk weights in mortgage
lending, and broadening the SNB’s power to request information from
banks.  The financial sector is adapting to the new, more stringent regulatory
environment, including the recently approved “too big to fail” legislation
requiring systemically important banks to hold more capital than Basel III.
After a marked improvement in 2010, the performance of the two large banks
worsened in 2011, with income generation lagging other global peers.
Although they comfortably fulfill current regulatory  capital requirements ,
these banks still have a relatively thin layer of high quality capital
and, given their business model, rely heavily on wholesale funding.
The fiscal position is healthy and government debt low, with a broadly
neutral stance projected for 2012. Fiscal rules at both the federal
and cantonal level and well-designed inter-governmental fiscal arrangements
provide a foundation for fiscal discipline. In the medium-term, however,
pressures from population aging are building.  Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors noted that, notwithstanding Switzerland’s strong
economic fundamentals and policy frameworks, downside risks stemming
mostly from the euro area crisis and vulnerabilities in the domestic
financial sector clouded the near-term outlook. Against this background,
Directors stressed the importance of pragmatic and flexible policy
responses in the period ahead.
Directors considered the authorities’ decision to continue to defend
an exchange rate floor appropriate in light of the slow pace of activity
and remaining deflation risks. They encouraged, however, the  Swiss National
Bank  to return to a freely floating exchange rate regime once the growth
and inflation outlook normalizes. In this context, Directors noted the
dual risks of removing the exchange rate floor too soon or maintaining
it for too long in the face of persistent capital inflows, and
encouraged the authorities to exit from the current arrangement with
great care.
Directors considered the authorities’ fiscal plans appropriately calibrated
to build buffers against contingent liabilities in the financial sector
and the prospective budgetary impact of population aging. Nonetheless,
should downside risks materialize, a number of Directors saw room for
additional fiscal measures to support aggregate demand in line with
existing fiscal rules. To better cope with the fiscal implications of
population aging over the longer term, Directors advocated further reforms
to the pension system, including measures to index benefits or the
 retirement age  to  life expectancy .
Directors commended the authorities for the passage of the
“too-big-to-fail” legislation but emphasized the need for further
progress in bolstering the loss-absorbing capital of systemically
important banks. They noted that although these banks fulfill current
capital requirements, there is scope to raise their high-quality
capital. Directors recognized, however, that more capital alone
cannot fully eliminate “too-big-to-fail” risks and supported continued
efforts toward improving bank resolution mechanisms and strengthening
financial oversight, including by broadening in-house supervisory
capacity.
Directors supported the steps taken to contain risks in the mortgage
market and the real estate sector. Given constraints on monetary policy,
they viewed macroprudential measures as the appropriate instruments to
address such risks, and encouraged the authorities to consider a broad
toolkit, including Basel III countercyclical capital buffers, increased
risk-weights for riskier  mortgage loans , and other macroprudential
and fiscal measures.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  