-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Germany (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-05-08T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-germany-text-.html
Following is the text of the Germany
2012 Article IV Consultation Concluding Statement of the
 International Monetary Fund  Mission Berlin:  Germany--2012 Article IV Consultation: Concluding Statement of the
IMF Mission Berlin, May 8, 2012  Prospects for a recovery in Germany are favorable, but the outlook is
clouded by external risks, especially from stress in a number of euro area
economies. The key near term policy priorities are to allow the transition
to domestic demand-led growth to proceed, secure financial stability, and
help address the challenges facing the euro area. The opportunity should
also be seized to further strengthen the economy’s own growth potential,
and actively participate in articulating more clearly the Economic and
Monetary Union’s shared vision of the post-crisis architecture, which
would help in restoring market confidence.  1. The conditions are in place in  Germany  for a domestic demand-led
recovery following the downturn at end-2011. The drag from last year’s
decline in external demand is receding, while domestic labor market
conditions have continued to strengthen. Underpinned by healthy corporate
and household balance sheets, higher wages, well anchored inflation
expectations, and low borrowing costs, growth is poised to reach potential
in the second half of 2012, driven by both consumption and investment.  2. The near-term outlook is, however, clouded by a number of downside
risks from external sources. In our view, the main risk facing Germany is
an intensification of the euro area crisis, which would spill over into
Germany directly through real and financial channels, and indirectly
through dampened business and consumer sentiment. Lower global growth
prospects more broadly would also cloud the outlook for activity. An
abrupt rise in  oil prices  due to geo-political shocks also remains a
downside risk to the outlook.  3. The main policy priority in the near term is to allow the transition to
domestic demand-led growth to proceed and to guard against the downside
risks. We see the fiscal stance, with a modest structural consolidation
and the full operation of automatic stabilizers, as appropriate under the
baseline, given Germany’s advanced cyclical position, limited fiscal
spillovers on growth in the European periphery, and Germany’s status as an
EFSF/ESM guarantor. Looking ahead, a pickup in wages and some asset prices
would be part of the natural process of rebalancing the sources of growth.
Allowing these developments to proceed, while adhering to Germany’s
macroeconomic policy framework, will also help to appropriately further
reduce Germany’s high current account surplus.  4. Securing financial stability in the face of external risks remains a
key priority in our view. Despite some gradual progress achieved, the
banking system remains vulnerable to external shocks given its high
leverage ratios, the low quality of bank capital, significant crossborder
exposures, and large reliance on wholesale funding. It will be also be
important to ensure that risks from the global activities of large banks
are fully understood and internalized. The mission welcomes the pre-
emptive reactivation of the backstop facility for financial institutions
(SoFFin II) even though banks are expected to meet EBA capital
requirements without the use of public support, under the baseline. Steps
to establish a framework for implementing macroprudential policies
following European Union initiatives are timely, although we see no need
to deploy macroprudential tools at this juncture.  5. The current environment provides a window of opportunity to build
momentum in financial sector reforms in line with the IMF’s 2011 Financial
Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) Update recommendations. Efforts to reduce
outstanding public capital support to some banks and the sizable balance
sheets of the two winding-up institutions should be stepped up, while
paying due regard to minimizing potential losses to the state. Progress is
also needed on a comprehensive strategy aimed at improving the efficiency
and stability of the banking system. In particular, we believe greater
efforts are needed in restructuring the Landesbanken and reforming their
business models. In addition, the crisis management framework should be
strengthened by establishing resolution plans and enhancing the deposit
insurance regime.  6. As the euro area’s largest economy, Germany can play a pivotal role in
addressing the challenges posed by the crisis. Articulating more clearly
the Economic and Monetary Union’s shared vision of an appropriate post-
crisis architecture will help in restoring market confidence, in our view.
The positive short-run benefits of the necessary implementation of
ambitious structural reform agendas in several euro area countries should
be complemented with pan-European measures. These could include using EU
structural funds and increasing the lending capacity of the  European
Investment Bank . Moreover, reduction of imbalances in the euro area would
be helped by the natural rebalancing of Germany’s economy. In this
context, consistent with the mandate of the  European Central Bank ,
disinflationary pressures incipient in the periphery economies, essential
for their relative price realignment, could imply inflation in Germany
that is somewhat higher than the euro area average.  7. Germany should seize the opportunity to undertake its own structural
reforms to further raise potential growth and diversify its sources,
reinforcing reform momentum in the euro area. Higher domestically driven
growth would help raise the economy’s potential above that envisaged under
the baseline while generating positive outward spillovers. We welcome
ongoing efforts to increase the  labor force  through higher participation
of female and older workers and migration of skilled workers. Raising the
quality of human capital will need reforms to the system of education and
training. Raising productivity in the services sector would be helped by
greater competition, including at the regional level in network industries
such as transportation and energy.  8. We see a need to broaden the access to risk capital through structural
financial reforms. Efforts should be stepped up to develop more arms-
length financial intermediation as a complement to the well-established
relationship-based system in Germany. Recent reform initiatives in the
area of corporate and personal insolvency are welcome. The policy
framework needs to be reexamined with a view to encouraging a larger
investor base for risk capital. We believe that broadening the channels of
financial intermediation would facilitate the allocation of resources
towards innovation and new engines of growth.  9. We thank the authorities and other counterparts for their generous
hospitality, candor and cooperation during our discussions.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 