-- Steve Cohen, Paul Tudor Jones, Blankfein, Koch: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-05-08T10:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/steve-cohen-paul-tudor-jones-blankfein-koch-scene.html
“I’m ashamed, because I know this
issue and I’ve done nothing about it,”  Paul Tudor Jones  said
yesterday at the Robin Hood Foundation  Veterans Summit .  Standing on the retired aircraft carrier the U.S.S.
Intrepid, Jones recited some statistics: 18 veterans commit
suicide every day; 29 percent of veterans are unemployed; 20
percent of the homeless in  New York  City are veterans.  “When I leave here, I’m going directly to a meeting with
my head of human resources and the president of my company,”
said the chairman and chief executive of Tudor Investment Corp.
“From now on, for any job opening we have, we’ll interview at
least two vets.”  Jones then called over the foundation’s executive director,
David Saltzman, with whom he started Robin Hood nearly 25 years
ago over Chinese take-out.  “How do we get the word out to all the  hedge funds ?”
Jones asked, wanting to share his pledge.  “We’ll do it together,” Saltzman replied.  They already have help from  Steve Cohen  of SAC Capital
Advisors LP, Jes Staley of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Lloyd Blankfein  of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. They are members of the
Robin Hood Veterans Advisory Council who spoke at the summit.  “Jobs give our veterans the chance to put a roof over
their heads and provide for their families,” Cohen said in his
remarks at the top of the daylong program.  Recruiting Offices  “We are hiring 10 veterans a day,” Staley said of his
firm’s commitment, which has led to recruiting offices next to
military bases.  Blankfein, for his part, said his encounters with
servicemen and servicewomen have solidified his belief that they
have what it takes to succeed at  Goldman. (GS)   He recalled spending two days aboard the U.S.S. George
Washington, a nuclear-powered super carrier.  “I ate meals with the officers and enlisted men and it
just knocked my socks off when I saw how committed people
were,” Blankfein said.  The summit drew a few hundred nonprofit leaders and
businessmen, including Glenn Fuhrman of MSD Capital and Jeff
Walker, a private sector leader of the MDG Health Alliance.  One panelist emphasized the need for stress management
training at the time of enlistment, to prevent and reduce the
effects of trauma and make the transition to civilian life
smoother.  Strong Community  Paul Rieckhoff, founder and executive director of Iraq and
Afghanistan Veterans of America, said a strong community that
meets the needs of today’s veterans can also help.  “The old VFW Lodge is bricks and mortar, we’re Amazon,”
Rieckhoff said.  Robin Hood foundation has spent $4.7 million in the past
year to provide shelter, mental-health services and job training
to veterans. The organization has made 17 grants to such
nonprofits as the Jericho Project,  Per Scholas  and the Doe Fund.  Met Museum Ball  On the red carpet at the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s
Costume Institute Ball,  David Koch  of Koch Industries was
feeling lavish surrounded by Gwyneth Paltrow,  Scarlett Johansson ,  Emma Stone  and Jessica Pare.  “On nights like this, you spend,” Koch said of the
$10,000-a-ticket benefit to support fashion exhibitions. His
Harry Winston tuxedo studs with diamonds and emeralds sparkled.  “It’s pageantry in the 18th-century sense of the word,”
said Catherine Martin, wife of theater director Baz Lurhmann.
“We’re all entertaining each other in our excesses.”  Well, not everyone.  “I’m really cheap,” said Bee Shaffer, daughter of  Anna Wintour , in a navy-blue lace gown by Erdem. “I don’t buy
expensive things and I eat in a lot. I make grilled cheese in a
frying pan.”  “I spend on philanthropy and I save my money for my
grandchildren,” said designer  Donna Karan .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Richard Vines on  food  and
Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 