-- Stock Splits’ Exit Sends Average S&P 500 Price to Record
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-05-08T01:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/stock-splits-exit-sends-average-s-p-500-price-to-record.html
Stock splits, enticements to investors
in bull markets for decades, have been pushed to the brink of
extinction by chief executive officers still recovering from the
2008 financial crisis.  Four companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  split
their shares this year and 16 did in 2011, down from an average
of 35 from 2004 through 2007 and a fraction of the 102 in 1997,
data compiled by S&P and Bloomberg show. The disappearance of
splits less than five years after  stocks began their biggest
plunge  since the Great Depression underscores changing behavior
by CEOs as well as individuals who haven’t returned to equities.  “There’s a reluctance to split a stock after such a
decline is still fresh in the collective memory of management,”
said  Doug Ramsey , the Minneapolis-based director of research at
Leuthold Group LLC, which oversees about $3.5 billion. “A stock
split is just an accounting mechanism, but the psychology behind
it is, you’re not going to do it unless you’re confident you’re
going to trade at an elevated level.”  While the bull market that began in March 2009 has restored
more than $8 trillion to American stock values and pushed the
 S&P 500  within 15 percent of a record high, the lack of splits
helped send the average price of shares in the S&P 500 to a
record $58.52 apiece on April 30, more than two decades of data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s 9.1 percent higher than when
the index reached its  all-time high of  1,565.15 in October 2007
and 31 percent above the index peak in 2000.  Splits, Volume  Splits, designed to attract investors by making stocks more
affordable through the issuance of extra shares, are evaporating
along with equity volume.  Trading on  all U.S. exchanges  fell to 6.73 billion shares a
day this year from 9.99 billion in the second half of 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Higher prices reduce volume by
creating psychological barriers for investors who weigh
purchases in increments of dollars, according to TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp.  Both have proven painful to investment banks and exchanges
and reduced profit opportunities for newer entrants such as
high-frequency traders. Revenue from equity sales and trading
for the 14 biggest securities firms tracked by Bloomberg fell 36
percent since 2007 to $48 billion last year.  First-quarter  net income  at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the biggest
American stock market operator, decreased 44 percent as U.S.
stock trading tumbled 23 percent from a year ago.  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-largest U.S. equity exchange owner,
 missed  analyst estimates for profit during the first three
months of the year.  Recession Trauma  About 20 percent of S&P 500 companies split stock in 1997,
S&P data show. On average, 12 have done so each year since 2009,
after an 18-month recession spurred by more than $1 trillion of
bank losses and writedowns tied to subprime mortgages. With the
S&P 500 up 102 percent since the 12-year low in March 2009, the
effect has been to push 47 stocks above $100 a share, a record,
according to Bloomberg data going back to 1990.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which hasn’t  split  since 2005, is up 41 percent
this year to $569.48, crossing $600 for the first time in March.
The gains boosted its market capitalization by more than $250
billion in the four months through April 9, more than
International Business Machines Corp.’s entire value, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Cupertino, California-based
company’s total market value is $532.5 billion.  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , which converted six shares into one in
2003 as its stock hovered around $2, trades for $737.65, the
highest price in the S&P 500. The Norwalk, Connecticut-based
travel reservation system remains 24 percent below its Internet
bubble peak of $974.25, adjusted for the  reverse split .  ‘Window Dressing’  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , with the sixth-highest price
in the S&P 500, has never split its stock in the six years since
it became a standalone company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The Denver-based restaurant operator reached an  all-time high  of
$440.40 on April 13 and gained 21 percent in 2012, more than
twice the S&P 500.  “Splitting is nothing more than window dressing,” Chris Arnold, a spokesman for Chipotle, said in an April 30 phone
interview. “It doesn’t change or add value for anybody, not
customers, not the company and not shareholders. Doing these
things to manipulate the price in a way that doesn’t create
value just to make it accessible to a few more people is really
unimportant to us.”  ‘Attractive Investment’  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , which spun off Chipotle in 2006, split
shares for the 12th time in 1999, with then-CEO Jack Greenberg
citing the company’s “desire to continue to position McDonald’s
as an attractive investment for individual investors --
customers, employees, franchisees and suppliers.” McDonald’s
split  five times  in the 1980s, never letting the stock climb
higher than $106.88.  Companies that avoid splits even when prices soar encourage
investors to think like owners instead of traders, says
billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)   Class A shares  trade above $120,000. Even he conceded to
investor demand for lower-priced stock by adding  Class B shares 
that were worth about 1/30th the equity value when introduced in
May 1996. He split those 50-for-1 in 2010 to facilitate the
takeover of Burlington Northern Santa Fe. They gained 8.1
percent to $82.47 this year.  Higher prices make the market less welcoming for
individuals after they were battered by two bear markets in the
last decade and one of the most volatile years on record in
2011, said Christopher Nagy, managing director for order
routing, sales and strategy at online brokerage TD Ameritrade.  ‘Real Big Issue’  “This is starting to be a real big issue for retail
investors,” Nagy, based in Omaha, said in a phone interview.
“There’s this phenomenon going on where there’s hardly any
trades in the marketplace, volume is at 10-year lows, and a lot
of that can be attributed right back to share pricing.”  Trading at discount brokerages has slowed since the
financial crisis, according to data on  E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC) 
and TD Ameritrade compiled by Barclays Plc. At 537,636
transactions per day in March, volume was 15 percent below a
high in October 2008. Charles Schwab Corp. wasn’t included
because it changed to quarterly reporting of daily trades from
monthly in 2010.  Instead of creating stock to bring prices down, four
companies in the S&P 500 combined shares in 2011, the most in
data going back to the mid-1990s. Consolidations by  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  last year and  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2009,
aimed in part at frustrating strategies used by so-called high-
frequency traders, have reduced market volume. Citigroup’s
reverse split alone accounted for about 6.1 percent of lost U.S.
volume in the last eight months of 2011, compared with 2010,
according to Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  Citigroup Slows  Daily trading in New York-based Citigroup has shrunk more
than the 90 percent reduction that would naturally occur after a
1-for-10 reverse split, data compiled by Bloomberg show. CEO
Vikram Pandit said last month part of the reason for the change
was to “encourage institutional and other long-only buyers of
the stock to invest in our company and also to discourage high-
frequency trading that fuels volatility.”  The stock traded at an average price of about $54 in the
second half of the 1990s and split four times, twice at about
$60 and the other two times when it topped $70, according to
data that hasn’t been adjusted for the splits.  When  Google (GOOG)  Inc. announced its split last month, it wasn’t
to appease stockholders. Instead, the company said it created a
class of nonvoting shares to exchange for options owned by
employees, so that redemptions wouldn’t dilute the control of
its top executives. After issuing the new stock, shares of the
Mountain View, California-based search engine operator will be
cut in half from more than $600.  Coca-Cola’s Split  The board of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft-drink
maker, recommended splitting the company’s stock 2-for-1 last
month. The issuance “reflects our desire to share value with an
ever-growing number of people and organizations around the
world,” said  Muhtar Kent , the company’s CEO.  The lack of splits coincides with the rise of exchange-
traded funds, which don’t care about the price of the shares
they buy, said Jim Russell, the Cincinnati-based chief equity
strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which oversees about
$116 billion.  Investors have put $56.1 billion into ETFs in the last 3
1/2 years, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, a market research firm. Still, that’s just one-fifth of
the $273.1 billion they have pulled out of equity mutual funds
over the same period, data through April 25 show.  ‘Sloppy’ Trend  “The market has turned more institutional,” Russell said
in a phone interview on April 26. “As more companies are less
concerned about stock splits and stock splits are a natural
volume creator, you could see the trend in volume continuing to
be sloppy.”  Volume has been swayed in the last decade by the rise of
computerized strategies for market making and arbitrage
cumulatively known as high-frequency trading. Those techniques
are part of transactions accounting for as much as 53 percent of
the shares that change hands daily on U.S. markets, according to
New York-based research company Tabb Group LLC.  Rising share prices can create the impression volume is
declining even when investors are spending about the same on
equities. While  volume  on all U.S. exchanges has slumped 38
percent between the first half of 2009 and this year, the  value 
of shares traded is down only 4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘A Dollar Invested’  “A dollar invested is a dollar invested, I don’t care if
it’s a $100 stock or a $1,000 stock,”  Michael Gibbs , Memphis,
Tennessee-based co-head of the equity advisory group at Raymond
James & Associates Inc., said in a telephone interview on April
26. His firm oversees about $372 billion in client assets. “A
lot of retail investors don’t take that approach,” he said.  “But I don’t think that just because stocks are not being
split or they are too expensive would keep investors out of the
market,” Gibbs said. “It might push them to other stocks. The
reason they’re not in the market is the decade they suffered.”  More than $6 trillion was added to American equities from
September 2003 to the  market peak  in October 2007, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. While the S&P 500 has posted a bigger gain
since March 2009, the index’s value remains almost $3 trillion
less than at the 2007 high.  “Higher prices do affect volume, but I believe that the
lower volume is more reflective of the continuing uncertainty in
the marketplace,” Steven Listor, the New York-based head of
equity trading at BNY Mellon Wealth Management, which oversees
about $168 billion, said in a phone interview. “I don’t see the
institutional investor community clamoring for stock splits.”  Odd Lots  Even when investors aren’t spooked by high share prices,
the trades they carry out in companies such as Google may not be
counted because of rules on so-called odd lots, or trades of
fewer than 100 shares. Such transactions aren’t reported in
official volume or compiled in the Trade and Quote Database, or
TAQ, maintained by the largest exchanges.  While that mattered little when odd lots accounted for less
than 1 percent of  New York  Stock Exchange volume in the 1990s,
it distorts tallies now, according to a July 2011 study by
researchers at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York, and the
University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.  “The emergence of high-priced stocks such as Google, where
trading a round-lot requires an investment of $50,000 or more,
has resulted in odd-lots constituting a significant fraction of
trades for a subset of important stocks in the market,” wrote
Maureen O’Hara of Cornell and Chen Yao and Mao Ye of Illinois in
a paper titled “What’s Not There: The Odd-Lot Bias in TAQ
Data.” Round lots are even 100-share transactions that get
reported.  More Trades  The number of odd-lot trades has been increasing since
2008, when the data for the study began. About 4 percent of
volume in 2009 went uncounted because it was done in lots of
fewer than 100 shares, up from 2.3 percent in 2008. The amount
was 4.9 percent in the first 11 months of 2011, according to
Yao. Computerized trading that breaks orders up into smaller
pieces is the main reason for the increase, Ye said.  Measures such as those taken by Citigroup to fend off high-
frequency traders and the winding down of a period when
electronic firms were experimenting with strategies may also be
damping volume, according to Justin Schack, managing director
for market structure analysis at Rosenblatt Securities.  “From about 1997-2009, there were a lot of structural
factors that drove volumes higher, a huge market structure
transformation,” he said. “All these things inflated volumes
and now all of those drivers have played out or reversed, the
market structure transformation is largely done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  