-- Nobody Immune From Income Volatility, Even Rich
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-05-08T23:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/super-rich-have-to-cope-with-income-volatility-too.html
Over the past three decades, the
highest incomes in the U.S. have risen dramatically, and that
has appropriately received lots of attention. At the same time,
however, these high incomes have also become much more volatile,
and that has gone almost unnoticed.  Conventional wisdom suggests that low-income households
experience the greatest changes in response to macroeconomic
conditions -- their income falls the most when the economy
weakens, and it picks up the most when the economy recovers.  That conventional wisdom is in need of some updating.
Today, the impact of macroeconomic events on household incomes
forms a U-shaped curve -- it is greatest at the bottom and the
top of the income distribution and smallest in the middle.  The strengthening link between high incomes and
macroeconomic activity provides some insight into a stunning set
of statistics: In 2010, according to  research  by Emmanuel Saez,
an economist at the  University of California , Berkeley,
households in the top 1 percent of income distribution accounted
for an astonishing 93 percent of aggregate income gains. During
the slump from 2007 to 2009, according to the same data set,
that group also accounted for a very large share of aggregate
income losses -- almost half of the total decline.  The tighter connection of the affluent to the macroeconomy
isn’t limited to income. The Bloomberg same-store retail-sales
indexes show a disproportionate decline for high-end stores in
2009, and then particularly rapid growth since 2010.  Thirty-Year Change  These recent data won’t be particularly surprising to those
who have read an impressive, but  little-noticed, study  published
in 2010 in the Brookings Papers on Economic Activity by Jonathan
Parker and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen. The two Northwestern
University economists carefully document the increased
“cyclicality” of high incomes over the past 30 years.  Since the early 1980s, the income of the top 1 percent has
fluctuated more than average over the business cycle, rising
five percentage points more per year than the overall average
during economic expansions and falling 3.7 percentage points
more per year during recessions. Before 1982, the highest-income
category fluctuated less than the average.  Parker and Vissing-Jorgensen show that the increased
cyclicality holds under a variety of income definitions, can’t
be explained by  capital gains  or  stock options , and also applies
to consumption. And they demonstrate that the connection between
incomes and the macroeconomy is even tighter for the top 0.1
percent than for the top 1 percent, and even more so for the top
0.01 percent.  The impact of the business cycle on income thus now has a
different shape from what it had 30 years ago. The “beta” (that
is, the percentage change in family income in response to a 1
percent change in national income) is now 0.76 for families in
the bottom quintile of the  income distribution  and 0.90 for
families in the second quintile. For middle-income families in
the third and fourth quintiles, it is less than 0.70. That’s
consistent with the conventional wisdom: The impact declines as
income increases over that range.  What’s new is that beta now rises again as we move further
up the income distribution, reaching 1.01 for families in the
95th to 99th percentiles and 2.16 for families in the top 1
percent. So the bottom and top are most affected by the
macroeconomy, with the impact on the top, if anything, actually
larger than the bottom.  In another paper, released this week by the National Bureau
of  Economic Research , the economists Fatih Guvenen of the
 University of Minnesota , Serdar Ozkan of the Federal Reserve
Board and Jae Song of the Social Security Administration use
data from Social Security earnings records to examine how people
are affected by the macroeconomy.  Their analysis , like the
Parker and Vissing-Jorgensen results, shows that the business
cycle now affects very top earners much more strongly than in
the past. As the authors note, “the fortunes of very high income
individuals require a different classification, one that varies
over time: more recent recessions have seen substantial income
losses for high-income individuals, unlike anything seen in
previous ones.”  Four points follow from this change in the way incomes
fluctuate over the business cycle. First, we shouldn’t expect a
high-pressure economy, despite its other attractive features, to
reduce inequality in the same way it has in the past -- at least
if the metric of inequality is how the top 1 percent fares
relative to the middle.  High Incomes Rising  Second, a common cause may be triggering both the increased
incomes and the increased sensitivity to macroeconomic
conditions at the very top. Parker and Vissing-Jorgensen, for
example, argue that changes in technology may be causing both
the rapid surge in income and the increased cyclicality at the
top. Erik Hurst, an economist at the  University of Chicago , says
higher incomes could even be viewed as compensation for the
additional volatility: “Households with very high incomes may
have anticipated the increase in risk,” he writes, “and if so
one would expect them to have demanded compensation for bearing
that risk.”  Third, one of the best ways to damp income volatility is to
make the tax code more progressive, cushioning the blow from
declines in income, while limiting some of the upside from
gains. The tax system in the U.S. is highly progressive at the
bottom of the income distribution -- which is why the betas on
after-tax income for families at the bottom are substantially
smaller than those on pretax income.  For the very top of the income distribution, however, the
 tax code  is not progressive. In 2009, taxes rose as a share of
income up to about $1 million or so. At that point, according to
Internal Revenue Service data, the effective  income-tax rate 
stabilized before declining a bit for families with incomes of
more than $10 million. Introducing more progressivity into the
tax code above $1 million would help to reduce after-tax income
volatility at the very top.  Finally, if anything, high-earning households should be the
ones most in favor of aggressively boosting the economy in the
short run -- and not just out of benevolence. Yet I suspect,
without definitive proof, that support for additional stimulus
declines as one moves up the income scale.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Greece’s political
deadlock  and saving the  Volcker rule ; Clive Crook  on France and
the EU ; William Pesek on  Asia’s wealth divide ;  Edward Glaeser  on
the  new urban flight ; Ali H. Soufan on the  USS Cole trial .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  