-- Swiss Stocks Decline on Greek Uncertainty; Roche Retreats
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-08T16:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/swiss-stocks-decline-on-greek-uncertainty-roche-retreats.html
Swiss stocks  declined for a fourth
day, extending a three-month low, as Greek political leaders
struggled to form a government after elections that raised
questions about the nation’s euro membership.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the biggest maker of cancer drugs, fell
1.5 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded its
recommendation for the stock.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  slumped 2.2
percent as its first-quarter premiums dropped.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lost 1 percent to 5,977.8 at the
close in Zurich. The gauge has fallen to the lowest level since
Jan. 31 as Greek voters backed parties opposing austerity
measures on May 6 and  Francois Hollande  defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy 
to become the first Socialist in 17 years to control France. The
Swiss Performance Index retreated 1.1 percent today.  “ Greece  is certainly an element of uncertainty once again,
as it hasn’t succeeded in forming a new government and there’s a
threat of new elections,” said Roland Schuermann, a trader at
Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne,  Switzerland . “It’s surely
not conducive for the situation in  Europe . The sentiment is
rather weak at the moment.”  New Democracy’s Antonis Samaras gave up his bid to form a
government yesterday, leaving Alexis Tsipras, the head of
Syriza, to attempt to build a coalition of “leftist” parties.
The runner up in last weekend’s election has vowed to
renegotiate the terms of the nation’s international aid.  Risk of Default  Greece has 30 days to decide whether to make an interest
payment on 20 billion yen ($250 million) of 4.5 percent notes
maturing in 2016, or default. Then, by May 15, officials must
decide if they’re going to pay the 436 million euros ($567
million) due on a floating-rate note issued a decade ago.  Tsipras said he wouldn’t agree to join forces with New
Democracy and Pasok, the two Greek parties that have supported
austerity measures in return for international funds.  “The Greek election result was a vote against a barbaric
bailout,” he said in statements televised live in  Athens  on
state NET TV. “There will be no 11 billion euros of additional
austerity measures; 150,000 jobs will not be cut.”  Roche fell 1.5 percent to 157 Swiss francs. Alexandra Hauber-Schuele, an analyst at JPMorgan, cut the stock to
neutral, the equivalent of hold, from overweight after the
company yesterday abandoned development of an experimental
cholesterol drug. Roche is the third-biggest member of the SMI
by weighting and contributed the most to the gauge’s decline.  Swiss Life, the nation’s largest life insurer, slid 2.7
percent to 89.45 francs. The company’s first-quarter premiums
dropped 3.5 percent as sales declined in Germany, France and at
its unit selling policies known as wrappers to wealthy bank
clients.  Burckhardt Compression Holding AG (BCHN) , the maker of compressors
for the oil and chemical industry, climbed 1.6 percent to 252
francs after Volkan Gocmen, chief analyst for Swiss equities at
Helvea SA, raised his price estimate for the company’s shares by
15 percent to 225 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  