-- Syria Violates Peace Plan, Annan Tells Security Council
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-05-08T18:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/syria-violates-peace-plan-annan-tells-security-council.html
Hope is fading among world leaders and
 United Nations  peace brokers that a failing cease-fire accord in 
Syria will end a conflict sliding toward civil war.  Kofi Annan , the UN architect of the six-point plan to end
the violence in Syria, hit a pessimistic note in a briefing
today to the  Security Council , according to two diplomats who
weren’t authorized to comment publicly. Annan told the council
via video-link that Syria isn’t complying with the terms of the
cease-fire he negotiated with leader Bashar al-Assad, they said.  The Syrian army has not retreated from population centers,
as called for in the accord, and continues to fire heavy
artillery against civilians, Annan said. In addition, Syrian
authorities continue mass arrests, and the extent of violence
remains “unacceptable,” he said, according to the diplomats.  “Thus far, it is plain that the Syrian regime has not
implemented any” part of the Annan plan, U.S. Ambassador to the
UN  Susan Rice  told reporters in  New York  following the Annan
briefing. The situation in Syria “remains dire,” she said.  In Rome, Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told
reporters, “I have lost faith” in the peace effort under which
the UN has begun sending deploying unarmed cease-fire monitors.
There are now 59 monitors on the ground, the start of a force
authorized to total 300.  “What can 50 observers do?” the Turkish leader said after
meeting his Italian counterpart,  Mario Monti . “They can’t
travel the country or even a small part of Syria. One would need
2,000 or 3,000 observers.”  ‘Lack of Will’  Italy announced it will contribute 17 monitors for
deployment in Syria.  Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani last month
gave Annan’s peace overtures a 3 percent chance of success.  “It’s easy to criticize Kofi but his plan reflects a lack
of will by the international community to deal with the
challenge,”  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the  Council on
Foreign Relations , said in an interview. “We are headed to one
of three things: greater international involvement, or Assad
will succeed in rolling this back, or we will have civil war.”  Annan insisted to the UN’s decision-making body that the
presence of even a small number of monitors has had a calming
effect and that his plan, which isn’t an open-ended commitment,
is the last chance to avoid civil war, according to the
diplomats.  Better Ideas  Should a full-fledged war follow, “the implications of
that are quite frightening,” Annan told reporters in Geneva.
“I am waiting for some suggestions as to what else to do. If
there are better ideas I will be the first to jump on them.”  Syria ’s parliamentary elections on May 7, touted by Assad
as a step toward the political openness that the Syrian public
is seeking, have been roundly dismissed by Western countries and
their Arab allies as a sham. The 14-month conflict has claimed
more than 9,000 lives, by UN estimates.  Military troops raided the central city of Homs as well as
Aleppo, near the Turkish border, and Deir Ezzor province using
heavy artillery and machines guns, leaving many wounded as
fatalities totaled at least 20 today, the Local Coordination
Committees of Syria said on its website.  Failure of the UN monitoring mission may persuade Russia
and  China , the strongest advocates for giving Annan’s initiative
more time, to consider stronger measures such as additional
sanctions to pressure Assad to stop killing his opponents and
civilians.  The U.S. won’t support extending the mission beyond an
initial 90 days if Assad isn’t meeting his obligations, Rice
said last month.  -- With assistance from Lorenzo Totaro and Chiara Vassari in
 Rome , Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait . Editors: Terry Atlas, Larry
Liebert  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  