-- U.K. Legislative Program Said to Overhaul Banks, Job Laws
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/u-k-legislative-program-said-to-overhaul-banks-job-laws.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  will
set out his government’s new legislative program today, with
bills to overhaul the banking sector, pensions and employment
law, said three people with knowledge of the proposals.  A banking bill will map out plans to protect the retail
units of banks, they said. A separate bill will seek to reform
public-sector pensions so that workers retire later and save
more, said the people, who declined to be identified because the
bills haven’t been published. The Enterprise and Regulatory
Reform Bill will include ways to streamline employment tribunals
and seek to place curbs on executive pay, they added.  Cameron is looking to shift attention away from his worst
electoral setback since taking office two years ago. His
Conservative Party and their Liberal Democrat partners lost
hundreds of seats to the Labour opposition in municipal polls on
May 4, triggering renewed tensions in the coalition.  “It’s a tough time in our country, it’s a difficult time
in our country and we have got more work to do,” Cameron said
yesterday during a questions session with manufacturing workers
in Essex, north of  London .  Queen Elizabeth II , as head of state, will read out to
Parliament a speech listing the legislative plans agreed between
the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats at 11:30 a.m. The
occasion marks the State Opening of Parliament.  The Treasury plans to implement in full recommendations of
the Independent Commission on Banking by 2015, a spokesman for
the department said. The monarch will announce the plans today.  Vickers Proposals  The solution proposed last year by the panel led by former
Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers  is for banks to
build firewalls between their consumer and investment operations
and boost the amount of loss-absorbing equity and debt they hold
to between 17 percent and 20 percent. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  intends the legislation to take effect
no later than 2019.  The queen will also outline proposals to allow employment
tribunals to have judges rule on dismissals without lay
magistrates, in order to speed up cases, said one of the people.
The same bill will have the scope to introduce rules to limit
the pay of senior executives although no specific measures will
be included today, one person added.  Reform of the House of Lords is set to be among the main
proposals. The push for an elected upper chamber, a key
objective for the Liberal Democrats, is opposed by many
Conservatives who say it should not be a priority at a time of
economic crisis.  ‘Perfectly Sensible’  Cameron said yesterday the introduction of directly elected
peers was “a perfectly sensible reform for Parliament to
consider,” while his Liberal Democrat deputy  Nick Clegg  said he
saw no reason why the government should not pursue it alongside
other issues such as helping the low paid.  “A smidgen of democracy I don’t think will go amiss,
since we’ve been talking about it for about 100 years,” Clegg
said.  There will also be proposals to give both parents access to
flexible parental leave, according to Cameron’s office.  The pageantry of the Queen’s Speech begins at 10 a.m., when
the Yeomen of the Guard, the Royal bodyguards known as
“Beefeaters,” will search the cellars of Parliament. The
tradition dates back to 1605, when  Guy Fawkes  attempted to blow
up the building and King James I with it.  The queen then travels by horse-drawn coach from  Buckingham
Palace  to the Houses of Parliament, escorted by the Household
Cavalry. As she arrives, the Union Flag of the U.K. will be
lowered and her Royal Standard raised over Parliament.  Black Rod  At 11:30 a.m., the official who has the title Yeoman Usher
of the Black Rod will march to the  House of Commons , the lower,
elected, chamber. His job is to summon lawmakers to hear the
queen, who will be waiting in the House of Lords. The door of
the Commons will be slammed in his face.  This ritual symbolizes the independence of the Commons from
the Crown: no British monarch has entered the lower house since
1642, when King Charles I tried to arrest five members in the
run-up to a civil war that ended with his execution in 1649.  After “Black Rod” has knocked on the door of the Commons,
lawmakers process to the House of Lords. Seated on a gilded
throne next to her husband, the Duke of Edinburgh,  Queen
Elizabeth  will read the speech from a goatskin parchment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  