-- U.K. Banker Jobs in London May Drop to Lowest Since 1996
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-05-08T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/u-k-banker-jobs-in-london-may-drop-to-lowest-since-1996.html
Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may
reduce employment in  London ’s financial services to its lowest
level in about 16 years, the  Centre for Economics & Business
Research Ltd.  said.  Jobs in the capital’s financial districts, in the City and
 Canary Wharf , may fall to a revised estimate of 255,000 in 2012
compared with 288,000 predicted six months ago, the London-based
research firm said in a statement today. That would make it the
lowest number since the first quarter of 1996, the CEBR said.  “The continuing weak economic performance and banking
crisis in the  euro zone  is having a dampening effect on the City
of London’s economy,” said Rob Harbron, economist at the CEBR.
It’s “having a knock-on effect for business performance in the
City -- lower trading volumes, and importantly smaller values
for the trades that are taking place.”  Austerity measures aimed at curbing Europe’s debt crisis
have driven economies from the Netherlands to Spain back into
recession. The  European Central Bank , which injected more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into banks in longer-term
refinancing operations to avoid a credit crunch, has signaled
reluctance to do more.  In London, the world’s biggest center for foreign-exchange
trading, cross-border bank lending and interest-rate
derivatives, the average value of FTSE 100 shares traded over
the past 50 days has fallen 69 percent from the high in December
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Weak Demand’  “The combination of weak demand, aggressive regulation,
high taxation and the rising competitiveness of financial
centers in the  Far East  mean that London’s position is weaker
than before,” said CEBR Chief Executive Douglas McWilliams in
the statement.  The British economy fell into its first double-dip
recession since the 1970s in the first quarter as government
spending cuts, rising unemployment and higher-than-targeted
inflation curtailed economic activity. Lenders including  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage lender and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  said in March they would eliminate
2,064 jobs in the U.K. to control costs.  Most of the fall in financial-services jobs took place
during the past six months and there may be a recovery to
268,000 by 2016, the CEBR said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  