-- U.K. Retail Sales Drop Most in More Than a Year, BRC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-05-09T09:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/u-k-retail-sales-drop-most-in-more-than-a-year-brc-says.html
U.K.  retail sales  fell the most in
more than a year last month as poor weather and consumer caution
on spending curbed demand at stores.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value,
declined 3.3 percent from a year earlier, the London-based
 British Retail Consortium  said today. That’s the biggest monthly
drop since March 2011. Including stores open less than 12
months, sales decreased 1 percent.  With Britain suffering its first double-dip recession since
1975, the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will
decide tomorrow whether to add more stimulus to its existing 325
billion pounds ($524 billion) of bond purchases. Officials have
to balance the need to bolster the economy with the threat of
inflation, which has been above their 2 percent target for more
than two years.  “If the MPC wants to expand quantitative easing, it has no
shortage of justifications,” said  Simon Hayes , an economist at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  in London. Still, inflation pressures and doubts
about the effect of stimulus means the MPC may “prefer to hold
fire unless a fresh crisis, or more prolonged weakness in
demand, makes the case for QE irresistible.”  The sales slump was partly due to the weather, which curbed
demand for clothes, shoes and gardening equipment. April
registered the largest amount of rainfall for the month since
records began in 1910, according to the U.K.  Met Office . Sales a
year earlier were boosted by the wedding of  Prince William  and
 Kate Middleton .  The BRC said that even taking these factors into account,
the figures were “disappointing.”  BOE Decision  “The weakening economy is likely to mean people are even
more cautious about their finances,” BRC Director General
Stephen Robertson said. “Any significant improvement in the
difficult underlying conditions” is “a long way off.”  The MPC will probably maintain the size of its QE program
after a two-day meeting that begins today, according to 43 of 51
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The remainder see an
increase of at least 25 billion pounds.  Former Bank of England Deputy Governor John Gieve said
yesterday the MPC will probably expand stimulus in a decision
that will be a “close call.”  U.K. consumer-price growth accelerated to 3.5 percent in
March from 3.4 percent in February. While the central bank
forecast in February that  inflation  will slow to its 2 percent
target this year, some MPC members have said they are less
optimistic about the pace of slowdown. The MPC will have new
projections at this week’s policy meeting that it will publish
on May 16.  Pound Gains  The pound rose against the euro for a fourth day as
political stalemate in  Greece  after elections raised concerns
the country may leave the currency bloc. Sterling was little
changed at 80.45 pence per euro as of 10:14 a.m. in London.  U.K. government bonds were little changed, with yield on
the 10-year gilt at 1.938 percent today. It fell to 1.923
percent yesterday, close to a record low, as investors sought
the relative safety of U.K. government debt.  The resurgence of concerns related to the euro-area debt
crisis has sent stocks lower.  Europe ’s  Stoxx 600 Index (SXXP)  has
fallen to the lowest in almost four months and is down about 8
percent from this year’s high on March 16. The FTSE 100 Index
has dropped to the lowest this year.  German Strength  Still, German data today showed that exports unexpectedly
increased for a third month in March as demand from outside the
euro region offset weaker sales in Europe.  Foreign sales ,
adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, rose 0.9 percent
from February, when they gained 1.5 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office said.  The report is the third in as many days to suggest Europe’s
largest economy may have returned to growth in the first
quarter. Factory orders and  industrial production  both rose more
than economists forecast in March.  In  Asia ,  Indonesia ’s central bank will probably extend a
pause in interest-rate cuts as the second-worst performing
currency in Asia highlights the threat from inflation. All 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast that  Bank
Indonesia  will keep its  reference rate  at 5.75 percent tomorrow.  The central bank has left its benchmark unchanged since an
unexpected reduction in February.  Rates Unchanged  The  Bank of Korea  will keep the  benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent for an 11th month
tomorrow, according to all 17 economists in another survey.  Bank
Negara Malaysia  will hold its  key rate  at 3 percent for a sixth
meeting a day later, a separate survey showed.  Also in the U.K. today, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and
Employment Confederation said their index of hiring of full-time
staff dropped to a three-month low of 51.9 in April from 52.4 in
March. An index of hiring of temporary workers slipped to 48.2
from 48.5. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  REC Chief Executive Officer Kevin Green said he expects
“more private sector jobs being created in the second half of
the year.” Still, “this growth is fragile though, and reports
of a double-dip recession and crises in the  euro zone  could have
a negative impact on that confidence,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  