-- U.K. Stocks Drop, Erasing 2012 Gains, on Greek Concern
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-08T16:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/u-k-stocks-drop-for-second-day-as-mining-companies-fall.html
U.K. stocks  declined, with the  FTSE
100 Index (UKX)  erasing its gains this year, as a Greek left-wing
leader who opposes the terms of the Mediterranean nation’s
financial rescue got the mandate to form the next government.  Mining companies including  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  dropped with metal
prices. Man Group Plc, the world’s largest listed hedge-fund
manager, fell for a sixth day on concern it faces outflows.
 Telecity Group Plc (TCY)  tumbled 4.7 percent after the Internet
technology company reported its latest results.  The benchmark FTSE 100 slid 1.8 percent to 5,554.55 at the
close in  London . The gauge, which rallied as much as 7.1 percent
since the beginning of 2012 through March 16, was  little changed
 for the year today. The FTSE 100 also closed below its 200-day
simple moving average for the first time this year. The FTSE
All-Share Index fell 1.9 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index tumbled 1.7 percent.  The voters’ rejection of austerity plans “has the
potential to shock markets,” said Kevin Lecocq, global chief
investment officer at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management,
in a note to clients today. “We still think it very likely that
solutions will be found, but stand ready to change this view --
and our positions in the markets -- should the European
situation worsen.”  Alexis Tsipras, whose Syriza party placed second in Greek
elections on May 6, said he would forge ahead with plans to form
a coalition government of left-wing parties after he was handed
the mandate by President Karolos Papoulias.  ‘Barbaric Bailout’  “The Greek election result was a vote against a barbaric
bailout,” he said in statements televised live in  Athens  on
state NET TV. “There will be no 11 billion euros of additional
austerity measures, 150,000 jobs will not be cut.”  Antonis Samaras, the leader of the New Democracy party in
 Greece , earlier said he failed to form a government after the
weekend’s elections.  Elsewhere, a U.K.  house-price index  fell to a six-month low
in April as demand weakened after a stamp-duty exemption for
first-time buyers ended, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors said.  The gauge dropped to minus 19 from minus 11 in March,
according to a report today by London-based RICS, which conducts
a monthly poll of property surveyors across the country. A
reading below zero means more surveyors saw price drops than
gains last month.  Xstrata, Glencore  Xstrata fell 3.8 percent to 1,089 pence and  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  retreated 4.5 percent to 392 pence.  Randgold
Resources Ltd. (RRS)  declined 6.8 percent to 4,773 pence as gold
tumbled below $1,600 an ounce for the first time since January
and copper decreased the most in almost five weeks in  New York .  Man Group declined 7.1 percent to 82.45 pence, the lowest
since February 2000, on concern the company is struggling with
outflows. The company reported May 1 that clients withdrew a net
$1 billion in the first quarter as its AHL computerized trading
system underperforms.  “Man remains binary -- either AHL reverts to trend, and it
is extremely cheap, or it doesn’t and it isn’t,” a team of
analysts at Bank of America Corp. wrote in a report today. “But
as the price falls, one branch of this binary becomes
increasingly overweighed. Every time the price falls on the
basis of no news or solid news, the balance becomes more tilted
to new investors.” The bank rates  Man Group (EMG)  as buy.  Telecity  Telecity tumbled 4.7 percent to 762 pence even after the
company reported “good growth” in sales and profitability for
last quarter. Numis Securities cut the stock to hold from add,
citing “ adverse movement” in currencies that will trigger
profit estimate downgrades.  Punch Taverns Plc (PUB) , a pub operator, plunged 11 percent to
8.67 pence. The company may start negotiations to restructure
its debt after the  Olympic Games , the Financial Times reported,
citing a person close to the situation it didn’t identify. [bn:WBTKR=IMG:LN]   Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  [], whose designs are used
in Apple Inc.’s new iPad and other tablets and smartphones,
tumbled 11 percent to 544 pence, extending the 7.6 percent
decline on May 4. Reuters reported last week that Samsung
Electronics Co.’s new S 111 smartphone uses a chip designed by
rival company ARM Holdings Plc.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the U.K. owner of the Argos and
Homebase chains, plunged 10 percent to 73 pence. The company has
dropped 28 percent since May 2, when it said it won’t pay a
final dividend and reported annual profit fell 60 percent.  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the  U.K.’s second-biggest insurer , climbed as
much as 5.8 percent to 319.8 pence before paring the advance.
The company said Chief Executive Officer Andrew Moss stepped
down following investor protests over executive compensation.
The insurer’s incoming chairman, John McFarlane, will
immediately become interim executive deputy chairman.  New CEO  “A new CEO candidate would potentially have a clear
mandate to undertake a radical restructuring to set the group on
a more viable capital and earnings base going forward,”
Citigroup Inc. analyst Raghu Hariharan in London wrote in a note
to clients.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer with the most licenses in
 Africa , advanced 3.3 percent to 1,517 pence, its biggest gain in
six weeks. Exploration Director Angus McCoss said the Ngamia-1
exploration well in Kenya has discovered oil “more than double
that encountered in any of our East African exploration wells to
date.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  