-- S&P 500 Declines to Lowest Level in One Month on Greece
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-08T20:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/u-s-stock-futures-drop-as-greek-government-talks-stall.html
U.S. stocks retreated, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the lowest level in almost a
month, as political tension in Greece intensified concern about
a euro exit and a deepening of the region’s debt crisis.  Equities  trimmed  earlier losses after the S&P 500 dropped
below 1,350, a so-called support level being watched by traders.
 Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  Co. and  Bank of America Corp.  fell at least 2.1
percent to pace declines among the biggest companies. McDonald’s
Corp., the world’s largest restaurant chain, slumped 2.1 percent
as April sales trailed projections.  Fossil Inc. (FOSL)  plunged 38
percent, the most since 1995, after the owner of the namesake
watch brand reduced its full-year earnings forecast.  The S&P 500 slid 0.4 percent to 1,363.72 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, trimming a loss of as much as 1.6 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  fell 76.44 points, or 0.6 percent, to
12,932.09 for a  fifth day  of losses. Greek stocks sank to a two-
decade low. About 7.8 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, or 17 percent above the three-month average.  “It’s the unknown in Europe affecting the market,” said
 Hank Smith , chief investment officer at Haverford Trust Co. in
Radnor, Pennsylvania. His firm manages about $6.5 billion. “If
Greece does exit the euro, will there be contagion? It could
have a negative reverberation throughout the globe.”  Equities fell as Greece’s leaders met for a second day to
try to form a government after an election that raised questions
about the nation’s membership of the euro. Alexis Tsipras,
leader of the Syriza party who has vowed to rip up the terms of
Greece’s bailout, was handed the mandate to form a government
after Antonis Samaras of New Democracy failed to reach a deal.  Euro Exit  Concern about the  European debt crisis  helped drive the S&P
500 down 2.5 percent in May. The situation in Europe could get
“worse” before it gets better, according to James McDonald,
chief investment strategist at Northern Trust Corp., whose firm
manages $715 billion. John Taylor of hedge fund FX Concepts LLC
said Greece will probably leave the euro as soon as next month
as the government runs out of cash and European institutions
fail to lend more to the nation.  “This summer I think is very likely,” Taylor, founder and
chief executive officer of FX Concepts in New York, said today
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with
 Erik Schatzker . “The Europeans aren’t going to give them the
money, the  International Monetary Fund ’s not going to give them
an OK. They will be out of money in June.”  Stocks pared losses after the S&P 500 dipped below 1,350
for only about 15 minutes this morning. The market found support
at that level, according to  Michael Shaoul , chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management in New York.  ‘Buy the Dip’  “Once that held, you’ve seen a willingness to buy the dip
in the U.S. market in names that people have become comfortable
with,” said Shaoul. His firm oversees more than $1.6 billion.  Eight out of  10 groups  in the S&P 500 retreated today as
consumer discretionary, financial and commodity companies had
the biggest declines. Utilities and health-care shares, which
are less-tied to economic growth, rose. Hewlett-Packard dropped
2.3 percent, the most in the Dow, to $23.32. Bank of America
sank 2.1 percent to $7.79.  McDonald’s (MCD)  lost 2.1 percent to $93.55. Sales at stores open
at least 13 months rose 3.3 percent worldwide last month,
trailing estimates, as sales growth slowed in the U.S. Analysts
projected a gain of 4.3 percent, the average of 13 estimates
compiled by Consensus Metrix. Sales in the U.S. advanced 3.3
percent. Analysts estimated an increase of 5.2 percent.  Electronic Arts (EA)  dropped 4.3 percent to $14.48. The second-
largest U.S. video-game publisher tumbled after its forecasts
for the current quarter and fiscal year fell short of analysts’
estimates. The company plans to cut  jobs .  Most in S&P 500  Fossil plunged 38 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$78.52. Wholesale revenue in Europe in the first quarter rose
4.7 percent from a year earlier, the Richardson, Texas-based
company said today in a statement. Chief Financial Officer Mike Kovar said in a February conference call that wholesale and
retail activity in the U.S. and Europe would increase in a “low
double-digit area” in the first quarter and for the year.  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  retreated 6.1 percent to
$50.80. The  owner  of cable networks such as Animal Planet and
TLC reported a 28 percent decline in first-quarter profit after
a one-time gain last year on Oprah Winfrey’s network, OWN.  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  slid 4.8 percent to $119.23. The casino
company founded by billionaire Steve Wynn reported first-quarter
earnings fell 19 percent,  missing  analysts’ projections on lower
winnings in Las Vegas.  ‘Modest’  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN)  tumbled 25 percent to $8.75. The maker of
the prostate cancer drug Provenge said growth this year will be
“modest” and its first-quarter loss fell short of estimates.  Investors should buy  utilities  because the group tends to
do better from May through October, when the S&P 500 averages
its worst six-month return of the year, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.  A gauge of utilities has risen at an average annualized
pace of 12 percent from May through October since  1970 (S5UTIL) , compared
with a gain of 4.5 percent for the S&P 500, according to data
compiled by Bernstein. The group was the second- worst performing 
among 10 S&P 500 industries, falling 1.7 percent this year
through yesterday, as investors snapped up financial and
technology shares in anticipation of an economic rebound.  “With political risk rising in Europe and U.S. economic
indicators showing tepid growth, we believe investors should
consider holding high yielding, low beta regulated utilities
during the traditionally low return, high volatility months of
May through October,” Hugh Wynne, a New York-based analyst with
Bernstein, wrote in a note yesterday.  Facebook IPO  Facebook Inc. (FB)  officials are touting growth prospects for
the largest social network in meetings this week in New York and
Boston with hundreds of would-be investors before its record
initial public offering. Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg 
and Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman led a presentation in
Boston today. They were joined yesterday in New York by Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg .  Facebook plans to raise as much as $11.8 billion in its
IPO, the biggest ever for an Internet company. Zuckerberg, 27,
has had to pitch his business model during Facebook’s years as a
private company and probably won’t have trouble communicating
the mission to prospective public investors, said  Herman Leung ,
an analyst at Susquehanna International Group.  “It’s important to hear directly from him for investors
who are about to put millions and millions of dollars into a
company,” said Leung, who is based in  San Francisco .
“Convincing others now they should buy shouldn’t be that hard
for a company that has amassed a user base of over 900
million.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  