-- Chicago Barred From Prosecuting ACLU for Taping Police
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-08T18:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/u-s-court-bars-prosecution-under-illinois-eavesdropping-law.html
A U.S. appeals court in  Chicago  barred
Cook County State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez from prosecuting
members of the  American Civil Liberties Union  for making audio
recordings of the city’s police officers in the line of duty.  Today’s ruling, which reinstates a 2010 lawsuit filed by
the ACLU’s Illinois chapter, comes 12 days before the third-
biggest U.S. city hosts a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
 summit . A protest march is already scheduled.  “The Illinois eavesdropping statute restricts far more
speech than necessary to protect legitimate privacy interests,”
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Chicago said in a 2-1  decision .  The law makes it a felony to audio record part or all of a
conversation without all parties’ consent. Violating the statute
when police are involved carries a prison sentence of as long as
15 years, according to the majority ruling. Silent videotaping
of officers is lawful.  The ACLU filed the lawsuit to preserve its right to
advocate for changes in city police practices, the organization
said in a statement today. The decision specifically bars
Alvarez’s office from applying the measure against the group and
its members.  ‘Free Expression’  “In order to make the rights of free expression and
petition effective, individuals and organizations must be able
to freely gather and record information about the conduct of
government and their agents -- especially the police,” ACLU of
 Illinois  Legal Director Harvey Grossman said in the statement.  Andrew Conklin, a spokesman for Alvarez, said her office
would soon issue a statement addressing the court’s decision.  The lower court had dismissed the case, concluding the ACLU
failed to show a recognizable injury under the free-speech
guarantee enshrined in the Constitution’s First Amendment.  “The right to publish or broadcast an audio or audiovisual
recording would be insecure, or largely ineffective, if the
antecedent act of making the recording is wholly unprotected, as
the State’s Attorney insists,” U.S. Circuit Judge Diane Sykes
wrote for the majority. She was joined by U.S. Circuit Judge
David Hamilton.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner dissented from the
majority decision, saying that while recording of a conversation
provides a more accurate and truthful record than mere
recollection, it could also impinge upon  privacy rights  and
negatively affect  law enforcement .  “These are significant social costs,” Posner said. The
majority offered no legal or historical basis “for weighting
them less heavily than the social value of recorded
eavesdropping,” he said.  The case is America Civil Liberties Union of Illinois v.
Alvarez, 11-1286, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  