-- U.S. Millionaires Told Go Away as Tax Evasion Rule Looms
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-05-09T03:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/u-s-millionaires-told-go-away-as-tax-evasion-rule-looms.html
Go away, American millionaires.  That’s what some of the world’s largest wealth-management
firms are saying ahead of Washington’s implementation of the 
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act , known as Fatca, which seeks
to prevent tax evasion by Americans with offshore accounts.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of  Singapore  Ltd. and  DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  all say they have turned away business.  “I don’t open U.S. accounts, period,” said Su Shan Tan,
head of private banking at Singapore-based DBS, Southeast Asia’s
largest lender, who described regulatory attitudes toward U.S.
clients as “Draconian.”  The 2010 law, to be phased in starting Jan. 1, 2013,
requires financial institutions based outside the U.S. to obtain
and report information about income and interest payments
accrued to the accounts of American clients. It means additional
compliance costs for banks and fewer investment options and
advisers for all U.S. citizens living abroad, which could affect
their ability to generate returns.  “In the long run, if Americans have less and less
opportunities to invest overseas, it would be a disadvantage,”
Marc Faber, the fund manager and publisher of the Gloom, Boom
and Doom report, said last month in Singapore.  The almost 400 pages of proposed rules issued by the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service in February create “unnecessary
burdens and costs,” the Institute of International Bankers and
the European Banking Federation said in an  April 30 letter  to
the IRS, one of more than 200 submitted to the agency. The IRS
plans to hold a hearing May 15 and could amend how and when some
aspects of the rules are implemented. It can’t rescind the law.  Bank Transparency  The government needs to be tougher on offshore tax crimes
than it has been, said U.S. Representative Richard Neal, a
Massachusetts Democrat and one of the original sponsors of the
legislation. Fatca, introduced after Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  said in
2009 that it aided tax evasion by Americans and agreed to pay
$780 million to avoid prosecution, is already helping to improve
banking transparency, he said.  “People should know, and the IRS should know, what money
is being held offshore and for what purpose,” Neal said. “I
don’t think there’s anything unreasonable about that.”  UBS, the world’s biggest non-U.S. private bank according to
London-based industry tracker Scorpio Partnership Ltd., said in
2008 it would discontinue offshore accounts for U.S. citizens.
The firm now refers them to its wealth-management offices in the
U.S., or to its Swiss Financial Advisers unit, which complies
with U.S. and Swiss regulations, said  Serge Steiner , a spokesman
for UBS. The company continues to provide Americans outside the
U.S. with services other than securities investments, including
consumer and commercial loans, foreign-currency spot trading and
precious-metals transactions, he said.  ‘Too Complex’  Investments in products offered by third parties that non-
U.S. citizens can purchase through UBS or other banks also may
be restricted.  “Most of the  hedge funds  I know in Asia won’t take
American clients,” said Faber.  Bank of Singapore, the private-banking arm of  Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) , ranked strongest in the world for the
last two years by Bloomberg Markets magazine, has turned away
millions of dollars from Americans because it doesn’t want to
deal with the regulatory hassle, according to Chief Executive
Officer Renato de Guzman. The bank had $32 billion under
management as of the beginning of the year.  “It’s too complex, too challenging,” de Guzman, who at 61
has more than 35 years of banking experience, said in an
interview in Singapore in March. “You probably should have a
dedicated team to handle them or to understand what can be done
or what cannot be done.”  Rejecting Americans  At industry meetings he attends in Singapore, not accepting
U.S. clients is “quite a prevailing sentiment,” de Guzman
said. There are 18 private banks operating in Singapore,
including units run by UBS, Credit Suisse Group AG,  Deutsche
Bank (DBK)  and HSBC, he said.  “We have enough business in Asia, so we don’t want to make
our lives too difficult,” de Guzman said.  Asia has the world’s fastest-growing number of people with
more than $1 million in investable assets, according to a report
last year by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Capgemini SA. Its number
of millionaires climbed 9.7 percent in 2010 to 3.3 million
people, higher than the 8.6 percent growth in North America. The
combined wealth of Asian millionaires increased to $10.8
trillion, topping Europe for the first time, the report said.  Singapore is Asia’s largest wealth-management center, with
$512 billion in offshore assets in 2010, data compiled by the
Boston Consulting Group show. Bank of America is the world’s No.
1 wealth manager, with $1.9 trillion under management, followed
by Morgan Stanley and UBS, with $1.6 trillion, according to
Scorpio.  HSBC, Deutsche Bank  HSBC decided last July that it would no longer offer
wealth-management services to Americans from locations outside
their home country after tax authorities stepped up a probe of
the London-based bank’s U.S. clients.  Americans would be “better served” by private bankers in
the U.S., Goh Kong Aik, a spokesman for the firm in Singapore,
said in an e-mail. He declined to say whether those who already
have private-banking accounts abroad will be allowed to remain
customers, except that they would be helped through an undefined
“transition process.”  Deutsche Bank said it terminated securities accounts held
abroad by people with U.S. residency as of mid-2011. The action
didn’t include checking or savings accounts and didn’t affect
citizens living outside the U.S. The Frankfurt-based bank said
“only a small number of customers” were affected.  Spokesmen for Credit Suisse, France’s  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and
Amsterdam-based ABN Amro Bank NV, also among the top 10 non-U.S.
global wealth managers, said their banks are studying the issue
and haven’t decided what to do with American account holders.  Collateral Damage  “Bank accounts, investment accounts, mortgages and
insurance policies are being refused to American clients, and
those with accounts are seeing them closed or have been
threatened with closure,” Marylouise Serrato, executive
director of American Citizens Abroad, a Geneva-based
organization, wrote in an e-mail.  U.S. citizens who live in countries that aren’t served by
U.S. banks may find themselves unable to bank at all, and
implementation of the law in its current form could cause
collateral damage to American businesses abroad, she said.  “Americans either will not be allowed to enter into
international partnerships or live and work overseas, and will
be replaced by foreign nationals who do not have these
limitations,” Serrato wrote. “The extensive reporting
requirements of Fatca will be destructive to those who wish to
do business internationally as well as to those Americans who
are legitimately living and working overseas.”  ‘Turned Away’  That view is shared by Richard L. Weisman, Hong Kong-based
head of law firm Baker & McKenzie LLP’s global tax practice.  “U.S. expatriates already face severe U.S. tax rules
related to their non-U.S. income and investments,” Weisman
said. “Fatca will increase the extent to which they are turned
away by non-U.S. financial institutions.”  Tan of DBS said she refers Americans seeking private-
banking services to U.S. institutions with operations in
Singapore such as  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Bank of America, Morgan
Stanley,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
which are able to open securities accounts for Americans because
they’re regulated by U.S. authorities. Such accounts allow
purchases of investment products without restricting Americans
to cash and time-deposit accounts.  While that may be easy for Americans in Singapore, those
who live elsewhere face obstacles. Before Fatca, U.S. citizens
in Bangkok or Manila could find investment opportunities through
non-U.S. banks such as HSBC. Now their only option is to fly to
cities where U.S. firms operate.  Limited Choices  If Americans choose to bank with a non-U.S. firm such as
HSBC, their investment choices are limited. At the HSBC branch
in the bank’s Asia regional headquarters in Hong Kong, Americans
can hold only savings deposits. They’re prohibited from opening
accounts to trade local stocks or buy products available to non-
U.S. customers, including  45 equity funds  investing in China or
other geographies and industries. There’s only one comparable
 emerging-markets   equity option  available on HSBC’s U.S.-based
investors’ website.  Financial institutions that choose not to accept American
customers still must determine whether new or existing clients
are so-called U.S. persons in order to comply with Fatca,
according to Michael Brevetta, director of U.S. tax consulting
at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in Singapore.  The definition includes citizens, green-card holders and
non-Americans deemed U.S. residents by being present in the
country for at least 183 days over a three-year period, which
makes them subject to U.S. tax on their worldwide income,
according to the  IRS .  Compliance Costs  The compliance costs for banks, asset managers and
insurance companies “could stretch into the billions of
dollars,” Brevetta said. Private-banking firms in Hong Kong and
Singapore already have operating costs between 88 percent and 90
percent of their revenue, compared with 70 percent at Swiss
banks, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated in a September report.  Penalties for not complying will be stiff. Non-U.S. firms
that don’t make required disclosures will be subject to 30
percent withholding of certain dividends, interest or proceeds
from the sale of assets they or their customers receive from
U.S. sources, according to Baker & McKenzie’s Weisman, who has
conducted workshops and seminars on the proposed rules for
current and potential clients in Hong Kong and Singapore.  “Overwhelmingly, financial institutions outside the U.S.
don’t like it, for obvious reasons,” Weisman said, calling the
withholding tax a “stick” the U.S. is wielding. “The U.S. is
outsourcing a tax-compliance function, which is enormously
expensive.”  Renouncing Citizenship  Americans who don’t comply with Fatca are deemed
“recalcitrant,” and income they receive from U.S. sources also
is subject to a 30 percent withholding tax, said Jason Choi, a
Singapore-based tax lawyer with Latham & Watkins LLP.  Renouncing citizenship is an option chosen by increasing
numbers of Americans. A record 1,780 gave up their U.S.
passports last year compared with 235 in 2008, the  IRS  reported.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the sixth-biggest wealth manager with
$435 billion under management as of the beginning of 2011, said
it sees an opportunity as competition is exiting, including in
emerging markets, where it manages $60 billion.  “We are one of the few wealth managers to hold a
Securities and Exchange Commission license offering U.S.-
compliant investment advice in Switzerland and London and see an
opportunity in accepting tax-compliant U.S. persons as clients
outside of the U.S.,” said Barend Janssens, the Singapore-based
head of the bank’s wealth-management unit for emerging markets.  Tax Evasion  Coutts, the wealth division of U.K. government-owned  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc , plans to comply with Fatca and to
continue accepting tax-compliant U.S. persons, according to Tim
Winter, associate director of the U.S. Competence Centre at
Coutts. The London-based bank has invested since July 2010 in a
“global program of work established to support the
implementation of Fatca,” he said in an e-mail.  The Swiss government has been in talks for more than a year
with U.S. authorities, who, after obtaining data on about 4,700
UBS clients, are now investigating 11 other firms, including
Zurich-based  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer  Group Ltd., for
alleged assistance in U.S. tax evasion.  Credit Suisse continues to “work hard” to resolve the
probe, CEO Brady Dougan said in an interview April 25. Julius
Baer exited its U.S. private-client business between 2009 and
2011, said Jan Vonder Muehll, a bank spokesman in Zurich.  Wegelin Forfeiture  Wegelin & Co., a Swiss private bank established in 1741,
became the first Swiss lender to face criminal charges in the
U.S. crackdown on offshore firms suspected of abetting tax
evasion. It had to sell its assets in January to Switzerland’s
Raiffeisen Group to save its non-U.S. business before the U.S.
indicted the firm in February. The St. Gallen-based private bank
helped Americans hide more than $1.2 billion in assets and evade
taxes, wooing clients spurned by UBS, according to an indictment
filed in federal court in  New York .  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain ordered Wegelin to
forfeit $16 million on April 24, allowing the U.S. government to
take the amount from Wegelin’s U.S. account, held at UBS in
 Stamford , Connecticut. Albena Bjoerck, a spokeswoman for
Wegelin, declined to comment.  Spokesmen for Citigroup, Bank of America, Morgan Stanley,
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan all declined to comment on how Fatca
is affecting their business, with some citing company policies
not to discuss government regulation.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
France’s Societe Generale SA,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Hong Kong-based
Hang Seng Bank Ltd., which all have wealth-management
businesses, also declined to comment.  ‘Pain for Americans’  The restrictions on products available to Americans may not
matter to a savvy investor, according to Hugh Young, who helps
manage $70 billion in Asian equities in Singapore for Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc.  “The financial institutions can restrict you from some of
the best products, but you have others of the best,” he said.  Still, the limitations create complications that act as an
investment deterrent, said Philip Marcovici, a retired U.S. tax
lawyer who advises wealthy families and governments.  “It’s a pain for Americans to invest in markets outside of
the U.S.,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  