-- Lugar Loses Primary to Tea Party-Backed Mourdock
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-05-09T01:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/lugar-loses-senate-primary-to-tea-party-backed-rival-ap-says.html
U.S. Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana
was derailed in his bid for a seventh term, losing in the
Republican primary to state Treasurer Richard Mourdock in what
one of Lugar’s Democratic colleagues called a “tragedy.”  The defeat of Lugar, 80, underscored the strength among
Republicans of Tea Party activism against veteran leadership.
Mourdock, 60, was backed by groups active in the Tea Party
movement and based much of his campaign on criticizing Lugar for
compromising too much with Democrats.  “This is a tragedy for the Senate,” Democratic Senator
 John Kerry  of Massachusetts said in a statement. He called Lugar
“a class act” whose contributions to issues of national
prominence “can’t be replicated.”  President  Barack Obama  hailed Lugar for his “bipartisan
cooperation” and vital role on national security and arms
control. “He was often willing to reach across the aisle and
get things done,” Obama said in a statement.  Lugar said that he hopes Mourdock wins the November
election for the Senate seat, the  Associated Press  reported.
Conceding before a crowd of cheering supporters in Indianapolis,
Lugar said he has “no regrets” about seeking another term and
will support Mourdock against Democratic Representative Joe Donnelly, the AP reported.  Appeal for Contributions  In an e-mail that addressed his supporters as “patriots”
and appealed for donations, Mourdock said, “We just pulled off
a historic upset.” He said Donnelly has raised funds “to smear
us” in the November campaign.  Lugar, the top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, first won his seat in 1976 and is Indiana’s longest
serving member of Congress.  With 86 percent of precincts reporting, Mourdock had 61
percent of the vote to 39 percent for Lugar, according to the AP
tally.  Polls had shown Lugar as the likely victor a few months
ago. Mourdock gained as he pressed his case against Lugar and
outside groups targeted the incumbent with attack ads.  All told, the candidates and independent groups spent $4.96
million on ads on major TV networks through May 7, according to
estimates released today by New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG,
which tracks campaign advertising.  Lugar’s Record  Lugar came under fire for supporting the bank bailout
passed in 2008, shepherding nuclear arms treaties through the
Senate and voting for Obama’s two Supreme Court nominees.  Democrats say Donnelly, a member of the House’s centrist
Blue Dog coalition, will have a better chance against Mourdock
than Lugar, and a Mourdock defeat in November would make it
harder for Republicans to gain a majority in the Senate.
Democrats control the chamber, 53-47.  Lugar didn’t have a major-party opponent in his last
election in 2006, when seniority and an ability to work across
party lines were seen by most voters as assets. He won his three
previous general elections with about two-thirds of the vote.  Mourdock was backed by  FreedomWorks , which aids the Tea
Party movement, and the small-government group Club for Growth.
He also was endorsed by anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist , and
Tea Party favorites Sarah Palin, the 2008 vice presidential
nominee, and Republican representative and former presidential
candidate  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota .  Tea Party Clout  Today’s vote shows that the Tea Party movement retains some
of the clout it had in the 2010 midterm elections. That year,
Republican Senators Robert Bennett of  Utah  and Senator  Lisa Murkowski  lost their party nominations to candidates pushing
more aggressively for small government. Murkowski then ran as an
independent and won re-election against Republican nominee  Joe Miller . Bennett was replaced in the Senate by  Mike Lee , a Tea
Party-backed Republican.  Ed Feigenbaum, editor of the nonpartisan Indiana
Legislative Insight newsletter, said Lugar didn’t engage enough
early in the race and let Mourdock define him. In recent weeks,
Lugar engaged in attacks ads that went against his above-the-
fray image and created confusion by criticizing Mourdock on a
number of issues, he said.  “Lugar and his people have had a political deaf ear toward
this whole campaign,” said Feigenbaum, editor of the
nonpartisan  Indiana  Legislative Insight newsletter in
Noblesville.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  