-- Lumiere, Ranking Top in Asia, Favors Singapore, Hong Kong Stocks
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-05-08T02:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/lumiere-ranking-top-in-asia-favors-singapore-hong-kong-stocks.html
Lumiere Value Fund (LUMIERE) , the top performer
in the past three years among funds investing in the Asia-
Pacific region, expects more value in Singapore and  Hong Kong 
stocks over the next two years fueled by economic growth.  The $30 million Lumiere Value Fund, run by Singapore-based
Lumiere Capital Ltd., has returned 378 percent in the past three
years, making it the best performer among 3,624 funds tracked by
Bloomberg that invest in equity-related products in the region.
The fund has a maximum capacity of $300 million to $400 million
and is seeking to raise money from investors, said Yu Liang
Wong, managing director of the company.  The fund invests in “deeply undervalued” stocks of
companies that will benefit from the world’s fastest-growing
economies and currently has about 25 to 30 key holdings, Wong
said. It has returned 40 percent in U.S. dollar terms since
inception in October 2007, outperforming the 23 percent drop by
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  in the same period.  “We think stocks across the board are cheap now,” Wong
said in an interview in Singapore today. “We are bullish on the
markets over the next two years. Both Singapore and Hong Kong
are the cheapest markets in  Asia  now.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index is trading at 9.63 times
earnings, while Singapore’s Straits Times Index is valued at
multiple of 9.62, which along with Pakistan are the Asia-Pacific
region’s cheapest stock markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg  “The last three times these markets were this cheap over
the last two decades were during the 1997 Asian crisis, 2002
internet bust, 2008 financial crisis,” Wong said.  Among investments that the fund has made is  Fufeng Group
Ltd. (546) , a maker of food additives, which is benefiting from
prospects of long-term growth of the fast food and restaurant
industry in  China , said Wong.  Oriental Watch Holdings Ltd. (398) , Hong
Kong’s second-biggest retailer of timepieces, is also attractive
because of its market share of about 30 percent in China for
Rolex watches and the outlook for the country’s luxury retail
sector, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 