-- Humm of Eleven Madison Park Wins in James Beard Awards
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-05-08T15:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/humm-of-eleven-madison-park-wins-in-james-beard-awards.html
Daniel Humm of Eleven Madison Park,
New York, was named Outstanding Chef in the  James Beard
Foundation  awards last night, beating  David Chang  of Momofuku Ko
and four other finalists.  Boulevard,  San Francisco , won Outstanding Restaurant;
Christina Tosi of Momofuku Milk Bar triumphed as Rising Star
Chef; and Next,  Chicago , took Best New Restaurant. PDT, New
York, won Outstanding Bar Program. The Lifetime Achievement
accolade went to Wolfgang Puck, of Spago,  Los Angeles .  Swiss-born Humm presents diners with a grid of 16 main
ingredients from which he constructs dishes. Eleven Madison
Park, which Humm owns with his business partner William Guidara,
charges $74 for a four-course lunch and $125 for dinner. Tasting
menus are $125 and $195, respectively.  The awards are the main event in the U.S. culinary calendar
and are accompanied by a weekend of parties and other events
attended by chefs and restaurateurs. They were established in
1990 to celebrate, preserve, and nurture America’s culinary
heritage and diversity, the foundation’s Website says.  “This is what we’re all about,” Humm said, looking across
his restaurant in the early hours as hundreds of people danced
and celebrated his victory. “There’s so much youth and energy.”  He was later joined by  Daniel Boulud , and the crowd cheered
as the two chefs jived together on a counter while other
revelers boogied on the tables.  Myhrvold’s Book  Nathan Myhrvold  and co-authors Chris Young and Maxime Bilet
won Cookbook of the Year for “Modernist Cuisine” in the James
Beard Foundation Book Awards at Gotham Hall on May 4. British
writer Fuchsia Dunlop won for Food Culture and Travel writing,
while Ted Allen triumphed for “ Chopped ,” on the Food Network.  Myhrvold and April Bloomfield of the Spotted Pig,  New York ,
and  Grant Achatz  of Alinea, Chicago and author were among guests
at a Kentucky Derby party at Eleven Madison Park on Saturday.  Bilet and Allen both attended another James Beard event,
Chefs’ Night Out, at Chelsea Market on May 6, along with Corton
owner Drew Nieporent and  Thomas Keller  of Per Se.  Other winners included:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last
Night , Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in New York at
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 