-- Munich Re Returns to Profit as Disaster Claims Fall
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-05-08T12:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/munich-re-returns-to-profit-as-disaster-claims-fall.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, returned to profit in the first quarter as natural
disaster claims dropped and investment income improved.  Net income was 780 million euros ($1.02 billion) after a
loss of 947 million euros in the year-earlier period, the
Munich-based reinsurer said in a  statement  today. That compares
with the average estimate for a 767 million-euro profit of 10
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Munich Re, led by Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard, said on April 26 that first-quarter profit was expected
to exceed 750 million euros as natural-catastrophe losses fell
from a record last year and  capital markets  stabilized. Natural
disasters caused less than $3 billion of insured losses in the
industry in the first quarter compared with almost $53 billion a
year earlier, according to estimates from Aon Benfield, the
world’s biggest reinsurance broker.  “With few major losses and more favorably disposed capital
markets, we have posted a healthy profit,” Chief Financial
Officer Joerg Schneider said in the statement. “Despite the
still difficult economic situation, we are optimistic for
2012.”  Munich Re declined 1 percent to 106.70 euros at 2:15 p.m.
in Frankfurt trading, paring this year’s gain to 13 percent.
That compares with a 7.6 percent increase in the 28-company
 Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index (BEINSUR)  and a 28 percent advance by
Zurich-based Swiss Re Ltd.  Reiterating Target  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, posted
better-than-estimated first-quarter profit of $1.14 billion as
catastrophe claims fell and investment returns increased.
Fourth-ranked  Hannover Re  said last week that profit rose almost
fivefold to 261 million euros during the period.  Munich Re, led by Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard, reiterated a target to more than triple profit to about
2.5 billion euros this year. The firm’s reinsurance unit posted
a profit of 634 million euros after a year-earlier loss of 1.01
billion euros as claim costs “were substantially lower.”  The company’s combined ratio in property and casualty
reinsurance improved to 94.6 percent from 161.3 percent a year
ago. Excluding payouts from a catastrophe bond covering Japanese
earthquake risks, last year’s combined ratio was 166.8 percent.
A ratio above 100 percent means claims and costs exceed premium
income, leaving a loss from underwriting.  Lifting Prices  Claims from tornadoes that hit the U.S. Midwest in April
are expected to be in the high two-digit million-euro range,
Schneider said on a conference call today. The series of
tornadoes that struck  Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Ohio  and  Alabama  at the
beginning of March and killed 39 people, cost Munich Re about 54
million euros.  Rates rose by 5 percent in April, when the company
renegotiated about 10 percent of its property-casualty
reinsurance business, mostly in  Japan ,  South Korea  and the U.S.,
Munich Re said.  Europe ’s reinsurers are using losses from last year’s
earthquakes in Japan and  New Zealand  to push through higher
prices. Reinsurance rates climbed in April 1 renewals, which
focus on the Asia-Pacific region, Marsh & McLennan Cos.’s
reinsurance broker Guy Carpenter & Co. said on April 5.  About two-thirds of annual property and casualty
reinsurance contracts typically come up for renewal in January,
with the remainder renewed in April and July.  Investment Returns  Investment income at Munich Re rose to 2.24 billion euros
in the quarter from 1.96 billion euros a year ago. The return on
its investments of 4.3 percent for the quarter compares with a
target of about 3.5 percent for the full year. Munich Re said it
“does not anticipate any rapid or significant rise in capital
market interest rates in 2012.”  Profit at Munich Re’s primary insurance unit, which mostly
consists of Ergo Versicherungsgruppe, rose to 145 million euros
in the quarter from 53 million euros, the company said.  Earnings at the Dusseldorf-based insurer, led by Chief
Executive Officer Torsten Oletzky, were helped by an improvement
of the combined ratio in the international insurance unit, which
fell to 101.3 percent from 109.2 percent as a turnaround is
“gathering momentum,” the reinsurer said. Munich Re aims for a
full-year profit of about 450 million euros in the primary
insurance unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  