-- Verizon Wireless Spectrum Buy Said to Raise U.S. Concerns
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-09T16:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/verizon-wireless-spectrum-buy-said-to-raise-u-s-concerns.html
Verizon Wireless ’s $3.6 billion plan
to buy airwaves from cable providers has raised concerns with
U.S. regulators that the purchase may harm competition in the
wireless market, three people familiar with the matter said.  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission and Justice
Department are examining whether the acquisition would make it
harder for Verizon’s rivals to expand wireless networks, said
Steven K. Berry, chief executive officer of the Rural Cellular
Association, a critic of the deal, and two other people who
weren’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  The government concerns may prolong reviews of a purchase
that analysts initially predicted would be approved easily, said
 Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with Guggenheim
Partners. Verizon, the largest U.S. mobile provider, may have to
sell off airwaves to satisfy the government, he said.  “The deal is more likely than not to get approved with
some additional concessions,” he said in an interview.  Both the FCC and the  Justice Department ’s antitrust
division must approve the airwaves agreement. Regulators say
they are trying to make sure the market remains competitive to
preserve consumer choice and prevent a monopoly that could lead
to higher prices.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment, as did
 Gina Talamona , a Justice Department spokeswoman.  Benefit to Consumers  Ed McFadden, a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment on
specific issues under consideration by regulators. The company
is cooperating with the agencies’ reviews and provided written
comments to the FCC explaining why the deal won’t hurt
competition, McFadden said in an e-mail.  Verizon has said consumers will benefit from its purchase
of spectrum because the company will be able to provide improved
wireless service. Verizon expects the purchase to be approved by
the FCC and Justice Department by “mid-summer,” McFadden said.  The agencies’ concerns have been discussed by staff during
meetings over the deal, said Berry, whose Washington-based group
represents more than 100 rural and regional wireless companies.
The agencies are examining the impact of the deal on Verizon
rivals T-Mobile USA Inc.,  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  and other
competitors, he said. Berry’s group has said the deal shouldn’t
be approved without divestiture of airwaves.  Joint Agreements  Also under Justice Department antitrust review are joint
marketing agreements between Verizon and cable companies that
were announced the same day as the airwaves sale. The review is
examining whether the agreements between Verizon and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and other sellers of the airwaves may
harm competition, according to Berry and one of the people who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  The regulators are examining whether competition will be
hurt by Verizon acquiring airwaves that it doesn’t plan to
immediately use, said Berry and the two people who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  In a May 2 filing with the FCC, Verizon rejected the
concerns, which also were raised by T-Mobile, a  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  unit based in Bellevue, Washington.  Verizon’s airwave purchase will lead to a reduction in
high-speed “capacity available overall and reduced
competition,” according to a petition T-Mobile filed with the
FCC in February opposing the purchase.  T-Mobile has said that it couldn’t submit a bid to the
cable providers because it was in the process of being acquired
by Dallas-based AT&T Inc.  Meeting Demand  In a statement filed with the FCC, Verizon said it has
enough capacity “to meet increased demands in many areas until
2015.” In the May 2 filing, Verizon said the agency has never
required a company to show it would use acquired airwaves
immediately.  Yesterday, FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said the agency
has discouraged the holding of unused spectrum, in a speech in
 New Orleans , without mentioning the Verizon transaction.  Executives of  Consumers Union  told Genachowski during a May
3 visit to the advocacy group’s headquarters in Yonkers,  New
York , that they oppose the deal because it may increase prices
and diminish competition for wireless, video and high-speed
 Internet service .  High-Speed Service  Wireless providers are seeking to add airwaves to
accommodate high-speed service for smartphones and other mobile
devices, using fourth-generation technology called long-term
evolution, or LTE.  Earlier this month, the FCC added 21 days to an informal
time limit for considering the bid by Verizon Wireless, saying
the companies involved were slow to provide documents.  This is the second time in as many years the agencies have
questioned a major deal in the wireless phone market. The
Justice Department, with the FCC’s backing, last year
successfully blocked  AT&T (T) ’s $39 billion bid to buy T-Mobile,
arguing that the acquisition would hand control of the market to
Verizon and AT&T Inc., the No. 1 and No. 2 U.S. mobile
providers.  If Verizon sells other airwaves to win government approval,
the most likely buyer would be AT&T, further extending the gap
between the industry’s top two providers and their rivals, said
 Harold Feld , legal director of  Public Knowledge , a Washington-
based consumer group that opposes the deal.  The marketing agreements under Justice Department review
say the cable companies and Verizon will sell each other’s
products. Over time, the cable providers will have the option to
sell Verizon service on a wholesale basis.  Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, is 55
percent-owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and 45 percent-
owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , based in Newbury, England.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  