-- Village People Motorcycle Cop Wins ‘YMCA’ Copyright Case
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-08T22:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/village-people-s-former-lead-singer-wins-ymca-copyright-case.html
The Village People’s original lead
singer, Victor Willis, can reclaim his copyright interests in
the 1970s disco act’s hits, including “YMCA,” “In the Navy”
and “Go West.”  U.S. District Judge Barry Ted Moskowitz in  San Diego 
yesterday dismissed a lawsuit brought by the French publisher of
the Village People’s songs that had sought to stop Willis from
recovering the copyrights he signed over almost 35 years ago.
Moskowitz let the publisher, Scorpio Music SA, refile its claim
to determine what percentage of the rights Willis owns.  “Willis’s termination affects only the copyright interests
that he previously transferred, his undivided interest in the
joint work,” the judge said. “The copyright interests
transferred by other co-authors will not be affected by Willis’s
termination.”  The case is the first to go before a judge under a law that
took effect Jan. 1, 1978, giving artists and other copyright
holders the option to end post-1977 transfers after 35 years.
Willis, who dressed as a motorcycle cop when he performed, last
year served notice on Paris-based Scorpio Music and its U.S.
affiliate Can’t Stop Music that he was terminating the transfer
of his rights.  Joint Compositions  The publisher had argued that Willis couldn’t unilaterally
reclaim his interests in the songs, for which he provided
English lyrics in 1978 and 1979, because they were joint
compositions. Willis argued that under the law he was entitled
to recapture his copyright interests because he signed over his
rights individually, not together with the other songwriters.  “We’re disappointed, although we don’t think it’s earth-
shattering,” said Stewart L. Levy, an attorney with Eisenberg
Tanchum & Levy in  New York  who represents Scorpio. “The big
issue is what he gets back.”  The copyright termination only pertains to the U.S. and not
to worldwide rights, the lawyer said in a phone interview.  Willis now owns at least one-third of the copyrights in the
Village People catalog, his publicist, Linda Smythe, said in an
e-mailed statement. The next phase of the case will determine
whether Willis should receive as much as 50 percent of the
rights because he claims there was really only one co-author on
the songs, not two as credited, Smythe said.  ‘Vitally Important’  “We’re extremely pleased with the ruling,” Brian Caplan,
Willis’s lawyer with Caplan & Ross LLP in New York, said today
in a telephone interview.  Caplan said he is confident they will prove at trial that
Henri Belolo didn’t write any of the lyrics.  Belolo, the publisher, and the late Jacques Morali are
listed as co-authors of most of the 33 songs for which Willis
seeks to terminate his copyright grant. Belolo and Morali
created the Village People in 1977 based on gay stereotypes they
saw in New York’s  Greenwich Village .  “This is a vitally important decision under the so-called
‘new’ 35 year termination provisions of the 1976 Copyright
Act,” Rick Carnes, president of the Songwriters Guild of
America, said in a statement today. “A decision that so
emphatically endorses congressional intent to protect creators
will hopefully smooth the way for all songwriters seeking to
recapture their copyrights.”  The guild filed a brief in support of Willis’s request to
dismiss the lawsuit.  The case is Scorpio Music SA v. Willis, 11-1557, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  California  (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  