-- Thwarted Bomb Plot Revives Concern About Terrorist Reach
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-05-08T14:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/thwarted-bomb-plot-revives-concern-about-terrorist-reach.html
The disclosure of a Yemen-based plot
to build a potentially undetectable airline bomb is renewing
concerns about al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, days after
U.S. officials said there was no credible threat linked to the
anniversary of Osama bin Laden’s death.  The plot was disrupted by U.S. intelligence agencies before
it became a threat to the U.S., federal and congressional
officials said. The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation said it has
the device, which is “very similar” to designs used by the
group in the past.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and
chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the bomb was
based on the design used in a failed attempt to blow up a
Detroit-bound jetliner on Dec. 25, 2009, using explosives hidden
in the underwear of a suicide bomber.  “This would have been an undetectable bomb coming in on an
American airliner into the  United States ,” said Feinstein,
whose staff was briefed by intelligence officials.  The Department of Homeland Security repeated yesterday that
the U.S. has “no specific, credible information” about an
active terrorist plot. Still, the incident suggests that the
Yemen-based offshoot of al-Qaeda remains able to mount
operations against U.S. targets.  ‘Determined and Learning’  “The latest foiled plot is not a sign of a group failing,
but rather one that it is markedly determined and learning,”
said Ben Venzke, chief executive officer of IntelCenter, which
provides information about militant groups to emergency workers
and security professionals. Venzke said in an e-mail that the
terrorist organization “will continue to attempt attacks and
improve its methods.”  President  Barack Obama ’s counterterrorism adviser,  John Brennan , who has called al-Qaeda a weakened force, said today
that the U.S. must keep tabs on the group’s most active branch.  “It is a lethal organization,” he said on NBC’s “Today”
program. “That’s why we have to continue to work very closely
with our Yemeni partners so that we’re able to stop these
attacks before they get under way.”  Brennan declined to say whether the U.S. had someone in
custody or had killed the suspect, citing the “sensitive”
nature of the investigation. “The American people should feel
confident that this device and the bomber that would use it are
no longer a threat,” he said.  More Sophisticated  A government official said the device wasn’t made of metal
and was more sophisticated than the explosive smuggled in the
underwear of an al-Qaeda operative on a U.S.-bound flight.  The official, who was not authorized to discuss the matter
publicly, said that being able to study the bomb will help
authorities adapt to terrorism threats.  White House, CIA, FBI and  Homeland Security  officials
declined to discuss the bomb’s composition, when and where the
device was seized and whether the would-be bomber or others
related to the plot were in custody.  “These people still want to bring down airliners,” said
Brian Jenkins, senior adviser at RAND Corporation, a  Santa
Monica , California-based policy research center. “The dilemma
it creates is that they are determined to construct explosive
devices that will contain no metal parts, use ingredients that
are hard to detect, and conceal them in ways that are
undetectable to all but the most intrusive searches.”  Intelligence Boon  Recovering the bomb is “a boon” for intelligence and
homeland security analysts, who will be able to determine
whether it would have been detected by existing scanners or what
damage it might have done to an airplane, said Frank J. Cilluffo, director of the Homeland Security Policy Institute at
George  Washington  University in Washington.  Body scanners at U.S. airports that may have detected a
non-metallic bomb are less likely to be used in countries where
the attack might have originated, such as  Yemen , Cilluffo said.  The U.S. will adjust security after it studies the device,
Brennan said.  “Whatever we learn from this” bomb, “we’re going to
ensure that it’s going to be incorporated into the measures that
we take at airports,” he said.  Obama was told of the plot in April, said Caitlin Hayden, a
spokeswoman for the National Security Council.  “While the president was assured that the device did not
pose a threat to the public, he directed the Department of
Homeland Security and  law enforcement  and intelligence agencies
to take whatever steps necessary to guard against this type of
attack,” Hayden said in an e-mailed statement.  Under Wraps  Senator  Joe Lieberman , chairman of the Senate Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, said he was told by
U.S. officials that the plot was not publicly announced at the
time it was thwarted to protect counterterrorism operations.  The plot and the seizure of the device were first reported
by the  Associated Press . The AP reported that the CIA seized the
device before a would-be bomber based in Yemen had chosen a
target or purchased airplane tickets.  In addition to the underwear bomb attempt, al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula also tried to evade airline security with
bombs concealed in printer toner cartridges in 2010.  Intelligence helped uncover the printer equipment smuggled
aboard two cargo flights from Yemen. A failed detonation alerted
fellow passengers who subdued the would-be underwear bomber
aboard a Detroit-bound jet originating in Amsterdam.  Bin Laden Death  The administration previously said there were no
indications that militants would mark the May 2 anniversary of
 bin Laden ’s death by staging an attack.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters on
April 26 that “we have no credible information that terrorist
organizations, including al Qaeda, are plotting attacks in the
U.S. to coincide with the anniversary of bin Laden’s death.”  He said al-Qaeda affiliates “remain intent on conducting
attacks in the homeland, possibly to avenge the death of bin
Laden, but not necessarily tied to the anniversary.”  Brennan said in an April 30 speech in Washington that al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is the terrorist group’s “most
active affiliate, and it continues to seek the opportunity to
strike our homeland.” He didn’t mention any bomb plot around
the anniversary.  Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, and Maine Senator
Susan Collins, the top Republican on the Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee, said Homeland Security Secretary
 Janet Napolitano  didn’t draw a connection between the
anniversary of bin Laden’s death and the plot when she briefed
members of Congress.  “It’s a credit to the intelligence-based approach that we
are taking to airplane security that the plot was thwarted
before it could be carried out,” Collins said.  The uncovered plot shows that the overhaul of U.S.
intelligence agencies undertaken after the Sept. 11 attacks has
worked, said C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland , senior
Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.  “Intelligence is as good as it ever has been,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  