-- Wells Fargo Says DOJ May Seek Penalties Over Fair Lending
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-08T16:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/wells-fargo-says-doj-may-seek-penalties-in-fair-lending-inquiry.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, said federal prosecutors may seek damages and
penalties after investigating whether it violated anti-
discrimination laws while financing homeowners.  “The  Department of Justice  has advised Wells Fargo that it
believes it can bring claims,” the bank said today in a
regulatory filing, without elaborating on potential allegations.
“We believe such claims should not be brought and continue
seeking to demonstrate to the Department of Justice our
compliance with fair-lending laws.”  Wells Fargo has faced government scrutiny of lending and
foreclosures in the wake of the housing crisis as it expands a
record 34 percent share of the U.S. mortgage market. The firm
was negotiating with the  Justice Department  last year to resolve
a probe into whether it directed blacks to subprime loans, a
person familiar with the matter said in July. It also faces a
U.S. review of whether it neglected bank-owned homes in minority
neighborhoods, a person briefed on the case said in April.  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based
company, declined to comment beyond today’s filing. Xochitl
Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Last year’s lending inquiry, conducted by the Justice
Department’s Civil Rights Division, focused on the company’s
actions during the housing bubble, the person said at the time.  Federal Reserve Fine  The firm settled Federal Reserve claims in July that it
steered reliable borrowers into subprime loans and falsified
information in mortgage documents. In that case, Wells Fargo
agreed to pay an $85 million fine, the largest assessed by the
Fed in a consumer-protection enforcement case at the time, and
compensate clients.  Employees at the Wells Fargo Financial unit pushed
customers who may have been eligible for prime  interest rates 
into loans carrying higher rates intended for riskier borrowers,
the central bank said in a July 20 statement announcing the
accord. The firm didn’t admit wrongdoing in agreeing to settle.  The neglected-home inquiry is linked to claims brought last
month by the National Fair Housing Alliance, a non-profit
organization.  The group accused Wells Fargo of violating the Fair Housing
Act by letting homes Wells Fargo seized in minority
neighborhoods remain in a state of disrepair. The NFHA said it
reviewed 218 properties in eight cities, finding that properties
in white neighborhoods were better maintained and marketed than
similar buildings in areas with large black and Hispanic
populations.  “Wells Fargo conducts all lending-related activities in a
fair and consistent manner without regard to race,” Vickee
Adams, a bank spokeswoman, said of those claims at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 