-- When Entrepreneurs Privatized the Penny
-- B y   G e o r g e   S e l g i n
-- 2012-05-08T16:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/when-entrepreneurs-privatized-the-penny.html
(Corrects name of beverage in first paragraph.)  Our poor penny. Half a century ago, it
was a respectable, if humble, piece of money. Just one could buy
all sorts of candy or a postcard; three might buy a cherry cola
or a newspaper.  They were made of bronze -- copper with a touch of zinc and
tin. Though not exactly precious, that metal was at least august
enough for decorating brave soldiers and Olympic athletes.  But pennies have been on a downward slide ever since. By
1982, they were worth so little that people were melting them
for their copper, causing the  U.S. Mint  to introduce today’s
version, made of cheap zinc disguised by a thin copper coat.
Today even the zinc versions cost almost 2.5 times as much to
make as they are worth -- costing taxpayers  about $60
million  last year. So Congress is considering another switch, to
lowly steel.  Would it be better to simply give up on the penny, as
Canada decided to do in March?  The story of the British penny, first minted in the eighth
century, offers an instructional case. It, too, came within an
inch of dying. But it was saved by a handful of entrepreneurs.  Counterfeiters and Retailers  The British penny started out as a silver coin. By the
start of the 18th century, silver had become so valuable that
pennies made from it were quickly melted down. So the Royal Mint
quit making pennies except in tiny quantities used for
ceremonial purposes. Halfpennies were made of copper, but they
attracted enterprising counterfeiters. By 1775, the mint stopped
coining copper altogether.  The hitch was that its decision came just as the Industrial
Revolution was gaining steam. And that revolution called for
unprecedented amounts of small change for paying workers’ wages
and stocking retailers’ tills. Unless someone supplied the
necessary coins, British economic development would come to a
halt.  The Royal Mint stuck to its decision. Help came instead
from some of the same entrepreneurs responsible for Great
Britain’s industrial liftoff. Leading the way were  Thomas
Williams , the owner of what was then the world’s biggest copper
mine, on the Welsh island of Anglesey, and Matthew Boulton, the
owner of the world-famous Soho Manufactory, located just outside
of Birmingham.  Both men first proposed to produce copper coins for the
government that were less expensive and harder to imitate than
those issued by the Royal Mint. Williams hoped to take advantage
of his access to cheap copper, while Boulton built a high-
capacity steam-powered mint -- the first of its kind -- just for
the purpose.  When the government refused their offers, Williams decided
to coin copper for himself. The coins he produced -- called
“Druids” because their obverses bore the bust of a Celtic priest
-- were in fact the very first copper pennies. Williams
initially handed them out to workers in 1787. They were soon
circulating as far away as  London , becoming so popular that some
merchants insisted on them while refusing “official” copper.  Boulton put his high-tech mint to work striking custom-made
copper halfpennies for private clients who were tired of
scrounging for change or dealing with back-alley forgers. Before
long, a score of smaller private mints were following Boulton’s
example.  Custom Coins  The new copper coins proved much harder to imitate than
those issued by the government mint. More importantly, because
their makers sold them for their cost of production plus a
modest profit, rejecting the Royal Mint’s practice of selling
official copper coins for their full face value, they drove
counterfeiters out of business. Businesses could now have their
own custom-made coins, for little more than it might cost them
to buy fake “official” ones, without breaking any laws and with
the advantage of the custom coins’ marketing value.  By 1797, private coiners and their clients had issued
almost 600 tons of private copper pennies and halfpennies --
half again as much copper as the Royal Mint had issued over the
course of the whole century. Within a single decade, private
coiners managed to do what the Royal Mint had been unable to do
for hundreds of years: provide the British people with honest,
reliable and efficiently made small change.  Unfortunately, the British government wasn’t keen on having
private coiners usurp even the least lucrative part of its
ancient “prerogative” of coinage. So in 1797 it tried to re-
assert itself, while still taking advantage of private-sector
know-how, by at last awarding Boulton an official coinage
contract.  Soon the Soho Mint was striking huge quantities of  Great
Britain ’s first official copper pennies. Planning also began for
a new steam-powered Royal Mint. Boulton agreed to outfit the new
mint with equipment in return for the government’s promise
(which it eventually broke) to stick to coining only silver and
gold, leaving the copper coinage to Soho.  But even before work began on the new mint, the Royal
Navy’s demand for ships’ sheathing had sent the price of copper
so high that large quantities of Boulton’s new official pennies
and tuppence -- like U.S. pennies in the early 1980s -- found
their way into melting pots, giving unofficial private coins a
new lease on life. Their emboldened makers now dared to add
silver shillings to their copper offerings; one even went so far
as to issue a private 40-shilling gold piece.  That proved too much for the government, and for the  Royal
Mint , which feared that its expensive new plant would end up
with no work to do.  Thus began a campaign to stamp out private coinage
altogether, starting with private silver coins, which were
banned in 1813. Private copper coins were banned five years
later. Yet the new mint wasn’t ready to issue its own copper
coins until 1821. So for several years the British public was
left starving for small change -- in many paupers’ cases,
literally.  In light of the British experience, one can’t help asking
what the fate of the U.S. penny would be if responsibility for
it were simply left to the private sector. Perhaps American
entrepreneurs would find a way to make pennies profitably; or
perhaps they would get no orders for them and respond
accordingly.  But we can be sure of one thing: They wouldn’t be striking
coins at a loss of tens of millions of dollars a year, and
having the difference made up by taxpayers.  ( George Selgin  is a professor of economics at the
University of Georgia’s Terry College of Business, and the
author of “Good Money: Birmingham Button Makers, the Royal Mint,
and the Beginnings of Modern Coinage, 1775-1821.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: George Selgin at
 selgin@uga.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 