-- White House and Senate Democrats Push Wider Refinancing Effort
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-05-08T16:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/white-house-and-senate-democrats-push-wider-refinancing-effort.html
The Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
refinancing program for homeowners who owe more than their
properties are worth needs to expand again to cover more
borrowers, the secretary of  Housing and Urban Development  and
 Senate Democrats  said today.  The  Home Affordable Refinance Program , known as HARP,
reduces some fees and waives risk for lenders who refinance
loans that they service for borrowers with less than 20 percent
equity in their homes. Homeowners with more equity should be
allowed to participate and risk should be waived for lenders who
refinance loans now handled by other servicers, HUD Secretary
 Shaun Donovan  said today in  Washington .  “A homeowner who actually has more equity in their home
is, if anything, a lower-risk borrower relative to those
borrowers who would be underwater in their loans,” Donovan said
at a hearing of the Senate Banking Committee. “There’s a good
economic case for doing this. It’s also a question of
fairness.”  Calibrating foreclosure-prevention programs so that
servicers and borrowers will take advantage of them has been a
struggle for regulators and the administration of President
 Barack Obama . HARP was started with a goal of reaching 5 million
borrowers. As of April, 1.1 million borrowers had been helped.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the independent agency
overseeing  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, in January unveiled a set
of changes to the program, including allowing borrowers to
qualify no matter how much their loans exceed the value of their
homes, waiving some fees, and promising lenders a break from the
warranties they sign when they originate certain loans.  Impact Awaited  The impact of those changes, which went into effect in
March for most lenders, is unclear. The largest mortgage
servicers said they received 750,000 applications for the
updated program, known as HARP 2.0, Donovan said.  Still, a Federal Reserve survey of loan officers released
last week found that almost half said their banks had “very
little participation in HARP.”  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, said he and
California Democrat  Barbara Boxer  would soon introduce a bill to
expand HARP to as many as 17.5 million more borrowers.  The bill
would streamline refinancing for borrowers with more than 20
percent equity and would encourage competition among lenders by
waiving warranties when they refinance loans.  Borrowers end up
paying higher fees when they must refinance through the lender
who services the loan, Menendez said.  Some of those changes could be made administratively by the
FHFA, Donovan said. Still, “to eliminate legal uncertainty,”
Congress should also pass legislation mandating the revisions,
he said.  More Buyback Demands  It is unclear how far FHFA will be willing to go to amend
the program. Giving a break from warranties in HARP 2.0 was an
about-face for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . The taxpayer-owned
companies can revoke their guarantees for even minor infractions
and force lenders to buy back loans deemed defective. The
companies have increased buyback demands as they aggressively
work to control costs.  Obama will talk about the need to expand refinancing
efforts during a visit to  Nevada  this week, Donovan said.  “There’s a real urgency here because  interest rates  today
are at the lowest level they’ve ever been,” Donovan said. “All
expectations are that this window of record-low interest rates
may not last a significant period of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  