-- Will a CIA Veteran’s Book Save a Terrorist?
-- B y   A l i   H .   S o u f a n
-- 2012-05-08T23:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/will-a-cia-veteran-s-book-save-a-terrorist-.html
The defense of Abd Al-Rahim Al-Nashiri
-- the mastermind in the bombing of the U.S. Navy destroyer Cole
in 2000 -- has received a boost from a surprising source: Jose
Rodriguez, a former high-ranking CIA official.  Thankfully, the prosecution has voluminous evidence --
confessions from al-Qaeda members and even interviews with
Nashiri himself -- that contradict Rodriguez’s version of
history.  In a new book, Rodriguez takes responsibility for
initiating the use of so-called enhanced interrogation
techniques on suspected terrorists including Nashiri, and says
that waterboarding “saved lives.” He also downplays Nashiri’s
importance, writing that “ ‘mastermind’ was not an apt
description of Nashiri” and endorsing a colleague’s
characterization of Nashiri as “the dumbest terrorist I have
ever met.”  Such talk is, of course, music to Nashiri’s ears: How can
he be prosecuted as the planner of a complicated plot causing
the death of 17 U.S. sailors if he’s a fool?  Although the term “mastermind” is often overused when it
comes to al-Qaeda, it is very suitable for Nashiri. I spent
years as part of a team of FBI and Navy investigators looking
into the Cole bombing. We gained confessions from two members of
Nashiri’s cell -- Jamal al-Badawi and Fahd al-Quso (who was
 killed by a U.S. drone  in  Yemen  this week) -- detailing their
boss’s meticulous planning and ruthlessness. Osama bin Laden’s
bodyguard, Abu Jandal, described Nashiri to my partner and me as
efficient and evil, a man who would “commit a terrorist act in
Mecca, inside the Kaaba itself, if necessary.” Salim Ahmed Hamdan, bin Laden’s personal driver, also gave us details of
Nashiri’s lead role in the Cole attack.  The Ships Operation  By the time our investigation was complete, we had the full
story of Nashiri’s actions from the point bin Laden asked him to
take control over what they called the “ships operation.” We
know how he experimented with his plan, refined and changed it,
and handpicked his entire team. In putting together the
personnel, Nashiri even maneuvered to ensure that his choices,
rather than those favored by bin Laden, carried out the suicide
mission. Despite such insubordination, bin Laden recognized
Nashiri’s talent, and kept promoting him, ultimately to head of
operations for al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.  I don’t find it surprising that Rodriguez would want to
play down Nashiri’s importance. His reputation is at stake.
Rodriguez is best known for having ordered the unauthorized
destruction of videotapes of the interrogations of Nashiri and
Abu Zubaydah, who ran an independent terrorist training camp in
 Afghanistan . (Despite a Justice Department investigation, no
criminal charges were filed against Rodriguez, although the
Central Intelligence Agency gave him a reprimand.)  Nonetheless, the government has my investigative notes, as
well as daily reports, and the inspector general also found
instances where Rodriguez’s team went far beyond what they had
approval for and the legal guidelines set forth by the George W. Bush administration, including holding a drill to Nashiri’s
head.  More broadly, Rodriguez’s claims that the enhanced-
interrogation program was effective have been convincingly
discredited by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, the
 Department of Justice  and the CIA’s own inspector general.
(Senator  Dianne Feinstein , the committee chairman, has even
issued a  news release  detailing the flaws in claims by
proponents of enhanced interrogation.)  Inexperienced Interrogators  The CIA inspector general’s report found that those put in
charge of the program, including Rodriguez, had little if any
experience with al-Qaeda or interrogation techniques before the
Sept. 11 attacks. As a consequence they didn’t know what
detainees should know, or how to get accurate information.  Rodriguez inadvertently admits to the failures of his
techniques: He notes that in late 2002 when Nashiri was asked
for details about a coming al-Qaeda attack, the suspect
“insisted that he didn’t have any additional information.” Six
months later, Nashiri’s former lieutenants in the Arabian
Peninsula group struck: They stormed a compound in  Riyadh ,  Saudi
Arabia , killing at least 31 people, among them nine Americans.  It has been a long wait -- far too long -- for the families
of the 17 sailors killed aboard the Cole to see Nashiri face
justice. It’s unfortunate that Rodriguez may have
unintentionally aided in the defense of a cold-blooded killer.
Luckily, thanks to the hard work of professionals, there is more
than enough evidence to lock Nashiri up for several times over.  (Ali H. Soufan, the chief executive officer of the Soufan
Group, a strategic consultancy, was an FBI special agent from
1997 to 2005. He was the case agent for the USS Cole
investigation and interrogated al-Qaeda detainees at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, and elsewhere. He is the author of “The Black
Banners: The  Inside Story  of 9/11 and the War Against al-
Qaeda.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Greece’s political
deadlock  and saving the  Volcker rule ; Clive Crook  on France and
the EU ; William Pesek on  Asia’s wealth divide ;  Peter Orszag  on
the  income swings of high earners ;  Edward Glaeser  on the  new
urban flight .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ali H. Soufan at  media@soufangroup.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 