-- World’s Richest Slim Adds $2.4 Billion on Carrier Record
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-05-08T02:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/world-s-richest-slim-adds-2-4-billion-on-carrier-record.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  extended his
lead as the world’s richest person by $2.4 billion as his
wireless carrier  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  rose to a record.  The shares advanced 4.9 percent yesterday to 18.66 pesos in
Mexico City, the highest price since  America Movil ’s 2001
spinoff from Telefonos de Mexico SAB, as the company overcame a
regulatory hurdle and showed improved profits in Brazil. That
boosted the net worth of Slim, who owns a 30 percent stake in
America Movil, to $76.2 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . His fortune is up 23.8 percent year-to-date.  A settlement last week with Mexico’s antitrust regulator is
creating optimism that America Movil can grow in its biggest
market, said Kevin Smithen, an analyst at Macquarie Capital USA
Inc. in  New York . America Movil agreed to cut fees charged to
competitors as the government dropped a fine of almost $1
billion assessed last year for anticompetitive practices.  “Now you’ve got a relatively stable economy with improving
fundamentals and a more benign regulatory environment,” said
Smithen, who advises buying the shares. “We think there’s still
room to go on a big run.”  America Movil adopted a new accounting method that showed
profit is expanding in Brazil, its second-largest market, said
Alejandro Gallostra, an analyst at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , in a phone interview yesterday from New York.
That is making the company’s prospects look better in a country
where it had appeared to be struggling, he said.  The carrier is also luring investors seeking exposure to
 Latin America  as  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  shares slide amid a
corruption scandal. The retailer’s shares have dropped 19
percent after allegations raised in an April 21 New York Times
story that its executives bribed Mexican officials.  “America Movil does have the classic attractions of being
large and liquid and having an established returns policy,”
Richard Dineen, an analyst HSBC Holdings Plc in New York, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “It’s often a good place to go
when all other inspiration fails,” he said, advising holding
the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  