-- Worst Rupiah Start Since 2005 Pressures Indonesia
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-05-09T03:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/worst-rupiah-start-since-2005-pressures-indonesia-to-undo-easing.html
Indonesia ’s central bank will probably
consider steps to curb excess funds in the economy and extend a
pause in interest-rate cuts as the second-worst performing
currency in  Asia  highlights the threat from inflation.  Bank Indonesia will keep the  reference rate  at 5.75 percent
tomorrow, according to all 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The central bank has left its benchmark unchanged since an
unexpected reduction in February.  Investors are demanding higher yields to hold Indonesian
debt and the rupiah slid to the weakest in almost two years last
week amid uncertainty over how the central bank will contain
inflation and the impact of the government’s evolving fuel
policy. Pressure to reverse monetary easing is climbing as price
gains reached 4.5 percent in April, the fastest pace after
 Singapore  among Southeast Asia’s five biggest economies, and
growth held above 6 percent for a sixth quarter.  Faster inflation has made “a stronger case for the central
bank to start unwinding some of its monetary loosening,” said
 Gundy Cahyadi , a Singapore-based economist at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. who expects Bank Indonesia to start adjusting the
minimum level for the overnight rate or raise its reserve
requirement rate as early as this week. “As for the BI rate, it
is unlikely to be touched for now, given that there is little
urgency to do so.”  The rupiah has dropped almost 2 percent in 2012, its worst
start to the year since 2005, even as the central bank said in
April it participates in foreign-exchange and debt markets to
stabilize the currency. It is the worst performer after the yen
among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices 
rose 4.5 percent last month from a year earlier, after a 3.97
percent gain in March.  Growth Risks  “The rupiah is weak because there are inflationary
concerns,” said Chong Wee Khoon, a Hong Kong-based fixed-income
strategist at Societe Generale SA. “Global downside growth
risks aren’t over yet and so I think BI can afford to wait and
see to assess the situation before unwinding” previous rate
cuts, said Chong, citing a possible increase in the reserve
requirement ratio as an alternative the central bank may pursue.  The central bank unexpectedly cut rates by a quarter of a
percentage point in October and followed that with a half-point
reduction in November. In January,  Bank Indonesia  widened the
lower range of its interbank lending rate in a de facto easing
of monetary policy, before lowering its key rate again on Feb. 9.  Stocks Fall  Growth risks are resurging this week, with Asian stocks
falling to the lowest levels in more than three months today on
concern Greek leaders will back out of bailout agreements. The
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 1 percent at 11:36 a.m in  Tokyo ,
heading for its lowest close since January.  New Zealand’s currency is starting to decline in response
to falling commodity prices and weak economic indicators,
central bank Governor Alan Bollard said today. Australia’s
government said yesterday it plans to cut spending as Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  pledged to end four years of budget
deficits, giving the central bank flexibility to lower  interest
rates .  Germany  may report a decline in exports in March from the
previous month, according to a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a
report today. Inflation data is due in  Greece , where the
inconclusive May 6 election has reignited European concerns over
the nation’s ability to hold to the terms of its two bailouts
negotiated since May 2010.  ‘Solid Growth’  Foreign holdings  of Indonesian government debt have dropped
since the beginning of February, while yields on the 10-year
securities have risen about 1 percentage point from 2012’s low
of 5.05 percent on Feb. 9. Longer-maturity bonds are more
sensitive to inflation expectations.  “Continued  solid growth , the depreciated  exchange rate  and
the potential hike in fuel prices are expected to lift inflation
further,” said Leif Eskesen, Singapore-based chief economist
for  India  and  Southeast Asia  at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Eventually
the expected pick-up in inflation will persuade the BI to
tighten monetary policy settings.”  The country’s parliament rejected a proposal for a 33
percent increase in subsidized-fuel prices from April 1 after
public protests against the plan. Lawmakers instead allowed the
government to raise prices only if the Indonesia Crude Price
exceeds the state budgetary assumption of $105 a barrel by 15
percent over a six-month period. The government now plans to cap
the sale of below-market-rate fuel for certain vehicles.  Policies Diverge  Other Asian governments have also implemented measures to
curb rising prices as central banks refrained from raising
borrowing costs. South  Korea ’s largest phone and Internet
company KT Corp. reported a decline in first-quarter profit
after cutting call rates under a government initiative to
control inflation, while India hasn’t boosted gasoline prices
since November even as rising oil costs strained its budget.  Asian policy makers have diverged as some kept rates steady
or cut borrowing costs to shield their economies from  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a tepid U.S. recovery, while others tightened to
contain inflation. India and  Australia  lowered borrowing costs
more than expected at their most recent meetings while  Thailand 
held its benchmark for a second time last week.  The  Bank of Korea  will keep the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate unchanged at 3.25 percent for an 11th month
tomorrow, according to all 17 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Bank Negara Malaysia  will hold its key rate at 3 percent
for a sixth meeting a day later, a separate survey of 18
economists showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  