-- Xanders Out as Broncos General Manager After Manning Signing
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-08T17:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/xanders-out-as-broncos-general-manager-after-playoff-appearance.html
Brian Xanders is out as general
manager of the  Denver Broncos , two months after the team signed
four-time National Football League Most Valuable Player Peyton Manning to build off its first playoff win in six seasons.  Xanders’s departure is “mutually beneficial” to both
parties, Broncos Vice President of Football Operations John Elway said in an e-mailed statement.  The 41-year-old won’t be replaced, rather his
responsibilities will be spread among the rest of the personnel
department, team spokesman Erich Schubert said today in an e-
mail.  In his time with the Broncos, Xanders oversaw Denver’s
selection of  Tim Tebow  in the first round of the 2010 draft, and
the team’s decision to trade the quarterback to the New York
Jets in March. Xanders was also GM when the team traded away
quarterback  Jay Cutler  and wide receiver Brandon Marshall, and
this offseason when it signed Manning, an 11-time Pro Bowl
selection, to what ESPN reported was a five-year, $96 million
deal.  Xanders was entering his fourth season as Denver’s general
manager, according to the team website. Before joining the
Broncos he spent 14 years in the Atlanta Falcons organization,
and was a defensive coach during the team’s  Super Bowl 
appearance following the 1998 season.  Xanders became the Broncos general manager in February
2009. The team was 8-8 during his first season, 4-12 during his
second, then made the playoffs with an 8-8 record in 2011,
beating the Pittsburgh Steelers in the first round. It was the
team’s first American Football Conference West division title,
playoff appearance and postseason victory since the 2005 season.  -- Editor: Michael Sillup  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  