-- Yahoo’s Hart Plans to Exit Board Amid CEO Resume Review
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/yahoo-director-patti-hart-said-to-plan-departure-from-board.html
Yahoo (YHOO) ! Inc. director Patti Hart plans
to leave the board of the biggest U.S. Web portal amid questions
about her role in hiring Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson ,
whose academic credentials were misstated by the company.  Hart said she won’t seek re-election to the board, citing
her duties as CEO of International Game Technology. She was
asked by that company’s board to step back from Yahoo because
that job could become a distraction, according to a statement
yesterday from Hart and Chairman Philip Satre. Hart was on the
Yahoo committee responsible for hiring Thompson, whose biography
falsely said he held a degree in computer science.  “My primary responsibilities are to serve as chief
executive officer of IGT and to eliminate activities that may
interfere with my ability to carry out my commitments to IGT and
its valued stakeholders.” Hart said in the statement.  Yahoo investor Third Point LLC has stepped up pressure for
Thompson’s ouster after disclosing the discrepancy in his
credentials last week, prompting the board to embark on a review
of the matter. The fallout marks a setback for Thompson, who
joined from  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  in January and is attempting to revive
Yahoo’s growth. He replaced Carol Bartz, who was dismissed in
September amid falling sales and market-share losses to Google
Inc. and Facebook Inc.  “This was a flawed process,” said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst at BGC Partners in  New York  who has a hold rating on the
stock and doesn’t own it. “What’s happening is that Third
Point’s case -- that the board is not functioning effectively --
has been strengthened.”  Review Committee  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo also said yesterday it
formed a committee of three recently appointed independent board
members to review Thompson’s academic credentials and the
vetting process that preceded his selection as CEO.  In a statement confirming Hart’s planned exit as a
director, the Yahoo board said, “we thank Patti for her years
of service and wish her all the best.”  The review committee’s chairman is Alfred Amoroso, who
joined in February. The other directors on the panel are John
Hayes and Thomas McInerney, who both joined in April. The
committee has also retained Terry Bird as independent counsel.  Third Point  is trying to win seats on Yahoo’s board and has
said the company is mismanaged.  Academic Credentials  The biography for Thompson listed a bachelor’s degree in
computer science from Stonehill College in Easton,
 Massachusetts , a credential that wasn’t offered until four years
after he graduated, Third Point CEO  Daniel Loeb  said last week.  Yahoo’s board said last week that it would review the
matter and “make an appropriate disclosure to shareholders.”
The company had earlier called the discrepancy an “inadvertent
error” and said it “in no way alters that fact that Mr.
Thompson is a highly qualified executive with a successful track
record leading large consumer technology companies.”  Loeb also said Hart inflated her degree. Hart is listed in
filings as holding a “bachelor’s degree in marketing and
economics” from Illinois State University, Loeb said last week.
“However, we understand that Ms. Hart’s degree is in business
administration. She received a degree in neither marketing nor
economics.”  Yahoo said in its response at the time that “Patti Hart
holds a bachelor of science degree in business administration
with specialties in marketing and economics from Illinois State
University.”  Jay Groves, a spokesman for Illinois State, last week
corroborated the business administration degree, saying Hart
graduated in 1978 with a concentration in economics and
marketing.  In the statement yesterday,  International Game Technology (IGT) 
Chairman Satre said that after a review, the company’s directors
found “no material inconsistencies” in Hart’s academic
credentials.  “We will closely monitor future developments at Yahoo and
their impact on Patti’s responsibilities to IGT,” Satre said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 