-- MySpace Settles U.S. Allegations It Breached User Privacy
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-08T21:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/myspace-settles-u-s-allegations-it-breached-user-privacy.html
Social networking company Myspace Inc.
settled allegations that it misrepresented the way it handled
user information, agreeing with the U.S. regulators to adopt a
privacy program and submit to audits.  The 20-year settlement bars Myspace from sharing users’
personal information without first giving notice and getting
permission, the Federal Trade Commission said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The settlement follows similar consent decrees with Google
Inc., Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. as the FTC steps up
enforcement of privacy protections on the Internet.  Myspace, disregarding its published privacy policy,
provided advertisers with information that enabled them to
identify users who were viewing particular pages on the site,
the FTC said.  “Advertisers could use the Friend ID to locate a user’s
Myspace profile to obtain personal information publicly
available on the profile and, in most instances, the user’s full
name,” the FTC said. “Advertisers also could combine the
user’s real name and other personal information with additional
information to link broader Web-browsing activity to a specific
individual.”  False Statements  The FTC also alleged that Myspace made false statements
under a legal framework that allows U.S. companies to transfer
personal data from the European Union to the U.S. Myspace
falsely claimed it had complied with the so-called Safe Harbor
principles, the agency said.  Myspace, based in Beverly-Hills,  California , is a unit of
Specific Media Inc., which bought the company from  News Corp. (NWSA)  in
June. Pop singer and actor  Justin Timberlake  took a minority
stake in the company when it was sold. Specific Media said at
the time Timberlake would help develop a new strategy for the
company.  The episodes that prompted the agencies’ allegations
occurred before Specific Media took control, according to FTC
filings.  “One of our first actions after acquiring Myspace was to
thoroughly examine the company’s business practices and, where
applicable, make improvements,” Specific Media said today in a
statement. “A major focus of this review was to ensure that
Myspace delivered advertisements to consumers in a manner that
safeguarded their privacy.”  Myspace said the FTC settlement should “put any questions
regarding Myspace’s pre-acquisition advertising practices behind
us.”  “The FTC wants companies to be honest with consumers and
accurately inform them on how they are using their personal
information,” Daren Orzechowski, a partner with White & Case
LLP in  New York  who focuses on information technology legal
matters, said in a statement. “The FTC’s action against Myspace
is another step toward forcing companies to be more transparent
about their privacy practices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  