-- Yuan Forwards Snap Two-Day Loss as PBOC Sets Stronger Fixing
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-05-08T09:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-08/yuan-forwards-snap-two-day-loss-as-pboc-sets-stronger-fixing.html
Yuan  forwards rose for the first time
in three days as  China  raised the daily  reference rate  after a
bigger-than-expected increase in Germany’s factory orders damped
concern about Europe’s economic prospects.  The  People’s Bank of China  set its daily  fixing  0.09
percent stronger at 6.2804 per dollar, strengthening it for the
first time in four days. Factory orders in Germany, the euro
region’s biggest economy, rose 2.2 percent in March from
February, a report showed yesterday. Excessive adjustment of the
yuan’s exchange rate could hurt the economy, Yi Gang, head of
the currency regulator, said in remarks published yesterday. Yi
reiterated the yuan is no longer “obviously undervalued” and
is near an “equilibrium level.”  “There’s more room for yuan appreciation if  Europe ’s
economy improves, which would help Chinese exports,” said
Edmond Law, deputy head of foreign-exchange at BWC Capital
Markets in  Hong Kong .  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.05 percent
to 6.3498 per dollar as of 4:30 p.m. in Hong Kong, a 0.7 percent
discount to the onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yuan closed at 6.3080 per dollar in Shanghai, from
6.3079 yesterday, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on
either side of the reference rate. In Hong Kong’s offshore
market, the yuan was little changed at 6.3080.  One-month implied volatility for the currency, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, climbed five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2 percent.  Germany ’s factory orders jumped 2.2 percent in March from
February, beating the median forecast for a 0.5 percent increase
in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Data today is forecast to
show the nation’s industrial output increased 0.8 percent in
March after a 1.3 percent decline in February, a separate survey
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  