-- Alberta Says ‘Quid Pro Quo’ With U.S. Required on Carbon Rules
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-02T15:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/alberta-says-quid-pro-quo-with-u-s-required-on-carbon-rules.html
Alberta  won’t raise its levy on
greenhouse-gas emissions unless the U.S. acts on the issue,
Premier Alison Redford said.  “In Alberta, we’re not looking to increase our price on
carbon unless there’s going to be a move from the  United
States ,” Redford said in a Canadian Broadcasting Corp. radio
interview that aired today. “There has to be a quid pro quo.”  Redford is heading to  Washington  this month to lobby for
U.S. approval of the Keystone XL pipeline that would connect
Alberta’s oil sands with Gulf Coast refineries. She plans to
discuss the existing C$15 ($14.40) per metric ton that the
province  levies  on carbon from emitters that don’t meet
greenhouse-gas reduction targets, she said.  Canada  has delayed implementing regulations regarding
greenhouse gas emissions for the oil and natural gas industry.
The federal government has said it’s working with Alberta, where
most of Canada’s energy companies are based, on developing rules
to help the nation of 34 million meet its Copenhagen Accord
target of reducing greenhouse-gas output by 17 percent by 2020
from 2005 levels.  “The federal government’s role is going to be very
important in terms of leadership on the issue,” Redford said.  Canada and the U.S. have discussed working together on
regulations to reduce  carbon emissions  in their oil and gas
industries, Canada’s Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver said
in September. Jointly implementing rules would “not
necessarily” be the right approach, he said in Calgary.  Five Years  Redford plans to meet with the U.S. State Department that
has been reviewing the Keystone XL pipeline for more than five
years, during a trip to Washington between Nov. 11 and 13,
according to a statement last month from the provincial
government.  “If Keystone XL doesn’t get approved, it will have an
impact on U.S.-Canada relations,” Redford said in the radio
interview.  The State Department didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the Calgary-based company proposing
Keystone XL, said last month it expects a U.S. decision on the
delayed pipeline by the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  