-- ANZ Bank CEO Says Aussie to Stay Strong Until U.S. Tapers
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-11-02T23:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/anz-bank-ceo-says-aussie-to-stay-strong-until-u-s-tapers.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  Chief Executive Officer Michael Smith said he expects the
Aussie dollar to maintain its strength as long as the U.S.
Federal Reserve keeps up monthly asset purchases.  “It’s unlikely we’ll see a huge reduction or a major
reduction in the Aussie dollar’s strength until there is a
tapering in the U.S.,” Smith said in an interview broadcast
today on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business
program. “As the U.S. dollar strengthens, we’ll start to see
the Aussie come off a bit.”  The Federal Reserve decided it would press on with $85
billion in monthly bond purchases, saying last week that it
needs to see more evidence the U.S. economy will continue to
improve. The central bank also said the economy is showing signs
of “underlying strength.”  While the Australian dollar fell to a three-year low of
88.48 U.S. cents on Aug. 5 amid speculation the Fed would begin
to taper bond purchases by year end, that sentiment reversed as
a government shutdown in the U.S. slowed growth, prompting the
Aussie to touch an almost five-month high of 97.58 on Oct. 23.
The Aussie closed at 94.38 U.S. cents on Nov. 1.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said last
week the Aussie dollar “at some point in the future” will be
‘materially lower.’’  Lending Standards  Economists in a Bloomberg survey project that tapering in
the U.S. will begin in March, based on the median estimate.  “I don’t think the tapering will happen until well into
next year,” Smith said. “It will create some volatility. There
will be adjustment.”  ANZ, the country’s third-largest lender by market value,
has maintained its credit standards, Smith said. Charges for bad
debts in the last year fell 5 percent to A$1.2 billion from a
year ago and newly impaired assets in the year dropped 22
percent, ANZ said Oct. 29.  “We haven’t lowered our standards,” Smith said. “In
fact, I think over the last few years we’ve maintained credit
standards very well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  