-- Broncos Coach Fox Is Hospitalized After Feeling Light-Headed
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-03T05:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/broncos-coach-fox-taken-to-hospital-after-feeling-light-headed.html
Denver Broncos coach John Fox will
undergo aortic heart valve replacement this week, forcing him to
take a leave of absence for several weeks, the National Football
League team said today.  Fox, 58, was in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , with the Broncos
on their bye week when he started to feel light-headed during a
golf outing.  Doctors had told Fox months ago that his defective aortic
value would require a procedure after the 2013 season, the team
said. During his trip to North Carolina, he had a preoperative
appointment on Oct. 31 with his doctor, who told him to seek
medical attention immediately if he felt any discomfort.  “Testing revealed the need to have this procedure as soon
as possible,” the team said.  Fox has a 7-1 record this season with the Broncos, who are
scheduled to pay at  San Diego  on Nov. 10.  “Although I am disappointed I must take some time away
from the team to attend to this pre-existing health condition, I
understand that it’s the right thing to do,” Fox said in a
statement released by the team. “I look forward to returning to
coaching as soon as possible.”  The club will announce its interim coach when a decision is
finalized, the team said.  “Our focus at this time is coach Fox’s health and well-being,” the team said.  Earlier yesterday, Broncos spokesman Patrick Smyth said on
 Twitter  that he had spoken with Fox and the coach “did not have
a heart attack.” He said Fox was “in good spirits” and
undergoing additional tests at the hospital.  “I am doing fine,” Fox said in a text shared on Twitter
by Smyth.  Fox is in his third season with the Broncos and has a 28-12
record. He previously coached the  Carolina Panthers  from 2002 to
2010, leading the team to the  Super Bowl  after the 2003 season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 