-- Canada’s Harper Says Conservatives Not Party of Entitlement
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-11-02T00:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/canada-s-harper-says-conservatives-not-party-of-entitlement.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said the ruling Conservative Party needs to steer away
from a sense of entitlement amid an expenses scandal that has
undermined his government’s popularity.  Harper, speaking to party members at a convention in
Calgary, called on Senate lawmakers to suspend three of its
members -- all former Conservatives that he appointed to the
chamber -- accused of claiming ineligible expenses.  “Ours is not the party of entitlement, not guided by power
or privilege,” Harper said, according to a prepared text of the
speech. “We didn’t go to Ottawa to join private clubs or become
part of some elite.”  Harper is trying to stem the biggest decline in his party’s
popularity since his Conservatives took power in 2006. The
expenses scandal has dominated parliamentary debate with
opposition parties accusing the government of a cover-up.  “The Senate should do the right thing now, and suspend
those senators without pay,” Harper said, referring to Mike Duffy, Pamela Wallin and Patrick Brazeau.  The three face suspension from the upper house of the
nation’s legislature over their expenses. The Royal Canadian
Mounted Police alleged in documents filed in court today that
Wallin may have committed criminal breach of trust and fraud by
making “inappropriate” expense claims.  Nigel Wright, a former managing director at Toronto-based
private-equity firm  Onex Corp. (OCX) , resigned as Harper’s chief of
staff in May amid a police investigation following the
disclosure he paid about C$90,000 ($86,300) to Duffy to help
cover ineligible expense claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  