-- Canadian Dollar Rises as North American Growth Outpaces Europe
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-02T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/canadian-dollar-rises-as-north-american-growth-outpaces-europe.html
The  Canadian dollar  had its biggest
weekly gain in 20 months against a basket of nine developed-nation currencies as better-than-forecast North American
economic reports contrasted with slowing European growth.  The currency rose 1.9 percent as measured by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index amid signs of economic weakness in
the 17-nation currency bloc that fueled speculation the  European
Central Bank  may cut  interest rates  as soon as at its meeting
Nov. 7.  Canada ’s dollar fell against its U.S. peer last month as
the Bank of Canada removed language about the need for higher
interest rates that was included in every policy statement for
more than a year. The nation added almost the same number of
jobs in October as the month before, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economist before the Nov. 8 report.  “On the week, CAD’s been a star performer,” said  Greg Anderson , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of
Montreal, by phone from  New York . “The market had gotten short
CAD on a lot of crosses, and particularly euro/CAD cross, and
the move in euro has shaken a lot of those out and CAD has come
out a winner.” A short position is a bet that an asset will
decrease in value.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, gained 0.3 percent this week
to C$1.0420 per  U.S. dollar . One loonie buys 95.97 U.S. cents.  Market Measures  Against the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index, Canada’s
dollar rose the most since the week ending March 2, 2012. The
loonie added 2.5 percent to C$1.4055 per euro, snapping a four-week loss.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  fell, with
yields rising eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
2.49 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
dropped 60 cents to C$91.59.  The  Bank of Canada  will auction C$3.4 billion ($3.3
billion) of five-year bonds on Nov. 6. The securities will
mature in March of 2019.  The Canadian currency fell 1.2 percent during October and is
off 4.8 percent this year versus the greenback, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Against its 16 most-traded
counterparts, the loonie lost the most last month against
 Australia ’s dollar and gained the most this year versus the
South African rand.  Economic Numbers  The euro area’s annual inflation rate declined to 0.7
percent last month, the least since November 2009, from 1.1
percent in September, the European Union’s statistics office
said Oct. 31. Unemployment in the region was at a record 12.2
percent in September, separate data showed.  Canada’s  gross domestic product  grew faster than economists
forecast in August on record extraction of oil and natural gas,
putting the economy on track for its fastest quarterly expansion
in two years. Output rose 0.3 percent to an annualized C$1.59
trillion,  Statistics Canada  said Oct. 31 in Ottawa, beating the
0.1 median forecast in a Bloomberg economist survey.  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s index
rose to 56.4, the highest since April 2011, from 56.2 a month
earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed
yesterday. Readings above 50 indicate growth. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey called for a decline to 55.  “Growth in the U.S. is good for Canada so you almost have
to look at it in North American terms,” said Darcy Browne,
managing director of currencies at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets Unit, by phone from Toronto. “If
they’re growing, we’re growing by default, and we’ll be right
behind them in that trade so we’re kind of going up and down
with the dollar but to a lesser degree.”  Jobs Report  Canada’s unemployment rate increased to 7 percent in
October from 6.9 percent the month before, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists.
Employment rose 10,000, compared with 11,900 the month before, a
separate survey projected.  Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 3.3 percent to
$94.60 per barrel in New York, the lowest level since June. The
 discount  Canadian producers face compared to U.S. crude
benchmarks was $40, the most since January.  The loonie touched C$1.0497 per U.S. dollar on Oct. 30, its
lowest point since September, after the  Federal Reserve 
maintained its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, which tend
to devalue the U.S. dollar, while leaving open the possibility
for future reductions by saying economic growth persists.  “There’s an overall view we could be going through a patch
of softness in  U.S. economy , but longer term, there’s definitely
a desire to pull some monetary accommodation out,” said Mark Frey, chief market strategist at Cambridge Mercantile Group, a
global foreign-exchange and payments provider, by phone from
Victoria, British Columbia. The U.S. dollar “will certainly
outperform the Canadian dollar,” he said.  Canada’s dollar will end the year at C$1.04, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  