-- CIA Drone Strike Said to Kill Pakistan’s Taliban Chief
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-11-02T14:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/cia-drone-strike-said-to-kill-pakistan-s-taliban-chief.html
A CIA drone strike in Pakistan killed
the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, according to reports from
the region that a U.S. official said were credible.  The death of Hakimullah Mehsud was confirmed today by the
Pakistani Taliban spokesman in the South Waziristan tribal area,
the  Associated Press  said. Mehsud, the target of the strike
yesterday in North Waziristan, was indicted in the U.S. three
years ago for his alleged role in a suicide bombing that killed
seven Central Intelligence Agency employees in  Afghanistan  in
2009.  Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry confirmed in a statement that a
strike occurred in the region and called it “a violation of
Pakistan’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”  Even as the Pakistani government denounces such strikes, it
has cooperated with U.S. intelligence agencies in locating,
tracking and targeting leaders of the Pakistani Taliban,
including Mehsud.  Intelligence on his whereabouts was this time considered to
be of medium to high credibility -- a level of confidence that
triggered the attack, according to the U.S. official, who
requested anonymity to discuss sensitive intelligence matters.  Pakistan ’s private cooperation with the U.S. hasn’t
extended to U.S. efforts to find Mullah Muhammad Omar and other
leaders of the Afghan Taliban, who the Pakistani government
considers allies.  Multiple Deaths  Mehsud, the leader of the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan, has
been reported killed several times, only to resurface later. For
that reason, U.S. officials have been reluctant to confirm
reports of his death. In this case, the reports that he was
killed are considered credible, the U.S. official said.  Al Jazeera television reported there were multiple deaths
in the strike, which it said targeted a meeting of Taliban
leaders. A meeting of Pakistan’s Taliban council today chose
Khan Sayed as their new leader, Dawn newspaper reported.  If confirmed, the death would be a coup for U.S. efforts to
weaken the Taliban, even as it may complicate Pakistan’s efforts
to engage in peace talks with the militants.  Imran Khan , whose party controls the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
province bordering Afghanistan, has threatened to block NATO
supply lines passing through the province in retaliation for
what he described as a U.S. attempt to sabotage the negotiations
through drone attacks.  “We won’t let these supplies pass even if we have to
sacrifice our government” in the province, Khan said today at a
press conference in Lahore.  2009 Attack  Mehsud had been accused of conspiracy to murder U.S.
citizens abroad in the bombing on Dec. 30, 2009. Seven CIA
employees were killed and six others injured by a Jordanian
double agent who was allowed onto a base in eastern Afghanistan
near the Pakistani border in the belief he was bringing
intelligence on al-Qaeda.  After the attack, the Pakistani Taliban released a video of
the bomber with Mehsud justifying the killings.  Before yesterday’s attack, strikes in Pakistan’s tribal
areas fell to 14 this year after peaking at 115 in 2010,
according to data from the Pakistan defense ministry released by
the parliament. There were 67 civilians killed in the strikes
from 2008 to 2013, the figures showed.  Amnesty International , a human-rights group, issued a
report last week saying U.S. drone strikes in Pakistan are
sometimes conducted without legal justification and may amount
to  war crimes . It called on President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to investigate any potential unlawful killings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  