-- Dell Board, Executives Receive $59 Million Payout
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/dell-board-executives-receive-59-million-payout.html
Dell Inc.’s directors and top
executives received a combined $59.1 million as part of the
$24.9 billion leveraged buyout by  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake
Management LLC.  The payout included partial compensation for options that
couldn’t be exercised because their conversion prices were more
than the purchase offer of $13.75 a share, according to  filings 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that were made
public Oct. 31.  While the board and top managers received cash for their
shareholdings in line with the offer, they shouldn’t have been
rewarded for out-of-the-money stock options, according to
 Charles Elson , director at the John L. Weinberg Center for
 Corporate Governance  at the University of Delaware. Dell took
the company he founded in 1984 private to bolster its standing
in the troubled personal-computer market, where consumers are
shunning laptops and desktops in favor of mobile devices, and
expand into corporate hardware and software. Shareholders
approved the buyout in September and the stock was delisted Oct.
30.  “Underwater options don’t have value, so they shouldn’t
have been given value,” Elson said in an interview.  Options holders were paid 10 cents to 70 cents a share for
their out-of-the-money options, depending on the exercise price.
Employees at the third-largest PC maker also received cash for
their underwater options, said  David Frink , a spokesman for
 Round Rock , Texas-based Dell.  “Stock options, whether they are in-the-money or out-of-the-money, have a value to them,” Frink said.  Board Payouts  Of the $42.1 million paid to executives, $11.9 million went
to 26-year veteran Jeff Clarke, who runs Dell’s PC business and
is president of global operations.  The company’s 10 outgoing directors received $17 million as
a group, with $10 million going to Don Carty, the former CEO of
 American Airlines  who joined Dell’s board in 1992 and was chief
financial officer in 2007 and 2008.  Michael Dell received a check for $461,752, for the 33,582
shares he owned in a  retirement plan  that weren’t rolled over
into the private company, of which he now owns 75 percent. Dell
has a net worth of $15.4 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaire’s Index.  The smallest payouts went to three of the four directors on
the board’s special committee that handled the buyout process,
which lasted for most of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  