-- England Comes From Behind to Beat Australia 20-13 in Rugby Test
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-02T16:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/england-comes-from-behind-to-beat-australia-20-13-in-rugby-test.html
England  came from behind in the
second half to beat Australia 20-13 in the opening game of its
autumn international rugby schedule.  Chris Robshaw and Owen Farrell touched down as England
outscored Australia two tries to one at Twickenham Stadium in
London. Farrell also kicked 10 points as England won its fifth
straight home game, its longest run since a 22-game streak
between 1999 and 2003.  Matt Toomua scored a try for Australia, which lost for the
eighth time in 11 Test matches in 2013.  Farrell and Quade Cooper traded early penalties before a
second from Farrell put the host in front 6-3. Australia took a
10-6 lead in the 31st minute when Toomua went through Billy Twelvetrees to score. Cooper converted, then added his second
penalty four minutes later to give Australia a seven-point
halftime lead.  England tied the game in the 50th minute after Mako
Vunipola charged down Will Genia’s kick. Robshaw picked up the
loose ball and went over from close range, with Farrell
converting.  Farrell scored the winning points eight minutes later when
he went between Australia’s  Stephen Moore  and Ben Mowen for a
try, which he converted to make it 20-13. The play was reviewed
to see if  Dylan Hartley  obstructed Moore, with the video
official ruling he hadn’t.  England continues its autumn schedule by hosting Argentina
on Nov. 9, while Australia plays Italy in Turin.  World champion  New Zealand  opened its November
international tour with a 54-6 rout of Japan in Tokyo.  Charles Piutau touched down twice as the All Blacks
outscored Japan eight tries to none. Sam Cane,  Ben Smith ,
captain  Richie McCaw , Jeremy Thrush, Beauden Barrett and Frank
Halai also scored tries as New Zealand remained unbeaten in 2013
with its 11th straight Test win.  The top-ranked All Blacks now head to Europe for the final
three games of their tour to play France, England and Ireland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 