-- Georgia’s Billionaire Premier Picks Garibashvili as Replacement
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2013-11-02T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/georgia-s-billionaire-premier-names-garibashvili-as-replacement.html
Georgia ’s billionaire Prime Minister
Bidzina Ivanishvili, who’s stepping down after serving a year in
office, said he’ll nominate Irakli Garibashvili to replace him.  Garibashvili , Georgia’s 31-year-old interior minister, will
take over the Black Sea nation’s most powerful job when
Ivanishvili leaves this month. His nomination requires the
backing of parliament, which is controlled by Ivanishvili’s
Georgian Dream coalition.  “Garibashvili has managed to transform the police, which
had lost its credibility -- this man has managed to make the
police honorable again,” Ivanishvili told reporters yesterday
in Tbilisi, the capital. “This man deserves this post.”  Ivanishvili, 57, says he’s achieved his goal of reshaping
Georgia’s political system after beating outgoing leader Mikheil Saakashvili’s party in 2012 parliamentary elections and backing
the winning candidate in a presidential ballot last week.  Ivanishvili is seeking behind-the-scenes control of the
country, which is home to energy links between  Europe  and the
 Caspian Sea  that allow oil and gas flowing westward to bypass
 Russia , according to Saakashvili’s United National Movement.  “Thank you for putting the highest trust in me,”
Garibashvili said told reporters yesterday. “I promise the
nation of Georgia and you that i’ll continue forward on the path
that you’ve chosen.”  Sorbonne Education  Garibashvili, a founding member of Ivanishvili’s Georgian
Dream coalition, has been interior minister since last October,
according to the  government website . He graduated in 2004 from
the political sciences faculty of Paris’s Sorbonne University
and has a master’s degree in international relations from
Tbilisi State University. As well as Georgian, he speaks
English, French and Russian.  Giorgi Kandelaki, a lawmaker for Saakashvili’s UNM, was
skeptical about the nominee even before he’d been named.  “We already know the new PM will be a very weak figure and
a puppet of Ivanishvili,” he said Oct. 30 by e-mail. “It’s
essential for all friends of Georgia, anyone out there who cares
about Georgia’s European and democratic future to not allow the
anti-democratic, informal rule to which Ivanishvili aspires.”  Ivanishvili’s year in power has been marked by clashes with
Saakashvili. Members of the previous government, such as former
Premier Vano Merabishvili and ex-Defense and Interior Minister
Bacho Akhalaia, were arrested, sparking criticism from the
European Union and the U.S.  Ease Divisions  Ivanishvili said Oct. 23 that he’d step down a week after
the new president’s Nov. 17 inauguration to a diminished office
as Georgia shifts powers to the premier. President-elect Giorgi Margvelashvili, 43, who garnered 62.1 percent support in the
Oct. 27 vote, will help ease political tensions by bringing an
end to Georgia’s “divided government,” according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  Ivanishvili’s exit “will further ease political infighting
and pave the way for a more policy-focused debate, thereby
reinforcing a credible institutional framework in Georgia,”
Moody’s said Oct. 31 in an e-mailed note. “We expect no change
to the broad orientation of the country’s economic and foreign
policies, which have supported Georgia’s creditworthiness.”  Ivanishvili policies include raising  living standards ,
improving the justice system and boosting ties with Europe, the
U.S. and Russia, with which Georgia fought a five day war in
2008 over the breakaway republic of  South Ossetia . The tycoon,
who made most his $5.5 billion fortune in Russia, wants Georgia
to initial an EU association agreement this month.  Georgia’s economic performance has worsened under
Ivanishvili’s stewardship, with growth in  gross domestic product 
slowing to 1.5 percent from a year earlier in the second
quarter, down from as high as 8.2 percent in the same three
months of 2012. Foreign direct investment, which fueled 5.1
percent average expansion in 2007-2012, fell for the first year
in three in 2012.  Moody’s rates the country’s debt at Ba3, three steps below
investment grade and on par with Nigeria and  Portugal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  