-- Issa’s Committee Interrogates Healthcare.gov Manager Chao
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-02T20:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/issa-s-committee-interrogates-healthcare-gov-manager-chao.html
Henry Chao, who supervised
construction of the flawed U.S. health insurance website, was
privately interviewed yesterday for more than nine hours by
congressional investigators, two people with knowledge of the
event said.  Chao, the deputy chief information officer for the U.S.
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, was questioned by
staff of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
led by California Republican Darrell Issa, the people said. Such
interviews often precede public hearings by Issa’s committee,
which is investigating errors with the website, along with two
other House panels.  Contractors who built the website,  Healthcare.gov , have
said Chao issued instructions late in the site’s development
that contributed to software errors and website outages when it
went live Oct. 1. The U.S. health secretary, Kathleen Sebelius,
publicly apologized for the problems at an Oct. 30 congressional
hearing and conceded the errors have prevented many Americans
from enrolling in plans.  Chao’s current involvement in the project isn’t clear.  Spokespeople for Issa’s committee, Ali Ahmad and Caitlin
Carroll, didn’t reply to e-mails and telephone messages for
comment today. Joanne Peters and Jason Young, spokespeople for
Sebelius, didn’t immediately reply to e-mails for comment on
Chao.  ‘Tech Surge’  President Obama appointed his incoming chief economic
adviser, entrepeneur Jeffrey Zients, as a management consultant
to the project on Oct. 22, and a  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  unit,
Quality Software Services, was named lead contractor for repairs
to the site that week as part of what the administration calls a
“tech surge.”  CMS officials were asked on a conference call yesterday if
the administration retained confidence in Chao, who is a career
civil service employee, not a political appointee. He was
previously the chief technology officer for CMS until August
2010, according to a  profile  on the agency’s website.  “We have confidence in the team that is in place working
24-7 to make improvements in this week to week,” Julie
Bataille, a spokeswoman for the agency, said on the call.  She didn’t mention Chao.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  