-- Japanese Trust Banks Lent to Gangs Via Credit Units, Asahi Says
-- B y   J i m   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-11-02T03:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/japanese-trust-banks-lent-to-gangs-via-credit-units-asahi-says.html
Trust affiliates of  Japan ’s three
biggest banks lent money to organized crime groups, the Asahi
newspaper reported today as regulators widen a probe into
illicit lending and Parliament plans to question financial
executives.  Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking,
and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust made loans to crime groups through
their consumer credit units, Asahi said, citing unidentified
people. The banks began reviewing their loans earlier this year
on instructions from the Financial Services Agency, according to
the report.  Calls by  Bloomberg News  to the three banks outside office
hours today weren’t immediately answered.  Regulators are intensifying an investigation begun after
revelations that a credit arm of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) 
made 230 loans, mostly for car purchases, to yakuza gangsters.
 Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303)  yesterday became the second institution to
disclose lending to crime syndicates.  Shinsei President Shigeki Toma said its trust unit
conducted more than 10 transactions with so-called antisocial
groups through a consumer credit company. Tokyo-based Shinsei
discovered the loans following an internal probe after Mizuho
was penalized by the FSA, Toma said at a briefing.  Regulators plan to inspect all lending by Mizuho,
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc., the nation’s three largest financial
groups, the FSA said this week.  Japanese lawmakers are scheduled to question Mizuho
officials this month on its loans to crime groups, ramping up
political pressure on executives at the country’s third-biggest
bank by market value. President Yasuhiro Sato is under pressure
to explain how Mizuho 200 million yen ($2 million) in loans made
to members of criminal organizations.  Tokyo-based Mizuho this week submitted plans to improve
internal controls and cut pay for executives including Sato, who
has said he was in a position to know about the transactions
from documents circulated in executive meetings. He said this
week he doesn’t recall seeing the issue highlighted in the
reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim McDonald  in Tokyo at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  