-- Japan and Russia Agree on Navy Cooperation in Bid to Build Trust
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-11-02T06:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/japan-and-russia-agree-on-navy-cooperation-in-bid-to-build-trust.html
Japan ’s and  Russia ’s foreign and
defense ministers today agreed their navies should train
together, in a sign of warmer ties between the neighbors who
have yet to sign a World War II peace treaty.  The ministers agreed Russia’s navy and Japan’s Marine Self-Defense Force should take part in joint anti-piracy and anti-terrorism training, the Japanese government said in a document
released after a meeting in  Tokyo .  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has improved ties with
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  since taking office in
December, with the nations holding four bilateral summit
meetings in the space of six months. In the same period Japan
has had no such meetings with  China  or  South Korea , amid
separate territorial disputes with those countries. Abe’s visit
to Russia in April was the first by a Japanese premier in almost
a decade.  “Cooperating in the field of security is necessary to
raise the overall level of the relationship between Japan and
Russia,” Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida told reporters
after today’s meeting with Russian counterpart  Sergei Lavrov  and
the defense ministers of the two countries, Itsunori Onodera and
Sergei Shoigu.  Kishida said he hoped the gathering would help build trust
and have a positive effect on negotiations toward a peace
treaty.  Island Dispute  Japan’s relationship with Russia has been hampered by their
rival claims to a group of islands north of Hokkaido seized by
the then Soviet Union in the final days of the war. The islands
are known as the Northern Territories in Japan and Southern
Kurils in Russia. Kishida and Lavrov agreed last night to hold a
further round of negotiations toward a peace treaty at
administrative vice minister level in late January or February,
according to an e-mailed statement from Japan’s Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs .  Risks to stability in the Asia-Pacific include potential
conflict over territory, Lavrov told reporters today, adding
that closer cooperation was required to dispel any such risks.  Russia expressed concerns in the meeting about Japan’s
participation in a U.S.-led ballistic missile defense system and
called for further talks on the issue, Shoigu told reporters.  Russia is the third country to hold combined foreign and
defense minister meetings with Japan, following the U.S. and
Australia. Russia holds similar meetings with four other
countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  