-- Johnson Leads Poulter by Three Strokes at HSBC Champions Golf
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-03T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/johnson-leads-poulter-by-three-strokes-at-hsbc-champions-golf.html
Dustin Johnson overcame two double
bogeys to hold a three-shot lead going into today’s final round
of the HSBC Champions in  China .  Johnson shot a 6-under-par 66 yesterday at Sheshan
International Golf Club in  Shanghai  to reach 18 under for the
tournament, which is part of the World Golf Championships.  The American finished his first nine holes with five
straight birdies before a double bogey at No. 10. He then strung
together four consecutive birdies before another double bogey at
the 18th hole after driving into the water  “It was another really good day, I played really well, but
obviously the two doubles hurt a little bit,” Johnson, who tied
the course record of 63 two days ago, told reporters. “To have
a three-shot lead going into the last day is good and I’m
looking forward to the challenge. I still have to play really
well. The guys that are right behind me are playing very well
too.”  Defending champion Ian Poulter of  England  shot 63 to get to
15 under, one stroke better than Northern Ireland’s Graeme McDowell. Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy, U.S. Open champion
Justin Rose of England and Canadian Graham DeLaet are all 12
under.  A day after Johnson matched the course record,  Martin Kaymer  broke it by shooting 62. The German birdied six of his
first seven holes, then added four more birdies after making the
turn and sits at 10 under.  “I didn’t really play much different than the last few
days, I just made a few putts,” Kaymer said on the European
Tour website. “I made it really easy on myself.”  Kaymer is tied for seventh place with Americans Boo Weekley
and Bubba Watson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 