-- Obama and Maliki Meet as Iraq Seeks Additional U.S. Aid
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-11-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/obama-and-maliki-meet-as-iraq-seeks-additional-u-s-aid.html
President  Barack Obama  promised Iraqi
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki U.S. support in fighting al-Qaeda
elements in the country without saying whether he’ll deliver on
any new commitment for more military aid.  Maliki, 63, prime minister since 2006, was in Washington
seeking more weapons as bombings and suicide attacks in Iraq
have killed more than 5,000 people this year, the most since
2009, according to the  United Nations . He’s asking for
additional assistance amid criticism from some U.S. lawmakers
that Iraq’s government is fueling violence by failing to bridge
differences among sectarian groups.  “The United States wants to be a strong and effective
partner with Iraq,” Obama told reporters yesterday after
meeting with Maliki for about two hours at the White House.
Helping Iraq battle extremists and expand democratic practices
“is something we want to work on.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment-banking unit cited the violence
when it cut forecasts for Iraq’s  gross domestic product  growth,
oil output and exports. Barclays reduced its 2013 GDP projection
to 9.1 percent from 10.1 percent for the country, which is the
second-largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said targeted
assistance to Iraq “remains an essential piece of our
engagement” and that the chief source of the violence is al-Qaeda and affiliates “trying to provoke cycles of sectarian
reprisals.”  Military Equipment  “Suggestions that we deny security assistance would only
serve to undermine our relations with Iraq, decrease our
influence and impede progress toward our long-term efforts in
the region,” Carney said.  The U.S. has delivered more than $14 billion in military
equipment and other support to Iraq since 2005, including
aircraft and patrol boats, according to the White House.  Maliki is facing questions in Washington about whether his
Shiite-dominated government is fueling unrest by suppressing
Sunni and Kurdish minorities and provoking sectarian divisions.
Some U.S. lawmakers have suggested withholding military aid if
he doesn’t make changes.  Six U.S. senators wrote Obama this week saying Maliki has
mismanaged Iraqi politics, almost two years after U.S. troops
pulled out of a war that cost more than 4,400 American lives.  Maliki is “pursuing a sectarian and authoritarian agenda”
said the letter signed by Republicans  John McCain  of Arizona,
 James Inhofe  of Oklahoma,  Bob Corker  of Tennessee and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, and Democrats  Carl Levin  of Michigan
and  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey .  Power Sharing  If Maliki fails to share more political power with Sunni
Iraqis, resolve territorial disputes with Kurdish leaders and
ensure free and fair elections next year, “no amount of
security assistance will be able to bring stability and security
to Iraq,” the senators wrote.  Maliki said the U.S. and Iraq need to “enhance” their
relationship. Iraq’s democracy is “fragile,” he said,  and his
government  is committed to holding elections on time.  U.S. officials are also pressing Maliki to toughen
inspection of cargo and crack down on Iranian flights that use
Iraqi airspace to deliver weapons and support to the Syrian
regime of Bashar al-Assad, according to an administration
official who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  The Iraqi leader met one-on-one for two hours Oct. 31 with
Vice President  Joe Biden . Their talk included a discussion about
how the U.S. can help Iraq isolate terrorist networks and making
sure parliamentary elections are held on schedule, according to
a statement from Biden’s office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  