-- Obamacare Birth Control Mandate Ruled Unconstitutional
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-11-02T22:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/obamacare-birth-control-mandate-ruled-unconstitutional.html
A requirement of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law that group insurance plans cover
contraceptives may violate religious freedom, a U.S. appeals
court said, widening a split among the circuits and making it
more probable the U.S. Supreme Court will take up the issue.  A three-judge panel in  Washington  said a lower court was
wrong to deny an injunction sought in a lawsuit by two brothers
who are Catholic. The men sued on religious grounds, seeking to
exclude contraceptive coverage from health plans provided by
their produce-distribution companies. While the panel didn’t
rule on the actual challenge, they disagreed with the trial
judge’s determination that the suit was unlikely to succeed.  “We must determine whether the contraceptive mandate
imposed by the act trammels the right of free exercise -- a
right that lies at the core of our constitutional liberties --
as protected by the Religious Freedom Restoration Act,” wrote
U.S. Circuit Judge Janice Rogers Brown. “We conclude it does.”  At least two other U.S. Courts of Appeal have addressed the
constitutionality of the contraception mandate under the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, with different results, as
more suits over the rule have risen through the federal courts.  In July, the Obama administration defeated a challenge to
the law by Conestoga Wood Specialties Corp., a cabinet maker
owned by Mennonite Christians who argued the requirement
violates their religious beliefs. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Philadelphia in a 2-1 decision sided with the government.  Circuit Split  In June, a federal appeals court in Denver ruled that Hobby
Lobby Stores Inc. would probably prevail with its argument that
the provision violates the rights of the company and its owners
under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act and the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.  In the Washington case, the appeals court said a federal
judge erred in not granting the brothers a reprieve from the
rule while their lawsuit challenging it proceeds.  The health care law requires most people to obtain coverage
starting next year. It also expands the availability of the
federal-state Medicaid program and compels businesses with more
than 50 full-time workers to offer coverage or pay a penalty.  That insurance must include at no extra cost to the
employee all forms of Federal Drug Administration-approved
contraception as prescribed by a health-care provider.  The provision sparked lawsuits from the Roman Catholic
Archdioceses of  New York  and Washington, the  Catholic University 
of America, Notre Dame University and for-profit businesses in
 Michigan ,  Missouri  and elsewhere.  Blurring Rule  In a case before the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago 
earlier this year,  Justice Department  lawyer Alisa Klein told a
three-judge panel that the Religion Freedom Restoration Act
didn’t alter the basic legal principle that corporations are
distinct from their owners in terms of constitutional rights, a
distinction she said corporate challengers of the mandate seek
to blur.  Congress “has long distinguished between religious
organizations and for-profit secular corporations,” the Justice
Department said in a March 1 filing. “No court has ever found a
for-profit company to be a religious organization for the
purposes of federal law.”  The Washington case is Gilardi v. Department of Health and
Human Services, 13-104, U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in  San Francisco 
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  