-- Political Spending Booms as Crist Enters Florida Governor Race
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-11-02T15:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/political-spending-booms-as-crist-enters-florida-governor-race.html
Charlie Crist ,  Florida ’s former
Republican governor, is campaigning to get his old job back --
this time as a Democrat -- and adding his fundraising muscle to
a race poised to be the most expensive in state history.  Crist’s entry into the 2014 campaign opens the spigot of
political spending for election consultants, pollsters and
advertising agencies from both parties. Florida’s current
Republican governor,  Rick Scott , spent $73 million of his own
money in a record-setting bid in 2010.  “It’s going to be a bonanza,” said Jay Goldfarb, who
earned more than $18,000 this year through his Budget Printing
Center in Riviera Beach, producing fundraising invitations for
Scott. “I expect this to continue, very hot and heavy, right
down to the wire.”  Florida, the fourth most-populous in the nation, is a swing
state in presidential elections because it can go to either
party. The larger states of  California ,  Texas  and  New York  vote
more predictably Democratic or Republican.  That makes Florida the biggest tossup on the electoral map
and a barometer of the nation’s political future. Deep-pocketed
donors from across the U.S. plan to pour resources into its
governor’s race, to lay the groundwork for the next presidential
election.  “Florida is a microcosm of the nation, and people look at
Florida because we have the evolving demographics, and we have
the ability to swing the 2016 presidential campaign,” said
Kevin Cate, a Democratic consultant who was the Florida
spokesman for President  Barack Obama ’s 2008 campaign.  Businesses Benefit  Cate, who’s advising Crist, owns a Tallahassee-based firm
that provides media consulting and digital advertising for
candidates. It’s one of hundreds of businesses that stand to
benefit from an expensive governor’s race that will require
direct-mail advertising, hotel stays, private flight services,
flowers, food and more.  Scott, 60, a former health-care executive, listed his net
worth at $218 million in 2010 and $83 million in a financial
disclosure report this year. Crist, 57, a lawyer at Tampa-based
law firm Morgan & Morgan, listed his net worth at about $441,500
just before leaving office in January 2011. He entered the race
Nov. 1 and has yet to file a new disclosure.  Crist told a Florida Democratic Party conference last month
that Scott plans to spend $100 million on his re-election. Crist
has touted his own ties to prodigious fundraisers including
Obama and former president  Bill Clinton .  ‘An Opportunist’  Scott’s team directed questions about the $100 million
spending figure to Lenny Curry, chairman of the  Republican Party 
of Florida. Curry said his party will spend what’s necessary to
make sure voters know of Crist’s changing policy positions and
the economic decline while he was governor from 2007 to 2011,
when the state’s  unemployment rate  more tripled to 10.9 percent
from 3.5 percent.  “We will be reminding the voting public that Charlie Crist
is an opportunist,” he said in a telephone interview. “He has
not demonstrated an ability to lead.”  Scott has said he doesn’t plan to spend his own money in
next year’s race. His re-election committee has raised more than
$18.7 million since 2010.  Between Crist and Scott, spending on the Florida election
may rival California’s 2010 governor’s race, the most expensive
in history, as billionaire Republican  Meg Whitman , former chief
executive officer of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , spent $144 million of her own
money in a bid that ultimately failed.  Leading Poll  With Crist leading Scott 47 percent to 37 percent in a June
poll by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University ,
political strategists say they expect heavy campaign spending.
The  survey  of 1,176 registered voters had a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.9 percentage points.  Scott won his 2010 race by less than 1 percentage point,
beating Democrat Alex Sink.  Bolstering Florida spending this year is a new law that
lifts the cap on political donations to candidates to $3,000
from $500. The measure took effect Nov. 1.  In the 2010 governor’s race, the biggest beneficiary of
political spending was Multi Media Services Inc. The media-buying company in Alexandria,  Virginia , got more than $20
million to help Scott blanket Florida with television ads. Scott
was entering politics for the first time and relied on the ads
to introduce himself to the state’s 19 million people.  Top political donors like the Florida Chamber of Commerce
will spend millions of dollars to help Scott attack his opponent
and highlight the state’s economic rebound, said  Mark Wilson ,
the chamber president. Unemployment in Florida was down to 7.0
percent as of August, lower than the  national rate  of 7.3
percent that month.  ‘A Signal’  “We expect that we’ll invest whatever it takes to make
sure that the voters in Florida are very aware of the choice and
the difference between the candidates,” Wilson said. “This is
not just an election in Florida, this is very much a signal” to
the rest of the country.  Phil Cox, executive director of the  Republican Governors
Association , said his group is prepared to match or beat the $10
million it spent in Florida in 2010.  “It’s an incredibly expensive state with 11 media markets,
so it’s harder for outside groups to have an appreciable
impact,” he said in a telephone interview. “You have to put
real money on the table. And that’s what the RGA plans to do.”  In addition to protecting Scott, Republicans want to make
sure Crist doesn’t win as a Democrat. A lifelong Republican who
fled the party during a 2010 U.S. Senate race, Crist embodies a
narrative that his former party is trying to combat.  Tell-All Book  He is releasing a tell-all book titled, “The Party’s Over:
How the Extreme Right Hijacked the GOP and I Became a
Democrat,” and has blasted Republicans for calcifying around
positions unpopular with most Americans, such as calls to cut
spending on  Social Security  and Medicare.  In a speech endorsing Obama at the Democratic National
Convention last year, Crist said that Republicans are “beholden
to the my-way-or-the-highway bullies, indebted to billionaires
who bankroll their ads and allergic to the very idea of
compromise.”  The state Republican Party, which spent almost $67 million
during the 2010 elections, has already devoted resources to a
flurry of daily ads and e-mails attacking Crist this year. An
anti-Crist e-mail sent to reporters by state Republicans last
month was titled: “Unfit to Govern: Part XVII.”  ‘Deeply Vulnerable’  While Florida’s  Democratic Party  has traditionally trailed
Republicans in fundraising, its eventual nominee will have help
from national groups including the Democratic Governors
Association, said Danny Kanner, a spokesman for the Washington-based group.  “We believe he’s deeply vulnerable,” Kanner said of
Scott. “Because of that, it’s one of our top-targeted races.”  Kanner, who worked on Crist’s failed U.S. Senate campaign
in 2010, said that in addition to being a talented fundraiser,
Crist has “tens of millions of dollars” worth of name
recognition. Smiling images of Crist adorn billboards throughout
the state.  One sign, featuring Crist’s face and his law firm’s logo,
bears a populist slogan that could double as the former
governor’s campaign theme: “It’s about the people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  