-- Treasuries Fall Most in 2 Months as Better Data Back Fed Taper
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-11-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/treasuries-fall-most-in-2-months-as-better-data-back-fed-taper.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell the most
in two months this week as two gauges of U.S. economic activity
expanded at faster-than-forecast paces, weakening the case for
the  Federal Reserve  to maintain stimulus.  Yields on the benchmark security touched the highest levels
in three weeks after Fed policy makers said Oct. 30 the economy
showed signs of “underlying strength” even as they maintained
their monthly asset purchases. Fed Bank of  St. Louis  President
 James Bullard  said yesterday labor-market gains in the past year
may warrant a cut in buying. The first payrolls report to
reflect the government shutdown last month is due Nov. 8.  “The Fed was somewhat more hawkish than investors
anticipated, and some economic data has surprised to the upside,
which has played into the selloff,” said Aaron Kohli, an
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New York , one of
21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The labor market
is still in a rough place and the Fed acknowledged that, and is
remaining cautious, which should keep us in a range.”  The 10-year  yield  rose 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage
point, to 2.62 percent this week in New York, the largest weekly
move since the week ending on Sept. 6, Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices showed. Yield dropped 18 basis points in the preceding
two weeks. The 2.5 percent note due August 2023 fell 31/32, or
$9.68 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 30/32.  Buying Bonds  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said Oct. 30 it will keep
buying $85 billion of bonds each month as it awaits “more
evidence that progress will be sustained before adjusting the
pace of its purchases.”  Policy makers said they will continue to divide their
monthly  purchases  between $40 billion of mortgage bonds and $45
billion in  Treasury securities  as they kept the  target rate  at
zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008.  Treasuries added to losses Oct. 31 as the the MNI Chicago
Report  business barometer  rose to 65.9 in October from 55.7 a
month earlier, the fastest pace since March 2011. Readings above
50 signal expansion. The median projection in a Bloomberg survey
of economists was 55.  U.S. government debt extended declines yesterday after the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to 56.4 in
October, the highest since April 2011, from 56.2 a month
earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists was 55.  ‘Tapering Fear’  Data “was a little on the strong side, so it puts the
tapering fear back into the market and we start to get higher
yields,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income portfolio manager
at Cabot Money Management in Salem,  Massachusetts , in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It’s become a Fed-centric
environment.”  Bullard, who voted for the FOMC decision to press on with
bond buying, said yesterday in St. Louis that “clear
improvement” in the  unemployment rate  and in nonfarm payrolls
data “provides the most powerful part of the case for
tapering.”  The  unemployment rate  dropped to 7.2 percent in September
from 7.8 percent in September 2012, while nonfarm payroll
increases have averaged 185,420 a month after over the past year
after an average of 130,000 in the preceding six months.  ‘Mixed Messages’  Payroll gains will shrink to 125,000 in October, according
to the median forecast of 67 economists in a Bloomberg survey,
as federal workers furloughed during the 16-day partial
government shutdown will be counted as unemployed. That follows
a 148,000-jobs increase the previous month that was less than
forecast. The jobless rate is predicted to rise to 7.3 percent,
according to another survey.  “We’ve seen yields continue to grind higher after the
sharp rally following the weak employment report -- that has
been reflective of economic data that continues to send mixed
messages,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’ve had sluggish
employment growth versus continued expansion in other sectors of
the economy, and that is throwing investors around.”  A Bloomberg survey of analysts taken on Oct. 17-18 forecast
a tapering of the purchases in March, later than previous polls
indicated before the shutdown. The FOMC  next meets  Dec. 17-18.  The economy will probably expand at a 2 percent annualized
rate in the final three months of the year, less than economists
projected at the start of the budget impasse that resulted in
the shutdown.  The median projection of 71 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg yesterday compares with a 2.4 percent forecast in an
Oct. 4-9 survey. Gross domestic product, the sum of all goods
and services produced in the nation, will accelerate to a 2.6
percent growth rate in the first three months of 2014, unchanged
from the previous survey, economists said.  Dealer Reductions  Primary dealers reduced their holdings of Treasuries by the
most in 14 months for the five-day period ended Oct. 23,
according to Bloomberg data. The dealers cut their holdings by
$37.7 billion or 25.8 percent to $108.3 billion, the biggest
reduction since the period ended Aug. 1, 2012.  The average weekly volume for primary-dealer trading of
 U.S. government debt  in October dropped to $531.87 billion from
$576.6 billion the previous month, according to Fed data. It
touched a 2013 high of $668.3 billion in June and a low of $481
billion in August.  Auction Demand  Still, the Treasury’s auctions of two-, five- and seven-year notes this week saw the highest demand in six months as the
Fed maintained its bond-buying program.  Investors bid $2.88 for every dollar of the $96 billion in
debt sold, the highest since similar sales of the maturities in
April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bid-to-cover
ratio was 2.85 for all sales of U.S. coupon securities in
October, the highest since May.  “The theme is that the Fed remains a buyer in the market,
with the concerns about the economy growing, Treasuries
benefit,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income
strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “As long as there
are questions about economic growth and fiscal leadership, you
will have the Fed engaged for longer than many had anticipated,
which has led to the decline in yields.”  The Treasury is scheduled on Nov. 4 to announce marketable
borrowing estimates for next quarter and is expected to release
details for its sale of floating-rate notes as it looks to
expand its base of investors. On Nov. 6, it will announce the
amount it will sell in three-, 10- and 30-year debt on three
consecutive days starting Nov. 12.  The recent cuts in front-end coupon sizes have “run their
course and auction sizes would be unchanged going forward,”
according to a report from strategists Shyam Rajan and Marcus Huie in New York at primary dealer Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. The firm estimates the government will issue $12 billion
in floating-rate notes in January, with two monthly reopenings
of $8 billion to $10 billion.  The floating-rate notes would be the first U.S. government-debt security added since Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities were introduced in 1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  