-- Two French Radio Reporters Killed in Mali After Kidnappings
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   T a n y a   B i n d r a
-- 2013-11-03T13:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-02/two-french-radio-journalists-killed-in-mali-after-kidnappings.html
Two journalists working for Radio
France Internationale were found dead yesterday in northern
 Mali , marking the first killings of reporters in the African
country in at least two decades.  Claude Verlon and Ghislaine Dupont, both working at RFI,
were kidnapped yesterday in Kidal, 1,500 kilometers (932 miles)
northeast of Bamako, by an unidentified “armed group,” the
Foreign Ministry said in a  statement . The journalists were shot
and their bodies found a few meters from a locked car, Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius said in Paris today.  Dupont, 51, had worked as a reporter specializing in
African news since joining RFI in 1986, the radio station said
in a statement. Verlon, 58, was a 31-year veteran radio
technician specializing in external operations, it said.  Violence in northern Mali surged in September after ethnic
Touareg rebels, known as the National Movement for the
Liberation of Azawad, backed out of a peace agreement with the
government. French President  Francois Hollande  sent troops in
January to prevent militant groups, including some Islamist
insurgents, from taking control of the country, Africa’s third-largest gold producer.  No Respite  France and Mali are determined to “continue and win this
common fight against terrorism,” Hollande’s office said in a
statement late yesterday. Hollande and Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who spoke by phone yesterday after the murders,
want to keep fighting terrorist groups in northern Mali
“without respite,” Hollande’s statement said.  “It is not possible at this moment to confirm who the
killers were or whom they may have been allied with,” Kidal’s
governor, Adama Kamissoko, said today by phone. Four armed,
turbaned men took the two journalists hostage yesterday and
murdered them, he said.  Dupont and Verlon were forced onto a beige Toyota pickup
truck in Kidal, RFI said in a report on its  website  yesterday.
Dupont and Verlon were abducted in front of the Kidal residence
of an NMLA official they had just interviewed, RFI said.  The journalists were killed about 15 kilometers east of
Kidal on the route toward Tinessako, RFI reported. The two had
previously been in Kidal in July to cover the first round of the
Malian presidential elections, the radio station said.  Increased Security  Hollande, who said in a statement yesterday he felt
“indignation for this hateful act,” held a meeting today with
officials including Fabius and Justice Minister Christiane
Taubira to discuss the killings.  The securing of Kidal and neighboring areas “will be
increased,” Fabius said after today’s meeting with Hollande.
 France  is working with Malian authorities to shed light “as
rapidly as possible” on the circumstances of the reporters’
death, the foreign ministry said yesterday.  The Ouagadougou accords, signed in June, allowed for the
return before August national elections of about 200 Malian
soldiers to Kidal, a city of about 12,000. NMLA rebels, who came
back to Kidal following the French intervention in January,
currently occupy Kidal’s government buildings and have yet to
disarm.  Former Prime Minister Boubacar was elected Mali’s president
Aug. 11, more than a year after the military led a coup in March
2012 amid lack of support from the government to fight rebel
groups. France will keep about 3,000 soldiers in Mali to support
forces from African countries under a United Nations mandate,
Hollande said last month.  Before yesterday, 60 reporters and 2 media workers had been
killed around the world this year, according to the Committee to
Protect Journalists. Dupont and Verlon are the first journalists
killed in Mali since New York-based CPJ started tracking deaths
in 1992, Mohamed Keita, a CPJ official for  Africa , said by e-mail today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Bindra in Bamako at 
 tbindra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  