-- 2013 Looks a Lot Like 1937 in Four Fearsome Ways
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-11-18T23:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/2013-looks-a-lot-like-1937-in-four-fearsome-ways.html
Will 2013 be 1937? This is the
question many analysts are posing as the stock market has
dropped after the U.S. election. On Nov. 16, they noted that
industrial production, a crucial figure, dropped as well.  In this case, “1937” means a market drop similar to the one
after the re-election of another Democratic president,  Franklin D. Roosevelt , in 1936.  The drop wasn’t immediate in that case; it came in the first
full year after the election. Industrial production  plummeted  by
34.5 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped by half,
from almost 200 in early 1937 to less than 100 at the end of
March 1938.  It’s hard to imagine stock indexes dropping by half today,
or unemployment rising past 15 percent, as they did in the
“depression within the Depression.” But the parallels are
visible enough to be worth tracing. They have to do with the
 danger  of big government, and can be captured in a few
categories.  -- Pre-election spree that sets records. In the old days,
federal spending amounted to about 19 percent or 19.5 percent of
gross domestic product. That ratio was so reliable that
economists took it as a given, the American normal, from which
divergence was unnatural and temporary. By the old 19 percent
rule, federal spending would have dropped back once the worst of
the 2008 economic crisis passed.  That didn’t happen. Instead the federal government
continued to spend. Most important, even in 2012, when the
crisis was long past, the government went on a spree,  spending 
the equivalent of 24.3 percent of the economy, more than the
24.1 percent for the year earlier.  In 1936,  a similar barrier was breached. Up until 1936,
federal spending flowed at smaller levels than the spending by
states and towns combined, with wartime being the exception.
Roosevelt slowly ratcheted up the outlays, and in 1936,
 Washington  spent more than the states and towns. This shift was
dizzying for a country based on the principle of federalism, of
strong states.  -- Bath of cold water afterward. After this year’s
election, President  Barack Obama  made it clear that budgeting
was his  priority : “I’m ready and willing to make big commitments
to make sure that we’re locking in the kind of deficit
reductions that stabilize our deficit, start bringing it down,
start bringing down our debt. I’m confident we can do it.”  Roosevelt too opened his second term on a sober budget-
cutting note. The president, wrote journalist  Anne O’Hare
McCormick  in 1937, was  like  “the Dutch householder who carefully
totes up his accounts every month and who is really annoyed now
that he is bent on balancing the budget, that Congress can’t
stop spending.”  -- Fearsome attack on the status quo. In his  first news
conference  on Nov. 14, Obama went out of his way to make clear
his tax increases would fall on the rich: “What I’m concerned
about is not finding ourselves in a situation where the wealthy
aren’t paying more or aren’t paying as much as they should.”  Roosevelt was also ferocious,  telling  the old guard: “I
should like to have it said of my first administration that in
it the forces of selfishness and of lust for power met their
match. I should like to have it said of my second administration
that in it these forces met their master.”  When Roosevelt followed through in 1937, both with high
taxes and his effort to pack the  Supreme Court  with more
progressives, markets shivered.  -- Fallout from first-term legislation. Obama signed his
health-care act in 2010, postponing much of its enforcement
until 2013, after the election. Now that the effects of the act
are so proximate, markets are wondering whether they or
investors can handle the changes demanded. Roosevelt’s
equivalents were threefold: Social Security, the  Wagner Act  and
a new Federal Reserve law, the Banking Act of 1935, all passed
well before the election. The last law gave the Fed a new tool,
the easy ability to order changes in  reserve requirements  for
banks.  In all three cases, the full effects of the laws weren’t
felt until after the election. It was only in 1937 that
Americans had to pay into  Social Security , diverting cash from
the economy. And it was only in 1937 that  John L. Lewis , the
labor leader, pushed his hardest for wage increases and strikes,
forcing companies to pay higher wages than they could afford. In
1936 and 1937, the Fed increased reserve requirements,
effectively doubling them. The consequence of these laws was
reduced available cash, increased uncertainty and lower business
confidence.  The obvious question is why an announcement by Obama or
Roosevelt to cut back just after the election doesn’t reassure
those who dislike  government expansion .  Wary Markets  The answer is that the markets, which observe a giant march
forward and then a step backward, don’t believe the step back is
permanent. Giants are giants. Expansionists tend to revert to
expanding government, as FDR did, most drastically, in World War
II. The mandate matters more than the austerity chatter.  Benjamin Anderson, the chief economist at Chase National
Bank in the 1930s, tried to capture the problem of the big-
government president by titling one of his books “When
Government Plays God.” His advisers warned him to suppress the
title, arguing it might offend. Anderson shifted to the more
banal:  “Economics and the Public Welfare.”  But Anderson’s phrase
still reverberates: A government that “plays God,” or at least
“plays powerhouse,” can spook markets and employers, whatever
the decade.  ( Amity Shlaes , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author of
the forthcoming “Coolidge” and the director of the Four Percent
Growth Project at the Bush Institute. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Obama in Southeast Asia  and
on  what to do with the Federal Housing Administration ; William
D. Cohan on  prosecuting the small fish of Wall Street ;  Albert
Hunt  on  how immigration reform affected the election ;  Pankaj
Mishra  on  the future of the Persian Gulf’s autocracies ;  Geoffrey
Robertson  on how  the law can’t stop Iran’s nuclear program .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 