-- ‘Twilight’ Finale Sales $141.3 Million, 2nd Best for Seri
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-19T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/last-twilight-has-141-3-million-in-sales-2nd-best-for-series.html
“The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn -
Part 2,” the final film in the teen vampire series, opened in
first place in U.S. and Canadian theaters this weekend,
collecting $141.3 million for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   The total, reported in an e-mail yesterday from researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office , made it the second-best debut for the
five films based on the novels by Stephenie Meyer. Overall, it’s
the eighth-biggest weekend opening ever.  “Breaking Dawn - Part 2” concludes a series that
generated $2.5 billion in worldwide ticket sales from the first
four films. The success of the franchise has contributed to a
rush among Hollywood studios to acquire rights to young-adult
fiction with similar multifilm potential.  “They’ve been very successful at keeping it a relevant
part of pop culture and because of that people are coming out
even though they know what happens in the book,” said Gitesh Pandya, editor of BoxOfficeGuru.com in New York, in a telephone
interview. “They want to see the big-screen adaptation of
that.”  “The Twilight Saga: New Moon,” which premiered two years
ago, had the highest opening gross for the series with $142.8
million in its debut.  In the latest picture, Kristen Stewart reprises the role of
Bella Cullen, now a vampire, who uses her new powers to defend
her family against a threat of extermination by the Volturi, the
undead world’s ruling coven.  Gold Rush  The Cullens get unexpected help from smaller vampire clans
and a neighboring pack of werewolves. The final scenes of the
film, directed by  Bill Condon , offers a surprise twist not found
in Meyer’s book. The film’s other key stars, including Robert Pattinson and Taylor Lautner, also return for the finale.  The “Twilight” series and “The Hunger Games,” also from
Lions Gate, have sparked a gold rush of sorts among studios that
see an opportunity to hook young-adult audiences with themes
that magnify the real-life concerns of teens today, according to
Thomas Morrissey, an English professor at State University of
New York at Plattsburgh.  The last three “Twilight” films have produced about $700
million in worldwide ticket sales each, according to researcher
Box Office Mojo, suggesting the franchise will reach $3.2
billion when the last pictures closes its run.  13th Amendment  “Lincoln,” Steven Spielberg’s examination of the 16th
U.S. president’s political campaign to end slavery, was third
with $21 million in its first weekend in nationwide release.  Daniel Day-Lewis portrays the president as he maneuvers to
win congressional approval of the 13th Amendment abolishing
slavery. Unlike most Spielberg films, “Lincoln” has little
action, focusing instead on negotiations and debates held inside
the White House and the Capitol.  The film is considered a probable nominee for Academy
Awards, including best picture, best actor for Day-Lewis, and
best director for Spielberg.  “Lincoln” was produced by the director’s DreamWorks
Studios and is being distributed by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Day-Lewis
leads in the acting category with odds of nine-to-five that he
will win the Oscar, according to GoldDerby.com, a website that
aggregates predictions by journalists. He’s followed Joaquin Phoenix, with four-to-one odds for his role in “The Master.”  Shaken, Stirred  “Skyfall,” the latest James Bond film and the third
starring Daniel Craig, fell to second from first with sales of
$41.5 million for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. and  Sony Corp. (6758)   The movie became this weekend the highest-grossing Bond
film, with $669.2 million in worldwide sales. “Skyfall” may
top $1 billion once the film opens in Asia, Pandya said.  “The movie has made all this money without a dime from
Japan or  China ,” Pandya said. “So those are two huge markets
that are still to come. It has a chance at being a billion-
dollar Bond.”  In this installment, Agent 007 is presumed dead after being
shot accidentally by an MI6 colleague. After a surprise return,
he battles a new villain, played by Javier Bardem, who has
kidnapped agency chief M, portrayed by Judi Dench, and has
stolen a list of Western intelligence agents.  Bond is the fifth-biggest movie franchise of all time. The
previous films averaged $204.7 million in U.S. and Canadian
ticket sales when adjusted for inflation, according to Box
Office Mojo. The series, based on the secret agent created by
British novelist Ian Fleming, started in 1963 with “Dr. No,”
starring Sean Connery. Roger Moore and Pierce Brosnan have also
played the role.  ‘Wreck-It Ralph’  The Bond franchise has “never been stronger,” and “is
well positioned for probably another decade-worth of success,”
Pandya said.  Disney’s animated “Wreck-It Ralph” fell to fourth place
from second with $18.3 million. It stars John C. Reilly as the
voice of a video game character who grows weary of playing the
villain in a vintage arcade game.  “Flight,” featuring Denzel  Washington  as a pilot who
averts a major airline disaster, was fifth with $8.6 million in
sales for  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 13 percent to
$242.1 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 5 percent to $9.40
billion, with attendance up 5 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Nov. 16 and 17, and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  