-- Billabong Director Explores Buyout After TPG Withdrawal
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-11-19T06:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/billabong-director-naude-steps-down-to-pursue-leveraged-buyout.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
Australia’s largest surfwear maker, said the head of its  biggest 
unit is examining a potential buyout of the company, five weeks
after TPG International LLC scrapped a bid.  Paul Naude, who has been president of the Americas  since
1998 , will stand aside for six weeks to seek talks with
financiers and gain support for a bid proposal, the company said
in a regulatory statement today. Billabong shares  surged  the
most in four months on the announcement, which didn’t detail any
potential price.  TPG withdrew a A$694 million ($719 million) offer last
month and ended talks after examining the company’s financial
data. Billabong has lost more than 90 percent of its market
value since a peak in May 2007 after selling new stock at a
discount to repay debt, closing stores, firing workers and
posting a record loss amid a consumer slump.  “Paul’s generally viewed quite favorably by the market,
which makes this an interesting trade,” Nick Berry, a retail
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by telephone from Sydney.
“If either a bid isn’t forthcoming or it gets knocked back it’s
going to be very difficult for him to go back.”  Billabong  shares  rose 10 percent, the biggest gain since
July 24, to close at 81.5 Australian cents in Sydney.  TPG scrapped its A$1.45 a share proposal last month. The
buyout firm led by  David Bonderman  in February said it was
prepared to offer as much as A$3.30 a share, which was rejected
before the company sold new stock and posted its first annual
loss.  ‘Acting Independently’  Naude, who  owns  about 0.2 percent of Billabong according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, was not solicited by the board, the
company said in the filing. There is no guarantee a formal
proposal will be made, the  Gold Coast , Australia-based company
said.  “He is acting independently,” Billabong said.  TPG, and a second buyout firm Billabong didn’t identify,
walked away from making formal bids after examining the surfwear
maker’s financial data. The second party was Bain Capital LLC,
people familiar with the matter said Sept. 6.  Billabong said conditions for Naude’s plan include a bar on
talks with parties to the previous takeover discussions and no
contact with directors other than the chairman or chief
executive officer.  While Billabong has been hurt by a consumer slowdown,
 Australia ’s retail sector has shown improvement over the past
six months as stimulus payments and cuts to  interest rates  boost
household spending.  A measure of  consumer sentiment  recorded its first positive
reading in nine months last week and Myer Holdings Ltd., the
country’s largest department-store company by sales, rose by a
record after reporting its first increase in quarterly revenue
since investors led by TPG sold it back onto the market in 2009.  The  Americas division  headed by Naude accounted for about
47 percent of sales during the year through June and made up 225
of the Billabong’s 635 stores, according to a company
presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  