-- Cable Says He Understands Public Anger Over U.K. Tax Avoidance
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-11-18T12:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/cable-says-he-understands-public-anger-over-u-k-tax-avoidance.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable said
he understood public anger over large companies that avoid
paying tax in the U.K. and urged a further crackdown by the
revenue authorities.  “It’s completely unacceptable where there’s systematic
abuse taking place,” he said in an interview with  BBC
Television ’s “Andrew Marr Show” today. “You would need some
pretty intensive investigation by the Inland Revenue to find
what’s going on. You’ve got to have a combination of action at
an international level, which the chancellor is pursuing with
other governments that are just as angry as we are.”  At a U.K. parliamentary hearing last week, executives from
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  came under
attack from lawmakers who accused the U.S. companies of using
complex accounting methods to reduce their tax liabilities in
the U.K.  Starbucks has paid no  corporation tax  in the U.K. over the
past three years and recorded losses for most of the 15 years it
has been operating in the country. Starbucks Chief Financial
Officer Troy Alstead angered lawmakers by refusing to publicly
disclose details of a low-tax rate granted by the Netherlands on
royalty payments from its U.K. business.  The hearing reflects public anger with large corporations
that are minimizing tax bills at a time when the U.K. is driving
through the biggest budget cuts since World War II to narrow the
fiscal deficit. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has
said he wants clearer international rules to help reduce tax
avoidance.  ‘Galling’  “It’s certainly difficult, because we need inward
investment, but while they’re here if they make a profit they
should pay tax,” Cable said today. “Our own tax authorities
have got to be very tough on things like royalty payments.” He
said there was “nothing more galling” for small and medium-
sized companies paying the tax they owe than to see large
corporation “dodging it.”  Separately, Cable said he expected a dispute between his
Liberal Democrat party and its Conservative coalition partner
over taxing the wealthy to be resolved by the time of the
government’s economic statement on Dec. 5.  Osborne has rejected Liberal Democrat demands for a so-
called mansion tax on the most expensive homes. Asked today
whether this left open the possibility of creating a new top
local-authority tax band or increasing stamp duty on large
properties, Cable said they were “all under discussion.”  “The principle is right that at the top of society, the
best off have got to pay more,” he said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  