-- China, Asean Downplay Sea Disputes as Economic Concerns Grow
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-19T04:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/china-asean-downplay-sea-disputes-as-economic-concerns-grow.html
Southeast Asian leaders sought to
ease tensions with China over maritime disputes before a
regional summit tomorrow involving U.S. President  Barack Obama 
as concerns persist over weaker demand in the global economy.  The  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  will confine
discussions on a set of rules for operating in the South China
Sea to the bloc’s meetings with China, according to Kao Kim
Hourn, a Cambodian foreign ministry official. The decision comes
as China and  Japan  spar over islands further to the north,
risking damage to trade ties between Asia’s biggest economies.  “Asean leaders decided that they would not
internationalize the South China Sea from now on, that they will
focus this entirely within the current existing Asean-China
mechanisms,” Kao Kim Hourn said in Phnom Penh,  Cambodia 
yesterday. “They do not want to complicate the matter.”  The bloc is moving to improve ties with its biggest trade
partner as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and concerns over the
U.S. fiscal cliff threaten to reduce demand for the region’s
electronics, garments and automobiles. China urged Southeast
Asian nations to make the global economy the “key concern” at
the East Asia Summit tomorrow, foreign ministry spokesmanQin Gang told reporters in Phnom Penh.  “This is not the key issue and this should not be a
stumbling block between China-Asean relations,” he said,
referring to the  South China Sea  disputes, in a briefing after
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  met with counterparts from Indonesia
and Malaysia. “We should not make it an obstacle for the
success” of the summit.  ‘Premier’ Arena  Obama arrives in Phnom Penh later today to join the Asean-
organized meetings, which also include leaders from Japan,  South
Korea ,  India , Russia,  Australia  and New Zealand. Obama last year
called the East Asia Summit the “premier” arena to discuss
maritime security concerns, a subject China has lobbied to keep
out of international gatherings because it touches on
territorial disputes.  Cambodia’s statement is unlikely to prevent  Vietnam  and the
 Philippines , which reject China’s claims, from raising the issue
at other international forums, said Li Mingjiang, an associate
professor at the Singapore-based S. Rajaratnam School of
International Studies. Cambodia, which holds Asean’s rotating
chairmanship, hung banners outside the meeting venue welcoming
Wen and hailing Cambodia- China  relations.  “Other Asean countries may not follow what Cambodia
prefers,” Li said. “At the same time, it’s very likely that
external powers, other countries like the U.S., Japan, India,
Australia, will discuss the South China Sea issue at the East
Asia Summit. This is something that Cambodia just cannot prevent
from taking place.”  China’s Resistance  China has resisted talks with Asean on a legally binding
code of conduct in the South China Sea, where it has deployed
maritime surveillance ships to assert its territorial claims.
The Philippines and Vietnam, which have awarded exploration
contracts to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and  Forum
Energy Plc (FEP) , reject China’s map of the sea as a basis for joint
development of oil and gas.  Asean foreign ministers had failed to reach consensus on
handling the South China Sea disputes at a July meeting, marking
the first time in its history that it failed to release a
communique. The Philippines led criticism of China at the time,
with Foreign Secretary Albert del Rosario denouncing “pressure,
duplicity, intimidation” from Beijing’s leaders and warning
that tensions “could further escalate into physical hostilities
that no one wants.”  Downplaying Tensions  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  sought to downplay
tensions yesterday while repeating a call for the disputes to be
solved using international law. At a summit of Asian and
European leaders earlier this month in  Laos , Aquino urged non-
claimants to become involved in South China Sea disputes,
calling it “a priority issue not only for the Philippines and
the region, but also for the wider international community.”  “We now count our community among the few bright spots in
a world beset with uncertainty,” Aquino told fellow Asean
leaders yesterday. “Among our challenges, then, is how to
sustain, and perhaps even accelerate, the gains we have made.
More than at any other time in the history of our organization,
unity has become the bedrock of our shared progress.”  Asean leaders are set to start talks tomorrow on a regional
trade agreement with China, Japan, India, South Korea, Australia
and  New Zealand , an area with more than 3 billion people
representing a quarter of the world economy. China has been
Asean’s largest trading partner since 2009.  Asean wants to prevent the territorial disputes from
thwarting progress on the trade talks, Secretary-General Surin Pitsuwan told Bloomberg Television today.  ‘Move Forward’  “We are trying our best to separate the two,” he said.
“All leaders are aware of the fact that we need to move forward
economically and any differences that we have will be managed
effectively among us and between us here in the region.”  The bloc exported about $146 billion of goods to China last
year, a 29 percent increase from 2010, while imports from China
grew 13 percent to about $135 billion in the same period. A
China-Asean trade agreement that took force in 2010 “has been
working wonderfully,” Surin said yesterday.  Asean leaders “expressed concern about the situation in
the  euro zone , the situation in the Middle East now and the
possible fiscal cliff that the U.S. is talking about could have
further negative, dampening impact,” he said.  Southeast Asia  is growing more reliant on trade with China,
which is a gateway for shipments to advanced economies,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The euro-area economy succumbed to a recession for
the second time in four years, as governments imposed tougher
budget cuts and leaders struggled to contain the debt turmoil.  U.S. Efforts  The U.S. has also sought to build trade ties with Southeast
Asian countries through the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  Thailand 
will consider becoming the 12th country to join, Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra told reporters in Bangkok during an
appearance with Obama, who arrived yesterday.  “We believe we can do even more,” Obama said. “To
explore new ways that our companies and entrepreneurs can do
business together, all of this will advance our visions of a
region that is free and fair.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  