-- Formula 1 Season Goes to Brazil Decider as Hamilton Wins in U.S.
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-19T05:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/mclaren-s-hamilton-wins-formula-one-race-in-texas-vettel-is-2nd.html
The Formula One world championship
will be decided at the season-ending race in Brazil after  Lewis Hamilton  won the U.S. Grand Prix ahead of series leader
Sebastian Vettel and  Fernando Alonso .  Hamilton of McLaren passed  Red Bull ’s Vettel with 14 laps
remaining yesterday at the new $450 million  Circuit of the
Americas  track in Austin, Texas, as the world’s most popular
motor sport returned to the U.S. for the first time since 2007.
Alonso finished third to keep alive his title chances.  Vettel increased his lead atop the standings going into the
Nov. 25 finale in  Sao Paulo . The German driver has 273 points,
13 more than Alonso of Ferrari, as he seeks a third straight
world title.  “We’ve been very quick in Brazil the last couple of years,
so there’s plenty to look forward to,” Vettel, 25, said in a
news conference. “On top of that, we increased our lead in the
championship, so we are in the best possible position.”  Twenty-five points are awarded for a race victory. Should
Alonso win in Brazil, the Spaniard would need Vettel to finish
below fourth place to take his third drivers’ title.  “We go to Brazil with the possibility to fight for the
world championship,” said Alonso, who started yesterday’s race
from seventh position on the grid. “It is something we have
been fighting for during the whole year. Only Sebastian is in a
better position than us.”  Vettel’s second-place finish secured Red Bull the
constructors’ championship for the third season in a row. The
 Milton Keynes , England-based team is bankrolled by Austrian
energy drink maker Red Bull GmbH, which bought it from  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s Jaguar Racing in 2004.  Maximum Revs  Vettel, who secured four straight victories during the
circuit’s second Asian swing in September and October, started
from the pole position and led until being overtaken by Hamilton
on the 42nd lap of the 56-lap race.  “When Seb was delayed by a backmarker, I knew I had to
grab my chance,” Hamilton, 27, said. “I turned the engine up
to maximum revs and pushed like crazy. I was very lucky. It was
very close.”  Hamilton, the 2008 world champion from Britain, also was
the winner when F-1 last visited the U.S. five years ago.  The sport has failed to gain traction previously in the
country. Since the 1970s, it held races in  Long Beach ,
California, as well as  Las Vegas ,  Detroit , Dallas, Phoenix and,
most recently, Indianapolis.  Hamilton, who joined  Ayrton Senna  as the only drivers to
win the U.S. Grand Prix in two different locations, was among
those to praise the Circuit of the Americas track.  “There are a couple of Grands Prix that are somehow out on
their own: there’s Monaco, Silverstone, Montreal, Spa and
Monza,” Hamilton said. “Now you can add this circuit to that
list. It’s already one of the best racetracks in the world,
maybe even right up there in the top three.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  