-- Congress Seeks Answers to Differing Accounts of Benghazi
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-11-18T18:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/congress-seeks-answers-to-differing-accounts-of-benghazi.html
U.S. lawmakers are pressing
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to explain why its
initial accounts of the attack on the American mission in
Benghazi,  Libya , omitted references to terrorist involvement.  “The intelligence community had this right, and they put
together talking points, and somewhere after it left the
intelligence community, somewhere in the administration, there
was very vital language taken out,” said Representative  Peter King , a Republican who sits on the House Intelligence Committee,
which was briefed last week by former CIA director David Petraeus. King spoke on ABC’s “This Week” program.  The early accounts of the Libyan attack are fueling
criticism by some Republican lawmakers, who say the Democratic
administration may have been trying to play down the role of
terrorists during the president’s re-election campaign. Former
Central Intelligence Agency Director Petraeus testified in
separate closed-door sessions of the Senate and House
intelligence committees last week that the unclassified talking
points were revised to use the word “extremists” and didn’t
mention al-Qaeda.  U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a Democrat who heads the
Senate Intelligence Committee, said there’s no evidence the
White House sought to cover up the terrorist network’s role in
the attacks. She said lawmakers are still seeking answers about
how the initial accounts of the attack were approved.  Allegations False  “The allegation that the White House changed those talking
points -- that is false,” Feinstein said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” program. “This whole process is going to be checked
out. We’re going to find out who made changes to the original
statement. Until we do, I really think it’s unwarranted to make
accusations.”  Senator  Carl Levin , the Democratic Chairman of the Senate
Armed Services Committee, said the CIA’s Petraeus and Director
of National Intelligence James Clapper both approved the
assessment that U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice 
used in initially describing the attack.  “Susan Rice was using the unclassified talking points,
which were provided by the intelligence community,” Levin said
today on ABC. “They were a consensus report.”  Intelligence officials, speaking on condition of anonymity,
told  Bloomberg News  that the Obama administration dropped
references to possible al-Qaeda connections from the initial
remarks to protect intelligence sources, not because of
political motives.  Narrative Wrong  Representative Mike Rogers, the Republican chairman of the
House Intelligence Committee, said he’s also seeking information
about how the administration’s description came to differ from
classified accounts.  “The narrative was wrong and the intelligence was right,”
he said. “Now, getting between there and there I think you have
to be careful about making those accusations.”  Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican and a member of
the Senate Intelligence Committee, said he thinks the Obama
administration didn’t immediately disclose what it knew about
the Benghazi attacks because it undercut a campaign narrative
that al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups were on the run.  “I think until you hear a better explanation that’s the
only conclusion you could reach,” Blunt said today on CNN’s
“ State of the Union .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  