-- Hedge Funds Cut Bets in Longest Retreat Since 2008: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-11-19T23:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/hedge-funds-cut-bets-in-longest-retreat-since-2008-commodities.html
Hedge funds cut bullish commodity
bets for a sixth straight week, the longest slump since the
depths of the global recession four years ago, on mounting
concern that economies are slowing.  Money managers lowered combined net-long  positions  across
18 U.S. futures and options by 17 percent to 772,512 contracts
in the week ended Nov. 13, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. Holdings have tumbled 38 percent since Oct. 2 in the
longest retreat since August 2008. Investors turned bearish on
copper for the first time since August.  Commodities are little changed this year as weaker growth
and more supply will mean surpluses in sugar, aluminum and zinc,
according to Morgan Stanley. U.S. industrial production
unexpectedly declined in October, while applications for jobless
benefits rose to the highest since April 2011, separate reports
showed last week. The 17-nation euro-area’s economy tumbled back
into recession last quarter for the second time in four years,
official figures showed Nov. 15.  “I am not bullish on commodities,” said Martin Murenbeeld, the chief economist at Toronto-based DundeeWealth
Inc., which manages about C$100 billion ($97 billion) of assets.
“I don’t think we are going to see improvement in the world
economy for some time as there are too many problems.”  2012 Returns  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of commodities has
gained 0.9 percent this year as the MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities advanced 8 percent and the dollar rose 1 percent
against a basket of six major currencies. Treasuries returned
2.8 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Production at U.S. factories, mines and utilities dropped
0.4 percent last month, Federal Reserve data showed Nov. 16.
Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Gross domestic product  in the
euro bloc slipped 0.1 percent in the third quarter after a 0.2
percent decline in the previous three months, the European
Union’s statistics office said.  U.S. oil output rose for a 10th week to 6.71 million
 barrels  a day, the most since May 1994, the Energy Department
reported Nov. 15. Copper inventories monitored by exchanges in
New York,  London  and  Shanghai  have climbed for three weeks to
the highest since May. Supplies will exceed demand in cotton,
nickel and lead this year, Morgan Stanley said in a Nov. 12
report. Barclays Plc expects the glut in aluminum to expand 29
percent next year.  $681 Million  Money managers added a net $681 million to commodity funds
in the week ended Nov. 14, with gold and precious metals
accounting for $732 million, according to  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows.  Exports from China rose 11.6 percent in October from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in five months, the Beijing-based
customs administration said Nov. 10. The nation is the world’s
biggest consumer of cotton, soybeans and pork. The U.S. is the
largest crude oil and corn user, and  Europe  accounts for about
18 percent of global copper demand, Barclays estimates.  China will probably increase its spending on infrastructure
and the country’s economy is showing signs of stabilization,
including in the housing market, Andrew Harding, the chief
executive officer of London-based Rio Tinto Group’s copper unit,
said in New York on Nov. 14.  China Policies  “Demand for commodities will depend a lot on what policies
 China  adopts and the growth in the economy,” said Peter Jankovskis, who helps oversee $3 billion of assets as co-chief
investment officer at Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook Investments
LLC. “We could see some pro-growth policies.”  The S&P GSCI rallied 11 percent in the third quarter as the
Fed announced open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month and policy makers at the European Central Bank
agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program. China approved a
$158 billion subways-to-roads construction plan in September.  “The bullish effects from dovish ECB and Federal Reserve
announcements have clearly been exhausted,” Societe Generale SA
analysts said in a report Nov. 12. The S&P GSCI fell 6 percent
since Sept. 13, when the Fed unveiled its plan.  The U.S. faces a so-called fiscal cliff of $607 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts in 2013 if Congress
should fail to act.  “If we get out of this with a moderate recession, I would
say the price is very cheap,” former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan told Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty
Liu  on Nov. 16.  Copper Bears  Speculators are now betting on a decline in copper prices,
holding a net-short position of 826  contracts , the CFTC data
show. A week earlier, the funds held a net-long position of
2,077 futures and options.  Crude-oil bets tumbled 18 percent to 100,021 contracts, the
biggest cut since May, and those on heating oil dropped 12
percent to 26,065  contracts , the lowest since Sept. 25.  A measure of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators reduced
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 22 percent to
415,498 contracts, the biggest decline since Nov. 22, 2011. Corn
holdings fell 14 percent to 202,853 contracts, the lowest since
early July.  Speculators more than tripled their net-short bets in
cotton to 19,327 contracts, the most bearish position since May
2007. The U.S. Department of Agriculture boosted its outlook for
global inventories by 1.5 percent to 80.27 million bales on Nov.
9, forecasting the biggest glut ever.  “The quantitative easing story pushed commodities higher,
and it was the fallacy of market participants to expect prices
to continue to gain as there are too many uncertainties,” said
 Michael Shaoul , the chairman of New York-based Marketfield Asset
Management, which oversees about $3.5 billion of assets. “I
continue to remain bearish on commodities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  