-- Ezz Steel Regains 1 of 2 Court-Withdrawn Production Licenses
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-11-18T12:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/ezz-steel-regains-1-of-2-court-withdrawn-production-licenses.html
Ezz Steel (ESRS) ,  Egypt ’s biggest publicly
traded manufacturer of the metal, has regained one of two
production licenses withdrawn by court order last year and is in
advanced talks to secure the second, a company spokesman said.  The company has paid 50 million pounds upon signing the
Nov. 14 agreement with the Industrial Development Authority and
will pay the government 330 million pounds more in five equal
annual installments after an 18-month grace period, Kamel Galal,
head of  investor relations , said by phone today. The license is
for Ezz Rolling Mills, a 99 percent unit of the company.  “The company has enough liquidity to pay this off so this
is very positive for them,” said Heba Sherif, analyst at Prime
Securities SAE who has a buy recommendation on the stock with a
12.8 pound price estimate. “It brings down their cost per ton
because it reduces their reliance on imported scrap metal.”  An Egyptian court in September 2011 stripped Ezz of two
direct-reduced iron and billet production licenses on grounds
that they weren’t paid for when awarded by the government. It
also sentenced its former chairman Ahmed Ezz, a prominent member
of  Hosni Mubarak ’s dissolved ruling party, to 10 years in jail
for irregularities in obtaining the licenses.  The company will now restart construction on a $400 million
direct-reduced iron and billet plant that is 80 percent
complete, Galal said. The factory, which will produce steel from
iron-ore instead of scrap metal, is set to boost the company’s
profit margins, he said.  Ezz is also close to completing talks with IDA to regain
the second DRI-billet license for its Ezz Flat Steel unit, at
the same cost, Galal said.  The shares  retreated 4.1 percent to 9.22 pounds at 12:39
p.m. in Cairo, bringing its decline this quarter to 24 percent.
The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  dropped 2.7 percent today, taking its
loss over the same period to 5.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  