-- Fidelity Spurns Japan Utilities as Goldman Says ‘Buy’
-- B y   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-11-19T09:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/fidelity-spurns-japanese-utilities-as-goldman-sachs-says-buy-.html
Fidelity Investments  has stopped
actively investing in  Japan ’s atomic power producers as
opposition to nuclear reactors and the scrapping of dividends
removes incentives to hold the stocks.  “There’s no reason to invest in the utilities if the
nuclear plants stay offline and dividends don’t come back,”
Masahiro Fukuda, a Tokyo-based director at Fidelity Investment
Japan, whose parent manages $1.6 trillion globally, said in a
phone interview Nov. 15. “Public opposition means it’s unlikely
that the reactors will be allowed to restart.”  The  Topix Electric Power & Gas Index (TPELEC)  slid 14 percent from
the start of July through Nov. 16 as fund managers abandoned
hope Japan’s atomic power industry would recover from the worst
nuclear disaster in 25 years. A measure of  price swings  on the
gauge has doubled in the period, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Utilities could have a “huge” rebound if electricity
prices are allowed to rise, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analyst Hiroyuki Sakaida, who rates the sector attractive.  Shares of  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505)  and  Kansai Electric 
Power Co. have each dropped 40 percent  this year  amid
investigations into seismic faults near their  power plants .
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in September set a goal of phasing
out nuclear power by 2040. The utilities reported combined
losses of $8.2 billion for the six months through September, and
six of the country’s 10 power producers skipped dividends for
the first time in decades.  Volatility Surges  On March 10, 2011, the day before a tsunami triggered
meltdowns at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-ichi
plant, the 30-day historical  implied volatility  reading for the
utilities gauge was 9.4, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That reading was 39.2 at the end of last week, more
than twice that for the Topix Index, Japan’s broadest equity-
price measure.  The index of power producers rose or fell more than 2
percent on 11 of the 30 trading days through Nov. 16. It gained
4 percent as of the 3 p.m. close today, taking a three-day
advance to 9.8 percent.  “Investors need to adjust their mindsets about whether or
not the utilities are still a defensive sector,” Chin-Ping
Chia, head of research at MSCI Inc. in  Hong Kong  said. MSCI
includes the Japanese utilities in indexes it compiles. “The
volatility is staggering.”  Goldman Sachs analyst Sakaida rates the sector
“attractive,” citing prospects the government will allow
higher electricity rates to cover the costs of using natural gas
to generate power.  ‘Price Swings’  “It’s all about whether or not you’re trying to profit
from dramatic price swings,” Sakaida, who has a buy rating on
Kansai Electric, said in a phone interview. The sector may have
bottomed in September when a government policy paper on energy
strategy seemed to back away from a goal of phasing out atomic
power, he said in a report dated Nov. 16.  The  utilities index  gained 5.6 percent in the two trading
days through Nov. 16 after the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan
said it would call national elections. Polls show the opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party , which promoted Japan’s atomic industry
during most of its five decades in power, will win.  Individual investors are also betting on price swings. The
number of Kansai Electric shares held in  margin accounts  surged
to a record 12.3 million on Sept. 21 from an average of about
900,000 before the Fukushima accident, according to weekly stock
exchange data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1991.  Fidelity is only buying and selling the utilities’ shares
for funds that track indexes in which the power producers are
included, Fukuda said. The Japan Dividend Growth Stock Fund sold
its entire holdings of Kansai and Chugoku Electric Power Co. in
the six months through July 10, according to Fidelity’s
published reports. By Oct. 19, the fund had gotten rid of
remaining holdings in Hokkaido Electric Power Co. and Shikoku
Electric Power Co., the reports show.  Selling Out  Daiwa Securities Group Inc.’s Japan High Dividend Stock
also sold its stake in Kansai Electric in the six months through
mid-July, according to the company’s data. Toshiaki Sasaki, a
Tokyo-based spokesperson for Daiwa, declined to comment on
whether other funds managed by the company continue to hold
utility shares.  “At this point, long-term fund managers will have a
difficult time explaining to clients why they would invest in
these names,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president of Fukoku Capital
Management Inc. in Tokyo, which oversees 1.5 trillion yen. “The
future of the industry is totally unclear. It’s become wrapped
up in politics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  