-- Fujitsu to Expand Services Sales Amid Lower Hardware Demand
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a ,   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-11-19T01:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/fujitsu-to-expand-services-sales-amid-declining-hardware-demand.html
Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) ,  Japan ’s biggest
provider of computer services, plans to increase sales at the
business to make up for declining hardware demand.  The company is expanding the business in  Europe  and North
America and plans to boost sales of services including cloud
computing to corporate customers, Chief Financial Officer
Kazuhiko Kato said in an interview. Fujitsu may acquire a
company to accelerate growth, he said, declining to name
potential targets.  “We should spend time building our revenue base,” the 61-
year-old executive said at Fujitsu’s headquarters in Tokyo on
Nov. 16. “It will take time to boost revenue in the services
field, but that will become a buffer for times when hardware
sales are falling.”  Fujitsu is  forecasting  a third straight year of declining
profit as a worsening European economy dents demand for its
computers and services including system integration and cloud
computing. A shortfall of about 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion)
at the company’s U.K. pension fund will reduce free cash flow
this fiscal year, he said.  “Targeting companies rather than consumers is a good bet
to spur sales,”  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at  Iwai
Cosmo Holdings Inc. (8707) , said of Fujitsu’s strategy. Corporate
demand for computing services is growing, he said.  Fujitsu may release a new medium-term business plan before
April, Kato said.  Profit Forecast  The company cut its  profit forecast  58 percent to 25
billion yen for the year ending March 31 as it struggles to spur
overseas sales because of a worsening economy in Europe, it said
Oct. 31. Sales may total 4.42 trillion yen, or 2.4 percent less
than the previous estimate, the company said.  Fujitsu  rose  2.4 percent to 301 yen as of 10:22 a.m. in
Tokyo trading. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained
1.4 percent.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  and Fujitsu are
suffering from plunging demand for system LSI chips used in
televisions. LSI chips pack memory, microprocessing and other
functions, such as processing graphics, into a single component.  Global TV demand fell 8 percent from a year earlier in the
second quarter of this year, according to DisplaySearch, led by
a 77 percent plunge in shipments in Japan.  Panasonic’s President  Kazuhiro Tsuga  said in July the
company may consider merging its LSI business with Fujitsu’s and
Renesas’s. Kato declined to comment on the plan.  Chip Factories  Fujitsu will shut a plant assembling system chips and sell
two factories to J-Devices Corp., the two companies  said  Aug.
31.  Denso Corp. (6902) , a Toyota Motor Corp.-affiliated parts maker,
will buy a factory to make the chips from Fujitsu, the companies
said in April.  Fujitsu’s free cash flow for the year ending March 31 will
be 140 billion yen short of the company’s previous estimate
because of costs to reorganize chip production and the U.K.
pension-reserve shortfall, Kato told investors and analysts on
Oct. 31. Falling interest rates in the U.K. contributed to the
shortfall, the company said in April.  Free  cash flow  may recover to about 150 billion yen in
about three years from an expected negative 40 billion yen this
fiscal year, Kato said Nov. 16.  Fujitsu is among Japanese companies that expect an impact
on their balance sheets from a change in financial reporting
standards that will affect how they account for pension-reserve
shortfalls from April. Fujitsu will be short by about 300
billion yen at its Japanese pension fund, Kato said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  