-- Gates Backs MIT Online Course Offering at Community Colleges
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-11-18T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/gates-backs-mit-online-course-offering-at-community-colleges.html
Two Boston-area community colleges
will offer an adapted version of a  Massachusetts  Institute of
Technology online course in computer science with funding from
the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation .  Bunker Hill and MassBay community colleges will list the
course -- Introduction to Computer Science and Programming --
beginning early next year, officials from the colleges said
today. The course will combine materials from MIT and Harvard
University’s EdX online teaching venture with classroom
sessions, they said in a statement.  The collaboration is part of EdX’s mission to determine how
to use online education most effectively to educate large
student populations inside and outside classrooms. The Gates
Foundation provided $1 million over a year and a half to see how
online education can be used to expand offerings at two-year
community colleges, said Anant Agarwal, EdX’s president and
founder.  “It’s been a real challenge for community colleges to get
funding and staffing and large numbers of quality courses,”
Agarwal said in a telephone interview. “Efforts like this can
make a real difference.”  While Bunker Hill Community College has been offering
 online courses  for more than 10 years, the EdX format differs in
that it’s highly interactive, said Mary Fifield, president of
the college. It also features a “flipped” classroom format,
where students view new course material at home and then come to
class to work with faculty on what would normally be homework,
she said.  Faculty Stimulus  Bunker Hill will charge about $423 for the course and
students will get three credit hours for taking it, Fifield
said.  “This fits very well with us, because we’ve had so many
students taking online classes,” she said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a stimulus for more of our faculty to get
involved in EdX and do applied research on our own online
classes.”  EdX, unveiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard and
MIT in May, was established as a research effort in online
education and will be funded by $30 million from each of the
universities. More than 100,000 people have signed up to take
the computer science course online, Agarwal said.  With more than 10,000 students,  Bunker Hill  Community
College is based in  Boston ’s Charlestown neighborhood.  MassBay
Community College  is in Wellesley, Massachusetts.  EdX decided to collaborate with the colleges because of
their proximity and “visionary leadership,” Agarwal said.  “They’re really looking for creative ways to reinvent
community colleges,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  