-- Ground Invasion of Gaza Strip Would Damage Israel, Hague Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-11-18T14:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/ground-invasion-of-gaza-strip-would-damage-israel-hague-says.html
Israel risks losing international
support if it mounts a ground invasion of the  Gaza Strip  to stop
rocket attacks from Hamas militants, U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said.  A ground incursion would make it harder to limit civilian
casualties and prolong the current conflict, Hague told Sky News
television today.  He said he and Prime Minister  David Cameron  “have both
stressed to our Israeli counterparts that a ground invasion of
Gaza would lose Israel a lot of the international support and
sympathy they have in this situation.”  Israel said today it was prepared to “significantly
widen” its assault on the Gaza Strip as rocket attacks on its
cities continued for a fifth day. Regional leaders are racing to
broker an accord to end a conflict that has killed 52
Palestinians and three Israelis.  Hague said Hamas bears “principal responsibility” for
sparking the conflict in Gaza and called for “an agreed cease-
fire, an essential component of which is an end to those rocket
attacks.” Britain is “gravely concerned” about the situation,
he said.  He accused  Iran  of fueling the conflict by supplying
weapons to Hamas militants. “Iran is a country which we all
suspect is a prime mover behind that, a supplier of such
weaponry,” he said. “There is Iranian involvement. That’s why
we have to keep the wider picture in mind. It’s part of bigger
picture which is necessary to resolve.”  Statehood Bid  Hague also cautioned the Palestinian Authority against
pursuing its “divisive” bid to gain statehood recognition at
the  United Nations . The U.S. opposes the move and Israel has
warned of retaliatory steps.  “We really need the United States to show the strong
leadership on the  peace process  that alone in the world can
really bring these parties together into new negotiations, and
it would be a mistake to do things that make it harder to do
that,” Hague said.  Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas is seeking to
upgrade Palestinian diplomatic status at the UN later this month
to “non-member observer state” in the 193-member General
Assembly. Abbas failed last year to secure approval in the 15-
member  Security Council  for recognition of Palestinian statehood
after opposition from the U.S.  Israeli leaders say the Palestinian bid is a unilateral
step to obtain statehood without negotiating, and will be used
to try and isolate Israel diplomatically. Peace talks between
the sides broke down in 2010 after Israel refused a Palestinian
demand to extend a freeze on construction in its West Bank
settlements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  