-- Illinois Tool Works Chief Executive Officer Speer Dies
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-18T22:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/illinois-tool-works-chief-executive-officer-speer-dies-1-.html
David B. Speer, chairman and chief
executive officer at  Illinois Tool Works (ITW)  Inc., a maker of auto
parts and welding products, has died, the company said. He was
61.  Alison Donnelly, a spokeswoman for the company, declined to
comment on the cause of death. Speer had been undergoing
treatment for an undisclosed medical condition since November
2011.  Chief Operating Officer and President E. Scott Santi, 51,
was named the permanent CEO today after being chosen the acting
CEO last month. Robert S. Morrison, 70, was elected as non-
executive chairman, ITW said in a statement.  “David’s remarkable leadership will have a lasting impact
on our company,” Santi said in a statement. “He leaves a very
strong foundation for us to build on as we move forward.”  Illinois Tool Works, whose businesses include industrial
packaging and commercial food equipment, employed 65,000 workers
as of Dec. 31, Bloomberg data show. The company, based in the
Chicago suburb of Glenview, has a market value of $27.3 billion.  Speer joined ITW in 1978 and worked in sales, marketing and
management positions, according to company. He became president
of ITW in 2004 and was elected to CEO post in 2005. The
following year, he began serving as chairman of the board.  Speer graduated from Iowa State University in 1973 with a
bachelor’s degree in industrial engineering, according to ITW’s
website. He earned his master’s degree in business
administration from the Kellogg School of Business at
Northwestern University in 1977.  His wife Barbara and two children, a son and a daughter,
survive him, Donnelly said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  