-- Iran Nuclear Conundrum Can Be Solved by Law
-- B y   G e o f f r e y   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-11-18T23:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/iran-nuclear-conundrum-can-be-solved-by-law.html
What is worse: Iran getting the
bomb, or Israel (and perhaps the U.S.) attacking Iran?  This is shaping up as the crunch question for 2013. Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who is almost certain to be
re-elected in January, has threatened an attack in spring or
early summer, when he thinks Iran will have achieved weapons-
level enrichment. Then U.S. President  Barack Obama  will come
under pressure to make good on his promise to stop Iran
acquiring a nuclear weapon.  The answer, regrettably, is that each outcome is worse than
the other. But there is a legal pathway to pick through this
dilemma.  The U.S. and Europe have pinned their faith on the carrot
of diplomacy and the stick of sanctions to bring Iran to heel,
but neither will work. Sanctions are causing harm, but mainly to
the middle class that tried to rebel against the ruling mullahs
in the 2009  Green Revolution  and was brutally suppressed.
Economic pain just makes the regime more determined to press
ahead, and to string along the naive Western diplomats, who
don’t seem to realize that while they talk, Iran continues to
enrich uranium.  Alarming Prospect  Iran is a member and beneficiary of the  Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons , which guarantees signatories
the “inalienable right” to a full nuclear-fuel cycle. Once
achieved, all that Iran has to do is follow  North Korea ’s
example by pulling out of the treaty. At that point, Iran can
build as many bombs as it likes (North Korea, perhaps the
world’s most irresponsible government, has about 10, according
to the  Federation of American Scientists ).  The prospect of a nuclear-armed Iran is truly alarming. Not
because it intends to attack Israel -- it doesn’t -- but because
it will empower a criminal regime and incite proliferation.
 Saudi Arabia  has announced that it will buy nuclear arms from
 Pakistan , which has as many as 110 bombs. The Muslim Brotherhood
in Egypt is demanding that its government acquire them as well.
The supreme leader of Iran, Ali Khamenei, is guilty of at least
three crimes against humanity: the massacre of thousands of
political prisoners in 1988, the global assassination campaign
that murdered 162 dissidents through to the 1990s, and the
killing and torturing of Green Movement protesters in 2009. The
regime has given itself impunity for mass murder, and if armed
with the bomb it may mass-murder again.  Israel is unlikely to be the target. For all of President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s vicious rhetoric, Iran has no quarrel with
its own Jewish population, and any attack on Israel, which has
submarines ready to fire nuclear missiles on Tehran in response,
would be suicidal. Because Iran hasn’t yet built a bomb, let
alone a delivery system (that’s likely to take several more
years), it poses no imminent threat to Israel and won’t do so in
2013. For that reason, an Israeli attack on Iran next year would
not only be irresponsible, but also unlawful.  International law is clear. Israel and its allies have a
right to attack another country in self-defense, under Article
51 of the United Nations  Charter , but only to prevent an attack
from the enemy, which must be “imminent,” meaning, about to
happen.  George W. Bush ’s doctrine of pre-emptive self-defense,
under which the U.S. attacked  Iraq , has been decisively
rejected. It was in any event based on the assumption that
 Saddam Hussein  already had  nuclear weapons  -- which we know that
Iran has not.  Illegal Attack  Any attack next year by what Obama has described as a
coalition -- which suggests the U.K. has already signed up --
would be a more blatant breach of international law than the
invasion of Iraq.  The consequences of an attack on Iran’s nuclear sites are
bound to be disproportionate. Everyone seems to assume it will
be a surgical strike, such as the one on Osirak, the Iraqi
facility that Israel bombed in 1981, or al-Kibar, the Syrian
reactor it flattened in 2007. Few people were killed in those
attacks. But Natanz -- a prime target for any strike on Iran --
employs 5,000 workers, and  Bushehr , Iran’s only operational
nuclear-power reactor, has an eponymous township with about
200,000 people in line for the potential fallout. Furthermore,
the main potential targets store 371 tons of uranium
hexafluoride, so bombing would trigger a toxic cloud that could
asphyxiate tens of thousands, if the wind were to blow in the
wrong direction.  The attack would also prompt reprisals, such as rockets on
Israel from the north (Hezbollah) and the south (Hamas), and
perhaps from Syria if President Bashar al-Assad is still
standing. Iran might also close or mine the  Strait of Hormuz  and
attack U.S. naval vessels. A wider war may follow. For these
reasons, attacking Iran next year would be far worse than its
gradual progress toward acquiring a bomb.  An attack on Iran in 2013 would be unlawful and
disproportionate, but the alternative of allowing the mullahs to
eventually get their hands on nuclear triggers is almost as
frightening. They aren’t mad enough to attack Israel -- indeed
they are rational. As rational as a gang of serial killers. Can
international law offer any way out of the dilemma?  Under  human-rights  law, the acquisition and use of a
nuclear weapon, releasing ionizing radiation uncontainable
within space or time, plainly breaches the right not to have
life taken arbitrarily. Any use of atomic weapons is a breach of
the law of war: Their deathly radiation cannot distinguish
between soldier and civilian, military target and hospital or
school. They cause unnecessary and disproportionate suffering
and they pose an existential threat to the environment. Even a
limited war, between India and Pakistan, or North Korea and the
U.S., would probably change the climate before  climate change 
does.  Bad Ruling  Unfortunately, back in 1996, the UN’s World Court, while
acknowledging that international law was moving toward a ban on
the bomb, illogically accepted that it might be lawful to use
nuclear weapons on troops in a desert or on warships mid-ocean.
Recent discoveries, about the cancers induced in people and the
malformation in fish that were caused by atmospheric nuclear-
weapons tests in the 1950s and by the French underwater tests in
the Pacific, show how wrong this court decision was.
International human-rights law has developed since then, to a
point where I believe it now condemns further acquisition of
nuclear weapons as a crime against humanity. This would justify
the  Security Council  to authorize an attack on Iran, at the
moment when it had all the components of a bomb and an intention
to assemble them.  The law is not retrospective, however, and doesn’t make
illegitimate the existing 20,000 nuclear weapons that are now in
the possession of the eight states that have acknowledged owning
nuclear weapons, plus Israel, which has not. According to the
World Court -- correctly this time -- nuclear-armed countries
have a legal obligation under Article VI of the nuclear
nonproliferation treaty to negotiate a gradual disarmament, to
zero. This might be done on a “first in, last out” basis, with
North Korea being first to lose its bombs and a final ceremony
to destroy simultaneously what is left in the Russian and U.S.
arsenals -- perhaps attended by the aging former U.S. and
Russian leaders, Barack Obama and  Vladimir Putin , circa 2045.  As Syria shows, there may be major hurdles to getting
Security Council approval for an attack on Iran, even when it is
ready to assemble a bomb. Regrettably, great powers are also
very reluctant to give up powerful weapons. To bring about this
happy ending, it may take a nuclear accident, incident or war,
which are likely consequences of the current climate of
proliferation.  ( Geoffrey Robertson  is a human-rights lawyer and author of
“Mullahs Without Mercy: Human Rights and Nuclear Weapons,”
published this month by Biteback (U.K.) and  Random House 
(Australia). The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Obama in Southeast Asia  and
on  what to do with the Federal Housing Administration ; William
D. Cohan on  prosecuting the small fish of Wall Street ;  Albert
Hunt  on  how immigration reform affected the election ;  Pankaj
Mishra  on  the future of the Persian Gulf’s autocracies ;  Amity
Shlaes  on  whether 2013 will be like 1937 .  To contact the writer of this article:
Geoffrey Robertson at  g.robertson@doughtystreet.co.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 