-- Egypt Shares Tumble on Gaza as Israel Gains Amid Truce Bets
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-11-18T15:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/israel-stocks-bonds-gain-for-first-day-in-3-on-cease-fire-bets.html
Egypt’s shares tumbled the most in
more than four months as the government struggled to contain
public anger over Israel’s attacks on Gaza and a panel writing
the country’s constitution teetered on the brink of a breakup.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the biggest
publicly traded lender, dropped to the lowest level in almost
two weeks.  National Societe Generale Bank (NSGB) , a unit of France’s
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) , plunged the most since March 2011. The  EGX
30 (EGX30)  retreated 3.3 percent, the most since July 9, to 5,478.38 at
the close in Cairo. Israel’s TA-25 rose the most in a month on
bets mediation will lead to a cease-fire between Israel and
Palestinian militants as fighting enters a fifth day.  As President Mohamed Mursi struggles to maintain peace with
Israel without losing the support of his home base, he came
under criticism for what his opponents say was failure to end a
string of transportation disasters, the latest of which was a
weekend crash that killed 49 people, mostly children. The crisis
came as members making up a quarter of the constitution panel
threatened to pull out over disputes with Islamists who dominate
the body.  Stocks fell “in light of weekend developments including
Gaza and the growing problems surrounding the government, like
yesterday’s train wreck and the constitutional dispute,” Hassan Kenawi, equities trader at Cairo-based HC Brokerage. “The
accumulation of negative news should continue to weigh on the
market until we see a material reversal in the negative news
flow.”  Crumbling Infrastructure  Along with a crumbling infrastructure, Mursi inherited a
peace treaty with Israel that his predecessor  Hosni Mubarak ,
ousted in a popular uprising last year, had maintained for three
decades. Until his election in June, Mursi was a senior leader
of the  Muslim Brotherhood , which maintains close ties with
Hamas, the militant group fighting Israel. The group, which
controls the  Gaza Strip , is considered a terrorist group by the
U.S., Israel and the European Union.  Shortly after Israel began a military operation against
Palestinian militants Nov. 14, Mursi recalled his ambassador to
Tel Aviv. Prime Minister Hisham Qandil visited Gaza over the
weekend, becoming the most senior Egyptian official to set foot
in the Hamas-ruled enclave. At least 50 Palestinians have been
killed in Israeli strikes, including the leader of the Hamas
military wing. Three Israelis died in one of about 900 rocket
attacks launched from Gaza since Nov. 14.  “The shift in Egyptian politics toward Israel, even if
only in rhetoric, is a concern to both local and foreign
investors,” Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at
Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities, said by phone.  Cease-fire Talks  Commercial International Bank dropped 4.2 percent to 37.10
pounds, the lowest since Nov. 5. National Societe Generale
tumbled 6.8 percent to 40.43 pounds.  Israel’s  TA-25 (TA-25)  Index gained 1.4 percent, the most since
Oct. 2, to 1,198.38, at the market close in Tel Aviv.  “There
are reports of cease-fire talks,” Richard Gussow, senior
analyst at Tel Aviv-based DS Securities & Investments Ltd.
“Investors see the military action coming to an end and are
coming back into the market.”  Mursi met with Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
last night and later said there are indications a cease-fire may
be reached between Hamas and Israel. Erdogan, speaking earlier
before departing for Egypt, said Hamas is ready to halt missile
attacks if it’s given guarantees by the U.S. that Israel will
stop firing.  Dubai Falls  Israel’s benchmark bonds rose, sending the yield on the 5.5
percent notes due January 2022 down six basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.95 percent.  Elsewhere in the  Middle East , the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200) 
of the biggest companies in the Gulf Cooperation Council, fell
0.4 percent. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 1 percent,  Abu
Dhabi ’s measure lost 0.4 percent and Qatar’s QE Index retreated
0.8 percent. Oman’s index and Bahrain’s measure declined 0.3
percent while Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index retreated
0.4 percent. Kuwait’s gauge lost 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  