-- Jaguar Land Rover-Chery to Invest $1.75 Billion in China Plant
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-18T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/jaguar-land-rover-chery-to-invest-1-75-billion-on-china-plant.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover
unit and Chery Automobile Co. will invest 10.9 billion  yuan 
($1.75 billion) to build a manufacturing plant in eastern  China 
and create a new brand to cater to the nation’s consumers.  The 50:50 venture will also set up a research and
development center and construct an engine plant as part of the
investment, according to a statement by Jaguar Land Rover. The
company didn’t say in its release which models will be built at
the new factory, targeted for completion in 2014.  “China is now our biggest market,” Ralf Speth, chief
executive officer of Jaguar Land Rover, said at a press briefing
yesterday after the groundbreaking ceremony for the factory in
Changshu, Jiangsu province. “The Chinese economy has grown at a
phenomenal rate in recent years and by any western standard, and
I’m convinced that it is set to continue to grow at an
astounding rate into the future.”  Jaguar Land Rover joins  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in locating
production in the world’s biggest vehicle market. The government
requires overseas automakers to work with local companies to
produce domestically and avoid the nation’s 25 percent import
duty.  “Both parties need each other,” Bill Russo, president of
Synergistic Ltd., said by phone from Beijing. “JLR needs to be
localized because, quite frankly, their competition is
localizing. It gives Chery an opportunity to really upgrade its
capabilities in a time when it really needs that.”  Expansion Plan  Profit at Jaguar Land Rover rose 77 percent in the second
quarter to 305 million pounds ($487 million). Surging China
sales of Land Rover vehicles led by the Evoque have helped Speth
offset slowing demand in  Europe . The Gaydon, England-based unit
said in May it will spend 2 billion pounds this year to expand
under a plan to introduce 40 new or upgraded models in the next
five years.  Jaguar Land Rover, which showed its first two-seat sports
car in almost four decades at the Paris Motor Show in September,
is targeting as much as 20 percent of the full-size sports car
market, Steven de Ploey, the marketing head for Jaguar, said
Sept. 27. The company will also begin deliveries next year of
the new Range Rover SUV.  Jaguar Land Rover sold 25,176 vehicles in October, a 10
percent increase from a year earlier, driven by demand for the
Evoque and Range Rover Sport. Combined sales in the first 10
months rose 35 percent to 294,291 vehicles.  At yesterday’s event in Changshu, Chery Auto Chairman Yin Tongyue told reporters that it is “not the right time” for an
initial public offering for the closely held company.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  