-- Japanese Futures, Australian Stocks Advance on U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-18T23:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/japanese-futures-australian-stocks-advance-on-u-s-budget-talks.html
Japanese stock futures and
Australian equities rose after U.S. House Speaker John Boehner
said budget talks with President  Barack Obama  were constructive.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s
second-largest maker of construction and mining equipment,
surged 1.3 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest
miner, gained 1 percent in Sydney as metals prices rose.
 Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  soared 16 percent in Sydney after
the surf-wear maker said it’s considering a takeover.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring next
month closed at 9,090 in Chicago Nov. 16, up from 9,010 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,080 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained
0.5 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.2 percent in
Wellington.  “There were some early signs of some conciliatory language
in the U.S. late Friday night that was encouraging,” said
George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of investment strategy at
UBS AG’s Australian wealth management unit. The Swiss bank has
about $1.5 trillion under management. “The current market
retracement this month is an opportunity to buy the dip as
investors navigate through the political negotiation.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2
percent today. The  S&P 500  retreated for a second straight week
last week and has lost almost 5 percent since the Nov. 6
election set up a budget showdown between Obama and the
Republican-controlled House. The gauge reversed losses of as
much as 0.7 percent Nov. 16, closing 0.5 percent higher, after
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said talks over the so-called
fiscal cliff were “constructive.”  Obama Confident  President Barack Obama expressed confidence that he and
Congress would reach an agreement that will avoid automatic
spending cuts and tax increases that are scheduled to occur at
the end of the year.  “I am confident we can get our fiscal situation dealt
with,” Obama told reporters in Bangkok yesterday.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average surged 3 percent last
week, for its biggest gain in five weeks, amid speculation an
election next month will hand power to an opposition party that
advocates more economic stimulus.  Japan “is heading for the polls just after the U.S.
election and the Chinese leadership transition,” said
Boubouras. “The outcomes of the three largest economies will
dictate policy that represents a large portion of the world’s
GDP.”  Weekly Drop  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index dropped 1.2 percent last week
as companies from QBE Insurance Group Ltd. to  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700)  warned of slower earnings growth. Japanese shares rose
ahead of next month’s elections. The Asian benchmark gained 9.9
percent from this year’s low on June 4 through the end of last
week as central banks added stimulus to spur economic growth and
data showed a slowdown in China may be ending.  Of the 560 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
posted quarterly results since Oct. 1, and for which estimates
were available, 55 percent  missed expectations , according to
data compiled by  Bloomberg News . Shares on the Asian benchmark
index traded at 13.2 times estimated earnings, compared with
13.1 times for the  S&P 500 Index  and 11.8 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. retreated 3.3 percent last week as
disappointing company earnings damped prospects of an economic
recovery. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw
materials climbed 0.3 percent on Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  