-- Netanyahu Says Israel May Widen Action as Truce Bid Grows
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-11-18T22:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/netanyahu-says-israel-may-widen-action-as-truce-bid-intensifies.html
(Corrects Lieberman political affiliation in 11th
paragraph.)  Israel  said it may expand an assault
on the  Gaza Strip  amid a fifth day of rocket attacks on its
cities, as regional leaders raced to broker an accord ending a
conflict that has killed 67 Palestinians and three Israelis.  “We have extracted a heavy price from Hamas and other
terrorist organizations, and the army is prepared to
significantly widen the operation,” Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said at the weekly Cabinet meeting today in
 Jerusalem . He said he spoke with U.S. President  Barack Obama 
over the weekend and will continue talks with international
leaders, according to an e-mailed statement from his office.  Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip, is considered a
terrorist group by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  The violence threatens a region still unbalanced after a
wave of popular uprisings last year, including one in Israel’s
neighbor Syria that has become a civil war.  An Israeli official arrived at the Cairo airport today, an
Egyptian security official said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to comment to the media.
The arrival comes as Egypt’s President Mohamed Mursi and
Turkey’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  have pushed to
secure a cease-fire between Hamas and Israel.  Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokesman Amr Roushdi, contacted
by text message, said he had no information “whatsoever” on
the arrival. Israeli government spokesman Mark Regev declined to
comment on the report.  Children Killed  Amid the cease-fire talk, air-raid sirens sounded twice in
Tel Aviv today as four rockets were intercepted by Israel’s Iron
Dome missile-defense system. A rocket was fired at Jerusalem on
Nov. 16, the first such attack in decades. At least 73 rockets
were fired from Gaza today, raising the number since Nov. 14 to
about 900, according to the  Israel Defense Forces . Some 14,000
have been fired from the territory in the past 11 years.  The Israeli strikes killed 15 Palestinians in Gaza today,
including 11 members of an extended family by the name of Al-
Dalou, said Ashraf al-Qedra, spokesman for the Hamas-run Gaza
Health Ministry. At least half of the Palestinians killed in the
Israeli airstrikes since Nov. 14 were civilians, including women
and children, he said.  Israel says its military goal is to make Palestinians in
Gaza stop firing the rockets that have killed three Israeli
civilians.  Obama Comments  “Let’s understand what the precipitating event was that
was causing the crisis, and that was an ever-escalating number
of missiles,” Obama said at a press conference in Bangkok,
where he began a three-nation trip. “We will continue to
support Israel’s right to defend itself.”  U.S. Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent
who caucuses with Democrats, speaking today on “Fox News
Sunday,” called Hamas “bad actors” and said “no nation would
put up with what Israel has up until now.” On the same show,
Republican Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia said “if sending
ground troops in is the only way they can clean out these
nests of rockets being fired at them, you know, you can’t blame
them for doing it.”  Hamas said the Israeli actions won’t stop it from
operating.  “The government and the Palestinian people are united to
confront the aggression,” it said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “It is the right of Palestinian people and the
government to resist the occupation.”  Iron Dome  The Iron Dome, which targets projectiles heading toward
populated areas, has intercepted 260 of those fired from Gaza,
according to the Israeli army.  “We are not yet at the point to be talking about a cease-
fire,” Uzi Landau, Israeli minister of energy and water, said
on  Army Radio . Israel is still in the middle of the Gaza
conflict, Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said in an e-
mailed statement.  Israeli stocks and bonds rose for the first time in three
days on bets international mediation will lead to a cease-fire.
The  TA-25 index  advanced 1.4 percent to 1,198.38 in Tel Aviv.
The yield on the 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bonds due January
2022 dropped six basis points to 3.95 percent.  World leaders including Obama have called for an end to the
conflict before it escalates further. Israel deployed tanks near
the border, threatening the first ground invasion of Gaza since
an assault that began in December 2008 and left more than 1,100
Palestinians and 12 Israelis dead.  Cease-Fire Efforts  Egypt is trying with Turkey, Arab nations and the world’s
leading powers, such as the U.S., France and Britain, to get a
cease-fire agreement from both sides, Mursi said yesterday.  Israel risks losing “a lot of international support and
sympathy” if it mounts a ground invasion to stop the rocket
attacks, U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told Sky News
television today.  Israeli fighter jets hit 50 targets in Gaza overnight,
bringing the number of air strikes over the past four days to
950, an army spokesman said, speaking anonymously in compliance
with military rules.  Among the targets were buildings housing several media
offices, one of which the army said in an e-mailed statement
contained a Hamas communications antenna. That prompted the
Foreign Press Association to issue a statement of concern. Among
the news organizations housed in one of the buildings are
Germany’s ARD TV and the U.K.’s Sky News, the association said
in an e-mailed statement. Russia Today television said in a
statement that its office in the same building was destroyed.  Muslims Demonstrate  The standoff in Gaza is putting pressure on Arab leaders
such as Mursi, who came to power after an uprising that ousted
U.S. ally  Hosni Mubarak  last year and has pledged stronger
support for Palestinians. Tens of thousands have rallied in
Cairo to protest the Israeli attacks, and there were similar
demonstrations in Turkey, Iran and other Islamic countries.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , whose Fatah
group rules in the  West Bank , has said he’ll seek to upgrade
Palestinian diplomatic status at the  United Nations  later this
month to “non-member observer state” in the 193-member General
Assembly. Abbas failed last year to secure approval in the 15-
member Security Council for statehood recognition after
opposition from the U.S.  Palestinian Statehood  Israeli leaders say the Palestinian bid is a unilateral
step to obtain statehood without negotiating, and will be used
to try to isolate Israel diplomatically.  “If we see a further escalation of the situation in Gaza,
then the likelihood of us getting onto any two-state solution is
pushed further in the future,” Obama said today. “It starts
with no more missiles fired into Israel’s territory.”  Senator  John McCain  of Arizona suggested using an envoy
such as former President  Bill Clinton  to start negotiations.  “We need a person of enormous prestige and influence to
have these parties sit down together,” McCain said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation.”  Qatari Prime Minister Hamad bin Jasim bin Jabr Al Thani
yesterday took his regional counterparts to task for failing to
do more for the Palestinian cause, while ruling out any sort of
military intervention in the Gaza Strip conflict.  “Our meetings have become a waste of time and public
finances,”  Sheikh Hamad  said at an Arab League meeting
yesterday in Cairo. “We Arabs have helped in the besieging of
our Palestinian brothers.”  Arab League  The Arab League urged its member nations to end
normalization of relations with Israel because of the Israeli
air offensive in Gaza, Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el- Arabi said in a statement after the meeting in Cairo.  The league has endorsed the so-called Arab Peace
Initiative, which was originally proposed in 2002. It offers to
normalize relations between Israel and all Arab states in
exchange for a complete Israeli withdrawal from territories
Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East War, including the West
Bank, east Jerusalem, the Gaza Strip and the Golan Heights.
Egypt and Jordan are the only Arab League members that have full
diplomatic relations with Israel.  Hamas may want to prolong the conflict for a while “to
keep earning more popular support among the Arab peoples and
Arab leaders,” said As’ad Abu Sharkh, a political science
professor at Al-Azhar University in Gaza City.  The group probably isn’t interested in a “fragile” cease-
fire that could be violated, Abu Sharkh said. Instead, it seeks
“a long-term truce with guarantees that Israel won’t violate it
again,” so that Palestinians can rebuild Gaza, he said.  Israeli ministers agreed to raise the military reservists’
call-up quota to 75,000 from 30,000 at a meeting late Nov. 16 in
Tel Aviv, said  Mark Regev , the spokesman for Netanyahu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  