-- Nigeria Risks Ratings Downgrade If Its Oil Savings Drop
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-11-18T21:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/nigeria-risks-ratings-downgrade-if-its-oil-savings-drop.html
Nigeria’s credit ratings may be cut
if the country raises its proposed oil benchmark price and fails
to increase its savings, President  Goodluck Jonathan  said.  The Cabinet of Africa’s biggest oil producer has proposed
an oil price of $75 a barrel for its 2013 budget, announced last
month. Nigeria’s House of Representatives is seeking a price of
$80 a barrel, while the Senate wants $78 a barrel. The West
Africa nation saves crude revenue above the budgeted oil price.  The lower price is prudent and key to communicating that
Nigeria “is managing the economy and thinking of tomorrow,”
Jonathan said today in an interview broadcast on state-run
television NTA. A higher price may prompt rating companies to
“downgrade you and give a negative outlook,” he said.  Nigeria will be at increased risk of inflation and  currency
depreciation  if a higher oil price than proposed by Jonathan’s
administration is adopted, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
said last month. The government, which relies on oil proceeds
for 80 percent of revenue and more than 90 percent of foreign-
currency income, should also act prudently amid a slow global
economic recovery, she said.  The credit rating of sub-Saharan Africa’s second largest
economy was raised Nov. 7 one level to BB- by  Standard & Poor’s 
as the nation increased foreign-currency reserves with  oil
prices  staying well above the $72 a barrel price used for this
year’s budget. S&P’s rating with a stable outlook places Nigeria
three levels below investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service
separately the same day assigned  Nigeria  a Ba3 rating, the
equivalent of its grades at S&P and Fitch Ratings.  Due Process  The government didn’t end an electricity-management
contract signed by Manitoba Hydro Electric Board of Canada in
July to run the state-owned power utility Transmission Co. of
Nigeria, Jonathan said. Reuban Abati, a spokesman for Jonathan
said on Nov. 14 that Manitoba’s contract was canceled because
due process was not followed.  The initial report of the termination was a
“misunderstanding,” said Jonathan. Manitoba “did not follow
the law strictly,” he said.  Nigeria is divesting majority holdings in 17 power
generation and distribution companies spun out of the former
state utility to curb power shortages, which are a daily
occurrence in  Africa ’s most populous country with more than 160
million people. Nigeria announced investors who won bids to run
10 state-owned power distribution companies on Oct. 30 and five
power plants on Sept. 25.  The government is not in talks with the militant Islamist
group Boko Haram, which has claimed responsibility for bombings
and attacks in Abuja, the capital and the mainly Muslim north,
Jonathan said.  Serious Threat  Authorities in Nigeria blame Boko Haram for a surge in
attacks in which hundreds of people have died this year. Boko
Haram, which means “Western education is a sin” in the local
Hausa language, has carried out a series of bombings and attacks
since 2009 in what it says is a campaign to establish an Islamic
state in the country. Jonathan in January called the insurgency
a more serious threat than the 1967-1970 Biafra civil war.  “There is no dialogue with Boko Haram,” said Jonathan.
“They operate undercover, they wear a mask.”  Jonathan refused to confirm if he would run for office
again in the next election in 2015. A Christian from the
southern oil-rich Niger River delta, he succeeded Muslim
northerner, Umaru Yar’Adua, who died in May in 2010 before the
end of his first term and defied a party rule that made it the
north’s turn to produce a presidential candidate at the 2011
election.  Nigeria is roughly split between a mostly Muslim north and
a largely Christian south. The ruling People’s  Democratic Party 
has an unwritten rule of rotating the top position between the
two regions every two terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  