-- Obama Says U.S. ‘Fully Supportive’ of Israel Defense Rights
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-11-18T14:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/obama-says-u-s-fully-supportive-of-israel-defense-rights-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
will continue to support Israel in its battle against
Palestinian missiles, as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
warned that the country was ready to broaden its Gaza operation.  “We are fully supportive of Israel’s right to defend
itself from missiles landing on people’s homes and workplaces
and potentially killing civilians, and we will continue to
support Israel’s right to defend itself,” Obama said at a press
conference in Bangkok, where he began a three-nation trip that
will include the first visit by a sitting U.S. president to
Myanmar.  “There’s no country on Earth that would tolerate missiles
raining down on its citizens,” Obama said.  Obama’s comments in Bangkok came hours after Netanyahu told
his cabinet that the Israeli military is prepared for a
“significant expansion of its operations” in Gaza. “We are
exacting a heavy price from Hamas,” he said.  Israel  deployed tanks near the border, threatening the
first ground invasion of Gaza since the attack in December 2008
that killed more than 1,100 Palestinians. Israel says its
military goal is to make Palestinians stop firing the hundreds
of rockets from the Hamas-controlled territory that have killed
three Israelis.  The U.S., Israel and the European Union consider Hamas a
terrorist group.  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan today called on
Israel and Palestinians to enter a cease-fire within 24 hours.  ‘Preferred’ Solution  Obama said that his message to Erdogan, as well as Egyptian
President Mohamed Mursi, was that it would be “preferred” if
Israel could deter missiles from landing in its territory
without ramping up military activity in Gaza. “That’s not just
preferable to the people of Gaza, that’s also preferable to
Israelis,” he said.  “We are going to have to see what kind of progress we can
make in the next 24, 36, 48 hours,” Obama said.  Obama made clear that a lasting peace would only be
achieved when both Israelis and Palestinians worked toward a
two-state solution.  The conflict threatens a region still unbalanced after a
wave of popular uprisings last year, including one in Israel’s
neighbor  Syria  that has turned into a civil war.  Yesterday’s comment by Mursi, that there were indications
an agreement to halt the violence may be reached, were
undermined by air-raid sirens and loud booms over Tel Aviv
today. Two rockets were intercepted by Israel’s Iron Dome
missile defense system. A rocket landed in  Jerusalem  on Nov. 16,
the first such attack in decades.  Casualties Mount  Israeli air assaults yesterday killed 15 Palestinians,
lifting the toll since Nov. 14 to 45, including 13 civilians and
an 11-month-old child, Ashraf al-Qedra of the Gaza health
ministry said.  A rocket hit the sea south of Tel Aviv on Nov. 15 and
another landed near Jerusalem the following day, the first such
attack in decades.  Israeli forces fired artillery shells early today in the
Golan Heights after gunfire from Syria hit an army vehicle,
Agence France-Presse reported, citing an Israeli military
spokeswoman. The firing on the Israeli vehicle didn’t cause any
injuries, AFP cited the spokeswoman as saying.  Israeli missiles struck a Hamas media center in central
Gaza early today, Al Arabiya television reported.  The U.S., Israel and the European Union consider Hamas a
terrorist organization.  “If we are serious about wanting to resolve this
situation,” Obama said. “It starts with no more missiles fired
into Israel’s territory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  