-- Obama Tours Bangkok on First Stop of Southeast Asia Visit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-11-18T10:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/obama-arrives-in-thailand-on-first-stop-of-southeast-asia-visit.html
President  Barack Obama  arrived in
Thailand, the first stop on his three-country visit to southeast
Asia that includes attending a summit of the 10-nation
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  At his first stop, a tour of Wat Pho Royal Monastery in
Bangkok, Obama joked with a monk that he needed his prayers for
the U.S. to resolve the  deficit -reduction talks he is
undertaking with Congress.  “Yes, we’re working on this budget,” a laughing Obama told
the monk who was guiding him and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on the monastery tour. “We’re going to need a lot of
prayer for that.”  Obama arrived in Bangkok at 3 p.m. local time today and was
scheduled to meet with  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  after the tour of
the Buddhist temple. The 84-year-old king, who was born in
Massachusetts while his father studied at  Harvard University ,
has lived in a Bangkok hospital since 2009 undergoing treatment
for various illnesses. He is the world’s longest-serving current
monarch, reigning since 1946. President Barack Obama asked a
monk in Bangkok to pray for the US to resolve the fiscal cliff.  Obama also will meet with Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. The government of Thailand has announced an interest
in becoming the 12th country to join the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, Obama’s top trade priority.  Their discussions will include disaster relief, non-
proliferation and smuggling, including Thai interdiction of
shipments from North Korea to Hamas,  Ben Rhodes , White House
deputy national security adviser, told reporters while traveling
on Air Force One to Thailand with the president.  “It was very important for us to send a signal to the
region that allies are going to continue to be the foundation of
our approach,” Rhodes said.  Obama’s Asia trip also will include stops in Myanmar, a
former military regime bordering China that is hosting an
American president for the first time, and in Cambodia for the
regional summit including leaders from China, Japan and  South
Korea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  