-- Obama Says He’s Confident of Reaching Fiscal Cliff Deal
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-11-18T14:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/obama-says-he-s-confident-of-reaching-fiscal-cliff-deal.html
President  Barack Obama  expressed
confidence that he and Congress would reach an agreement that
will avoid the automatic spending cuts and tax increases that
are scheduled to occur at the end of the year.  “I am confident we can get our fiscal situation dealt
with,” Obama said at a news conference in Bangkok, where he
began a three-nation trip that will include the first visit by a
sitting U.S. president to Myanmar.  Before Obama left for Asia, he began on a new round of
 deficit -reduction talks with top Republicans and Democrats in a
bid to avoid the combination of $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts that threatens to throw the country
into a recession next year.  He arrived in Asia today on his first foreign trip since
re-election, underscoring the region’s importance to U.S.
growth. The Nov. 17-20 trip is built around a summit in Phnom
Penh, Cambodia, where Obama will meet with leaders from  China ,
 Japan ,  Russia ,  India  and other Asia-Pacific countries.  Speaking in a region where some nations are still moving
toward allowing greater political and economic freedom, Obama
said the squabbling in  Washington  is an outgrowth of one of the
key strengths of the democratic system because it ensures that
all sides are heard.  “Democracy is a little messier than alternative systems of
government but that’s because democracy allows everybody to have
a voice,” he said at a joint news conference with  Thailand ’s
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. “And that system of
government lasts. And it’s legitimate. And when agreements are
finally struck, you know that nobody is being left out of the
conversation and that’s the reason for our stability.”  Taxes and Spending  While Obama has repeatedly called for an immediate
extension of middle-class tax cuts, he has been less vocal on
how Congress should try to avert the spending cuts that are also
part of the so-called fiscal cliff.  His Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said Nov. 16
that a deal must be reached soon to prevent further damaging
 consumer confidence . The lack of agreement is “this huge cloud
of uncertainty hanging over the economy,” he said in Washington
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ”
airing this weekend.  As the peak of holiday shopping season approaches, “You’d
want to do it as soon as you can,” Geithner said.  Possible Compromise  Republicans are also signaling a willingness to compromise,
with House Speaker John Boehner repeating his offer to discuss
tax changes that would increase government revenue in exchange
for spending cuts.  The administration also must negotiate to increase the
federal debt ceiling. The Treasury said Oct. 31 it expects to
reach the limit near the end of this year and can take
“extraordinary measures” to meet its payment obligations
“until early in 2013.”  Geithner said in the interview the debt ceiling should be
eliminated, and “the sooner the better.” Without an increase
in the  ceiling , the government may not be able to pay all of its
bills and risks defaulting on its debt. Congress and the Obama
administration debated the limit for months last year before
reaching an 11th-hour agreement in August 2011.  Under some readings of the tax code, Geithner could have
the authority to blunt the economic impact of higher marginal
rates by leaving this year’s paycheck withholding rules in
place. Such a move carries risk because taxpayers could face
higher tax bills and penalties in early 2014 if Congress can’t
ultimately agree to extend the lower rates.  Treasury’s Authority  “Don’t over-interpret what that authority gives me,”
Geithner said. He said he doesn’t have the power to let Congress
“avoid making some decisions on rates and policy.”  Geithner said he agreed with Michael Duke, chief executive
officer of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , that consumers need a quick
agreement on the fiscal cliff.  “The uncertainty right now about whether this will be
resolved on sensible terms, whether our middle-class families
will see their taxes go up, already is having an effect on
 consumer confidence  and the economy,” he said.  Geithner, 51, who is planning to leave the administration,
said he will stay in his post until mid-January. He brushed
aside suggestions that he might stay longer if a successor isn’t
confirmed by then.  He said he’s “very confident that we’re going to get
enough done in these next few weeks” and that Obama will “have
a successor in place so I’ll be able to go off and do some other
things.”  Need for Prayer  Earlier in the day, during a tour of Wat Pho Royal
Monastery in Bangkok, Obama joked with a monk that he needed his
prayers for the U.S. to resolve the deficit-reduction talks he
is undertaking with Congress.  “Yes, we’re working on this budget,” a laughing Obama
told the monk who was guiding him and Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton on the monastery tour. “We’re going to need a lot of
prayer for that.”  Later, at the press conference, Obama said, “I always
believe in prayer.”  “If a Buddhist monk is wishing me well, I am going to take
whatever good vibes he can give me to deal with some challenges
back home,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Bangkok at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Bangkok at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  