-- Tokyo’s Ishihara Joins Osaka Mayor to Fight Election
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-11-19T00:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/tokyo-s-ishihara-joins-hands-with-osaka-mayor-to-fight-election.html
Two of  Japan ’s most outspoken
politicians agreed to combine forces to bolster their challenge
to the nation’s main parties in next month’s election.  Shintaro Ishihara, the former Tokyo governor whose bid to
buy disputed islands in the East  China  Sea sparked tensions with
China this year, will merge his group into the Japan Restoration
Party of  Osaka  Mayor Toru Hashimoto. Ishihara will take the
leadership with Hashimoto second-in-command, party secretary
general Ichiro Matsui said Nov. 17 at a meeting in Osaka.  “Let’s fight together as one, by letting go of small
differences,” Ishihara, 80, said at the meeting. “We can’t
create any good unless we change a political system that’s
controlled by the central bureaucracy.”  Absorbing Ishihara’s Sunrise Party lends weight to
Hashimoto’s attempt to break into national affairs from his
regional base in Osaka, said  Takuji Okubo , chief economist at
Japan Macro Advisors, who has worked as an economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Societe Generale SA. Both the former Tokyo
governor and ally Takeo Hiranuma, a former trade minister, are
politicians with nationwide stature, he said.  “This merger could attract some criticism, such as that
the two parties haven’t resolved their policy inconsistency,
Okubo said. ‘‘But in our view, positive elements for the JRP
outweigh the negatives.’’  Combining Forces  Neither JRP nor Sunrise would gain sufficient support to be
a factor in the lower house election set for Dec. 16, Okubo
said. By joining, they have significantly boosted their
potential to win 50 seats or more, he said.  Combined voter backing for the merging groups totaled 15
percent, according to a Nikkei newspaper poll released today.
That was one point behind Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s
Democratic Party of Japan, while the main opposition Liberal
Democratic Party garnered favor from 25 percent in the poll
taken Nov. 16, according to the Nikkei.  A separate poll in the Asahi newspaper put the LDP at 22
percent, the DPJ at 15 percent and Ishihara’s new combined party
on 7 percent. Neither poll gave a margin of error.  Noda’s popularity has plummeted over his handling of an
economy that contracted in the third quarter, and LDP head
Shinzo Abe has said he’ll make the premier’s economic
stewardship the campaign focus as he seeks to restore power to
the party that ruled Japan through most of its postwar decades.  ‘Japan Will Sink’  Asked to choose between Abe and Noda as the next prime
minister, 37 percent of respondents to the Nikkei poll picked
Abe, down three percentage points from last month, while 25
percent picked Noda, up 7 points from last month.  ‘‘Japan will sink unless we change all the forces that try
to protect the status quo,” Hashimoto, 43, said on Nov. 17.
Public support for his party declined after he dropped his
opposition to restarting nuclear plants and suggested Japan and
South Korea jointly manage islets at the heart of another
dispute.  Japan Restoration announced 47 first-round candidates for
the lower house election, Kyodo News reported Nov. 17.  Ishihara stepped down as governor of Japan’s capital last
month to seek a parliamentary seat in the upcoming vote, taking
over as leader of the conservative Sunrise Party, whose youngest
lawmaker is 69. Dubbing himself an “old guy running amok,” he
has urged a rewriting of the nation’s pacifist  constitution ,
adoption of nuclear weapons, and called last year’s record
earthquake and tsunami disaster “divine punishment.”  Hashimoto said yesterday on a TV Asahi broadcast that
Ishihara may campaign for a lower house seat from  Tokyo  in the
proportional representation section of the voting.  Ishihara’s proposal in April that Tokyo buy the disputed
island chain known in Japan as Senkaku and in China as Diaoyu
prompted Noda’s government to purchase the territory, setting
off violent protests in China and threatening further damage to
the $340 billion trade relationship between Asia’s two biggest
economies.  The Nikkei surveyed 927 people by telephone between Nov.
16-18 and did not give a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  