-- Housing Agency Woes Offer Chance to Fix Market
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-18T23:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/housing-agency-woes-offer-chance-to-fix-market.html
For the first time in its 78-year
history, the U.S.  Federal Housing Administration  might need a
government bailout.  The agency’s most recent  audit , released last week, reveals
it is burdened by a $16.3 billion deficit in the value of its
insurance fund, primarily on loans it backed ahead of the
housing market’s collapse. The audit also reveals -- or should
remind us -- that the federal government’s role in the mortgage
market is outsized and should be reduced.  The FHA’s troubles are largely a result of the housing
party hangover, including defaults from a questionable program
that allowed sellers to cover the down payment on behalf of
buyers, often by inflating the price of the home.  Congress wisely  banned  such loans beginning in 2009, and
since then the FHA has steadily improved the credit quality of
the mortgages it insures, with an average credit score of 698 in
2012. The agency’s total delinquency rate is at its lowest
quarterly level since 2005, according to an analysis by bank
consultant Potomac Partners. The agency has taken other  steps  to
improve its finances. It is raising the annual premiums it
charges borrowers to insure mortgages -- and it plans to sell
10,000 delinquent loans a quarter.  Yet troubles remain. The Depression-era agency has strayed
from its original mission of helping low-income and first-time
homebuyers. Thanks to previous  approval  from Congress, the FHA
is allowed to back loans of as much as $729,750 in some areas.
Its  market share  has ballooned to about 30 percent, and it
insures a loan portfolio of about $1.1 trillion.  Private Capital  The FHA’s market presence has increased in large part to
fill the vacuum created by the  retreat  of private capital after
the housing bust. The FHA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two
government-sponsored mortgage operations, now back more than 90
percent of all new mortgages. That support has  girded  the
housing market, insulating the U.S. economy from an even worse
downturn. It has also discouraged private capital from getting
off the sidelines.  Luckily, the housing market appears stronger by the day,
making possible the gradual withdrawal of government support.
The most recent data show the rate of  seriously delinquent  U.S.
mortgages has fallen to the lowest level since 2008. Home prices
continue to stabilize, jumping 5 percent in September from a
year earlier -- the biggest increase since July 2006, according
to CoreLogic Inc.  Eventually, the FHA should return to its original role as a
provider of mortgage credit for low and moderate-income
borrowers. This can be accomplished in part by slowly decreasing
the size of the maximum loan that the FHA insures while
continuing to raise the price for FHA mortgage insurance to help
cover any expected losses. The U.S. should also consider raising
the minimum 3.5 percent down payment to 5 percent or more,
because  research  shows that mortgages with larger down payments
are less likely to default.  Wind Down  The FHA is only part of the problem. The U.S. must also
resolve the roles of Fannie and Freddie, which are returning to
health. We’ve  previously  suggested that the government wind down
the companies by slowly selling off their mortgages and
securities and honoring the debt they’ve sold to investors. They
should be replaced by an independent agency that provides
insurance on qualified mortgage-backed securities issued by
private entities.  Regulators would also do well to move ahead with new
mortgage rules, including standards for non-abusive lending and
a requirement that banks assume a portion of risky mortgages on
their books. Such rules will give lenders the regulatory
certainty they need to re-enter the mortgage market.  The government still has a crucial role to play in the
housing market, providing countercyclical support when the
market falters. That role will be more secure if Congress
tackles much-needed housing finance reform and strengthens the
mortgage market for the future.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Obama in Southeast Asia  and
on  what to do with the Federal Housing Administration ; William
D. Cohan on  prosecuting the small fish of Wall Street ; Albert
Hunt on  how immigration reform affected the election ; Pankaj
Mishra on  the future of the Persian Gulf’s autocracies ; Amity
Shlaes on  whether 2013 will be like 1937 ; Geoffrey Robertson on
how  the law can’t stop Iran’s nuclear program .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 