-- Putin’s Power Stirs Russians Watching ‘Julius Caesar’
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-11-18T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/putin-s-power-stirs-russians-watching-julius-caesar-.html
Vladimir Putin , who has stirred up
unprecedented protest to his more than decade-long rule in
Russia, was not far from the minds of some watching the  Royal
Shakespeare Company’s  “Julius Caesar” in Moscow.  The story of betrayal and assassination of a dictator
followed by civil war, set in a modern-day African country with
an all-black cast for the first time in this production, was on
its first foreign tour since it premiered in April in  the U.K .  “If there are leaders who have brought all the power to
themselves and are in danger of inspiring insurrection against
them, then that’s what the play says, and Russians must apply
that metaphor for themselves,” said the RSC’s artistic
director, Gregory Doran, after the show’s opening night at the
Moscow Art Theatre of Konstantin Stanislavsky.  The Straford-Upon-Avon-based theater company was in Russia
for the first time in 45 years, having toured the country for
the last time in the Soviet era in 1967 under  Leonid Brezhnev ,
who ruled for 18 years until his death in 1982. Putin, 60, a
former KGB agent, pushed aside his protege,  Dmitry Medvedev ,
from the presidency to reclaim the top job in May for a new
stint that may extend to 2024.  “At certain moments it was even frightening as it reminded
me of my country a little,” said Marina Raikina, a theater
critic for the Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper. The actors
playing the Roman elite had the same expressions on their faces
as modern-day Russian political leaders and oligarchs who “have
no connection to reality and live in their own world.”  Mandela Meeting  Doran, who was an anti-Apartheid campaigner, said he got
the idea for staging  Julius Caesar  in an African setting after
meeting  Nelson Mandela  several years ago and learning that he
was inspired by this Shakespeare play while imprisoned on Robben
Island.  As the Royal Shakespeare Company was examining the
proposal, the so-called Arab Spring unfolded in North Africa,
overthrowing decades-long strongmen including  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi, making the message of the play even more compelling.  “The question was not, will they get rid of Qaddafi, will
they assassinate Qaddafi, because we all knew they would, we all
knew he had to go one way or the other,” Doran said. “The
question was what will follow Qaddafi. And what happens in
Julius Caesar is a play in which Brutus and Cassius haven’t
thought it through.   “They have thought through to the assassination. They 
think then suddenly that everything will be fine. And what 
happens is they provide a vacuum into which much more ruthless 
people rush.”  Caesar Conspirators  The play also shows the fickle nature of the common people,
says Joseph Mydell, the actor who plays Casca, one of the
conspirators who stabs Caesar.  “He is the cynic, he is disparaging about people like
Caesar, but also equally, which I think is very important, in my
first scene, he is disparaging about the crowd, how fickle the
crowd can be, how they can be swayed one way or the other,”
Mydell said.  When Mark Antony is allowed to address Caesar’s funeral by
Brutus against the advice of Cassius, he succeeds in firing up
the crowd against the plotters.  Putin, who was re-elected to the presidency with 64 percent
of the vote in March, has lost the support of Russians for a
potential new term in 2018. Forty percent would prefer a new
leader after Putin’s six-year mandate ends, compared with 34
percent who want him to stay, according to a poll by the
independent  Levada Center  released on Oct. 26.  Medvedev’s Mentor  Medvedev, 47, who hasn’t ruled out a return to the
presidency which he occupied for four years while Putin kept the
reins of power as prime minister, is showing signs of open
conflict with his Kremlin mentor, for example over the state
role in the economy.  The play ends up looking like post-Qaddafi in Libya, as
Brutus and Cassius, dressed in army camouflage, almost fall out
as they fight a losing battle against Mark Antony’s forces.  Russians are not averse to experimenting with Shakespeare.
Dmitry Krymov’s fantasy version of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
that was staged at the World Shakespeare Festival in Stratford
and the Edinburgh Festival in August included giant puppets and
water sprayed on the audience.  The African Julius Caesar won enthusiastic plaudits,
including from the 90-year-old director of the Pushkin Museum,
Irina Antonova, who has run the institution since 1961. She said
she was “stunned” by the play, which was “spine-tingling.”  The state-run Voice of  Russia  radio also praised the
production. “Doran injected the text with modern music and an
African vitality, completely staying true to the words written
400 years ago. The theme of the tragedy -- power, betrayal,
struggle for freedom, are relevant in any era.”  “Julius Caesar” will be at the Brooklyn Academy of Music,
Peter Jay Sharp Building, 30 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn NY 11217-
1486, from April 10-28 2013. Information: +1-718-636-4182 or
 http://www.bam.org/programs/2013/winter-spring-season   The show ran at Moscow Art Theatre, 3, Kamergersky
Pereulok, 125009 Moscow. Information: +7-495-629-8760 or
 http://www.mxat.ru/english/   Information:  http://www.rsc.org.uk/whats-on/julius-caesar/   For a review of the London performance of the production,
click here.  (Henry Meyer writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Elin McCoy 
on wine,  Mike Di Paola  on the environment,  Hephzibah Anderson  on
books and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 