-- Rajoy Warns of Catalan EU Exclusion as Mas’s Party Dips in Polls
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-18T15:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/rajoy-warns-of-catalan-eu-exclusion-as-mas-s-party-dips-in-polls.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said that a vote for Catalan independence risked excluding the
region from the European Union, as polls showed a decline in
support for Catalonia’s ruling party before Nov. 25 elections.  Rajoy, speaking during a meeting of his  People’s Party  in
the Catalonian city of Girona today, said that calling an early
election in the region was a “mistake” that had wasted time
and energy better invested in fighting Spain’s  recession . He
reiterated his warning that a push for Catalan sovereignty
jeopardized the region’s membership of the EU as part of Spain.  “Today it is in Europe because it is in Spain, and it
benefits from Europe as the rest of Spain does, and it
contributes to  Europe  as the rest of Spain does,” Rajoy told PP
supporters and members in Girona. While his party has an
absolute majority in parliament, Rajoy has said he doesn’t have
the power to call a referendum on Catalonia’s independence.  Catalonia, the first contributor to Spain’s economy as well
as its most indebted area, is at the forefront of a resurgent
push for regional autonomy in Europe as the debt crisis frays
the ties that bind the regions to their constituent states.  Rajoy’s warning on losing the benefits of EU membership
echoes comments made by U.K. government officials and those
opposed to Scottish independence before a referendum on Scots
self-determination scheduled for the fall of 2014. Scottish
First Minister  Alex Salmond  has said that he is seeking legal
advice on future Scottish membership of the European Union.  Girding Mas  Catalan President Artur Mas called early elections after
Rajoy rejected a request to let Catalonia have full control of
the taxes it collects. Mas, who doesn’t have an absolute
majority in the regional parliament in Barcelona, is aiming for
a strong show of support in the ballot to gird his hand for
negotiations on independence with Rajoy.  Separate polls published today by the newspapers El Mundo
and El Pais suggested that Mas’s CiU party might not surpass its
result at the 2010 election, with a projected 62 or 63 seats in
the regional parliament, one more at best than it has now.  Mas’s CiU has 37.3 percent support, according to El Pais,
and 36.6 percent in El Mundo’s poll. That compared with 40.9
percent in a poll for La Vanguardia published on Oct. 28.  The ruling CiU party has said that strong support on Nov.
25 will force the Spanish government and the European Commission
to revise their positions about new states having to leave the
union and reapply for membership. Even so, commission President
 Jose Manuel Barroso  said yesterday its position on territories
that secede from member states hasn’t changed.  Market Access  Mas would consider pursuing autonomy even if an independent
Catalan state were to be denied EU membership, his chief of
staff, Joan Vidal de Ciurana, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on Nov. 13. Catalonia wouldn’t need Spain’s Treasury
for funding if it had “the possibility to become a state and to
negotiate directly with the markets,” he said.  Rajoy, speaking in Girona, said the central government will
continue to provide Catalonia with liquidity. Catalonia’s bonds
are judged non-investment grade by at least one rating company,
while the Spanish treasury itself is on the brink of junk.
Catalonia and  Spain  depend on each other, Rajoy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  