-- Record-Low Mortgage Rates May Lift Housing: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-11-18T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/record-low-mortgage-rates-may-lift-housing-u-s-economy-preview.html
The lowest  mortgage rates  on record
probably helped keep sales of previously owned U.S. homes close
to a two-year high in October, and underpinned construction of
new residences, economists said before two reports this week.  Purchases of existing dwellings held at a 4.75 million
annual rate last month, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s report from the National
Association of Realtors.  Housing starts  eased in October to an
840,000 pace from a four-year high of 872,000 units in
September, Commerce Department figures may show Nov. 20.  Demand for residential real estate is also being propelled
by more affordable properties, progress in the labor market and
improving consumer sentiment. The data underscore what Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called “signs of improvement”
in the market, which is helping fuel the expansion as
manufacturing cools.  “Housing has definitely become a bright spot in the
economy, while all the international-facing sectors are doing
much worse,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, U.S. economist at BNP
Paribas in  New York . The economy should sustain a “modest
recovery” through year-end, she said.  Existing-home sales have improved after reaching a 3.39
million annual rate in July 2010, the lowest since comparable
records began in 1999. In the buildup to the subprime lending
collapse and recession, purchases reached a peak of 7.25 million
in September 2005.  Builder Confidence  Confidence among homebuilders, as  measured  by the National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index, held at 41 in
November, the highest since June 2006, data tomorrow may show.
Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents still said
conditions were poor.  The average  rate  on a 30-year, fixed mortgage declined to
3.34 percent last week, the lowest in data going back to 1972,
according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has
advanced 70 percent since the end of last year, outpacing the
8.1 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  The housing market would accelerate even more if it was
accompanied by a bigger pickup in employment, according to
homebuilder  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  The  Fort Worth , Texas-based
company, which is the largest U.S. homebuilder by volume,
reported fiscal fourth-quarter earnings last week that beat
analysts’ estimates.  D.R. Horton  “What we’re seeing is improvement off of an extremely low
bottom in the housing market,” William Wheat, chief financial
officer at  D.R. Horton , said at a Nov. 15 conference. “We’re
seeing small amounts of job growth right now. We’re going to
need to see more over the long term. Jobs is the No. 1 driver
for housing demand.”  Companies added 184,000 workers to payrolls in October, the
most since February, Labor Department figures showed earlier
this month.  “Continued weakness in housing -- reflected in falling
prices, low rates of new construction, and historic levels of
foreclosure -- has proved a powerful headwind to recovery,”
Bernanke said last week. “It is encouraging, therefore, that we
are seeing signs of improvement in the housing market in most
parts of the country.”  The Fed chairman is pressing on with record easing
including a plan to buy $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed
securities, in a bid to spur growth and reduce a 7.9 percent
unemployment rate.  Fed’s Bernanke  While tighter credit standards after a collapse in the
subprime mortgage market were appropriate, “it seems likely at
this point that the pendulum has swung too far the other way,
and that overly tight lending standards may now be preventing
creditworthy borrowers from buying homes, thereby slowing the
revival in housing and impeding the economic recovery,”
Bernanke said.  Some members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
monthly mortgage bond purchases by the Fed are “likely to
reinforce the nascent recovery in the housing market,”
according to minutes of their Oct. 23-24 meeting released Nov.
14.  The housing starts figures may soon reflect the effects of
Sandy, the biggest Atlantic storm on record. Construction and
home repair companies may get a lift from rebuilding in  New
Jersey  and New York. The storm may provide a boost similar to
that provided by  Hurricane Irene , which added about $360 million
in sales last year,  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  executives said on a Nov. 13
earnings call.  “The property damage, as we understand it, related to
Irene was about $16 billion; the property damage for Sandy is
about $20 billion, so it would suggest possibly higher sales,
but it’s impossible for us to know right now,” said Carol Tome,
the Atlanta-based company’s chief financial officer.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  