-- Republicans’ Hispanic Problem Is With Party Base
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-11-18T16:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/republicans-hispanic-problem-is-with-party-base.html
The Republican handwringers and
recriminators are taking to Washington salons and opinion
columns to lament the party’s failure to appeal to Hispanics in
the 2012 election. Instead, they ought to go to Grundy Center or
Hampton,  Iowa .  It was there in the summer of 2007 that  Mitt Romney ,
seeking the Republican presidential nomination, went to town
meetings and got an earful on illegal immigration. He generally
had been a supporter of comprehensive immigration reform; after
a series of town halls, he became the leading immigration basher
in the 2008 and 2012 Republican primaries.  “He morphed into that position to make a connection with
these voters,” says Douglas Gross, who ran Romney’s Iowa
presidential campaign in 2007.  The Republican problem on immigration and other issues
won’t be solved with just a Washington fix, such as passing an
immigration bill or nominating Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida  as
the party’s presidential candidate. The Republican political
base is intolerant, stridently so, on issues such as
immigration, religion and gay rights.  Romney and the people around him may have been soft on
principle; they weren’t dumb. Because conservatives were
suspicious of the candidate anyway, the Romney camp felt
compelled to play the nativist card.  Primary Onslaught  Last autumn, he savaged Texas Governor  Rick Perry  for being
too soft on immigration; his super political action committee
then ran 1,501 commercials in Iowa attacking former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  on the issue. The campaign later ran 2,300
ads assailing another rival, former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , for his positions.  Then, in the general election, Romney ran spots, including
one featuring his Spanish-speaking son, pledging support for a
bipartisan solution on immigration.  Hispanics didn’t buy it. They voted 71 percent for
President  Barack Obama , 27 percent for Romney.  Romney’s experience with the issue -- success in the
primaries, failure in the general election -- encapsulates the
Republicans’ core constituency problem. It’s similar to what
Democrats faced a generation ago, when their base was well to
the left of the country, especially on cultural matters.  Polls over the last year have shown that almost half of
Republicans believe the preposterous charge that Obama wasn’t
born in the U.S.; almost a third said he was Muslim, also
demonstrably false.  The same sort of extreme views are evident among the
party’s core supporters on issues involving women.  Republicans lament losing two Senate seats they expected to
win. One was in  Missouri , where candidate Todd Akin talked about
“legitimate rape” and the other was in  Indiana , where  Richard Mourdock  suggested pregnancy resulting from rape was “God’s
will.” Those were stupid and insensitive statements. Yet these
two right-wing Republicans defeated more electable opponents in
primaries not in spite of such views but because of them.  These attitudes are out of step with the changing face of
U.S. politics.  In 1980, the electorate was 88 percent white; 12 years ago,
it was 83 percent white; on Nov. 6, 2012, it was only 72 percent
white and within several elections it will be less than two
thirds.  Obama won 80 percent of the nonwhite vote. Republicans
never expected to do well with African-Americans, though the
huge turnout surprised them. At one time, the party had hoped to
do better with Hispanics. Yet almost every expert on that
electorate says a requisite for consideration by many Latinos is
that a candidate possesses a reasonable view on immigration.  Iowa Congressman  One Republican re-elected this year was Iowa Congressman
Steve King, who once likened immigrants to dogs. Those town hall
meetings that Romney attended in the summer of 2007 were in
King’s district, the most Republican in the state. It’ll be
interesting to see if any of the 2016 presidential hopefuls take
on King.  A bright young Republican luminary,  Bobby Jindal , the
governor of  Louisiana  and the new head of the  Republican
Governors Association , last week called on his party to be more
inclusive, to reach out to minorities and “not be the party
that simply protects the rich so that they get to keep their
toys.”  In that interview with  Politico , he said Republicans have
to “stop being the stupid party” and “cease this dumbed-down
conservatism and stop insulting the intelligence of the
voters.”  This is good advice from a former Rhodes scholar. Yet this
is the same Bobby Jindal who signed a bill that his right-wing
legislature passed encouraging the teaching in Louisiana schools
of creationism alongside evolution. And when the crazy birthers
threatened to require a candidate to present a copy of a birth
certificate to get on the ballot, Governor Jindal said he would
sign such a  measure .  Gross, the former Romney Iowa campaign chairman, recalls
trying to convince his candidate that there was space for a pro-
immigration candidate, urging him to engage in a “Sister
Souljah” moment. That’s a reference to 20 years ago, when
Democratic presidential candidate  Bill Clinton  took on a
violence-spewing rap singer before a black audience, reversing
the tendency of party leaders to pander to or gloss over such
bad behavior. Romney “wouldn’t do it,” laments Gross.  Your move, Bobby Jindal.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 