-- SAS Wins Backing of Unions for Its Plan to Shrink Airline
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-11-19T17:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/sas-braces-for-possible-shutdown-of-airline-as-labor-talks-drag.html
SAS Group (SAS) ’s plans to eliminate jobs
and shrink its business were accepted by pilot and cabin-crew
unions as Scandinavia’s biggest airline fights to stay afloat.  SAS  surged  29 percent after reaching accords with all eight
labor groups, with one deal that covers 600 Swedish cabin crew
freezing pay through 2014 and lifting the  retirement age  to 65,
according to their union. Danish flight attendants were the last
to sign up, hours after a midnight deadline for a deal expired.  Unprofitable on an annual basis since 2007, SAS is  planning 
6 billion kronor ($887 million) in cost cuts and disposals as it
seeks an extension of credit lines needed to keep flying. The
Stockholm-based company’s recovery plan will eliminate office
jobs and sell assets including a ground-handling unit and
Norwegian brand Wideroe to pare the payroll by more than 7,000.  “Most issues with the unions are falling into place,” said
Mark Schindele, a credit analyst at Nordea Bank in  Stockholm .
“Employees understood that this was a very serious situation.”  A 3.5 billion-kronor revolving credit is contingent on
final parliamentary approvals for the plan and the backing of
one-third of the members of SAS’s Danish pilot union.  The accords put in place today will boost SAS’s
competitiveness and could pave the way for external tie-ups,
Chairman Fritz Schur said in a briefing in Copenhagen, adding
that “a merger would be good for the company.”  Supplier Squeeze  SAS Group, which has 1,085 daily flights and serves 128
destinations, is the latest European carrier to struggle for
survival. Hungary’s Malev Zrt. and Barcelona-based Spanair SA,
which used to be owned by SAS, collapsed this year as Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis and high  oil prices  weigh on airlines.  With ticket sales tumbling, suppliers might have started
requesting payments upfront had the union deals not been sealed,
said Kenneth Sivertsen, an analyst at Arctic Securities in Oslo.
Contingency plans for a collapse in talks had seen planes beyond
Scandinavia refueled and ready to return to base, while outbound
crews were ordered to carry enough cash to meet expenses.  The stock  rose  1.65 kronor to 7.25 kronor, the biggest jump
since Aug. 17, 2011, and closed 23 percent higher at 6.90 kronor
in the Swedish capital. That pares its drop so far this year to
14 percent and values SAS, which is part-owned by the Swedish,
Norwegian and Danish governments, at 2.27 billion kronor.  SAS, whose main brand is Scandinavian Airlines, would have
faced an uncertain future had unions rejected the restructuring,
spokeswoman Elisabeth Manzi had said, while declining to specify
if it would have filed for bankruptcy in the absence of a deal.  ‘Very Satisfied’  Terms accepted by the Swedish cabin-crew group also include
a tightening of travel and overtime payments, though there are
no regular salary cuts, and the union is “very satisfied under
the circumstances,” spokeswoman Jennie Zetterstroem said.  “The core problem is they have higher costs than several
low-price carriers that have entered the Scandinavian market,”
said Louis Landeman, a senior credit analyst at Danske Bank
Markets in Stockholm, citing the example of Norwegian Air
Shuttle ASA. “Also, unlike the bigger airlines in  Europe , SAS
has few of the longer flights where there’s more money to be
made. They’re just not earning enough cash.”  About 800 administrative posts will be eliminated by
focusing work at SAS’s Stockholm base under a plan to shave 3
billion kronor from costs. SAS has already scrapped 300 office
jobs this year in an earlier project to cut 5 percent from
spending and lift earnings by 5 billion kronor through 2013.  Disposal Talks  Talks are under way with potential buyers for the ground-
handling business, which has 5,000 workers, and “all options”
are being considered for Wideroe, where the workforce totals
1,400. Excluding the regional unit, which is based in Bodoe in
northern  Norway , SAS currently employs about 15,000 people.  Disposals by SAS will also include airport real estate and
unused  aircraft engines  to raise a total of 3 billion kronor,
Chief Executive Officer Rickard Gustafson said Nov. 12.  While banks reached a provisional agreement on increasing
SAS’s credit lines to 3.5 billion kronor from 3.1 billion kronor
with an extension through March 2015, they “won’t support” SAS
unless the carrier shows it can make a profit, he said then.  IAG, Air France  “Intensive work” must now start on making SAS competitive,
Swedish Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said in a
statement, adding that a credit facility of as much as 749
million kronor will be made available.  The cuts at SAS are part of an industrywide reorganization
in Europe.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the
parent of London-based British Airways, announced plans on Nov.
9 to eliminate 4,500 posts at its Spanish Iberia unit, or more
than one-fifth of the workforce.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, said Oct.
31 that it intends to cut 1,300 positions at its Dutch division
in addition to 5,000 already being eliminated at the larger
French business.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  is dropping 3,500
administrative jobs and as many as 1,000 catering positions.  Standard & Poor’s  cut SAS’s corporate-credit rating one
rung from B- to CCC+, seven levels below investment grade. The
restructuring “has damaged customer and supplier confidence,”
something from which it may take some time to recover, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  