-- SAS Group Management Rejects Offers From Cabin Crew, Pilots
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-11-18T16:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/sas-group-management-rejects-offers-from-cabin-crew-pilots.html
SAS (SAS)  Group, the biggest Nordic
airline, said management rejected offers from unions
representing cabin crew and pilots during talks aimed at finding
a way to save the carrier.  Airline management has ordered all aircraft outside
Scandinavia to be refuelled and ready to return to base
immediately, and crews on all outbound flights told to carry
enough cash to meet expenses, SAS spokesman Mikkel Thrane said.  A board meeting was due to be held today to discuss the
talks and decide on future action, he said.  SAS, unprofitable on an annual basis since 2007, plans to
cut office jobs and sell assets, including a ground-handling
unit and Norwegian brand Wideroe.  The cutbacks are intended to reduce the payroll by more
than 7,000 workers, SAS said Nov. 12. The company, part-owned by
the governments of Sweden, Norway and  Denmark , employed an
average of 14,969 people in the third quarter, a 2.6 percent
decline from a year earlier.  Disposals by SAS, whose main brand is Scandinavian
Airlines, will also include airport real estate and unused
aircraft engines to raise a total of 3 billion kronor ($440
million), the company said on Nov. 12. About 800 administrative
posts will be eliminated by focusing work at SAS’s Stockholm
base under the plan.  SAS has already scrapped 300 office jobs this year in an
earlier project to cut 5 percent from spending and lift earnings
by 5 billion kronor through 2013. Talks are under way with
potential buyers for the handling business, which employs 5,000
people, and “all options” are being considered for Wideroe,
based in Bodoe in northern  Norway , where the workforce totals
1,400, Chief Executive Officer Rickard Gustafson said Nov. 12.  Banks reached an agreement on increasing SAS’s credit lines
to 3.5 billion kronor from 3.1 billion kronor and extending them
through March 2015, the company said on Nov. 12. The agreement
is contingent on unions approving the latest cost reduction
totaling 3 billion kronor. Credit providers “won’t support”
SAS unless it demonstrates it can make a profit, Gustafson said
at the time.  The cutbacks at SAS are part of an industrywide
reorganization in  Europe .  International Consolidated Airlines (IAG) 
Group SA, the parent of London-based British Airways, announced
plans on Nov. 9 to eliminate 4,500 posts at the Spanish carrier
Iberia, or more than one-fifth of the workforce.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, said Oct.
31 that it intends to cut 1,300 positions at its Dutch division
in addition to 5,000 already being eliminated at the larger
French business. Second-ranked  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  is dropping
3,500 administrative jobs and as many as 1,000 catering
positions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  