-- Shadow Banking Grows to $67 Trillion Industry, Regulators Say
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/shadow-banking-grows-to-67-trillion-industry-regulators-say.html
The shadow banking industry has
grown to about $67 trillion, $6 trillion bigger than previously
thought, leading global regulators to seek more oversight of
financial transactions that fall outside traditional oversight.  The size of the shadow banking system, which includes the
activities of money market funds, monoline insurers and off-
balance sheet investment vehicles, “can create systemic risks”
and “amplify market reactions when market liquidity is
scarce,” the Financial Stability Board said in a report, which
utilized more data than last year’s probe into the sector.  “Appropriate monitoring and regulatory frameworks for the
shadow banking system needs to be in place to mitigate the
build-up of risks,” the FSB said in the report published on its
website.  While watchdogs have reined in excessive risk-taking by
banks in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, they are concerned that lenders might use shadow
banking to evade the clampdown. Michel Barnier, the European
Union’s financial services chief, is planning to target money
market funds in a first wave of rules for shadow banks next
year.  The FSB, a global financial policy group comprised of
regulators and central bankers, found that shadow banking grew
by $41 trillion between 2002 and 2011. The share of activity
based in the U.S. has declined from 44 percent in 2005 to 35
percent in 2011, moving to the U.K. and the rest of  Europe .  Bypass Lenders  Supervisors consider shadow banking activities to be those
that allow banks to carry out business off balance sheets, as
well as those which allow investors to bypass lenders and the
functions they traditionally fulfill on the markets.  The FSB also targeted repurchase agreements and securities
lending for tougher rules, recommending that regulators
implement minimum standards for calculating losses on the
different types of collateral used in the transactions.  Repurchase agreements are contracts where one investor
agrees to sell a security and then buy it back at a future date
and a fixed price. Securities lending agreements involve
institutional investors such as pension funds lending financial
instruments against cash collateral.  The group is also concerned that regulators are unable to
monitor the scale of the trades. Supervisors should “collect
more data on securities lending and repo exposures amongst large
international financial institutions with high urgency,” the
FSB said in the report.  More Disclosure  Large firms should disclose more information about the
deals to investors, the FSB said, and may be required to publish
regular statements detailing how much collateral they have and
what it is used for.  A bankruptcy examiner’s report found that Lehman used so-
called Repo 105 transactions to move as much as $50 billion
temporarily off its balance sheet to convince investors it
wasn’t carrying too much debt.  Final rules will be submitted to leaders of the Group of 20
nations at a summit in St. Petersburg,  Russia , next year, the
FSB said. Mark Carney, chairman of the FSB, said earlier this
month that regulators are holding “intense discussions” on
shadow banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  