-- Southeast Asia Will Be Less Export Dependent by 2017, OECD Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-18T08:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/southeast-asia-will-be-less-export-dependent-by-2017-oecd-says.html
Southeast Asia ’s growth will remain
resilient over the next five years as stronger investment and
private consumption reduce dependence on exports for expansion,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and a slowdown in advanced
economies have had a “limited” impact on Southeast Asian
nations with most of the effect experienced through trade, the
Paris-based OECD said in a report released in Phnom Penh today.
The region, along with  China , may face risks stemming from
volatility of capital inflows in the medium term, it said.  The prospects for developing Asian nations contrast with
the fiscal and demographic challenges faced by more advanced
economies, as higher public spending and younger populations
support domestic demand and lure investment even as global
expansion weakens. Increased government expenditure on social
safety nets and health will encourage household spending and
reduce the need for precautionary savings in emerging  Asia ,
according to the report.  “A combination of cyclical factors, government policies,
and longer-term shifts in economic structure that have supported
consumption growth over the past several years are likely to
continue to underpin its growth over the medium term in
Southeast Asia, China and  India ,” the OECD said in its 2013
outlook for the region.  Governments in Southeast Asia have loosened fiscal policies
to spur growth. Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  is
increasing spending to a record and seeking more than $16
billion of investments in roads and airports, while Malaysian
Prime Minister Najib Razak is also boosting outlays.  Foreign Investment  The region’s growth prospects are helping attract overseas
companies, with Japan’s foreign direct investment in Southeast
Asia surpassing that in China, according to Japan External Trade
Organization’s figures using finance ministry data. Japan’s
investment in the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  more
than doubled to $19.6 billion in 2011 from the previous year,
while that in China was $12.6 billion, according to the
organization.  Fiscal deficits in most Southeast Asian nations will narrow
through 2017, leading to an improvement in public debt levels as
a percentage of gross domestic product, the OECD said.  Indonesia’s growth will outperform its neighbors, with a
6.4 percent annual rate of expansion from 2013 to 2017, the OECD
estimated, equal to that recorded in the two decades before the
1997 Asian financial crisis, the OECD said.  Investment Grade  “This favorable outlook for Indonesia reflects the
significant improvement in the country’s standing with
international investors and the ambitious infrastructure
investment and economic reforms specified in Indonesia’s medium-
term development plan,” the OECD said.  Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is increasing
spending on roads, seaports and airports as he woos investment
to spur Southeast Asia’s largest economy. More than a decade
after the Asian financial crisis forced Indonesia to seek an
International Monetary Fund bailout,  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s
Investors Service have raised their ratings on the nation’s debt
to investment grade and growth is among the fastest in the Group
of 20 nations.  The  Philippines  will expand about 5.5 percent a year from
2013 to 2017, while Malaysia and Thailand will see annual
expansion of about 5.1 percent, the OECD predicted. Singapore’s
economy may grow 3.1 percent a year.  “The slower projected growth for these countries compared
to Indonesia highlights the fact that they are now in the stage
where further rapid gains in productivity become more difficult
to achieve and the risks increase of falling into a ‘middle-
income trap’ of slower growth,” the OECD said.  For the region’s less-developed economies, Myanmar’s growth
outlook has improved “substantially” amid political reforms,
which are expected to lead to a large influx of foreign
investment, the OECD said. High inflation partly due to a weak
macroeconomic management framework is a “major downside risk”
for  Vietnam , it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Phnom Penh  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  