-- Stocks Rise on Budget Optimism; Euro Drops on France
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-11-19T22:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/u-s-equity-futures-oil-gain-as-obama-pledges-budget-agreement.html
Global  stocks  surged the most since
July amid optimism a deal can be reached to avoid automatic U.S.
spending cuts and tax increases. Oil led commodities higher,
while Treasuries fell. The euro fell after  France  lost its top
credit rating with Moody’s Investors Service.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  advanced 2 percent as of 4
p.m. in New York, ending an eight-day decline, and the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index jumped 2 percent to 1,386.89 for its biggest
gain in two months. Oil rose to a one-month high amid concern
Middle East unrest will disrupt supply. Treasury 10-year yields
rose three basis points to 1.61 percent. The euro fell 0.3
percent to $1.2777 at 5:34 p.m. New York time, reversing an
earlier gain.  House Speaker John Boehner and White House Press Secretary
Jay Carney described a Nov. 16 meeting on the so-called fiscal
cliff as “constructive.” France was cut to Aa1 from Aaa,
Moody’s said after the close of U.S. markets, dealing a blow to
President Francois Hollande’s efforts to show budget credibility
in the face of a stalled economy. European finance ministers are
due to meet in Brussels tomorrow as they aim to craft a plan for
 Greece ’s next aid payout.  “This change and transition in taxation is much more
important for equity allocations going forward than what people
realize,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of New York-based
Marketfield Asset Management, which oversees $3.5 billion. He
spoke in a phone interview. “The U.S. economy looks pretty
good. Earnings are OK. As long as Congress doesn’t absolutely
wreck it, it will be fine.”  The S&P 500 has gained an average 0.6 percent during the
week of Thanksgiving, according to data since World War II
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 0.15 percent in all
calendar weeks in the same time frame.  U.S. Stocks  Bank of America Corp., Verizon Communications Inc.,
Hewlett-Packard Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. jumped more than
2.6 percent lead the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 207.65
points to 12,795.96.  Apple Inc. jumped 7.2 percent, the most since April, after
Topeka Capital Markets analyst Brian White said the stock’s
recent slide was “insane” given its valuation, new products
for the holidays and long-term growth opportunities. Apple had
lost as much as 24 percent from its record in September,
bringing its price-to-earnings ratio to 13.7.  Cisco Inc. (CSCO)  rose 1.7 percent after the world’s largest maker
of computer-networking equipment agreed to pay $1.2 billion for
closely held Meraki Inc.  The S&P 500 had lost more than 5 percent from Nov. 6 to
Nov. 15 as President  Barack Obama ’s re-election set up a
showdown with the Republican-controlled House over the budget.
The index increased 0.5 percent on Nov. 16, the first gain in
four days, after Boehner said talks with Obama were constructive
and he would accept an increase in government revenue if coupled
with spending cuts.  Obama ‘Confident’  “I am confident we can get our fiscal situation dealt
with,” Obama said at a news conference in Bangkok yesterday,
spurring optimism lawmakers would reach an agreement to avoid a
$607 billion deficit-cutting package known as the fiscal cliff.  An S&P index of 11 homebuilders rallied 0.9 percent,
extending its two-day gain to more than 4 percent. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder
confidence rose to 46, the highest level since May 2006.  Existing home sales increased 2.1 percent to a 4.79 million
annual rate, exceeding the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed. The median price rose from a year ago as
inventories dropped to the lowest level in almost a decade.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell 0.5 percent, the most in a month. The
U.S. currency weakened the most versus the Swedish krona,
Norwegian krone and New Zealand dollar.  Crude Rallies  Crude for January delivery rallied 2.7 percent to $89.28 a
barrel after  Israel  said it may expand an assault on the Gaza
Strip. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said yesterday
that the army is prepared to “significantly widen the
operation,” raising concern Middle East unrest will disrupt oil
supplies.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 2.2 percent, rebounding
from the biggest weekly drop in five months as all 19 industry
groups advanced. BP Plc jumped 3.6 percent after the Sunday
Times reported that  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company is
planning a 3.7 billion-pound ($5.9 billion) buyback. HSBC
Holdings Plc gained 3.8 percent in  London  after saying it’s in
talks to sell a stake in  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318) ,  China ’s
second-largest insurer.  European Movers  SAS AB jumped 23 percent after the Swedish airline won the
backing of unions representing pilots and most of its cabin crew
for plans to eliminate jobs and shrink the business. Fugro NV
plummeted 14 percent, the biggest drop in four years, after the
Dutch oil-services company cut its forecasts and said Chief
Executive Officer Arnold Steenbakker will leave.  The Moody’s downgrade of France follows one by S&P in
January and increases pressure on Hollande to find ways to
bolster growth in Europe’s second-largest economy in the midst
of the region’s three year-old debt crisis.  European finance chiefs are due to meet in Brussels
tomorrow for the second time in a week after they agreed seven
days ago to keep Greece’s bailout aid flowing. In addition to a
disagreement between the European Union and International
Monetary Fund over softening Greece’s debt target, the ministers
will attempt to re-engineer the current bailout without asking
taxpayers for more money.  Greek 10-year bonds rose for a seventh consecutive day,
pushing the yield down 25 basis points to 17.22 percent.  Industrial Metals  Copper for delivery in three months advanced 2.6 percent to
$7,804 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. All six main
industrial metals traded on the bourse gained. Gold for
immediate delivery rose 1.1 percent to $1,731.85 an ounce in
London, gaining for the first session in three. Silver, platinum
and palladium also advanced.  Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index slumped amid
speculation over the king’s health after he underwent back
surgery, which the government said was successful. The  Tadawul
All Share Index (SASEIDX)  dropped 1.5 percent to 6,666.46, the lowest
since Oct. 14.  Emerging-market stocks rose for the first time in eight
days, led by exporters. Samsung Electronics Co., which got about
28 percent of its third-quarter revenue from America, and Cosco
Pacific Ltd., the container-terminal arm of China’s largest
shipping group, gained more than 1.9 percent. The  Micex index  in
 Russia , the world’s biggest energy exporter, rallied more than 1
percent and rose above its highest closing level in a week.  European Union carbon permits dropped to the lowest since
July as supplies of new allowances were set to increase this
week. The December contract lost 2.8 percent to 6.71 euros a ton
on the ICE Futures Exchange in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  