-- Vodafone’s IPO Hinges on $8 Billion Question: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-11-19T10:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/vodafone-india-ipo-held-on-8-billion-question-corporate-india.html
Vodafone India Ltd. (VOD)  said it’s
“impossible” to proceed with a proposed initial share sale
until the government clarifies the price to extend licenses that
may amount to as much as $8 billion.  The fees that India’s second-largest mobile phone operator
may have to pay could vary by 3 billion pounds ($4.8 billion)
depending on how the government prices the permits, skewing the
potential market value of the company, according to Chief
Executive Officer Marten Pieters. The licenses are due for
renewal from November 2014.  “It’s impossible to float the company if you have that
kind of swing in your valuation,” Pieters, 59, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Mumbai office. “We’d get a discount
for all this uncertainty. Why as an owner would you want to sell
it with a big discount?”  The government’s drive to boost airwave prices amid
corruption allegations in awarding spectrum to some operators in
2008 may deter IPO investors, according to Naveen Kulkarni, an
analyst at PhillipCapital India Pvt. Mobile-phone companies
including Vodafone, which has more users in India than the
population of  Japan , and  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  are struggling to
revive growth in a market where 13 competitors have driven call
rates to a penny a minute.  “We’re still in a situation where regulatory uncertainty
is the order of the day,” said Lawrence Sugarman, an analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London . “When you have that situation,
and also such high reserve prices on the spectrum, the companies
are going to be quite reluctant to invest.”  Bharti’s Performance  India’s cabinet decided Aug. 4 that operators will have to
pay a minimum of 140 billion rupees ($2.5 billion) to buy
wireless channels in the 1,800 megahertz band for the global
system for mobile communications, or GSM, networks. That price
is only 16 percent lower than the winning rate of high-speed
third-generation airwaves in a 2010 auction, Mumbai-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Sachin Salgaonkar wrote in a
note to clients.  Bharti Airtel rose 2.7 percent to 309.5 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai. The  shares  have dropped 22 percent in the
past year making it the third-worst performing stock in the 73-
company  MSCI India Index (MXIN) , which advanced 16 percent in the
period.  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , controlled by billionaire
 Anil Ambani , has lost 15 percent.  Vodafone’s parent  Vodafone Group  Plc, which acquired
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s business in the world’s second-largest
mobile-phone market in 2007 for $10.7 billion, is also waiting
to resolve a $2.2 billion dispute with Indian tax authorities
over the acquisition before selling shares, Chief Executive
Officer  Vittorio Colao  said last year.  Vodafone Group, which has dropped 6 percent in the past 12
months, rose 0.4 percent to 158.5 pence in London.  Deferred IPOs  Indian companies have also deferred IPOs as growth in
 Asia ’s third-largest economy slows. Just $303 million of IPO
deals have been completed this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Pieters, who wants to sell shares “as soon as possible”
doesn’t need the IPO to finance the renewal of permits, which
will be funded by Vodafone’s  shareholders , he said. The unit,
based in Mumbai, has invested 510 billion rupees in spectrum and
networks in the nation in the last five years, he said. The
company has a net debt of 300 billion rupees, Pieters said.  An IPO “would give them a better relationship with the
regulators and authorities if there was a tie-in to the Indian
population,” Liberum’s Sugarman said. “It’s good from a
marketing perspective as well.”  Vodafone has permits for 900 megahertz airwaves in Mumbai
and  New Delhi  that come up for renewal. The company has an
option to extend the licenses by 10 years.  Bharti Airtel, India’s biggest mobile-phone operator, will
also need to renew its licenses between November 2014 and 2024.  Renewal Permits  The government, which has said it plans to price renewal
permits at rates determined at auctions, failed to attract
bidders for four areas including Mumbai and Delhi at last week’s
Supreme Court-ordered sale of second-generation airwaves. India
will attempt to offer the spectrum to companies again before
March 31, Telecommunications Minister  Kapil Sibal  said on Nov.
16.  The  Supreme Court  earlier this year said spectrum must be
auctioned rather than sold and canceled 122 licenses, saying
their original allocation had been corrupted by “money power”
and some buyers’ “ability to manipulate the system.”  India will ask the telecom regulator to revise the price
for the frequencies unsold in last week’s auction, a government
official told reporters in New Delhi, asking not to be
identified, citing rules.  “Since pricing at the 2G auction was meant to act as a
benchmark for deciding the pricing of all other spectrum, any
downward revision will have a positive cascading effect” on
airwave rates, Sushil Sharma and Pranav Kshatriya, analysts at
Brics Securities Ltd., said in a note to clients on Nov. 15.  ‘Refarm’ Airwaves  Telecommunications Minister Sibal said this month the
government may “refarm” or take away the 900 megahertz
spectrum, and instead offer more 1,800 megahertz airwaves to
companies seeking to renew their permits. The move may increase
costs for carriers, that the industry association says are
saddled with a combined debt of more than $23 billion.  The aim is to free up the more efficient 900 megahertz
frequencies, that have a wider coverage, and offer it to
operators in an auction to provide high-speed fourth-generation
data services, Department of Telecommunications Secretary R. Chandrashekhar said on Oct. 17.  Regulators in Denmark, France and  Sweden  in 2009 joined the
U.S. and  Australia  in allowing refarming of spectrum in the 900
and 1,800 megahertz bands in order to free up more airwaves for
high-speed services, according to GSMA, an industry association.  ‘Legal Debate’  Refarming would cost Bharti more than $2.4 billion in
reassigning its network radio frequency architecture, according
to an Oct. 17 report by Deepti Chaturvedi, a Mumbai-based
analyst at CLSA Ltd. The company would see a “significant
increase” in operating and capital expenditure, Chaturvedi
said.  Bharti, backed by  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , would
also have to purchase the 900 megahertz spectrum if it chooses
to keep the airwave, she wrote.  The refarming of airwaves may prompt a “legal debate”
among carriers, Pieters said.  “We are of course very interested in retaining our
spectrum,” said Pieters. “We also think we are entitled to it.
The government seems to think they can simply take it away. We
think that that is not what’s written in the license.”  4G Services  Vodafone will also be “interested” in bidding for the 800
megahertz spectrum that can be used to offer services based on
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s code division multiple access technology, he
said. There were no bidders for the sale of the airwaves in the
last auction.  The CDMA technology will enable Vodafone to offer 4G
services in the country with 907 million cellular phone users,
according to Pieters.  A drop in airwave prices and “more regulatory clarity” in
the next 12 months will give investors confidence to invest in
Vodafone’s IPO, said Kulkarni at PhillipCapital, formerly known
as MF Global Sify Securities  India  Pvt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  