-- Wall Street’s Great Scapegoat Hunt
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-11-18T23:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/wall-street-s-great-scapegoat-hunt.html
Wall Street  has increasingly taken
up its old habit of blaming junior bankers and traders for what
goes wrong.  This is particularly troubling because Wall Street is
similar to the military: There is no upside for anyone working
in finance to do anything but to follow the orders given by the
bosses. The idea of a “rogue trader” is really a myth. The goal
at every firm is always to make more money in any way that is
legally defensible -- by selling more mortgage-backed
securities, by doing bigger and bigger mergers-and-acquisition
deals or by making a larger and larger bet on the direction of
an obscure debt index.  When things go well -- the firm lands a big underwriting or
a high-profile merger or executes a profitable trade -- there is
no shortage of people around to claim credit. Of course, when
something goes terribly wrong -- see “Whale,  London ” or
“Synthetic CDO, Abacus” -- the senior executives disappear from
the scene faster than cockroaches when the light is turned on.
In return, employees get paid more working on Wall Street --
without putting any personal capital at risk -- than they can at
almost any other job on the planet. This is not a subject open
to debate on Wall Street. This is the way it is. If you don’t
like that bargain, you leave. (Sorry,  Greg Smith .)  Botched CDO  And yet, we are now supposed to believe that many things
that went wrong leading up to the financial crisis were caused
by a handful of junior bankers and traders supposedly acting on
their own.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and the Securities and
Exchange Commission continue to blame  Fabrice Tourre , a former
Goldman Sachs vice president, for the botched manufacturing and
selling of the Abacus 2007-AC1 synthetic collateralized debt
obligation. The firm paid the $550 million -- one of the largest
fines in Wall Street history -- to avoid an SEC civil suit.
Tourre, meanwhile, faces a civil trial set for July. While
Goldman Sachs pays his legal bills, he is studying for a
doctorate at the  University of Chicago  and doing humanitarian
work in  Rwanda . (Anyone want a Free Fab! T-shirt?)  This month, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission zapped
Matthew Marshall Taylor, another former Goldman Sachs vice
president, for allegedly concealing an $8.3 billion trading
position in 2007 that cost the company $119 million (the losses
were hard to see in a year when Goldman Sachs made $17 billion
in pretax profit). The CFTC  alleged  that Taylor fabricated
trades and then obstructed Goldman Sachs’s “discovery of his
scheme” by providing “false, misleading or deceptive information
and reports.”  No so fast, says Taylor’s attorney, Ross Intelisano. His
client “strenuously denies all of the allegations”; he never
“intentionally entered ‘fabricated trades’”; and it was Taylor
who brought the losses to Goldman Sachs’s attention, not the
other way around, Intelisano said in a statement. Is what we
have here a failure to supervise?  Then there is Kweku Adoboli, the former “rogue” trader at
 UBS AG (UBSN) , who is  on trial  in London for supposedly losing the bank
$2.3 billion without any of his superiors knowing. If found
guilty, he could spend 10 years in prison.  His lawyer, Charles Sherrard, used metaphor to make an
insightful point about Wall Street culture. In closing remarks,
Sherrard compared his client to Spartacus, the slave-turned-
gladiator played by Kirk Douglas in the 1960 movie. Remember the
scene in which Spartacus steps up to take the blame for the
slave rebellion, but in his defense his fellow gladiators also
claim to be Spartacus so that no one can be blamed individually.
Well, things turn out differently on Wall Street: Three of
Adoboli’s co-workers saw fit to testify against him.  “Mr. Adoboli stands up and says ‘I am Spartacus’ and the
other three stand up and said ‘Yes, that’s him!’” Sherrard told
the jury. “Mr. Adoboli believes more in community than the
self.” He then quoted from Adoboli’s e-mails: “We are a team, we
work together. One fails, we all fail. One succeeds, we all
succeed.”  Whale Suit  A similar script was written against  Jerome Kerviel , the
former trader at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  convicted in a 2008 trading
scandal, and will  probably be written  for Javier Martin-Artajo,
who supervised Bruno Iksil when he lost  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
more than $6 billion. Last month, without providing details of
its claims, JPMorgan filed suit against Martin-Artajo in London.
Does the bank really expect us to believe Martin-Artajo acted
alone without the knowledge of the top brass in  New York ?
Meanwhile, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and other
agencies are also looking to snare small fish,  investigating 
whether foot soldiers at JPMorgan’s chief investment office in
London intentionally masked losses by mispricing the positions.  This isn’t to say all these bankers are necessarily
innocent or shouldn’t be held accountable if they committed
illegalities. Rather, it’s that to pretend they acted in a
vacuum defies the way the industry works. The message being sent
from the corner offices on Wall Street (and in  Washington ) is
clear and chilling: As long as times are good and you do what
you are told, you will get paid; but when there is trouble and
we need a sacrificial lamb, it may well be you that we serve up.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Obama in Southeast Asia  and
on  what to do with the Federal Housing Administration ;  Albert
Hunt  on  how immigration reform affected the election ;  Pankaj
Mishra  on  the future of the Persian Gulf’s autocracies ;  Amity
Shlaes  on  whether 2013 will be like 1937 ;  Geoffrey Robertson  on
how  the law can’t stop Iran’s nuclear program .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  