-- Euro Gains Amid Greek-Aid Report; Aussie Climbs on IMF
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-19T22:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-18/yen-declines-against-most-major-peers-before-boj-meeting.html
The euro strengthened against the
dollar amid speculation  Greece  will receive its next aid payment
as European finance officials met in Paris to forge a common
position on the bailout.  The euro pared gains after Moody’s Investors Service cut
 France ’s bond rating to Aa1 from Aaa, with its outlook remaining
negative. The dollar fell against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts except the yen on speculation U.S lawmakers will
reach agreement on the nation’s budget and avert the so-called
fiscal cliff, damping demand for safety. The Canadian and
Australian dollars extended gains against the greenback as the
 International Monetary Fund  said it’s considering classifying
them as reserve currencies.  “The market was still nervous ahead of the euro-group
summit,”  Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It
was particularly fearful that we weren’t going to get any firm
resolutions around when Greece would get its next tranche. Any
news suggesting that Greece will get its next payment represents
good news.”  The euro gained 0.6 percent to $1.2814 as of 5 p.m. New
York time, after slipping 0.2 percent last week. The yen
weakened 0.1 percent to 81.41 versus the U.S. currency after
falling as much as 0.3 percent to 81.59, the weakest level since
April 25. The Japanese currency fell 0.7 percent to 104.32 per
euro after earlier depreciating to 104.33, the lowest since Oct.
25.  ‘Market Optimism’  European finance ministers move to Brussels tomorrow where
they will give a tentative go-ahead for the disbursement of 44
billion euros ($56 billion) on Dec. 5, reported Reuters, citing
officials familiar with the meeting.  In  Athens , the leaders of two parties backing the coalition
government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras called for release
of the next payment.  Greece “can’t be in the middle of a tug-of-war between the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund,” Democratic
Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said, according to statements
televised live on state-run NET TV. Pasok leader  Evangelos
Venizelos  told reporters Greece can bear no further delays.  The Canadian and Australian dollars “are to be considered
for inclusion” separately in the IMF’s “Currency Composition
of Official Foreign-Exchange Reserves” data, the Washington-
based lender said in a report published on Nov. 14. They’ve
previously been included in an “other currencies” category in
the COFER reports.  Canada ’s dollar climbed 0.5 percent to 99.63 cents per  U.S.
dollar . The Aussie added 0.7 percent to $1.0412.  Fiscal Cliff  Brazil ’s real gained after analysts lowered their forecasts
for 2013 economic growth, bolstering bets that the country’s
central bank will keep borrowing costs low.  The currency appreciated 0.1 percent to 2.0823 per dollar
after closing at a five-month low Nov. 16. The real rose as much
as 0.8 percent, its biggest increase since Aug. 31.  The dollar declined as lawmakers expressed optimism on the
fiscal cliff, the $607 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts scheduled to take effect at the beginning of 2013
unless Congress acts.  “I am confident we can get our fiscal situation dealt
with,” Obama said at a news conference in Bangkok, where he
began a three-nation trip. House Speaker  John Boehner , who
called Nov. 16 discussions with Obama “constructive,” said
Republicans are willing to put revenue on the table in exchange
for spending cuts.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, dropped 0.3 percent to 80.981 after reaching 81.455 on
Nov. 16, the highest since Sept. 5.  Funding Currency  “The U.S. dollar is still the main funding currency of the
world,”  Hans Redeker , head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Morgan Stanley in  London , told  Maryam Nemazee  on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” today. “When you have more
information that we can deal with the fiscal cliff, then it is
going to work initially against the dollar, especially versus
higher-yielding currencies.”  The dollar fell as sales of previously owned U.S. homes
 climbed  in October, indicating gains in the real-estate market
are being sustained by cheap borrowing costs.  Japan ’s currency dropped against all of its major peers
after  Kyodo News  reported Liberal Democratic Party leader Shinzo
Abe will choose someone who favors inflation targets as the next
 Bank of Japan (8301)  governor. The BOJ will end a two-day policy
meeting tomorrow.  Yen Declines  The yen has fallen 7.4 percent this year, the most among
the 10 developed currencies measured by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The euro is the second-worst performer, losing
2.8 percent, while the dollar has declined 1.4 percent.  The dollar may rise to a 30-week high versus the yen after
bouncing off a key support level, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG, citing trading patterns.  The market is due to correct lower back toward the area
from 80.56 to 80.68, after which it may appreciate to 82.68, its
highest level since April 4, according to Cilline Bain, a
technical strategist at Credit Suisse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  