-- 
NLRB Hurts Business With Union Agenda, Congress Told

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-02-12T00:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/labor-agency-hurting-businesses-by-backing-unions-congress-told.html
The  National Labor Relations Board ,
which mediates disputes between management and workers, must be
pulled back from a pro-union agenda that is harming businesses,
labor lawyers told a U.S. House hearing.  “Too often in the  United States , the union’s incentive is
to use the baton to injure or maim the employer, instead of
running the race against international competitors,” Philip Miscimarra, a partner at Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, said today
at a House Education and the Workforce subcommittee hearing.  Republicans in control of the House have proposed cutting
$100 billion in federal spending and might impose spending
restrictions barring the board from enforcing rules viewed as
anti-business. The Democratic-led agency has been faulted by
industry groups such as the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  that say
the board is deciding cases in a way that makes it easier for
labor unions to organize.  The NLRB’s “recent proposals and actions are modest by any
measure,”  Cynthia Estlund , a law professor at  New York
University , said in testimony prepared for the panel. “Far from
running amok or striking out in radical new directions,” the
board has “taken or considered a few cautious steps.”  Businesses criticized a September board decision giving
unions the right to display banners outside the office of a
company’s suppliers and customers. The Arizona case let a
carpenters’ union display 16-foot banners reading “shame.”  Representative Todd Rokita, an Indiana Republican elected
last year, said the “activist board” has taken a pro-labor
stance that is hurting  job creation .  ‘Fairly, Openly’  “It is unfortunate that the work of the board is often
viewed through a partisan lens, but that has been the case for
decades,” NLRB Chairman Wilma Liebman said in an e-mailed
statement after the hearing. The board carries out its mission
“fairly and openly,” she said.  Representative Phil Roe, a Tennessee Republican, said the
NLRB has abandoned a sense of “fairness and neutrality” in
decisions under the Democratic majority.  “Numerous actions by the board suggest it’s eager to tilt
the playing field in favor of powerful special interests against
the interests of rank-and-file workers,” Roe said in his
opening statement.  G. Roger King, a partner at  Jones Day  in Columbus,  Ohio ,
challenged the board’s decision to review a case involving  Alabama ’s Specialty Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center of
Mobile that business groups say may give bargaining rights to
smaller, job-specific unions. Unions would gain a greater
foothold when organizing, business groups have said.  ‘Upside Down’  “The ramifications of the case is to turn upside down our
whole nation’s labor laws,” King said.  The board also is considering whether companies that let
charities such as the Girl Scouts on their property also must
let unions on site for boycotts. The case involves Roundy’s
Supermarkets Inc., which stopped union agents from leafleting.
Groups led by the Chamber of Commerce are concerned the board
will decide for the unions.  The board has three Democrats, one Republican and a vacant
seat. Democrat  Craig Becker , who was renominated by President  Barack Obama  on Jan. 26 for a three-year term, has angered
businesses because of his ties to organized labor. Becker spent
20 years as a lawyer for the AFL-CIO, the largest federation of
unions, and the  Service Employees International Union .  Today’s hearing may lead to additional congressional
investigations of the agency, said Michael Eastman, executive
director of labor law policy at the Chamber.  “The NLRB has been very active over the past year,”
Eastman said in an e-mail. “It has issued several important
decisions and is considering many more that could have a
significant impact on the workplace. This hearing appears to be
the committee beginning to examine those decisions and where the
board is heading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 