-- 
Madoff Trustee May Do What Bernie Didn’t: Give Victims Profit

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-02-11T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/madoff-trustee-may-do-something-bernie-never-did-give-victims-real-profit.html
After  Bernard Madoff  was exposed as
the biggest Ponzi schemer in U.S. history,  Irving Picard  was
named to liquidate the con man’s bankrupt firm and recover some
of the $65 billion Madoff told customers was in their accounts.
Two years later, Picard is about halfway to recovering the $20
billion customers invested before Madoff added phony profits.  As Picard pursues hundreds of lawsuits seeking $100 billion
from banks and others he claims profited from the fraud, he may
even be able to give some victims something Madoff never managed
to deliver -- a legitimate return on their investment, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Feb. 14 issue.  His strategy is simple. “We’re looking to collect as much
money as possible,” Picard said outside court Jan. 13, after a
bankruptcy judge approved a $7.2 billion settlement Picard and
U.S. prosecutors reached with the estate of Jeffry Picower, a
Madoff investor who died in 2009.  The Picower settlement --- the biggest of its kind ---
underscores the tricky position Picard is in: To return money to
Madoff’s victims, he has to first take it from somebody else.
Picard’s choices about whom to pay and whom to sue have led some
victims to feel wronged again.  “He’s doing what the receiver is supposed to be doing,”
says John V. Donnelly III, a partner with the law firm Cozen &
O’Connor in Philadelphia, who represented an investor in
recovering assets frozen in R. Allen Stanford’s alleged $7
billion fraud.  Profiting From Fraud  Picard has made several decisions that paid off, including
seeking additional funds from investors he claimed should have
known they were profiting from a fraud, says Sandra Mayerson, a
bankruptcy lawyer with the firm Squire Sanders in  New York .  “He’s consistently taken the most aggressive position
possible,” she says, “and that’s been very successful in
recovering money for the estate.”  Just days after Madoff told authorities his financial
empire was “one big lie” in December 2008, the Securities
Investor Protection Corp. named Picard, 69, trustee of Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities, making him responsible for
unwinding the fraud. Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence
in federal prison in  North Carolina .  When Picard was named Madoff trustee, the SIPC said he had
liquidated more brokerage firms as trustee than anyone. A week
later he announced he was leaving his law firm,  Newark , New
Jersey-based Gibbons PC, for the New York office of Baker
Hostetler LLP, a 650-lawyer firm based in  Cleveland .  Soul Mate  At Baker Hostetler, he joined David Sheehan, 67, a friend
and former law partner, who serves as his chief lawyer in the
Madoff case. In December, Picard filed a $19.6 billion suit
against Bank Medici and its founder, Sonja Kohn, whom Picard
called Madoff’s “criminal soul mate,” along with Bank Austria
AG and UniCredit SpA. Kohn, who hasn’t been criminally charged,
has said she was a victim of the fraud.  In complaints unsealed this month, Picard claimed Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, owners of the  New York Mets , and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . had all the information they needed to discover
Madoff was running a vast fraud and looked the other way instead
of taking steps to expose him. The suits seek $6.4 billion from
JPMorgan and as much as $1 billion from Wilpon and Katz.  JPMorgan wasn’t aware of Madoff’s fraud, said  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the bank, in a statement. The
activity in Madoff’s account was consistent with a legitimate
investment advisory business, she says.  ‘Strong-Arm Effort’  Wilpon and Katz said Picard’s suit against them is “an
outrageous strong-arm effort to try to force a settlement by
threatening to ruin our reputations and businesses.” They
called the trustee’s claims “abusive, unfair and untrue.”  If Picard and Wilpon and Katz negotiate a settlement, they
might model it on a deal made in connection with Bayou Group’s
Ponzi scheme, uncovered in 2005. In that instance, a partnership
tied to Wilpon gave up $12.9 million, which represented all
profits it made plus 44 percent of the principal, after a judge
ruled that Bayou investors could be pursued if they had seen
“red flags” that should have alerted them to the fraud.  The case against the Wilpon and Katz “will strike fear
into the hearts of a lot of people, because if they should have
known, then a lot of people should have known,” Mayerson says.  Not all of Picard’s targets are banks or wealthy investors.
Helen Chaitman, a New York City lawyer who was a Madoff
investor, says she represents many people of relatively modest
means whom Picard sued in the weeks leading up to the Dec. 11
deadline for him to file claims. The date, which was the two-
year anniversary of Madoff’s arrest, was also the day his son,
Mark Madoff, committed suicide by hanging himself in his
Manhattan apartment.  Net Winners  Some individuals, known as “net winners,” withdrew more
from their Madoff accounts than they invested. Picard is suing
hundreds of them to recover the fictitious profits he frequently
refers to in legal papers as “other people’s money.”  Most of those people withdrew and spent the money with no
idea they were living off the proceeds of a fraud, says
Chaitman, and many “are frantic” and have no way to pay, she
says. Even clients with approved claims, who are likely to
receive money from Picard, have been forced to sell their claims
to investors for 50 cents to 65 cents on the dollar because they
need cash, she says.  Picard says he will use his discretion not to pursue claims
against Madoff victims who can show that paying back their
profits from the fraud would cause financial hardship, according
to a December press conference and his official website. As of
Feb. 4, Picard had allowed claims made by 2,401 former Madoff
investors and denied more than 13,471, according to his  website .  Fees  So far the  bankruptcy court  has approved $119 million in
legal fees for Picard and Baker & Hostetler. The money is to be
paid by the SIPC, Picard has said in court papers. Work on the
Madoff case accounted for at least $58 million of the firm’s
estimated $386 million revenue in 2010, according to The
American Lawyer.  Chaitman, who has frequently opposed Picard in the Madoff
case, credits him with uncovering details of Madoff’s fraud,
including the identities of many alleged accomplices that
haven’t come out through criminal prosecutions or an
investigation by the SEC. “Thank God for Picard,” she says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drvoella@bloomberg.net . 