-- 
Magnitude 6.8 Quake Hits South Chile; Buildings Sway

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-02-11T22:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/magnitude-7-earthquake-hits-southern-chile-shaking-buildings-in-santiago.html
A  magnitude-6.8 earthquake  disrupted
electricity and telephone services in southern Chile today,
almost a year after a quake and tsunamis devastated the area.  The  temblor  occurred about 3:05 p.m. New York time, 395
kilometers (245 miles) south south-west of Santiago, according
to the  U.S. Geological Survey . The quake was felt in the
capital, where buildings swayed in the downtown area. The USGS
initially said the quake was magnitude 7.  Emergency response systems worked and there were no reports
of deaths or significant damage, President Sebastian Pinera told
reporters in Santiago. An 8.8-magnitude quake, the fifth-
strongest in a century, hit southern and central Chile on Feb.
27, 2010, killing more than 500 people and causing $30 billion
in damage. This tremor was an aftershock, Pinera said.  “There have been no reports of significant damage, death
or accidents,” Pinera told reporters in remarks televised live
on TVN. “There is no tsunami risk.  Chile  learned its lesson
from the Feb. 27 earthquake. Today we’re better prepared.”  Empresa Nacional del Petroleo, Chile’s state-owned oil
refinery, said operations at its Bio Bio plant were returning to
normal after power to some of its units was cut. There was no
damage to the refinery, a company official briefed on the matter
said by phone, declining to be named citing company policy.  Water Outages  There were some residential power supply cuts and water
outages in the city of Concepcion, 270 miles south of Santiago
and 30 miles from the epicenter of the temblor, Pinera said.
Shoppers in a Concepcion mall ran onto the street after the
quake struck, some trembling and crying, images transmitted by
TVN showed.  Mobile phone services became clogged, Pinera said. About
half the region’s fixed phone lines are working, the
government’s emergency office said on  its website .  Residents fled coastal towns that were wiped out by
tsunamis caused by last year’s quake, such as Dichato, TVN
reported. The U.S. Pacific Tsunami Warning Center  said there  is
no danger of the quake causing a tsunami that could hit  Hawaii .  “There are no reports of damage but along the coast people
naturally evacuated themselves given what happened last year,”
Deputy Interior Minister  Rodrigo Ubilla  told reporters today in
Santiago.  State-owned copper company Codelco’s El Teniente mine and
Ventanas smelter in central Chile weren’t affected and were
operating normally, a company official briefed on the matter
said by telephone, declining to be named citing company policy.
Marcelo Esquivel, a spokesman from  Anglo American Plc  that owns
Los Bronces mine in central Chile, didn’t immediately return a
call to his office number in Santiago. 