-- 
Thailand's Stock Benchmark Drops 10% From January Peak, Marking Correction

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-02-11T07:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/thailand-s-stock-benchmark-drops-10-from-january-peak-marking-correction.html
Thai stocks dropped, driving the
benchmark index into a so-called correction, on investor concern
that accelerating inflation will boost borrowing costs and erode
corporate earnings  The SET Index fell 7.75, or 0.8 percent, to 941.34 at the
12:30 p.m. lunch break in Bangkok, a decline of more than 10
percent from a Jan. 6 peak, the threshold some analysts and
investors refer to as a correction. The gauge extended its drop
this week to 4.4 percent, headed for its worst weekly
performance since the period ended April 16.  Benchmark stock indexes in  Indonesia , the  Philippines ,  China  and  India  have also tumbled more than 10 percent from
their peaks as Asian central banks raise borrowing costs to stem
price gains. Thailand’s  interest rates  need to rise further
because inflation is the “key risk” to the economy, Bank of
Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said on Jan. 26.  “Investors are selling more on the Asia inflation
expectations and rising interest-rate outlook,” said Scott Lim,
who oversees the equivalent of $670 million of assets at Kuala
Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd. Thai equities
“had such a fantastic year, for them to return 10 percent from
the peak is not much to ask for,” he said.  Inoue Rubber (Thailand) Pcl, the nation’s largest maker of
motorcycle tires, slid 4.7 percent after saying quarterly profit
dropped 52 percent because material costs surged. Kim Eng
Securities   Thailand ) Pcl, the country’s biggest stock
brokerage, gained 2.8 percent after announcing higher dividend.  Overseas investors sold $282 million more local shares than
they bought this week, taking net sales this quarter to $940
million, according to stock exchange data.  China Rates Concern  The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index is heading for
its worst weekly performance since the period ended May 21,
after China raised interest rates for the third time since mid-
October to curb inflation and as Egyptians intensified protests
after President Mubarak defied calls for his immediate
resignation. China was Thailand’s biggest export market in 2010.  Thailand’s consumer prices rose 3.03 percent in January
from a year earlier, the most in five months, according to
official data released Feb. 1.  Inoue Rubber slipped 4.7 percent to 12.1 baht, poised for
the lowest close since April 21. Net income slumped to 50.4
million baht ($1.6 million) in the quarter ended Dec. 31, from
105.3 million baht in the same period last year, after the cost
of natural and synthetic rubber surged, the company said today.  Kim Eng Securities gained 2.8 percent to 14.8 baht, set for
the steepest advance since Jan. 26. The brokerage will boost its
final dividend payment to 1.18 baht a share, an increase from a
payout of 1 baht a share a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  