-- 
Thailand to Allow New Stock Exchanges, Regulator Says

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-02-11T09:51:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/thailand-to-allow-new-exchanges-to-lower-companies-capital-raising-costs.html
  Thailand  will allow new securities
exchanges to compete with the state-controlled bourse to lower
the cost of raising capital for domestic companies, the
 Securities and Exchange Commission  said.  A law is being drafted to end the  Stock Exchange of
Thailand ’s monopoly on equities and financial derivatives
trading, the commission’s Secretary-General Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala said in an interview in Bangkok yesterday.
The exchange said it needs to prepare for increased competition.  The government has pushed the bourse that was founded in
1975 to become profit-oriented and lower share-trading fees to
increase its attraction to overseas investors. The exchange
plans to sell shares in an initial public offering next year to
raise funds for expansion and to compete with regional rivals.  “Thailand will have wide-open competition in operating of  stock exchanges ,” Thirachai said. “New exchanges will allow
companies other ways to raise funds, probably at lower cost.”  New entrants will likely specialize in securities focused
on particular industries or companies like the technology-heavy
Nasdaq Stock Market in the U.S., he said.  The Stock Exchange of Thailand more than doubled its profit
to 456.6 million baht ($14.8 million) in 2009 from 205.5 million
baht a year earlier as it  cut costs , according to the bourse’s
latest  financial statements  on its website.  ‘Enhance Efficiency’  “We need to markedly enhance efficiency, strengthen our
franchise and expand our customer base to prepare for
competition,” Veerathai Santiprabhob, the Stock Exchange of
Thailand’s chief strategy officer, said in a mobile-phone text
message in response to Bloomberg’s questions.  Brokerages in Thailand have been allowed by the regulator
to reduce fees for some stock trades since 2010. Brokerages are
able to charge commission of less than 0.25 percent on daily
trades of at least 5 million baht.  Exchanges in the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , or
Asean, plan to develop cross-border trading links as part of a
plan to make the markets more accessible and spur trading.
Malaysia and Thailand will start cross-trading of shares by
year-end, while  Singapore  and the  Philippines  will be next to
join, Yusli Mohamed Yusoff, chief executive officer of  Bursa
Malaysia Bhd ., operator of the Malaysian bourse, said Jan. 18.  ‘Urgent Need’  “Bourses in the region have seen the urgent need to
increase cooperation before slipping off investors’ radar
screens,” Thirachai. “The cooperation will probably deepen to
a point where those bourses decide to have mutual equity
investments among them.”  Alliances among Asian bourses would reflect increased
mergers and acquisitions worldwide, including  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc ’s Feb. 9 agreement to buy the owner of the
Toronto Stock Exchange for about $3.2 billion in stock.  Deutsche
Boerse AG  and  NYSE Euronext  are “in advanced discussions
regarding a potential business combination,” they said in a
statement Feb. 9.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. is open to mergers,
Lorraine Chan, a spokeswoman for the exchange, said yesterday.
Shares of ASX Ltd. rose 4.7 percent yesterday, the most since
Singapore Exchange Ltd. agreed to buy the Sydney-based operator
of  Australia ’s exchanges for A$8.35 billion ($8.4 billion) in
October.  The benchmark SET Index has dropped 8.1 percent this year,  Asia ’s fourth-worst performer, after surging 41 percent in 2010.
The gauge slid 3.6 percent this week, its worst weekly
performance since the period ended May 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  