-- 
Eisner, Saban May Bid for Apax Partners' Thomas the Tank Engine Franchise

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-02-11T20:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/haim-saban-michael-eisner-are-said-to-consider-bids-for-hit-entertainment.html
Haim Saban and former  Walt Disney
Co . Chief Executive Officer Michael Eisner are among parties
considering bids for Apax Partners LLP’s HIT Entertainment Ltd.,
the owner of Thomas the Tank Engine, said people with knowledge
of the situation.  Apax is seeking about $1 billion, though bids may come in
closer to $500 million, said three people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. Eisner is working with
buyout firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, said the people.
Saban, who owns the Power Rangers franchise, is already in
discussions about the assets, one person said.  “By definition, it hits some sweet spots for us,” Saban
Brands President Elie Dekel said in an interview earlier this
month. “You can pretty much bet if there’s transactional
activity in the kids space on established brands that we are
looking and aware of them. Whether or not we are pursuing or
engaged is really on a case by case basis.”  Bank of America Corp., which is working with Apax on the
sale, may begin a formal process at the end of the month, two
people said. Disney and  Viacom Inc ., as well as toymakers  Hasbro
Inc . and  Mattel Inc ., have also looked at London-based HIT, said
the people.  Bidders may seek to buy specific brands, rather than all of
the company, one person said. Thomas & Friends, a children’s
brand with dozens of  steam engine  train characters, may
represent as much as two-thirds of HIT’s value, the people said.  Apax Writedown  Apax, the London-based private equity firm that acquired
HIT for 489.4 million pounds ($789 million) in 2005, has written
down its investment to about zero, the people said. HIT, which
also owns the children’s characters Bob the Builder and Barney,
had a loss for the year ended July 2009 as its brands faced
competition in television shows geared toward pre-schoolers,
according to the company’s  annual report .  Representatives for Disney, Viacom, Mattel, Apax, HIT, Bank
of America, Eisner and Madison Dearborn declined to comment. A
Hasbro spokesman didn’t return a phone call.  Disney, the world’s biggest theme-park company, is
interested in branding parks with Thomas & Friends, the people
said. The Thomas & Friends show was  first broadcast  in 1984 and
has featured former Beatles drummer Ringo Starr and actor Alec
Baldwin as narrators.  Eisner, who left Disney in 2005, led an investor group that
included Chicago’s Madison Dearborn to acquire Topps Co., the
New York-based baseball card and Bazooka bubble gum maker, for
$385 million in 2007.  Saban started the Power Rangers characters and bought back
that franchise from Disney last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  