-- 
Thain Says He Should Have ‘Grabbed, Shaken’ Paulson

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-02-11T20:49:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/thain-says-he-should-have-grabbed-shaken-u-s-regulators-to-aid-lehman.html
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s former Chief
Executive Officer John A. Thain said Wall Street leaders should
have tried harder to convince U.S. regulators they needed to
prevent the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Banking chiefs weren’t “strong enough” during 2008
meetings in insisting that then-Treasury Department Secretary  Henry Paulson  reverse his opposition to a U.S.-led rescue of
Lehman, Thain told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission,
according to audio  files  released yesterday.  Lehman, based in New York, filed the largest bankruptcy in
U.S. history, roiling markets and helping contribute to the
bailout of insurer American International Group Inc. and the
purchase of Merrill by  Bank of America Corp . Days before
Lehman’s September 2008 collapse, Paulson convened CEOs
including Thain,  Lloyd Blankfein  of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Jamie Dimon  of  JPMorgan Chase & Co . to try to get the banks to
help fund a rescue.  “We collectively, the group of us, we should have just
grabbed them and shaken them and said, ‘Look, you guys cannot do
this,’” Thain told FCIC interviewers in a Sept. 17, 2010,
interview. “Allowing Lehman to go bankrupt was the single
biggest mistake of the financial crisis.”  The banking executives, their firms weakened by the crisis,
couldn’t be persuaded to contribute about $20 billion to
backstop Lehman’s bad assets, Thain said. Had the U.S. provided
that support, the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program may
not have been needed, he said. Barclays Plc or  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America probably would have bought
Lehman’s profitable operations, he said.  Credit Freeze  “The complete freezing of the credit markets that came
after Lehman made the situation much, much worse,” Thain said.
“It would’ve been much less likely that TARP and all the things
that followed would’ve been necessary if Lehman hadn’t been
allowed to go bankrupt.”  Worried that the government wouldn’t help Merrill Lynch,
straining under losses on mortgage-related securities, Thain
called  Kenneth D. Lewis , then-CEO of Bank of America, on
September 13, 2008, to suggest a “strategic transaction.”
Merrill’s board approved a $29-per-share deal, valuing the firm
at about $50 billion, before the weekend’s end, Thain said.  Bank of America would later receive $45 billion in two
rounds of government aid, some of which was needed because of
losses on Merrill’s assets. The firm repaid the funds in 2009.  Lawmaker Criticisms  Paulson allowed Lehman to fail because of political
considerations, including lawmaker criticism of the Bear Stearns
Cos. rescue, said Thain, who is now CEO and chairman of New
York-based commercial lender  CIT Group Inc .  The argument presented later by regulators that they lacked
the legal authority to save Lehman was “never raised” during
discussions with the CEOs at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , Thain said.  Lehman’s collapse and AIG’s bailout the same week
contributed to the biggest rewrite of financial rules since the
Depression as lawmakers sought to limit risk and create a way to
unwind risky companies. Financial firms have gotten bigger and
more systemically important in the last decade, Thain said.  “They’re more interconnected, there are fewer of them, and
there are zillions and zillions of derivative contracts that
connect them, all contributing to the ‘too big to fail’
problem,” he said.  Curtis Ritter, a spokesman for CIT, declined to comment,
and Michele Davis, a spokeswoman for Paulson, didn’t immediately
return a call. In his book, “On the Brink: Inside the Race to
Stop the Collapse of the Global Financial System,” Paulson said
he told the CEOs not to expect government money because
otherwise “some of them might think that Good Old Hank would
come to the rescue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  