-- 
AMR Board May Be Near Decision on Eagle Sale, Union Says

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-02-11T20:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/amr-board-may-be-near-decision-on-eagle-divestiture-union-says.html
  AMR Corp .’s board may be close to
deciding whether to divest its American Eagle commuter carrier
after two presentations on possible options from  American
Airlines , Eagle’s pilot union chief said.  American and Eagle executives have been negotiating an
agreement on how much flying would be done for the larger
airline once the regional unit becomes a stand-alone company,
 Tony Gutierrez , chairman of the  Air Line Pilots Association 
chapter at Eagle, told members in a Feb. 4 letter.  Unloading Eagle would let  Fort Worth , Texas-based American
seek cheaper ways to fly regional routes. A spinoff, public
offering, leveraged buyout and sale to a private-equity buyer
were among the possibilities under review, AMR said last year
after disclosing June 10 that the unit was being studied.  “The AMR board of directors has not yet authorized the
divestiture of American Eagle, but it appears that they may be
getting very close,” Gutierrez wrote. American outlined options
for a divestiture at meetings in November and January, he said.  Ed Martelle, an American spokesman, declined to confirm the
subject of the board sessions or comment on specific
discussions.  “Anytime you’re looking at something as complex as what
might be done with American Eagle, obviously you’re looking at a
whole range of issues,” Martelle said today in an interview.
“Something like this is so intensely complicated.”  ‘Most Likely Scenario’  A spinoff of Eagle, with AMR shares split between the
parent company and the new Eagle, “seems to be the most likely
scenario” for the unit’s future, Gutierrez told pilots. That
would make Eagle a publicly traded company owned by AMR
shareholders who could keep or sell the stock, he said.  American doesn’t “appear to be investing any effort”
toward an initial public offering for Eagle, he said. Market
conditions, including higher fuel prices and industry
consolidation, mean a merger with another regional carrier is
not the most likely outcome, Gutierrez said.  Investment bank  Evercore Partners Inc . and consultant Bain
& Co. are working for AMR to examine options for Eagle, people
with knowledge of the matter said in October. American was still
studying alternatives in December, Chief Financial Officer Bella Goren said at an airline conference.  AMR doesn’t break out complete financial data on Eagle,
such as debt or whether the unit is profitable. Revenue from
regional operations rose 16 percent in 2010 to $2.33 billion.
That was more than 10 percent of AMR’s $22.2 billion total.
Eagle’s traffic, or miles flown by paying passengers, rose 6.7
percent last year.  For Eagle, operating as an independent company would give
it the opportunity to compete for flying contracts with other
airlines. American studied a divestiture on at least one other
occasion before pulling the unit off the market in July 2008.  Eagle operates more than 1,500 daily flights to more than
170 cities in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Mexico  and the Caribbean.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  