-- 
ANC Youth's Malema Says Zuma's Comments on Mines Mean Mangoes Can Be Eaten

-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 
2011-02-11T10:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/anc-youth-s-malema-says-zuma-s-comments-on-mines-mean-mangoes-can-be-eaten.html
  Julius Malema , who is pushing for
nationalization of South Africa’s mining assets as the leader of
the youth wing of the ruling  African National Congress , has
drawn encouragement from President Jacob Zuma’s comments on
mining in yesterday’s state of the nation address.  Zuma yesterday said that the nation’s mineral reserves are
a “national asset” and “a common heritage that belongs to all
South Africans.” The ANC, under pressure from Malema, agreed to
study nationalization and discuss the policy at a meeting in
2012. The proposals have drawn criticism from Mines Minister
Susan Shabangu and from companies including  Anglo American Plc .  As a country you are the “owner of a mango tree. You can’t
eat those mangoes,” Malema said in an interview with  South
Africa ’s eNews late yesterday. “The president says you can now
eat those mangoes.”  South Africa has mineral reserves valued at about $2.5
trillion, more than any other country  Citibank NA  estimated last
year.  Anglo, founded in Johannesburg in 1917, is the biggest
private employer in South Africa and estimates that it generates
as much as 2.5 percent of the country’s gross domestic product.  The company controls  Anglo Platinum Ltd ., the world’s
largest supplier of the metal, produces coal and iron ore, and
owns a stake in De Beers, which mines diamonds in South Africa.  “Mining companies will simply not invest if they cannot be
assured that the assets they create will be secure,” Cynthia Carroll, Anglo’s chief executive officer, told a mining
conference in  Cape Town  on Feb. 8. “In ignoring this truth, the
false prophets who argue for nationalization are advocating the
road to ruin -- a path we must not follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Matthew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  