-- Hands Interested in EMI for Less Than Citigroup Seeks at Auction
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2011-02-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/hands-interested-in-emi-for-less-than-citigroup-seeks-at-auction.html
British financier  Guy Hands  said he
is considering buying EMI Group Ltd. a week after  Citigroup Inc .
seized control of the record label from his private equity firm.  “It’s a question of price,” Hands said in a speech to
business owners in Guernsey on Feb. 8, his first public
appearance since losing his stake in EMI. “Terra Firma and
Citigroup agreed on what EMI was worth back in 2007. We clearly
both got it wrong. Now, we disagree quite strongly about what
it’s worth,” he said. “They are going to auction it, and we
will see if they can get more for it than we offered.”  Citigroup took control of the 114-year-old company after it
struggled to meet the terms of loans used to finance its
acquisition by Hands’s Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. The New
York-based bank, which financed Hands’s 4 billion-pound ($6.5
billion) leveraged buyout in 2007, may sell EMI, the record
label of the Beatles and  Pink Floyd . Warner Music Group Corp.
and BMG Rights are among bidders that have expressed interest in
EMI’s publishing and recorded assets.  “We got convinced that if EMI is split up between
publishing and recording, it will die as a company,” Hands said
at the dinner for 70 people organized by the  Young Business
Group of Guernsey . “You’ve really got to keep the two together
so that you have the stability of publishing’s earnings versus
the volatility of the recorded music division.”  Hands didn’t detail how he would fund any acquisition of
EMI. Terra Firma, which raised a 5.4 billion-euro ($7.4 billion)
pool in 2007, has about 2 billion euros left to invest.  EMI Attention  Hands sued Citigroup last year, saying it had tricked him
into buying EMI, and sought extra cash from his backers to stop
the label breaching debt covenants to avoid losing control of
his most high-profile investment. In October, on the eve of a
New York court battle between Hands and Citigroup, the two
failed to reach an accord to cut the music company’s debt
because they disagreed on its value. Hands, who lost the case,
has filed an appeal.  A Citigroup spokesman in London declined to comment on
Hands’s remarks. The lender took a 2.2 billion-pound writedown
on the loans it provided for EMI,  Europe ’s biggest by a lender
to a leveraged buyout.  The 51-year-old said he was unprepared for the attention
his involvement with EMI generated, and some of his investors
indicated they’d rather he hadn’t taken the position.  “It would take a lot to get me to do another deal which is
as public as this,” Hands said at the dinner at the Farmhouse
Hotel, St. Saviour. “I’ve had very little sympathy for rock
stars before buying EMI. Now I have enormous sympathy for them
and all those who find themselves in the public eye.”  Hands and his team had a difficult choice as to who would
run the company after they fired EMI’s managers, he said. He
appointed himself chairman.  ‘In Front Line’  “You don’t normally put your general in the front line,”
Hands said. “You try and protect your general and have someone
else take the heat.”  Under Hands’s ownership of EMI, acts including the Rolling
Stones, Radiohead, Queen and  Paul McCartney  quit the label. EMI
slipped from a profit of 86 million pounds in fiscal 2006 to a
loss of 1.57 billion pounds in 2009, as teenagers turned to
file-sharing Web sites that give them free music downloads. That
loss narrowed to 512 million pounds in the year ended March
2010, and Hands defended his moves to cut costs at EMI.  “We took out about 2,000 people,” he said. That “annoyed
a lot of people, but saved an awful lot of money.”  Mick Jagger 
pointed out to him the numerous “pretty girls carrying water
bottles” for artists at concerts, and the number of people at
EMI doing things relevant in the 1970s but not in 2007, Hands
said.  ‘Polarized Investors’  The loss of the investment in EMI may limit his ability to
raise future leveraged buyout funds, Hands said. The deal
“polarized investors and potential investors,” he said an
interview after the speech. “Terra Firma will raise another
fund, and we would expect it to be smaller than last time.”  Hands, who moved to Guernsey two years ago to become a tax
exile, said last year his decision had proven a “burdensome
option for me and my family.” Now, he said he is happy to have
swapped a two-and-a-half-hour daily commute to and from  London 
for yoga and pilates, and shares his personal trainer with
Formula One racing champion and Guernsey resident Jenson Button.  “Problems can be opportunities,” he said as he offered
business advice to his audience. “Things go wrong. Get used to
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in St. Saviour, Guernsey at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net 
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  