-- 
Anglo's De Beers Seeking to Reach Full Diamond Production By End of 2012

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-02-11T12:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/anglo-unit-de-beers-says-annual-sales-climb-57-as-diamond-demand-recovers.html
De Beers , the largest diamond miner,
may raise its annual rate of output 21 percent to full capacity
by the end of 2012 and is preparing a final study for a new mine
in Canada to meet “extraordinary” demand from  China  and  India .  The company, based in Johannesburg, may raise the pace of
its production to an annual 38 million carats during this year
and to 40 million during next year, from 33 million in 2010,
said Bruce Cleaver, joint acting chief executive officer.  De Beers, 45 percent owned by  Anglo American Plc , today
reported record 2010 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization of $1.4 billion following a 57 percent surge in
its trading arm’s sales to $5.08 billion.  China and India delivered “extraordinary growth, well
beyond our expectation at 25 percent and 31 percent respectively
for the year,” Cleaver said on a conference call. “In America,
the Christmas season also exceeded our expectations with an
increase of approximately 7 percent for the full year.” Growth
will probably continue to perform in those markets, he said.    De Beers  and main rival ZAO Alrosa of  Russia  have benefited
from restocking after the global credit crunch forced purchasers
to cut inventories in 2009, and an average 27 percent recovery
in prices. Alrosa’s sales reached $3.48 billion in 2010, the
company said Jan. 17. The figure was a 90 percent increase from
a year earlier, according to pricing company Rapaport USA Inc.  “A blossoming diamond market and strong rebound in
fundamentals” is fueling gains in listed producers, Liberum
Capital Ltd. wrote in a note today.  Namakwa Diamonds Ltd . is up
24 percent this year and  Petra Diamonds Ltd . up 29 percent.  Booster Billion  “We think that by 2015, China,  Hong Kong ,  Taiwan , India
and the Gulf, which is kind of typically the places in the East
where diamonds are bought, will account for around nearly 40
percent of global demand,” Cleaver said in an interview.  Early data show the U.S. bought about 38 percent of diamond
jewelry last year, with India making up about 10 percent and
China and Hong Kong combined about 11 percent, he said. Asian
economies are growing faster than those in the U.S. and  Europe ,
where consumers and governments are trying to cut indebtedness.  Anglo, the Oppenheimer family and the  Botswana  government,
De Beers’ three shareholders, invested $1 billion in the company
last year through a rights offer after 2009 profit was hit by a
collapse in demand following a recession in the U.S. De Beers
suspended mines in Botswana and Namibia, cut more than 4,000
jobs and refinanced $1.5 billion of debt to cope with the slump.  The positive result of the action “arrived sooner than any
of us thought possible,” said Stuart Brown, joint CEO. Debt and
profit “normalized” about two years ahead of plan, De Beers
 said , adding net debt fell to $1.76 billion from $3.2 billion.  Canadian Mine  In anticipation of further demand growth, De Beers will in
a few weeks submit the final feasibility study for the Gahcho
Kue project in  Canada , its third mine, which may yield 5 million
carats a year, Brown said. De Beers owns 51 percent of the
venture with Mountain Province Diamonds Inc. De Beers also plans
to spend $3.6 billion expanding its Jwaneng mine in Botswana and
may build underground operations at Venetia in  South Africa .  The company isn’t distracted by speculation on whether
Anglo American will increase or decrease its shareholding in the
company, Brown said. A carat is equal to a fifth of a gram. 