-- 
Ambani Says Brokers Spreading ‘Baseless, Sensational’ Charges

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-02-11T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/anil-ambani-s-reliance-communications-profit-may-slump-66-on-discounting.html
  Anil Ambani ’s group said it knows
the brokers who spread “sensational charges” after a $2.6
billion loss in value Feb. 9. The statement came after analysts
predicted flagship  Reliance Communications Ltd . may post a sixth
straight drop in profit Monday.  Reliance ADA Group said brokers sent e-mails and text
messages, and made telephone calls disseminating “baseless”
accusations about its firms, according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday. No brokers or brokerages were named in the statement,
which also didn’t detail the allegations.  Ambani’s group, which has power, mobile-phone and
infrastructure businesses, sought an investigation by India’s
capital-markets regulator and “punitive interim orders against
guilty brokers.” Reliance Communications plunged 15 percent
this week, the most since Nov. 2009, on expectation profit will
drop raising concerns about reducing loans by  India ’s most
indebted mobile-phone operator.  “Earnings are immaterial now,” said Jigar Shah, an
analyst with Kim Eng Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai who has a
“sell” rating on the shares. “What is critical is how they
are able to reduce debt levels.”  Reliance Communications fell as much as 7.1 percent
yesterday to 89.70 rupees, the lowest since trading began March
7, 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock
closed trading at 97.15 rupees, up 0.6 percent.  ‘Vicious’ Rumors  The mobile-phone operator is the worst-performing stock in
India’s benchmark index this year. Ambani’s  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd . is the second-worst.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index is the world’s
worst-performing benchmark gauge apart from  Egypt  this year. The
Sensex rose 1.5 percent yesterday.  Reliance Communications’ net income may fall 66 percent to
3.7 billion rupees ($81 million) in the third quarter, according
to the average of 25 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The company reports Feb. 14.  The company’s net debt increased more than eight-fold to
about 292 billion rupees as of Sept. 30 from 33.7 billion rupees
at the end of September 2007, according to its quarterly
reports. The operator will cut investment in capacity expansion
as it aims to become debt free in three years, Ambani said last
year.  Ambani’s companies plunged Feb. 9, after which the group
said “vicious and illegal” rumors sparked a sell-off.  Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Essar  The company, India’s second-biggest mobile-phone operator,
was in talks to sell a stake or do an initial public offering of
its mobile-phone tower unit after negotiations to sell it to GTL
Infrastructure Ltd. collapsed Aug. 31.  The board also approved a separate plan to sell a 26
percent stake in itself at an “appropriate” premium to the
market price, to a strategic buyer or a private equity firm, the
company said in an e-mailed statement June 6.  “There have been so many attempts by the company to dilute
equity and raise some capital, but nothing has materialized,”
said Yogesh Kirve, an analyst at Anand Rathi Financial Services
Ltd. in Mumbai. He has a “sell” rating on the shares.  Reliance Communications is trying to reduce debt after it
and rivals  Bharti Airtel Ltd . and Vodafone Essar Ltd. spent a
combined $15 billion buying third-generation wireless spectrum
in India, where call rates are as cheap as a half-penny a
minute.  Second-Biggest Market  Reliance’s average revenue per user, a key measure of
performance in the mobile-phone industry, dropped 38 percent in
the second quarter.  Call rates have plunged in India since 2009 as new entrants
including Japan’s NTT DoCoMo Inc. and  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA 
triggered a tariff war. More than a dozen operators are
competing in India, which had 730 million mobile-phone accounts
as of November, making it the world’s biggest market after  China .  Nineteen of the 44 analysts tracked by Bloomberg recommend
selling Reliance Communications, 14 recommend holding and 11
recommend buying.  Ambani blamed rumors for the Feb. 9 plunges in shares of
his group’s telecoms, power and infrastructure companies.  “A series of completely baseless and motivated rumors have
been spread by our unscrupulous corporate rivals,” Reliance ADA
Group said then. “This has been accompanied by vicious and
illegal bear hammering of our listed stocks, to create panic and
destabilize the markets.”  Ambani’s wealth has diminished along with the drop in the
group’s market value, according to estimates by Forbes magazine.
In 2010, his net worth was less than half of his older brother
Mukesh, who ForbesAsia said was worth $27 billion. Anil Ambani’s
worth was estimated to be $13.3 billion.  The decline started in 2008, when Anil Ambani’s net worth
fell by $32 billion, the magazine  estimated  in its annual
listing of the world’s wealthiest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  