-- 
Aniston, Sandler’s Dumb Romance; Tatum Seeking Revenge: Movies

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-02-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/aniston-sandler-s-dumb-romance-tatum-seeking-revenge-movies.html
At this point in the puzzlingly
durable film careers of  Adam Sandler  and  Jennifer Aniston , the
title of their latest unfunny romantic comedy -- “ Just Go With
It ” -- seems a fittingly desperate plea.  Based on the wilted ‘60s sex farce “Cactus Flower,” the
movie pairs the king and queen of confounding megastardom as a
successful, wealthy L.A. plastic surgeon and his brainy, if
plain assistant. She wears glasses and a lab coat.  Sandler’s character, we’re told, routinely scores hot young
babes by pretending to be married. He enlists Aniston’s
Katherine to play wifey to fool a particularly comely 23-year-
old teacher (model Brooklyn Decker).  The dimwitted contrivance envelops Katherine’s two kids and
the doc’s buffoonish cousin. They end up in  Hawaii , where
cinematographer Theo van de Sande’s camera ogles the bikinied
bodies of Decker and Aniston. Sandler mostly keeps his shirt on.  The director is Dennis Dugan, whose expanding roster of bad
Sandler films includes “I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry,”
“You Don’t Mess With the Zohan,” and “Grown Ups.” “Just Go
With It” seems improvised, which means we get Sandler mumbling
to connote poignance and doing goofy voices for laughs.  Judging from her performance here, Decker, in the role that
won Goldie Hawn her “Cactus Flower” Oscar, shouldn’t start
writing acceptance speeches anytime soon. Young Bailee Madison,
as Katherine’s precocious daughter, out shines every grown-up.  In a cruel guest appearance,  Nicole Kidman  arrives late as
Katherine’s old college nemesis. If Kidman is aware of the
plastic surgery jokes, she doesn’t let on.  There’s nasty smugness, blithe sexism, fat jokes, gay
stereotypes, and a smirking attitude toward Hispanic nannies and
native Hawaiians. Everyone might have just gone with it back in
the days when “Cactus Flower” was blooming. Not anymore.  “Just Go With It,” from  Columbia Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ‘The Eagle’  A second-century buddy movie with the pulse of
“Gladiator” and the smarts of an earnest History Channel
documentary, Kevin Macdonald’s “ The Eagle ” efficiently
reclaims the sword-and-sandals genre from kitsch and video game
effects.  Based on Rosemary Sutcliff’s 1954 novel, “The Eagle”
stars Channing Tatum as Marcus Aquila, a Roman soldier
determined to retrieve both family honor and a long-lost gold
emblem -- the eagle of the title -- from the grasp of the
northern Caledonia tribe.  Accompanied by his resentful slave Esca (Jamie Bell),
Marcus sneaks beyond the safe confines of Roman-occupied Britain
into the brutal, untamed land of the Seal People. That’s  Scotland , cinematic home of all body-painted barbarians.  The golden statue serves as an effective ruse to join
master and slave in bloody, bonding adventure. Macdonald’s
direction --languid in stretches, thrilling in others -- plays
off Anthony Dod Mantle’s lush cinematography of the Tolkien-like
locations.  “The Eagle,” from Focus Features, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Cedar Rapids’  Somewhere in the fitfully funny “ Cedar Rapids ” is a
rumination on corporate success and the cost of a soul.  You see it in the fleeting expression of near panic when
Isiah Whitlock Jr.’s sexually confused insurance salesman spots
a happy gay couple. Like Whitlock’s closet case, “Cedar
Rapids” just doesn’t have the guts to really go for it.  Ed Helms makes the transition to leading man (and executive
producer) from supporting player of TV’s “The Office” and
2009’s blockbuster “The Hangover.” He plays uber-naif
Wisconsin insurance man Tim Lippe. A spiritual cousin to Steve Carrell’s 40-year-old virgin, the unworldly Lippe is thrust into
“Hangover”-like high jinks when recruited to attend a sales
convention in the big, bad city of  Cedar Rapids .  Amorous Corruption  Helping to corrupt Lippe -- and, in the sentimental demands
of the genre, enlighten him -- are a gang of newfound friends:
an amorous married woman (Anne Heche), the possibly closeted
protector (Whitlock), and, best of all, the drunken rabble-
rouser (John C. Reilly, in full Vince Vaughan mode).  Director Miguel Arteta and screenwriter Phil Johnston aim
higher than the typical “Wedding Crashers” shenanigans,
shading the characters with some depth. Reilly’s lout is haunted
by a failed marriage and Heche’s sexual prowler is running from
life’s disappointments. The movie falls just short of a promised
good time.  “Cedar Rapids,” from  Fox Searchlight Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: **    Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 