-- 
Maryland Considers Legislation That May Boost Offshore Wind Energy

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-02-11T18:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/maryland-passes-legislation-that-may-boost-offshore-wind-energy.html
  Maryland  lawmakers are considering a
bill that would require utilities in the state to purchase
electricity generated at offshore wind farms built in the mid-
Atlantic.  The Maryland Offshore Wind Act of 2011, to be introduced
before the state’s general assembly today, would require public
utilities to purchase between 400 megawatts and 600 megawatts of
capacity from wind farms in federal waters off Maryland’s
coastline for at least 20 years, according to an e-mailed
statement from Governor Martin O’Malley’s office.  More than half of the homes in Baltimore could be powered
by wind farms with total capacity of 500 megawatts, according to
the statement.  That amount of wind power would increase customers’ monthly
bills by about $1.44 in 2016, when wind farms may go into
operation in the state, Ian Hines, a spokesman for the Maryland
Energy Administration, said today in an interview.  The U.S. Interior Department identified Feb. 7 four areas,
off the coasts of Maryland,  Delaware ,  New Jersey  and  Virginia ,
as optimal sites for offshore wind projects. The agency’s Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement will
assess environmental risks in the areas and may issue leases to
developers by the end of this year.  Maryland’s renewable portfolio standard law requires 20
percent of retail electricity sales to come from clean energy
resources by 2022. An offshore wind project would generate
enough clean energy to satisfy 10 percent to 15 percent of that
goal, according to estimates from the Maryland Energy
Administration.  The Maryland Offshore Wind Act of 2011 is House Bill 1054.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  