-- 
Stocks Advance as Mubarak Resigns; Egypt Default Swaps Slide

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-02-11T21:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/asian-stocks-decline-for-fifth-day-oil-rises-on-egypt-swiss-franc-gains.html
Stocks rose, reversing an early
drop, and the cost to insure Egyptian debt from default declined
as the resignation of the nation’s President  Hosni Mubarak  and a
jump in U.S. consumer confidence bolstered investor optimism.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,329.15 at 4 p.m. in New York, its highest level since June
2008. An exchange-traded fund tracking Egyptian equities rallied
4.5 percent and the cost of credit-default swaps on the nation’s
debt fell 16 basis points to 322, according to CMA. The Dollar
Index climbed 0.2 percent and 10-year Treasury yields fell seven
basis points to 3.64 percent. Oil slid to a 10-week low.  Equities turned higher as Mubarak handed power to the
military, bowing to demands of protesters who have occupied
central Cairo for the past 18 days to demand an end to his 30-
year rule. The resignation eased concern that tensions will
spread throughout a region that holds more than 50 percent of
the world’s oil reserves. Stocks began rebounding earlier as
consumer sentiment climbed to an eight-month high.  “We should be able to forget about  Egypt , at least in the
near term, and focus on improving economic fundamentals,” said  John Praveen , the  Newark , New Jersey-based chief investment
strategist at Prudential International Investments Advisers, a
unit of Prudential Financial Inc., which oversees $750 billion.
“The consumer confidence report today was just one of a series
of very positive figures that show that the recovery is on
track. That should bring some short-term relief despite the
uncertainties that we may still have about other governments in
the Middle East and oil.”  Weekly Advance  The  S&P 500  extended its weekly advance to 1.4 percent and
is up 96 percent from its 12-year low in 2009. Caterpillar Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. rose more than
1.9 percent for the top gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . ConocoPhillips rallied 2.1 percent after the energy
company announced plans to boost its dividend and buy back as
much as $10 billion in shares.  “I’m still hanging in there with stocks,” said  Barton Biggs , 78, who runs New York-based hedge fund Traxis Partners
LP. “Egypt is a relatively small geopolitical uncertainty
compared to the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and U.S. house
prices,” he said. I expect “more upheavals, but not
necessarily in Gulf monarchies. U.S. high quality, big-cap
multinationals are still the best houses in a bad global
investment neighborhood.”  Mortgage Insurers Rally  MGIC Investment Corp. and Radian Group Inc. rallied more
than 9.5 percent to lead mortgage insurers higher after U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called for limiting the
role of government-backed competitors. Geithner today presented
Congress with a set of options for weaning the $11 trillion
mortgage market from its dependence on the government, while
calling for changes to be phased in “responsibly and
carefully” to avoid economic disruptions.  Spreads on Fannie Mae’s five-year unsecured debt fell 0.026
percentage point to 0.108 percentage point, down from 0.19
percent point on Feb. 3, as the proposal suggested shrinking the
balance sheets of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  and the Federal
Home Loan Bank system over time, reducing the supply of their
borrowing.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment index climbed to 75.1 for February. The  U.S.
trade deficit  widened 5.9 to $40.6 billion in December, in line
with the $40.5 billion median forecast in a Bloomberg survey, as
the cost of imported oil climbed, Commerce Department data
showed.  Egypt Bonds Rally  The yield on Egypt’s dollar bonds due 2020 reversed gains
after Mubarak’s resignation and were down 15 basis points at
6.34 percent.  Global depositary receipts for  Orascom Construction
Industries , the country’s biggest publicly traded builder,
reversed most of a 6.1 percent slide to close down 0.7 percent.
The stock exchange in Cairo has been shut for two weeks amid the
protests. The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF  rallied 4.5 percent
to $18.60.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index also erased earlier declines and
rose 0.4 percent as auto companies and commodity producers
rallied.  Michelin & Cie. climbed 3.7 percent as the world’s second-
largest tiremaker announced that full-year profit exceeded
analysts’ projections. Nokia Oyj tumbled 14 percent after
announcing that it will make phones for Microsoft Corp.’s mobile
operating system. L’Oreal SA sank 4.2 percent after the world’s
largest cosmetics maker reported profit that failed to beat
analysts’ estimates.  Asian Markets  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index excluding Japan sank 0.8
percent. Newcrest Mining Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest gold
producer, dropped 1.4 percent after first-half earnings missed
estimates.  The dollar strengthened against 11 of 16 major peers,
appreciating 0.3 percent against the euro and 0.3 percent versus
the yen. The Australian dollar dipped below $1 versus the  U.S.
dollar  for the first time in more than a week after the
country’s central bank Governor Glenn Stevens said policy makers
judged it “sensible of late” to leave  interest rates 
unchanged. The Aussie pared losses to depreciate 0.3 percent to
$1.0019.  Oil for March delivery declined 1.3 percent to $85.58 a
barrel, the lowest settlement since Nov. 30, as Mubarak’s
resignation reduced concern that crude shipments in the Middle
East will be disrupted.  Cotton futures surged to a record for a third straight day
as increased exports from the U.S., the world’s largest shipper,
signaled that global demand remains robust. Cotton for March
delivery climbed as much as 3.7 percent to $1.9455 a pound.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  