-- 
Asian Stocks Drop Amid Egypt Protests, China Tightening; Li & Fung Rises

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-02-11T09:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/asian-stocks-drop-on-egypt-crisis-china-tightening-concerns.html
Asian stocks dropped, sending the
regional gauge to its worst weekly performance since May, as
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak refused growing calls for his
resignation, and amid lingering concern China will further
tighten monetary policy.  Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s biggest gold producer,
dropped 1.4 percent after posting first-half earnings that
missed estimates. China Resources Land Ltd., a state-linked
developer, decreased 1.1 percent in  Hong Kong  after a newspaper
reported new home sales in  Shanghai  dropped. Hana Financial
Group Inc.,  South Korea ’s fourth-largest financial company,
declined 5.7 percent after announcing a share sale to fund the
purchase of  Korea  Exchange Bank.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Excluding Japan Index decreased 1
percent to 460.02 as of 5:05 p.m. in Hong Kong, after rising
less than 0.1 percent. Two stocks dropped for each that rose in
the measure.  “These latest developments in  Egypt  will be negative for
sentiment in the market,” Kelvin Tay, Singapore-based chief
investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management, said on
Bloomberg Television. “Sentiment in the Asia-Pacific market has
not been positive. Positive economic data from the U.S. is
drawing funds away from the region. Investors are also pricing
in further rate hikes to make sure inflation in Asia does not
get out of hand.”  The gauge is heading for a 4.3 percent drop this week, the
worst weekly performance since the period ended May 21, after  China  raised  interest rates  for the third time since mid-October
to curb inflation and as Egyptians intensified protests after
President Mubarak defied calls for his immediate resignation.  S&P 500 Futures  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.7 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index declined 1.6 percent after the  Bank of Korea 
left key interest rates unchanged.  Taiwan ’s Taiex Index
decreased 2.6 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index increased 0.5
percent, while China’s Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.3 percent.
Japan’s markets are closed today for a public holiday.  The number of companies in Asia Pacific Excluding Japan
Index that missed earnings estimates has exceeded those that
surpassed expectations since January 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 102 companies that reported
results since the beginning of the year, 54 had a negative
surprise, while 44 had a positive surprise.  Futures on the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.4
percent today. The gauge advanced 0.1 percent in  New York 
yesterday, reversing an earlier slide of as much as 0.7 percent,
after Mubarak’s plan to delegate authority to his vice president
initially spurred optimism that the nation’s political crisis
won’t threaten the global economy. Mubarak failed to resign in a
speech late yesterday, instead handing powers to his deputy,  Omar Suleiman .  ‘Taken by Surprise’  “Everyone was taken a bit by surprise that Mubarak didn’t
set a timetable for a power handover,” said James Holt, who
helps manage about $40 billion in Sydney at BlackRock Investment
Management   Australia ) Ltd. “Markets are trying to gauge the
risk of political deterioration.”  Oil futures climbed as much as 1.2 percent after Mubarak’s
speech, in which he defied calls for his resignation and
reiterated that he intends to stay on as president until
elections in September, prompting concern that supplies may be
disrupted amid further unrest.  Egypt’s Suez Canal, which links the Mediterranean and Red
seas, is one of seven “world oil transit chokepoints,” the U.S.
Energy Department said. Unrest sent oil in New York to a two-
year high last month.  Gauges of raw materials producers and information
technology companies posted the biggest decline among the 10
industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index.  Rio Earnings  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
lost 1.6 percent to A$87.28. The company said second-half profit
tripled to $8.5 billion from $2.4 billion a year earlier. That
missed the $8.6 billion average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its earnings estimates
for Rio by 5 percent this year and next year.    Newcrest Mining Ltd ., Australia’s biggest gold producer,
dropped 1.4 percent to A$37.16. The company said first-half net
income more than doubled to A$438 million ($440 million). That
was less than the A$457 million average estimate of four analyst
surveyed by Bloomberg.    AU Optronics Corp ., Taiwan’s second-largest maker of
liquid-crystal displays, fell 2.6 percent to NT$26.3. The
company said January sales dropped 22 percent to NT$28 billion
($968 million) from a year earlier.  China Developers  Shares of property developers in China dropped after the
Shanghai Daily newspaper reported sales of new homes in Shanghai
fell by 25 percent in January from the previous month to 1.05
million square meters, citing Shanghai Uwin Real Estate
Information Service Co.  China Resources Land decreased 1.1 percent to HK$12.74.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd ., which builds villas and apartments
in China’s southern Guangzhou province, lost 1.8 percent to
HK$11.10. CapitaLand Ltd., which receives 26 percent of its
sales from China, dropped 1.2 percent to S$3.35 in  Singapore .  The China Securities Journal reported the central bank
adjusted the reserve requirement for some of the nation’s medium
and small lenders, without saying where it got the information.
Lending in January exceeded 1.2 trillion yuan ($182 million),
according to the report.  ‘Overhang Concerns’  Hana Financial decreased 5.7 percent to 42,500 won. The
bank said it will sell 1.43 trillion won ($1.3 billion) of stock
to fund the acquisition of a 51 percent stake in Korea Exchange
Bank.  “The share sale plan is driving overhang concerns and
that’s pressuring the stock today,” said Seo Young Soo, a
banking analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. in  Seoul , who rates
Hana “buy.”  Exporters advanced after government data showed
applications for jobless benefits in the U.S. decreased last
week by 36,000, more than forecast, to 383,000. Economists
forecast claims would fall to 410,000, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.    Li & Fung Ltd ., the biggest supplier to retailers including
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., climbed 2.1 percent to HK$46 in Hong Kong.  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd ., the world’s largest
contract maker of mobile-phones, increased 3.7 percent to
HK$5.63.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 