-- 
Tata Motor Profit Triples as Economic Recovery Boosts Demand for Jaguars

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-02-11T11:46:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/tata-motor-profit-triples-as-economic-recovery-boosts-demand-for-jaguars.html
  Tata Motors Ltd ., the owner of
Jaguar Land Rover, said third-quarter profit more than tripled
as a global economic recovery and rising wealth in emerging
markets boosted demand for luxury vehicles.  Net income rose to 24.2 billion rupees ($529 million) in
the three months ended Dec. 31, from 6.5 billion rupees a year
earlier, the Mumbai-based automaker said in a statement today.
That exceeded the 21.5 billion-rupee average of 22 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales gained 22 percent to 315
billion rupees.  Jaguar Land Rover posted a profit after tax of 275 million
pounds ($440 million) in the quarter as sales climbed in  China 
where Tata Motors plans to start building the British brands.
The revival in luxury vehicle demand has spurred  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG  and  Daimler AG  to expand production and target
record sales this year.  “The overall picture looks very good for Tata Motors,”
said Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund manager  for Raiffeisen
Capital Management who helps manage about $1.3 billion in assets.
“There is a huge demand for luxury cars and competitors like
BMW and  Mercedes Benz  are unable to produce enough to meet
demand.”  Tata Motors rose 3.7 percent to 1,142.7 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close of trading in Mumbai, while the benchmark Sensitive
Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange gained 1.5 percent.  China, U.S.  Jaguar sales gained almost 50 percent last year in China,
while deliveries of Land Rover SUVs more than doubled, Tata
Motors said in January. The automaker has said it will build the  Land Rover  in China and  India  as economic growth and rising
incomes boost demand in the world’s two most-populous nations.  Tata Motors plans to annually invest as much as 1 billion
pounds in Jaguar Land Rover’s capital expenditure and product
development, Chief Financial Officer C. Ramakrishnan said at a
press conference in Mumbai. In India, Tata will spend as much as
30 billion rupees on its factories and products.  Jaguar anticipates sales growth of more than 10 percent in
2011, Adrian Hallmark, brand director, said last month. The
luxury marque plans to expand its presence in China with 10 new
dealers to take the number of outlets to 50, Hallmark said.  The Evoque, Land Rover’s smallest and cheapest vehicle,
which will cost about $40,000 in the U.S. when it hits dealers
in the fall, will help the brand increase sales in 2011 from
last year’s 181,000 and should lead to a record in 2012 of more
than 225,000, according to  John Edwards , Land Rover’s brand
director.  Trucks, Buses  BMW customers must wait as many as three months for most
models and as long as six months for the overhauled X3 sport-
utility vehicle. Waiting times at Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz are at
close to the pre-recession levels of 2007, with most vehicles
ordered now scheduled for delivery at the beginning of the
second quarter.  Tata Motors’s sales of trucks and buses in India rose 22
percent to 113,622 units, according to the statement. Sales of
passenger vehicles, including the world’s cheapest car Nano,
increased 5 percent to 64,501.  The  Nano  went on sale nationwide in India in January after
lengthier warranties and easier financing helped sales rebound
in December from a record low. Demand for the car, which costs
as little as 137,555 rupees in  New Delhi , surged to 5,784 units
in December from 509 a month earlier after Tata began television
advertisements, added more sales points and introduced a 99
rupee-a-month maintenance option.  The car’s sales had fallen on a month-on-month basis since
July because of price increases and safety concerns following at
least three fires. Tata may export the Nano to countries such as  Thailand ,  Sri Lanka  and  Bangladesh  as early as this year, Chief
Executive Officer Carl-Peter Forster said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphillip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  