-- 
Attorneys for Clemens Subpoena U.S. Congress for Records in Perjury Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-02-11T23:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/attorneys-for-clemens-subpoena-u-s-congress-for-records-in-perjury-case.html
Ex-New York Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens , who is charged with perjury, has subpoenaed the U.S.
House of Representatives for information from its probe into
steroid use in  Major League Baseball .  The subpoena, issued yesterday by one of Clemens’s lawyers,
seeks “interview summaries, notes and memorandum” related to
the February 2008 House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform hearing on steroids. The document names 20 individuals it
said is covered by the subpoena, including former baseball
players Jose Canseco, Andrew Pettitte and Chuck Knoblauch.  The subpoena said the committee must appear in U.S. Judge
Reggie Walton’s courtroom in Washington to testify on March 14.  “The committee intends to consult with the House General
Counsel’s office and will meet its obligations in this matter,”  Kurt Bardella , a committee spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Clemens, 48, was indicted in August on one count of
obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts of
making false statements and two counts of perjury. Clemens, who
also played for the  Boston Red Sox , Toronto Blue Jays and
Houston Astros over a 24-year Major League Baseball career,
pleaded not guilty.  He faces a $1.5 million fine and a maximum of 30 years in
prison if convicted on all charges. Jury selection is scheduled
to begin July 6.  Rusty Hardin, Clemens’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
phone message seeking comment.  In a Dec. 8 order, Walton gave Clemens’s lawyers the
authority to issue subpoenas to third parties, including
Congress.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia   Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 