-- 
Australia Stocks Retreat on Egypt Crisis; Rio, Newcrest Decline

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-11T05:34:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/australia-stocks-drop-on-concern-egypt-crisis-remains-a-threat.html
Australian stocks declined, snapping
the longest stretch of gains in almost a year, after  Newcrest
Mining Ltd .’s profit missed analyst estimates and Egypt’s
president defied calls for his immediate resignation.  Newcrest fell 1.4 percent in Sydney after Australia’s
largest gold producer reported first-half profit.  Rio Tinto 
Group, which released earnings late yesterday, lost 1.6 percent
amid concern that an escalation of Egypt’s crisis may threaten a
global economic recovery.  Independence Group NL  dropped 2.6
percent after Goldman Sachs & Partners  Australia  Pty. downgraded
the nickel producer.  The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.7 percent to
4,880.90 at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney, snapping
seven days of gains, as Hosni Mubarak defied calls for his 
immediate resignation, stoking concern that regional political 
unrest, which has already seen  Tunisia ’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali ousted and deadly food riots hit Algeria, 
may spread.  “Everyone was taken a bit by surprise that Mubarak didn’t
set a timetable for a power handover,” said James Holt, who
helps manage about $40 billion in Sydney at BlackRock Investment
Management (Australia) Ltd. “Markets are trying to gauge the
risk of political deterioration.”    New Zealand ’s  NZX 50 Index  gained 0.1 percent to 3,367.44
at the 5 p.m. close in Wellington as shares of  Guinness Peat
Group Plc  surged.  Mubarak reiterated his intention to stay on as president
until elections in September as thousands crammed into central
Cairo demanding an end to his 30-year rule. He agreed only to
delegate day-to-day powers to Vice President  Omar Suleiman .  ‘Negative for Sentiment’  “These latest developments in  Egypt  will be negative for
sentiment in the market,” Kelvin Tay, Singapore-based chief
investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management, said on
Bloomberg Television.  Oil futures climbed as much as 1.2 percent on concern that
supplies may be disrupted amid further unrest.  Newcrest Mining slid 1.4 percent to A$37.16 after the gold
producer reported first-half profit of A$438 million ($440
million), missing the A$457 million average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Rio Tinto fell 1.6 percent to A$87.28 as analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut their earnings estimates for the
world’s third-largest mining company by 5 percent this year and
next because of higher forecast costs in the iron-ore unit.  Rio late yesterday reported second-half profit that more
than tripled from a year earlier and announced a $5 billion
share buyback.    BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s largest mining company, fell
0.8 percent to A$46.38.  Independence Group dropped 2.6 percent to A$6.83 after
Goldman Sachs lowered its recommendation for the nickel producer
to “sell” from “hold.”  Return Proceeds  Australian Agricultural Co. fell 3.6 percent to A$1.61
after Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc downgraded the nation’s
biggest cattle rancher to “hold” from “buy.”  Guinness Peat Group surged 10 percent to 77 New Zealand
cents in Wellington after the owner of the world’s largest
thread maker said it would sell the bulk of its investments
valued around 610 million pounds ($980 million) and return the
proceeds to shareholders.  Telecom Corp. of New Zealand lost 1.4 percent to NZ$2.16 in
Wellington after the nation’s biggest phone company reported a
32 percent drop in first-half profit to NZ$165 million ($125
million) as increased competition drove down prices.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 