-- Axel Weber Moves Markets to Confusion With Hints of Exiting His Bundesbank
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2011-02-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/axel-weber-moves-markets-to-confusion-with-hints-of-exiting-his-bundesbank.html
  Axel Weber  may be heading toward the
exit of the Bundesbank on the same unconventional path he’s
treaded throughout seven years as a central banker.  The 53-year old German, who once argued “it’s not so
important” for a central banker to be a diplomat, sowed
confusion among investors for a second day yesterday by
declining to clarify whether he’s quitting and no longer a
candidate to run the  European Central Bank .  The disarray meshes with the unorthodox and outspoken
approach Weber took to the presidency of the Bundesbank and
which harmed his chances of succeeding  Jean-Claude Trichet  at
the ECB. Where Trichet is smooth, Weber’s public objections to
buying bonds and cutting  interest rates  suggested he placed the
primacy of his own views on beating inflation and maintaining
central bank independence above the need to appease politicians
or strike a consensus with colleagues.  “It’s like he’s wanting to prove he’s not the right
person,” said Christoph Kind, head of  asset allocation  at
Frankfurt Trust, which manages about 16 billion euros ($22
billion). “The way he’s communicated about whether he does or
doesn’t want the job shows me he’s lacking the feeling for the
public and politicians that the ECB job needs.”  Weber yesterday canceled an appearance today with French
officials. He will instead meet with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin, 48 hours after an associate of his said he
planned to depart the Bundesbank in a decision that would rule
him out of replacing Trichet, who steps down in eight months.  Merkel Conversation  After speaking with Merkel by telephone yesterday, Weber
said in Vienna he “would not comment before we were able to
meet for another talk” and that they “will coordinate in
taking all necessary decisions.”  The euro trimmed gains and German 10-year bonds pared
declines when Reuters reported that Weber would drop out of the
race to succeed Trichet on Feb. 9. The currency fell 0.8 percent
against the dollar yesterday to $1.3617 as of 7 p.m. in  London ,
while bunds closed with a yield of 3.30 percent.  “This is true chaos,” said Holger Sandte, chief European
economist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “He would have been a
good candidate.”  If the onetime marathon runner does resign it will end a
policy-making career that began in 2004 when Weber was the
surprise choice to replace Ernst Welteke atop the central bank
of Europe’s largest economy following two decades in academia.  A graduate of the University of Constance, where he sported
shoulder-length hair and supplemented his income in holidays as
a roofer, he ruffled feathers early on in his tenure by seizing
control of the Bundesbank’s economics division.  Bond Purchases  It was a sign of things to come. He most recently isolated
himself on the ECB’s now 23-member Governing Council with calls
for the bank to stop the bond purchases that are a key plank in  Europe ’s battle against its debt crisis. Having openly opposed
the May decision within hours of it being taken, he said Oct. 13
there was “no evidence” the purchases were reducing bond
yields. Trichet dismissed Weber’s view five days later, saying
they didn’t reflect the consensus of the council.  It wasn’t the first time Weber swam against the current.
Even as the economy slumped in 2009 he tried to stop the central
bank from buying covered bonds to ease credit and was unheeded
after he warned against allowing the euro-area’s benchmark
interest rate to fall below 2 percent. It was cut to a record
low of 1 percent that May and held there since.  Weber also broke the protocol that the ECB president makes
major announcements first. In November 2009 he landed on
Trichet’s so-called black list by publicly revealing that the
ECB would tighten its lending to banks.  Candidacy Doubt  To  Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays
Capital  in London, such actions were at odds with the need for
an ECB president to unite fellow central bankers and to secure
the support of leaders who will pick Trichet’s successor.  “Weber’s past behavior has not been consistent with
someone who wants to keep his nose clean and be the candidate,”
said Callow, a former  Bank of England  official. “This week’s
incidents make it hard to see he’s still a candidate.”  Friedrich Thelen, founder of Thelen-Consult, a Berlin-based
business advisory group, said Weber may have wanted Europe’s top
monetary policy role only to fall victim to euro-area politics,
with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  likely wanting  Germany  to
commit to looser economic policies before he backed its
candidate.  “This wasn’t on the cards for Merkel,” Thelen said. Now,
Weber is “throwing in the towel in anger over the promises
Merkel had made to him.”  Bundesbank’s Role  While he lacked Trichet’s lobbying skills and deft touch
with governments, Weber’s advocacy of low inflation, fiscal
prudence and central bank independence were in keeping with his
status as Bundesbank chief. Created in 1957, the institution had
the prime responsibility of safeguarding the deutsche mark as
the bedrock of Germany’s post-World War II recovery and
preventing the runaway inflation that gripped the nation in the
early 1920s.  Weber defended himself against critics on Oct. 25 by saying
that he always followed “his own path and that has always
served me well.” In an August interview with Bloomberg News he
said “it’s important to be a diplomat for the diplomatic corps,
it’s not so important for a central bank.”  “He has spoken out about things that are of concern to
him,” said Stefan Gerlach, a professor for monetary economics
at  Frankfurt ’s Goethe University. “He’s always been
transparent. He’s just honest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  