-- 
Bank of Korea Unexpectedly Leaves Interest Rate at 2.75% as Growth Cools

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-02-11T09:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/bank-of-korea-unexpectedly-leaves-interest-rate-at-2-75-as-growth-cools.html
The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly left  interest rates  unchanged even after inflation breached the
central bank’s 4 percent ceiling.  In a split decision, policy makers kept the seven-day
repurchase rate at 2.75 percent. The outcome was forecast by
three of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The others
expected a quarter-point boost.  Governor Kim Choong Soo signaled today that the pause may
be only temporary, saying that the central bank will move at its
own pace in “normalizing” rates. He added that policy makers
have various tools to tackle inflation and the finance ministry
said separately that officials will meet this afternoon to
discuss more steps to stabilize consumer prices.  President  Lee Myung Bak  “called for a ‘war against
inflation’ last month, but it looks like the  Bank of Korea  has
implemented a truce, at least for now,” said  Brian Jackson , a
Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Royal Bank of  Canada . He
said rates are likely to keep rising “in the months ahead.”  Kim and his officials may still be assessing the effects
of last month’s boost in borrowing costs which, like today’s
decision, was unexpected. Growth cooled in the fourth quarter.  “We will move ahead with normalizing interest rates at a
pace that’s not too slow, nor too fast,” the central bank
governor said at a briefing in  Seoul  today.  Risks Across Asia  The won fell 1 percent to close at 1,128.47 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
1,128.70, the weakest level since Jan. 20. The Kospi dropped 1.6
percent, finishing below 2,000 for the first time since Dec. 13.
At the briefing, Kim said advances in the currency can ease
inflation pressures.  South  Korea ’s pause contrasts with the People’s Bank of  China  this week raising interest rates for the third time since
mid-October. Asian policy makers face heightened inflation risks
as money flows into the region leading the global recovery.  Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun indicated this week that
the government will review prices charged by oil refiners and
mobile-phone service providers after the government said last
month that it will freeze utility charges and cut some food
import tariffs.  Inflation may stay at about 4 percent, the central bank’s
ceiling, for “some time,” Governor Kim said today.  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent last month from a year
earlier. Producer prices jumped 6.2 percent, the most in 26
months, a report showed today.    Household Debt   While policy makers remain concerned about inflationary
pressures, higher borrowing costs could add to the burdens of
debt-bearing households, small businesses and low-income earners,
Kim said. Lending to households fell for the first time in 11
months in January, a report yesterday showed.  Details of the split among the six members of the monetary-
policy board will be disclosed in six weeks’ time, when the
minutes of the meeting are released.  The central bank will probably resume raising interest
rates in March, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Borrowing
costs have lagged behind the pace of inflation for 15 straight
months, a sign that further rate increases may be warranted.  “It was a close call, but we thought that it’s more likely
for them not to raise this time and pause and signal a hike
later in March,” Goohoon Kwon, a Seoul-based economist at
Goldman Sachs, said on Bloomberg Television. He expects the rate
to rise to 3.5 percent by the end of this year.  Policy makers will allow gains by the won, along with rate
increases, to cool inflation, Kwon said.  Policy Tools  Finance Minister Yoon said this week the government needs
to tackle inflation pressures “preemptively”. The government
will use all policy tools, including fiscal, financial, tax and
deregulation measures, to achieve 5 percent economic growth this
year and contain inflation at 3 percent, Yoon said.  “The BOK needs to act more aggressively to keep inflation
expectations from running out of control,” Kwon Young Sun, an
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong , said before the
announcement.  The  finance ministry  said in a statement today it will
increase imports of pork and powder milk to ease price pressures.
The government will also review pricing policies of oil products
and mobile service while trying to find ways to encourage
competition among a few of big businesses engaged in the two
areas to induce lower tariffs.  The yield on the government’s 3 percent bond due December
2013 rose one basis point to 3.96 percent in Seoul, according to
the Korea Exchange. The rate reached 4.09 percent on Feb. 7, the
highest since the note begun trading in December.  Inflation Target  The  Bank of Korea  targets inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent through 2012 and aims for the midpoint of the range in
the medium term. Its policy board raised the benchmark rate by a
quarter of a percentage point in July, November and January from
a record-low 2 percent.  The central bank forecasts a 4.5 percent economic expansion
in 2011, slowing from the 6.1 percent pace last year, and
predicts inflation will accelerate to 3.5 percent from 2.9
percent.    Asia ’s fourth-largest economy expanded 0.5 percent in the
three months through December from the previous quarter, when it
grew 0.7 percent.  Exports, which account for about half of the $833 billion
economy, rose 46 percent in January from a year earlier, the
most since August 1988. The resurgence in demand has bolstered
earnings at companies including Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  