-- 
Barclays Profit Set to Benefit From Lower Writedowns on Investment Banking

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-02-11T09:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/barclays-may-say-2010-profit-climbed-on-investment-banking-unit.html
  Barclays Plc , the first of Britain’s
biggest five banks to report annual earnings, may say profit
before one-time gains advanced last year, helped by a decline in
writedowns at its investment banking unit.  Pretax profit excluding asset sales rose to 5.7 billion
pounds ($9.2 billion) from 5.3 billion pounds in 2009, according
to the median estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
London-based bank reports earnings at 7 a.m. on Tuesday Feb. 15.  “The big focus for investors will be on how  Barclays
Capital  is doing,” said  Colin Morton , who helps manage about
$1.5 billion at Leeds, England-based Rensburg Fund Management
Ltd., including Barclays stock. “It’s the predominant division
and the most volatile from one quarter to the next.”  Full-year revenue at the unit, which generates about two-
thirds of the bank’s profit, may decline 29 percent to 12.7
billion pounds, the analysts said. Revenue at the division, run
by Rich Ricci and Jerry Del Missier, may have lagged competitors  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Deutsche Bank AG  in the fourth
quarter as income from trading bonds, currencies and commodities
dried up.  Barclays Capital’s revenue probably fell 25 percent to 2.72
billion pounds in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
according to seven analysts. That compares with a 10 percent
decline in revenue at Goldman Sachs and a 30 percent rise at
Deutsche Bank’s securities unit.  Barclays Capital, which has included the North American
operations of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. since 2008, will
probably post a 67 percent increase in pretax profit to 4.11
billion pounds for the full-year, helped by a decline in
writedowns, Mark Phin, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Ltd. in London said in a note to investors last month.  Job Cuts    Robert Diamond , 59, Barclays Capital’s former chief who
replaced  John Varley  as chief executive officer last month, is
reviewing which of the lenders’ operations aren’t generating
sufficient returns. The bank seeks to achieve a return on equity
of 15 percent. Barclays, which has eliminated almost 2,000 jobs
this year, may give more details of the review when reporting
earnings, analysts said.  “With a new CEO in place, there is heightened expectation
of potential strategy changes,” Robert Law, an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in London, said in a note to investors this
week. “The market will be looking for mention of specific
initiatives to address group returns.”  Full-year group net income probably fell to 3.2 billion
pounds in 2010 from 9.39 billion pounds in 2009, according to a
median estimate of 13 analysts. The London-based bank reaped a
6.33 billion-pound gain in 2009 from the sale of  Barclays Global
Investors , its asset management unit, to  BlackRock Inc .  Spanish Bad Loans  The bank said in November third-quarter profit fell 76
percent to 327 million pounds as revenue at Barclays Capital
declined.  Barclays’s corporate banking unit may swing into profit in
the final quarter, according to the analysts. The division made
a pretax loss of 414 million pounds in the first nine months of
the year from bad loans in Spain and  Portugal .  In the past month, 13 analysts rated the bank a “buy,”
seven a “hold” and two said investors should sell the stock.
The shares have gained 13 percent in the past year to close at
313.25 pence yesterday. The stock trades at 0.74 times its book
value, less than  HSBC Holdings Plc , Standard Chartered Plc and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc .  The table below shows analysts median estimates for 2010 in
the millions of pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in  London  at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  