-- Barker Says U.K. Home Prices May ‘Drift a Little’ Lower in 2011
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   L i n d a   Y u e h
-- 2011-02-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/barker-says-u-k-house-prices-may-drift-lower-as-confidence-weakens.html
Former Bank of England policy maker  Kate Barker  said U.K.  house prices  may extend their decline this
year as Britons’ confidence weakens and banks continue to
restrict lending.  “I find it hard to see house prices picking up any time
soon,” Barker said in a Bloomberg Television interview recorded
late yesterday in  London . “My general expectation is they may
drift a little bit lower this year. But I wouldn’t be talking
about a big fall.”  Home values fell for a fourth month in January after the
economic recovery stuttered and consumers faced a lack of
mortgage finance, Acadametrics Ltd. said today. While  interest
rates  remain at a record low, banks have curtailed lending to
help rebuild balance sheets after the financial crisis, making
it harder for potential homebuyers to get mortgages. Home-loan
approvals fell in December to the lowest since March 2009.  “It’s pretty clear that transactions are low,” Barker
said. “The reason everything is very weak in the housing market
at the moment is because the deposit requirements have risen, so
we have fewer first-time buyers coming in to market.”  As mortgage lending slumped, the number of houses being
built has fallen to its lowest level in decades. That may cause
more volatility in property prices if the pace of buyers
returning to the market outpaces the supply for sale, she said.  “The worry is that when we move into any period of easier
credit conditions, that will feed very quickly into rising
prices,” Barker said. “There are going to be concerns about
how we manage the housing market much more as we come out of the
crisis, in a way, than as we go through the tail end of it.”  Barker, who published reports for the former Labour
government on the housing market, stepped down from the  Bank of
England ’s Monetary Policy Committee in May. She served three
consecutive three-year terms on the panel.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Yueh in London at 
 lyueh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  