-- 
Bonds Pleads Not Guilty Again After Perjury Charges Revised

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-01T22:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/barry-bonds-faces-new-5-count-indictment-on-charges-of-lying-to-grand-jury.html
  Barry Bonds , the Major League
Baseball home-run record holder set to stand trial March 21 on
charges of lying about taking steroids, pleaded not guilty again
to revised perjury charges.  Bonds appeared in federal court in San Francisco at a
hearing that lasted one minute. Standing between two of his
attorneys, Bonds, dressed in a dark suit, responded “Yes” when
asked by Magistrate Judge Joseph Spero if he understood the
charges against him.  Bonds left the courtroom and returned a few minutes later
for a final pretrial hearing before U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston , who will preside over the trial. His former personal
trainer,  Greg Anderson , appeared at the second hearing to tell
Illston whether he intends to testify at the trial.  Anderson, who pleaded guilty to distributing steroids in
2005 and is alleged by prosecutors to have injected Bonds with
performance enhancing drugs, will refuse to testify, his lawyer,
Mark Geragos, told the judge.  “It is my current intention to remand you to the custody
of the marshals at that time,” Illston told Anderson. The
trainer has previously been jailed for refusing to testify about
his dealings with Bonds.  Bonds was charged last month in a superseding indictment
with lying when he said he didn’t knowingly take performance-
enhancing drugs given to him by his former personal trainer.  Revised Indictments  The former  San Francisco  Giants outfielder was first
charged in 2007 with four counts of perjury and one count of
obstruction of justice. The perjury counts were raised to 14 and
then lowered to 10 in December 2008, after Bonds won dismissal
of several counts. Bonds has pleaded not guilty to each
indictment.  Bonds, who played with the Giants for 15 seasons, broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home runs in August 2007.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 