-- 
Bernanke’s 2009 Interview Withheld by Crisis Panel

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-02-11T21:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/bernanke-s-2009-interview-with-financial-crisis-panel-to-stay-under-wraps.html
The  Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission , created by Congress to investigate and report on the
causes of the market meltdown late last decade, won’t publicly
release its full 2009 interview with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , a commission spokesman said.  The FCIC is withholding records when there is “legal or
proprietary information in those interviews that meant they
could not be made public,” or no audio, transcript or summary
exists, Tucker Warren, the FCIC’s spokesman, said after the
panel yesterday released more than 300 witness interviews. He
declined to elaborate on Bernanke. The interview is among
records being transferred to the  National Archives  that will be
made public in five years, Warren said.  “There’s absolutely no reason to hold it,” unless it
contains proprietary details about banks or international
trading, said University of Texas Professor Robert Auerbach in
Austin, a former congressional economist and author of the 2008
book “Deception and Abuse at the Fed.” “Bernanke will be long
gone when it comes out, and that’s not a way to establish
responsibility,” Auerbach said.  The interview is quoted in the congressionally authorized
panel’s final report, which cites the November 17, 2009,
“closed-door” session in 11 footnotes. The Fed chief discussed
a range of topics including the central bank’s failures and why
the government rescued Bear Stearns Cos. and let Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. go bankrupt, the FCIC report shows.  Withheld From Public  Bernanke’s is among 200 to 300 interviews that are being
withheld from the public now, Warren said.  Michelle Smith , a
spokesman for the Fed Board of Governors, declined to comment.
The FCIC is now in the process of shutting down, having
concluded its work, Warren said.  In the unreleased interview, Bernanke also criticized
credit-rating companies, discussed how he underestimated effects
from the subprime-mortgage crisis and said the central bank’s
lack of aggressiveness in mortgage regulation “was the most
severe failure of the Fed in this particular episode,”
according to the report. Bernanke told the FCIC that after
Lehman failed, the Fed was concerned  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
would “go under.”  The commission interviewed Bernanke more than nine months
before he gave public testimony to the panel in September 2010.
It’s the only “closed-door session” with anyone that’s cited
by the FCIC in its footnotes.  Near White House  The FCIC’s meeting with Bernanke lasted 90 minutes and was
held at the commission’s eighth-floor office near the White
House, according to Bernanke’s daybook from the Fed.  “There are others that are at a Bernanke level that won’t
be made public as well,” Warren said. “Bernanke is not being
singled out in that regard.”  The FCIC released audio this week of interviews with other
Fed officials, including Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and Governor  Kevin Warsh .  The 10-member commission released split findings last
month. While the Democratic majority pinned much of the blame on
Wall Street firms and  Washington  regulators, Republican members
issued two dissents that criticized Democrats for failing to
uncover the actual causes of the crisis.  The commission was created by the Fraud Enforcement and
Recovery Act passed by Congress and signed by President  Barack Obama  in May 2009. Among its charges was to “seek testimony or
information from principals and other representatives of
government agencies and private entities that were significant
participants in the  United States  and global financial and
housing markets.”  The crisis panel came under the scrutiny of Representative  Darrell Issa , chairman of the House’s Oversight and Government
Reform committee, in July after it asked Congress for an
additional $1.8 million on top of its $8 million budget.  Issa, a California Republican, has pledged to look into the
group’s spending and said he also wants to investigate why its
members were unable to come up with a unanimous conclusion for
the final report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  