-- 
Biden Says Mubarak's Ouster in Egypt Is a Pivotal Moment in Global History

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-02-11T18:55:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/biden-says-mubarak-s-ouster-in-egypt-is-a-pivotal-moment-in-global-history.html
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  said
the toppling of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak demonstrates
the world and the Middle East are in “transformative times.”  The mass protests that forced the changes and change in
Cairo are “not about Egypt alone,” Biden said.  Biden gave the first Obama administration reaction to the
unfolding events in Egypt at a previously scheduled speaking
engagement at the University of Louisville in  Kentucky .
President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to give televised remarks at
3 p.m. Washington time from the White House.  “This is a pivotal moment, it’s a pivotal moment not only
in the Mideast but in history,” Biden said. The future
“depends on our ability to adequately understand and engage the
truths of our time.”  Mubarak’s bow to the demands of protesters who have crowded
central Cairo for the past three weeks demanding his ouster
relieves one challenge for the Obama administration and presents
another in managing policy toward  Egypt  in transition.  “The Egypt scene is as complex for us, the regional scene
is more complex now that Mubarak has stepped down,” said Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at the  Center for American Progress , a
policy research organization in Washington.  Regional Interests  U.S. regional interests are at stake, with Israel already
increasingly concerned about being isolated and allies such as  Jordan  and  Saudi Arabia  anxious about discontent among their own
citizens, Katulis said.  While U.S. influence over future events in Egypt is
limited, the Obama administration must press for “change to be
dynamic, responsive to the needs of democracy and human rights
and economic justice,” said Edward Djerejian, a former U.S.
ambassador to Israel and  Syria .  The U.S. also will have to urge that the transition “be
done in a peaceful and orderly manner so that that this people’s
revolution is not hijacked by radicals,” he said.  Obama was informed during an Oval Office meeting of
Mubarak’s decision to step down. He then went to an outer office
to watch television coverage of the scene in Cairo for several
minutes, Tommy Vietor, an administration spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  Statements by Obama and other administration officials
yesterday indicated they expected Mubarak to take this step
sooner.  ‘Witnessing History’  “We are witnessing history unfold,” Obama said before
Mubarak addressed his country. “It’s a moment of
transformation.”  Instead, Mubarak announced last night he would cede some
authority to his vice president,  Omar Suleiman , and remain in
office until elections scheduled for September. He also decried
outside interference, a rebuke to the U.S.  Obama expressed impatience in a written statement issued
afterward that also called on the Egyptian leaders to explain
their plan for a transition from Mubarak’s reign.  “The Egyptian government must put forward a credible,
concrete and unequivocal path toward genuine democracy, and they
have not yet seized that opportunity,” Obama said.  Mubarak’s resignation came after Egyptians streamed out of
Friday prayers vowing to topple the 82-year-old leader, who has
been in power for three decades.  Stocks rose and oil fell after Egyptian state television
announced Mubarak was stepping down.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,327.01 at 11:27 a.m. in  New York . The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  gained 30.16 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,259.45.  Biden said the U.S. has been unified in reacting to the
crisis in Egypt. Democrats and Republicans have “largely spoken
with one voice,” he said. That bipartisan agreement “will be
even more important in the delicate and fateful days ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 