-- 
Billionaire Goenka’s CESC Seeks Stake Sale to Expand

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 
2011-02-11T11:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/billionaire-goenka-s-cesc-seeks-private-equity-to-fuel-expansion.html
  CESC Ltd ., a utility controlled by
Indian billionaire Rama Prasad Goenka, may sell a stake in a
unit to a private equity firm to raise part of the $7.7 billion
it plans to spend to boost capacity seven-fold by 2017.  The company aims to raise power output by 7,000 megawatts
from the current 1,225 megawatts by 2017, Vice Chairman Sanjiv Goenka said in a telephone interview yesterday from Kolkata,
where CESC is based. He declined to say how much may be realized
from selling a stake in Haldia Energy, a unit that’s developing
three projects with a total capacity of 2,540 megawatts.  “We are in talks with eight private equity firms for
offloading a 20 percent stake,” Goenka said. “By April
something will be finalized and we are talking to both Indian
and overseas players.”  Indian electricity producers, including Tata Power Co., a
unit of  India ’s biggest industrial group, and billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Power Ltd ., are adding capacity as they seek
to cut blackouts and plug a deficit of 10.5 percent during peak
hours that threatens to stifle economic growth.  CESC shares rose 8.2 percent, the most since May 20, 2009,
to 296.35 rupees in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index gained
1.5 percent.  ‘Free Up’ Cash  “The private equity investment will free up cash and help
the company fuel more expansion,” Novonil Guha, a power
industry analyst at Mumbai-based BRICS Securities, said by
telephone today. “The first new capacity addition will come in
by March 2013. The approvals are in place,” he said.  Sanjiv Goenka is the son of Rama Prasad Goenka, who has an
estimated net worth of $1.4 billion, according to Forbes
magazine. CESC is part of the  RPG Group , whose businesses
include entertainment,  information technology , tires and retail.  CESC plans to import about 2 million metric tons of coal a
year from  South Africa  starting 2014, Goenka said. The company
has a long-term contract to import 40 million tons of coal over
20 years from a mine in the country, he said.  About 30 percent of the company’s coal requirements will
come from outside India, out of which 12 percent will be met by
the shipments from South Africa. About 6,500 megawatts of its
planned capacity addition will run on coal, he said.  CESC is looking at buying coal assets abroad to secure
supplies, Goenka said, declining to say where the company may
seek acquisitions and how much it would be willing to pay.  Buying Spree  Indian companies, including Essar Group, billionaire Gautam Adani’s  Adani Enterprises Ltd . and  JSW Energy Ltd ., have made at
least nine overseas acquisitions in the coal sector over the
past 12 months, according to Bloomberg data. The companies have
spent a total of at least $1.5 billion, paying an average
premium of 41 percent for the assets, the data show.  “We are also exploring the opportunity to buy mines
outright,” Goenka said. “For the right assets we are willing
to be very competitive.”  India’s government has pledged to provide electricity
nationwide by 2012.  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy
behind  China  needs to increase installed capacity to 200,000
megawatts to sustain economic growth, according to the power
ministry. More than half of the capacity of 170,229 megawatts as
of Jan. 31 was fueled by coal.  Power-station coal prices at Newcastle in  Australia  rose
for the first week in three, gaining 1.2 percent to $127.43 a
ton in the seven days to Feb. 4, according to Petersfield, U.K.-
based researcher IHS McCloskey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Pradipta Mukherjee in Mumbai at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  