-- 
Billionaires Soros, Paulson Say Fed at Fault in Crisis

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-02-11T14:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/billionaires-soros-paulson-say-fed-at-fault-in-financial-crisis.html
  George Soros  and  John Paulson , who
oversee two of the world’s largest hedge funds, say the  Federal
Reserve  helped cause the financial crisis through inaction and
lack of oversight, according to  interviews  released yesterday.  Paulson, whose Paulson & Co. made $15 billion betting
against subprime mortgages in 2007, said better supervision of
home loans by the central bank would have helped prevent the
crisis. Soros, chairman of the $27 billion Soros Fund Management
LLC, said the Fed should have saved Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. from collapse in 2008. Both men were interviewed by the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in October.  Soros, 80, and Paulson, 55, weren’t the only traders
interviewed by the commission to lay some of the blame for the
2008 crisis on the Fed and  Alan Greenspan , its former chairman.
Greenspan, who headed the U.S. central bank for almost 19 years
before retiring in 2006, was heralded for keeping economic
growth steady and inflation low when he stepped down. Since
then, criticism of his policies has grown.  Greenspan “allowed, and in some sense encouraged, the
extraordinary excesses of the period,” said  Michael Steinhardt ,
70, another interviewee and a hedge-fund industry pioneer. “It
was like the pope blessing the things that went on in World War
II. You depend on certain people to be your moral police and
that’s what he was, and he didn’t act appropriately.”  The Fed did “very little” to oversee mortgage
underwriting from 2000 to 2006, Paulson said. Greenspan is an
adviser to Paulson’s New York-based hedge fund.  “Demanding that proper underwriting guidelines be
followed, not allowing ‘no doc’ loans, requiring a down payment,
even if it’s just 5 percent,” would have gone a long way toward
preventing the crisis, he said.  ‘False’ Market Theories  The crisis was avoidable, according to Soros.  “It’s the theories adopted by both the regulators and the
market participants that proved to be false,” Soros told the
panel. “It’s the efficient-market hypothesis and the rational
expectations theory.”  The efficient-market hypothesis holds that prices reflect
all relevant information available to market participants. Under
the rational expectations theory, people make decisions based on
their rational outlook while influenced by past experiences.  The Fed should have stepped in to rescue Lehman before the
investment bank went bankrupt, he said.  “I don’t think Lehman should have been allowed to fail,”
Soros said. “The Fed, in my opinion, has very wide
discretionary powers which were not used.”  ‘Best We Could’  Congress created the commission to investigate the causes
of the crisis, which triggered the failure of Lehman Brothers
and led to government bailouts of insurer  American International
Group Inc . and other financial companies.  Last April, Greenspan said the central bank under his
leadership made mistakes while attempting to ensure the sound
regulation of financial institutions.  “What we tried to do was the best we could with the data
that we had,” Greenspan told the commission in  Washington .
“Did we make mistakes? Of course we made mistakes. I know of no
way that can be altered under the existing structure.”  Greenspan didn’t respond to a call seeking comment after
regular business hours yesterday at his Washington-based
consulting firm, Greenspan Associates LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  