-- 
Blankfein Sought Government's Blessing on Goldman Sachs Pay, Feinberg Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/blankfein-sought-u-s-blessing-on-executive-pay-feinberg-says.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  sought the U.S. government’s
blessing on the pay of top employees -- even though he didn’t
have to, according to a former Treasury Department official.  “I had no jurisdiction over Goldman, but Goldman had me up
there to see Blankfein four times,”  Kenneth Feinberg , the
administration’s former special master on executive
compensation, said in an interview released yesterday by the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  President Barack Obama named Feinberg to the role in June
2009 amid public outcry over pay at Wall Street firms that got
taxpayer-funded bailouts. Feinberg supervised pay at seven firms
including  Citigroup Inc .,  Bank of America Corp . and  American
International Group Inc . Goldman Sachs wasn’t among them.  “Goldman was under such political pressure that Goldman
might as well have been an eighth company,” Feinberg said in an
interview with two FCIC staffers in September.  “Ken, if we do it this way, if we only pay our people
$600,000 cash, and any bonus that they get, they get in stock,
and they won’t get it for five years, am I doing OK,” Feinberg
said, recalling a conversation with Blankfein. “Yeah, you’re
making some improvements, Lloyd. That’s good.”  Goldman Sachs spokesman  Michael DuVally  declined to comment
on Feinberg’s interview with the FCIC.  ‘Very Sensitive’  Goldman Sachs was “very sensitive to the public reaction
to their compensation program based on the visibility they had
in the crisis,” Mark Borges, a compensation consultant with
Compensia Inc. in Corte Madera, California, said in an
interview. “They at least wanted to make sure that what they
were doing was consistent with the principles he was using.”  In December 2009, New York-based Goldman Sachs said its top
30 executives would receive their entire year-end bonus in stock
that would be locked up for five years. Two months later,
Feinberg said he thought Blankfein had “to a large extent”
adopted the special master’s recommendations on limiting cash
salaries and paying bonuses in long-term stock.  Blankfein read aloud a three-page document at Goldman
Sachs’s May 2009 shareholder meeting outlining its compensation
principles, which are  posted  on the firm’s website.  Feinberg reduced compensation at companies including AIG,
Citigroup and Bank of America. He left in September to become
administrator of  BP Plc ’s fund to pay claims stemming from the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Patricia Geoghegan, a Treasury
Department lawyer, was named acting special master.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  