-- 
Icahn, Monarch Are Said to Target Bankrupt Blockbuster for Possible Buyout

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-02-11T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/blockbuster-said-to-be-target-of-possible-monarch-capital-icahn-purchase.html
Creditors including billionaire  Carl Icahn  and Monarch Alternative Capital LP are targeting   Blockbuster Inc ., the bankrupt movie-rental company,
in a possible buyout for less than $300 million, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Icahn and Monarch are Blockbuster creditors who helped to
finance the bankruptcy, making them potential candidates to buy
the company, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the discussions are private. Icahn and Michael Weinstock, managing principal at New York-based Monarch, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment after regular business
hours yesterday.  Blockbuster, based in  Dallas , filed for bankruptcy on
Sept. 23 with the outline of a reorganization plan supported by
senior bondholders. The company’s deadline for filing a plan and
a disclosure statement explaining it has been extended several
times. Summit Entertainment LLC, a film distributor and
Blockbuster creditor, said last week that Blockbuster isn’t
paying its bills and should be liquidated.  “It’s hard to say this debtor is anything but insolvent,”
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  said last month at a
hearing in  Manhattan .    Martin Sosland , a lawyer for Blockbuster, declined to
comment on whether the company might be sold or at what price.  Icahn Purchases  The 74-year-old Icahn led a proxy fight in 2005 that put
him on the video-rental chain’s board. He resigned as director
in January and in March sold most of his 16.9 percent common-
share stake, according to a regulatory filing. He later bought
about a third of the company’s senior bonds, according to the
person familiar with the matter.  Icahn on Jan. 27 asked Lifland to dismiss a lawsuit filed
by creditor Lyme Regis Partners that claims the billionaire used
inside information to convert his equity stake in Blockbuster to
debt in a bid to take control of the company after it
reorganizes.  Blockbuster, which last reported a profit in the first
quarter of 2009, posted a net loss of $53.5 million on sales of
$736.6 million in the third quarter of 2010. Cash and cash
equivalents stood at $52 million as of Oct. 3, the company said
in a regulatory filing.  Sosland said Jan. 20 that company wasn’t looking for more
money and hadn’t drawn from the $125 million debtor-in-
possession loan that is funding operations in bankruptcy.  Summit Debt  Blockbuster owes Summit $9.5 million, including
$1.6 million for DVDs of “The Twilight Saga: Eclipse,” and
said it wouldn’t pay for products shipped after the bankruptcy
filing because it “lacked the funds to do so,” according to
Summit’s Feb. 3 court filing.  Blockbuster, with about 3,000 stores in the U.S., said in
September that sales shrank in recent years while  Netflix Inc .
grew by renting movies online and through the mail, and  Coinstar
Inc . put Redbox DVD vending machines in supermarkets and
drugstores.  The company listed assets of $1.02 billion and debt of
$1.46 billion when it sought court protection. Holders of
80 percent of the $630 million in 11.75 percent senior-secured
notes supported the outline of its reorganization plan,
Blockbuster said.  Under the proposed plan, there would be no recovery by
holders of the company’s outstanding subordinated debt,
preferred stock or common stock, according to a statement.
Blockbuster anticipated it would pay something to unsecured
creditors, court papers show.  Store Closings  Lifland on Jan. 20 approved Blockbuster’s requests to close
stores, reject unexpired leases and sell inventory, after
hearing that objections by several landlords were resolved. The
company plans to close 110 underperforming stores by the end of
this quarter, according to court papers.  Since the bankruptcy filing, Blockbuster has rejected
leases on at least 220 locations, most of which were closed
beforehand, and by the end of 2010 had shuttered another 72
stores. Blockbuster has until April 21 to decide which unexpired
leases at its stores to reject.  “I wonder just what the legs are for this debtor to go
forward after April 21,” Lifland said at the Jan. 20 hearing.  The company was founded in 1985, and grew to serve almost
47 million customers daily in the U.S. and 16 other countries.
Viacom Inc., which owns the Paramount film studio, bought
Blockbuster from Wayne Huizenga for $8.4 billion in 1994, then
spun it off to shareholders in 2004.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 