-- 
BOE Revises Narrow Collateral Rules to Focus on Most Liquid Debt

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-11T15:49:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/boe-revises-narrow-collateral-rules-to-focus-on-most-liquid-debt.html
The  Bank of England  will limit what
it accepts as so-called narrow collateral in its open-market
operations to the most liquid securities, a move that reduces
the list of eligible foreign debt to that of the U.S.,  Canada ,
France,  Germany  and the Netherlands.  “Narrow collateral will in future include only those
securities which in the bank’s view are likely to remain liquid
in all but the most extreme circumstances,” the central bank
said in a market  notice  released today. These are securities
issued by “sovereigns with sufficiently deep debt markets to
facilitate broad access to the bank’s operations, consistent
with the monetary policy purpose of narrow collateral.”  The bank started a review of its collateral policy in
October 2008, in the depths of the global financial crisis.
Today’s notice sets out a number of changes to take effect on
July 1 to the eligibility criteria for sovereign, central-bank
and supranational debt taken as collateral.  The narrow-collateral set will be expanded to include U.S.
and Canadian government securities, which are currently accepted
as wider collateral, while debt from a number of other sovereign
borrowers and supranational bodies will move from the narrow to
the wider collateral category, the bank said.  Debt from  Australia , Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark,
Finland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland will only be
eligible as wider collateral from July 1, the bank said.  Narrow collateral is eligible for the bank’s short-term and
long-term open-market operations, as well as its operational
standing lending and discount window facilities. Wider
collateral is eligible for long-term open market operations and
the discount window facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  