-- 
Lawyers for Barry Bonds, U.S. Say Ex-Trainer Won't Be Called to Testify

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-02-11T22:24:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/bonds-u-s-say-ex-trainer-won-t-be-called-to-testify-update2-.html
  Barry Bonds ’s ex-trainer won’t be
called to testify at the baseball home-run record holder’s
perjury trial, prosecutors and defense lawyers agreed.  Jurors won’t be told that ex-trainer  Greg Anderson , who
pleaded guilty in 2005 to distributing steroids, refused to
testify about Bonds and steroids, Bonds’s attorney Dennis
Riordan said today at a court hearing in San Francisco.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeff Nedrow confirmed the agreement at
the hearing.  Federal prosecutors allege Bonds took performance-enhancing
drugs supplied by Anderson. Bonds is scheduled to go on trial
March 21 on charges that he obstructed justice and lied to a
federal grand jury in 2003 when he said he didn’t knowingly take
performance-enhancing substances.  Anderson will appear at a hearing in the case on March 1,
prosecutors said. Mark Geragos, an attorney for Anderson, didn’t
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment. Bonds will be
arraigned March 1 on a revised indictment that pared six perjury
counts from the charges he faces, Riordan said. Bonds has denied
knowingly taking steroids.  U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston , who will preside over
the trial, didn’t rule today on Bonds’s request to bar
prosecutors from playing a 2003 recording during the trial in
which Anderson allegedly discusses with Bond’s former manager
injecting the slugger with an unnamed substance.  ‘All Undetectable’  In transcripts of the recordings made by the manager,
portions of which were disclosed in a Jan. 28 court filing,
Anderson says “everything that I’ve been doing at this point,
it’s all undetectable.”  “Isn’t that the same sh-- that Marion Jones and them were
using,” the manager asks, according to the filing.  “Yeah same stuff, the same stuff that worked at the
Olympics,” Anderson replied.  Track athlete Jones returned five medals she won at the
2000 Sydney Games after confessing she used steroids in 2007.  Bonds played with the  San Francisco  Giants for 15 seasons,
breaking  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home runs in August
2007.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  