-- China's Bright Food Won't Discuss Unit's Reported Bid for Yoplait Stake
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-11T04:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/bright-food-won-t-discuss-unit-s-reported-yoplait-bid-update1-.html
Bright Food Group Co.,  Shanghai ’s
biggest food company, declined to comment today on whether unit
Bright Dairy Food & Co. is bidding for a stake in yogurt maker
Yoplait amid a conflicting report by the China Daily newspaper.  Chen Chunshan, spokesman for Bright Food Group, told
Bloomberg News yesterday that subsidiary Bright Dairy & Food Co.
is participating in the bidding for a stake in Boulogne-
Billancourt, France-based Yoplait, without elaborating. Yet the
state-run China Daily today cited Gong Yanqi, the spokeswoman
for Bright Dairy, as saying the company isn’t discussing a bid
for a 50 percent stake in the yogurt maker.  Yoplait shareholders PAI Partners and Sodiaal said Feb. 9
they received “indicative” offers from nine companies for
PAI’s 50 percent stake and will announce a shortlist of bidders
in the coming days.  “We can’t talk about this matter now,” Chen said by
telephone today when asked about the China Daily report. “This
is a very sensitive matter. You’ve put us in a difficult
position by asking about this.”  Bright Dairy’s Gong said by text message today she’s on
vacation and that the company isn’t bidding for Yoplait. When
asked whether she has checked with the company since going on
vacation, she sent another text message repeating that the
company isn’t bidding.  Gong also didn’t answer five calls to her mobile phone
today.  Bright Dairy’s shares fell 0.9 percent to 9.85 yuan at the
11:30 a.m. break in Shanghai, headed for the biggest decline
since Jan. 25. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.1
percent.  “The company has been looking for overseas opportunities
for a long time and we definitely want to know more about its
plan,” Jiang Xin, a Shenzhen-based analyst with China Jianyin
Investment Securities Co. said by telephone.  “It’s common for any Chinese company to hide its
acquisition plan before everything is clear because there are
other issues that can’t be controlled by the company, such as
regulatory approval.”  -  Michael Wei . Editors: Chua Kong Ho, Michael Tighe  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  