-- 
Ryanair, Flybe Seek Profit Via Card Fees, Consumer Group Says

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-11T12:07:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/britain-should-probe-ryanair-flybe-credit-card-fees-consumer-group-says.html
  Ryanair Holdings Plc ,  Flybe Group
Plc  and other low-cost airlines are wrongfully using surcharges
on debit- and  credit-card  purchases to increase profit, the U.K.
consumer-rights group  Which?  said.  Which? will ask Britain’s competition regulator, the  Office
of Fair Trading , to investigate the use of customer surcharges
that exceed the cost of processing card transactions, the group
said today in a statement.  “Paying by card should cost the consumer the same amount
that it costs the retailer,” Peter Vicary-Smith, the group’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement. “Companies
shouldn’t be using card-processing costs as an excuse for
boosting their profits.”  The request, in the form of a so-called supercomplaint
filed with the London-based OFT, comes as more U.K. retailers
are using card surcharges, including hotels, movie theaters and
local governments, the group said. Once the complaint is filed,
the regulator has 90 days to decide if it will open an
investigation, close the case or refer it to the  Competition
Commission  for a broader probe.  The OFT is awaiting receipt of the complaint and won’t
comment further, agency spokeswoman Kasia Reardon said.  Ryanair charges a family of four 40 pounds ($64) to book a
return flight by card, when the cost to process a debit-card
payment would be about 20 pence and, with a credit card, no more
than 2 percent of the total price, Which? said. Flybe would
charge 38 pounds for a similar flight booking, while  EasyJet Plc 
charges 5.50 pounds for each transaction, the group said.  ‘Worst Offenders’  “Low-cost airlines are some of the worst offenders when it
comes to excessive card surcharges, but this murky practice is
becoming ever more widespread,” Vicary-Smith said.  Ryanair spokesman Stephen McNamara said in a statement the
consumer group’s complaint was “useless” because the carrier
doesn’t charge fees for using cards. The airline instead charges
an “administration fee,” he said.  “Why, in that case, is the ‘admin’ charge dictated by the
method of payment?” Which? spokesman Adam Williams said in an
e-mail about Ryanair’s fee. The cost “should be included in the
price of the flight, not sprung on the customer when they go to
pay.”  Flybe, based in Exeter,  England , said the “booking
charge” the company imposes is the result of maintaining a
“reasonable sized” administration department.  “What the customer may view as a simple transaction is, in
reality, one that is administratively complex in satisfying the
bureaucratic demands of banking-industry processes,” Flybe said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 