-- 
Brookfield Office Projects Lower FFO as Leases Expire

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-02-11T21:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/brookfield-office-reports-higher-funds-from-operations-as-revenue-climbs.html
Brookfield Office Properties, owner
of lower  Manhattan ’s  World Financial Center , forecast 2011 funds
from operations below analysts’ estimates as lease expirations
in New York and  Boston  may result in new deals at lower rents.  FFO this year will be $584 million to $609 million, or
$1.05 to $1.10 a share, the New York-based company said today in
its fourth-quarter earnings statement. Analysts projected $1.13
a share, the average of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Brookfield may be hurt by a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lease
expiration at 1 New York Plaza in Manhattan and the end of a
deal at 75 State Street in Boston, according to James Sullivan,
an analyst at Cowen & Co. who cut his rating on the stock today.
The company also is facing a 2013 expiration of 4.6 million
square feet (427,000 square meters) of space rented to Bank of
America Corp. at the World Financial Center.  “Lease expirations in Boston and  New York  are having a
bigger effect than we expected,” Sullivan wrote in a note,
reducing his rating to “neutral” from “outperform.” “Also,
we were disappointed that the company did not confirm more
leasing progress at the World Financial Center.”  Brookfield said it expects same-property net operating
income to fall 1.5 percent this year, partly because of two
lease rollovers in New York and Boston.  The company is expecting 933,000 square feet of leases to
expire this year at its lower Manhattan properties, according to
the company’s fourth-quarter supplemental earnings statement. It
expects 4.9 million square feet to expire in 2013.  ‘Priority for Us’  “Filling this space is a priority for us this year,”
Chief Executive Officer Richard “Ric” Clark said on a
conference call. “The timing of our lease expiries allowed us
to effectively skate through the worst of the economic crisis
while continuing to maintain steady growth in our earnings.”  Besides the expirations, Brookfield also has to contend
with 4.4 million square feet of new offices rising at the World
Trade Center, just to the east of World Financial Center, to be
completed in 2013.  Clark said on Nov. 4 the financial center’s attractiveness
to tenants will be enhanced by the rebuilt World Trade Center,
with its Santiago Calatrava-designed mass transit hub connecting
Brookfield’s waterfront buildings to downtown’s core, and by a
rising number of young New Yorkers living in the area.  Lower Manhattan Rents  Office availability in lower Manhattan was 13.4 percent at
the end of January, up from 11.5 percent a year earlier, broker
CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. reported on Feb. 9. Landlords were
seeking $38.14 a square foot, up 1 percent from a year ago. In
Midtown, the biggest and most expensive U.S. office market, the
January availability rate was 12.4 percent and the asking rent
was $55.82.  The company’s shares were little changed at $17.53 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
fallen 1.6 percent this year, compared with a 4 percent increase
in the 78-member Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate Index.  The 2011 guidance excludes lease termination income,
special fees and gains. It wasn’t immediately clear if the
projection and the 2010 figures are comparable.  Fourth-quarter FFO available to common shareholders rose to
$204 million from $203 million a year earlier, the company said
in a statement today. On a per-share basis, FFO was unchanged at
40 cents. Analysts projected 39 cents, the average of 10
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Brookfield’s lower Manhattan buildings generated about 31
percent of its net operating income from office properties in
2010, according to the supplemental earnings statement.  Goldman Sachs Move  The expiring lease by Goldman Sachs at 1 New York Plaza, a
skyscraper on the east side of lower Manhattan, provided
Brookfield with about $25 million of annual net operating
income, Cowen’s Sullivan said. Goldman Sachs has been moving
operations to its new headquarters tower on West Street in
Battery Park City, next to the World Financial Center.  Brookfield is in discussions to fill the entire 600,000-
square-foot vacancy at 1 New York Plaza, Dennis Friedrich,
president of U.S. commercial operations, said on the conference
call.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
“wants to maintain a meaningful presence” at the 8 million-
square-foot World Financial Center, Friedrich said. That space
includes the former Merrill Lynch & Co. headquarters at 4 World
Financial Center. Talks with the bank continue with “nothing
concrete” to report, he said.  Deal Falls Through  A tentative deal last year with Deloitte LLP for as much as
630,000 square feet at 4 World Financial fell through when the
accounting firm agreed to go to 30 Rockefeller Plaza in midtown
Manhattan, Friedrich said.  He said Nomura Holdings Inc. hasn’t committed to a move to
Midtown. Nomura is negotiating for space at Worldwide Plaza on
Eighth Avenue and West 50th Street, Crain’s New York Business
reported on Feb. 4.  “We continue to believe the World Financial Center
provides a great headquarters opportunity Nomura to continue to
grow their U.S. business,” Friedrich said.  Deloitte and Nomura are the largest among tenants who
sublease 1.9 million square feet from Bank of America.  Jonathan Gandal, a Deloitte spokesman, and  Peter Truell , a
New York-based spokesman for Nomura’s U.S. unit, both declined
to comment.  “What’s happening downtown is a challenge,” Ross Smotrich, an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc., said in an
interview before today’s statement. “The issue is going to be
less interest and more one of price. The lower Manhattan market
historically has been a very price-sensitive market.”  Smotrich has an “equal weight” rating on the company.  Funds from operations is a cash-flow measure used by real
estate companies. For Brookfield, it excludes items including
income taxes and fair-value adjustments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  