-- 
Buffett Tells FCIC It’s Powerless to Stop ‘Too Big to Fail’

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/buffett-tells-fcic-it-s-powerless-to-stop-too-big-to-fail-.html
  Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., told the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission that taxpayers will always be on the hook for
collapses at the biggest U.S. companies.  “You will always have institutions that are too big to
fail, and sometimes they will fail,” Buffett, 80, told the FCIC
in a May 26 interview, according to a recording released by the
panel yesterday. “We still have them now. We’ll have them after
your commission report.”  The Dodd-Frank financial reform act, enacted in July, was
touted by President Barack Obama as a means to ending bailouts
and protecting taxpayers from firms that are “too big to
fail.” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who made more
than $3 trillion of assistance available during the crisis, has
said the “too-big-to-fail” issue can be eliminated only when
investors believe the U.S. won’t rescue firms.  Investors were rescued in 2008 by Bernanke and then-
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , whose relief programs
cushioned declines for stockholders and bailed out bondholders
at firms including  American International Group Inc . Buffett,
who injected $5 billion in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . at the
depths of the crisis, said he was betting on the success of
government intervention.  Buffett told the  FCIC  that he believed the U.S. would step
in to provide liquidity to the market again if needed. The
government would restart programs like the Commercial Paper
Funding Facility, in which the U.S. backed short-term corporate
debts, if crisis conditions return, Buffett said.  Act Promptly  “I do think that if you ran into a similar situation today
the government would guarantee commercial paper again. They’d
have to,” Buffett said. “You have to believe the government,
the federal government, will act and they will act promptly and
decisively.”  Berkshire bought preferred stock in New York-based Goldman
Sachs in 2008 after the collapse of rival securities firm  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc . Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire gets a 10
percent annual dividend on the investment and received warrants
to buy $5 billion in common stock with a strike price of $115 a
share. Goldman Sachs traded for more than $165 on the New York
Stock Exchange yesterday.  “It was a bet essentially on the fact that the government
would not really shirk its responsibility at a time like that,”
Buffett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  