-- 
California, New Jersey Pensions Squeeze Fee Savings

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 
2011-02-11T15:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/california-new-jersey-pension-plans-squeeze-savings-from-fund-managers.html
Pension system investment directors
overseeing more than $217 billion in California and  New Jersey 
cut millions of dollars in projected costs by reducing the fees
they pay to asset managers.  The $146.4 billion California State Teachers’ Retirement
System, the nation’s second-largest public-pension fund, has
reduced the fees it pays to money managers by an average of 15
percent since June 2009, Chief Investment Officer Christopher Ailman said yesterday in a board meeting. In New Jersey, the
pension-investment manager said it negotiated at least $40
million of fee and expense cuts during the next five years.  Pensions around the nation are grappling with unfunded
liabilities estimated at more than $3 trillion in a 2010 study
by Professors Joshua Rauh and Robert Novy-Marx. Recession losses
still haven’t been fully recouped. In December, the  California 
fund was valued at 9.7 percent less than in June 2008, when it
 had  assets of $162.2 billion. Plans have dialed back management
fees as they try to rebound.  “We’re trying to drive that lower,” Ailman said of the
fees charged by private-equity fund managers, which often amount
to 2 percent of assets and 20 percent of profits. Partly, the
fund is trying to make sure it isn’t covering costs that the
managers should pay, he said at the meeting in West Sacramento.  “We’re very focused on what expenses the general partner
bears as opposed to the limited partners,” Ailman said. In
September, the California fund said its 2009 management expenses
were $139 million less than projected.  Focus on Profit  The pension has reduced annual management fees paid to
private-equity firms since July 2009, Ailman told the plan’s
governance committee. He said the objective was to get
investment managers to focus on increasing the plan’s profit.  The pension spent $617.7 million on asset-management fees
in 2009, according to a September report. As of June 2009, the
plan listed 847,800 members and beneficiaries on its  website .  In New Jersey, Timothy Walsh, director of the state
Treasury Department division that manages pension investments,
said officials are seeking additional savings beyond the $40
million already negotiated with alternative-investment funds.  “Once negotiations are complete, the state will realize at
least $50 million in secured savings over the next five years,”
Walsh said yesterday in a statement.  Fee Reductions Sought  The New Jersey division sought fee and expense cuts from
private managers after paying $125 million last year, Walsh said
in October. Alternative investments also include  hedge funds ,
real estate, commodities, infrastructure and bank loans.  New Jersey has fewer than 20 alternative-investment
advisers and isn’t identifying them, said William Quinn, a
spokesman for the Treasury Department. Quinn declined to
disclose the new terms of its agreements with the managers.  The savings are spread equally over five years, for annual
reductions of about $8 million, Quinn said. The fee reductions
coincide with proposals from the division to increase the
maximum share of holdings that can be placed in alternative
investments to 38 percent from 28 percent, Walsh said.  The division manages investments for seven pension funds
that provide benefits to about 800,000 working and retired
teachers, police officers and government employees. As of Dec.
31, the division said pension fund assets were valued at $70.8
billion, with about $12.1 billion  allocated  to alternatives.  Funding Gap  New Jersey’s unfunded pension liability rose $8.05 billion,
or 18 percent, to $53.9 billion as of June, Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said in December. The state has failed to make
pension contributions since fiscal 2008, when it paid $1 billion
under former Governor  Jon Corzine , a one-term Democrat.  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who took office in
January 2010, skipped a $3 billion pension payment for the
fiscal year that began July 1 to help close a $10.7 billion  budget deficit . He has said he would restart payments into the
system with a partial contribution of $512 million this year if
the Democratic-led Legislature acts on his proposals to scale
back benefits.  In their study of state and local government pensions,  Northwestern University ’s Rauh and the University of Rochester’s
Novy-Marx estimated states’ unfunded pension liabilities at
about $3 trillion, based on Treasury discount rates. They
extrapolated another $574 billion in uncovered local-government
obligations, based on an examination of 77 plans.  To contact the reporter on this story: James Nash in  New York  at
   jnash24@bloomberg.net  and
Stacie Servetah at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 