-- 
California-Berkeley Donations Save Women's Lacrosse, Gymnastics Programs

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-02-11T21:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/california-berkeley-donations-save-women-s-lacrosse-gymnastics-programs.html
The  University of California ,
Berkeley, hit by state funding cuts, didn’t get enough private
donations to preserve its baseball and men’s gymnastics teams
after this season. It got more than $12 million in pledges to
keep rugby, women’s gymnastics and women’s lacrosse.  By saving the women’s lacrosse and gymnastics teams, the
university avoided a possible violation of Title IX, a federal
gender-equality law that has been used to push for greater
athletic opportunities for women.  “By offering all of our women’s sports, we can meet the
requirements of Title IX in a way that will allow the return of
men’s sports, provided that the returned sports can cover all
direct and indirect costs,” Chancellor Robert J. Birgeneau said
in a statement.  University officials have set a goal of capping annual
allocations for intercollegiate athletics at $5 million by 2014.
Baseball and men’s gymnastics will be dropped at the end of the
academic year in May.  In September, the school announced it would eliminate
intercollegiate teams in men’s and women’s gymnastics, women’s
lacrosse and baseball -- and drop rugby to club level -- unless
private donors pledged to save those programs. The university
said it would require sufficient funding to support teams for
the next seven years, as well as a plan for future financial
independence.  Baseball is Out  “Sadly, the efforts did not meet these criteria insofar as
baseball and men’s gymnastics are concerned,” Vice Chancellor
Frank Yeary said in a statement released by the school. “Both
programs would have needed to raise multiples of what they
actually did raise to meet our criteria.”  California’s budget crisis has led to funding reductions
for higher education, and Governor  Jerry Brown  in January
proposed additional cuts of $500 million from the University of
California’s budget. Berkeley is one of 10 campuses in the
University of California system.  “As state disinvestment in higher education continues, the
university cannot continue to provide intercollegiate athletics
with annual allocations in the $10 million to $15 million
range,” the university said today in a news release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  