-- 
Canada Swings to Trade Surplus as Exports Jump Most in 29 Years on Energy

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-02-11T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/canada-swings-to-trade-surplus-as-exports-jump-most-in-29-years-on-energy.html
  Canada  unexpectedly posted its first
trade surplus in 10 months in December, as energy and metals
powered the biggest jump in exports in almost three decades.  The C$3 billion ($3 billion) trade surplus followed a
revised November deficit of C$115 million, Statistics Canada
said today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted a C$300 million deficit, according to the median of 23
estimates.  Exports jumped 9.7 percent to C$37.8 billion, the fastest
since February 1982, as energy shipments surged 25 percent and
industrial goods such as metals rose 7 percent to a record high.
Imports rose 0.7 percent to C$34.8 billion.  The  Bank of Canada  said last month recent U.S. stimulus
measures will boost Canada’s economic growth after net trade
subtracted 2.3 percentage points from the expansion last year.
Today’s report adds to other signs of a strengthening recovery
including stronger-than-expected November economic growth and a
January job gain of 69,200 that was more than four times greater
than economist forecasts.  “There is clearly demand growth, particularly in the bulk
business,” Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer Fred Green said on a Jan. 26 earnings call. “Overall we
are expecting continued but more modest recovery, and we are
ramping up our resources accordingly.”  The trade surplus with the U.S. widened to C$5.09 billion
in December from C$2.99 billion the month before, reaching the
highest level since October 2008,  Statistics Canada  said today.  Agricultural and fishery exports rose 7.6 percent C$3.46
billion in December, and forestry products rose 9.7 percent to
C$2.01 billion.  Rising Currency  Canada’s trade deficit was a record C$2.47 billion in July.
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has said exporters need to
regain competitiveness damaged by a rising currency and a global
recession by making new investments to boost productivity. The
Canadian dollar touched 98.32 U.S. cents on Feb. 4, the
strongest since May 2008, after being as weak as C$1.30 per  U.S.
dollar  in March 2009.  “The recent bounce in commodity prices will go a long way
to offset the dampening impact of the strong loonie on export
receipts,”  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist with BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto, said before the report. The loonie is a
nickname for the national bird depicted on Canada’s dollar coin.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said that corporate tax
cuts will help create new jobs and spur investment in a
“fragile” recovery, while the opposition  Liberal Party  says
money would be better spent on education and social programs.
Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s  Conservative Party  needs the
support of at least one opposition party to pass a budget that
Flaherty says will come in March, avoiding an election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Greg Quinn} in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  