-- 
Canadian Dollar Advances on Demand for Refuge as Egypt's Mubarak Resigns

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-02-11T22:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/canadian-dollar-gains-versus-euro-as-egyptian-unrest-spurs-refuge-demand.html
Canada’s dollar rose against all of
its major counterparts as political unrest that led to the
resignation of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  spurred appetite
for the safety of North American assets.  The loonie advanced the most versus the euro in almost a
month as Mubarak handed power to the military, bowing to the
demands of protesters demanding an end to his 30-year rule.
Canada’s dollar gained versus the greenback as the nation
unexpectedly posted its first  trade surplus  in 10 months and the  U.S. trade deficit  widened.  “After the Egyptian announcement, the market quickly
realized that there is a lot of uncertainty about who is going
to take control, how these elections are going to progress and
what the next government is going to look like,” said Blake Jespersen, director of institutional foreign-exchange sales at
Bank of Montreal in Toronto.  The Canadian currency appreciated as much as 1.3 percent to
C$1.3361 versus the euro before trading at C$1.3380 at 5 p.m. in
Toronto, compared with C$1.3537 yesterday. It was the biggest
gain on an intraday basis since Jan. 17. The loonie climbed 0.8
percent to 98.74 cents per  U.S. dollar , from 99.53 cents,
erasing its weekly drop.  The C$3 billion ($3 billion) trade surplus in December
followed a revised November deficit of C$115 million as energy
and metals powered the biggest jump in exports in almost three
decades,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The median
forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
deficit of C$300 million.  ‘Healthy Pace’  “The domestic demand in Canada has been expanding at a
healthy pace, and the slowdown we saw in the economy mainly had
to do with the weakness in the export sector,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at Wells Fargo & Co. in New
York. “That export sector is now benefiting from growth in the
U.S.”  America’s trade deficit increased in December as the cost
of imported oil climbed to the highest level in two years. The
gap grew 5.9 percent to $40.6 billion, in line with the $40.5
billion median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 77
economists, the Commerce Department reported in  Washington .  Canada’s dollar has risen 0.3 percent versus the euro this
week as Mubarak resigned after Egyptians streamed out of Friday
prayers vowing to topple him. Mubarak defied calls yesterday for
him to leave for the second time this month.  “In the safe-haven search, the market feels pretty
confident about Canada,” said  Steve Butler , director of
foreign-exchange trading at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital
unit in Toronto.    Government bonds  were little changed, with the yield on the
10-year benchmark at 3.47 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent
security maturing in June 2020 fell 1 cents to C$100.25.  Canadian stocks dropped, with the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index down 0.5 percent. Futures on crude oil dropped
1.6 percent to $85.31 a barrel in  New York .  To contact the reporters for this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  