-- 
Canada December International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-11T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/canada-december-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international merchandise trade report for
December
from  Statistics Canada .    Canada 's merchandise exports rose 9.7% to $37.8 billion
in December, led by a 16.5% gain in volumes of energy
products. Export volumes, up 6.6%, increased in most
sectors. Prices rose 2.9%. Both volumes and prices have
risen in 8 of the past 12 months.  Energy products accounted for over half the growth in
the value of exports, followed by industrial goods and
materials, which reached a record high. Notable increases
were also recorded in exports of machinery and equipment,
agricultural and fishing products as well as forestry
products.  The value of imports edged up 0.7% to $34.8 billion.
Import prices rose 0.4%, following four months of decline,
while volumes increased 0.3%.  All import sectors except other  consumer goods  posted
gains in December. The main sources of growth were energy
products, agricultural and fishing products as well as
automotive products.  As a result, Canada's trade balance with the world went
from a deficit of $115 million in November to a surplus of
$3.0 billion in December, the first  trade surplus  since
February 2010.  On the strength of energy products, exports to the
United States rose 10.8% to $26.7 billion, the highest
value since November 2008, while imports were up 2.3%.
Consequently, Canada's trade surplus with the United
States increased from $3.0 billion in November to $5.1
billion in December, the largest trade surplus since
October 2008.  Exports to countries other than the United States
increased 7.3%, the sixth consecutive monthly gain, while
imports declined 1.9%. Canada's trade deficit with
countries other than the  United States  declined from $3.1
billion in November to $2.1 billion in December.  Higher volumes of energy products boost exports  Energy products exports rose 25.1% to $8.6 billion, the
third consecutive monthly gain, with volumes accounting
for almost two-thirds of the increase. Widespread gains
throughout the sector were led by exports of crude
petroleum, which increased 24.2% to $5.0 billion, the
highest level since December 2009. Exports of petroleum
and coal products also contributed to the gain, as
production resumed at some refineries following
maintenance work.  Exports of industrial goods and materials increased
7.0% to a record high of $10.3 billion, as exports of
precious metals and copper ores reached unprecedented
levels. Prices in the sector rose 4.5%, while volumes
increased 2.4%. Exports of precious metals rose 25.8%
during the month and have more than doubled since January
2010. Exports of nickel ores and copper ores also
increased in December, following large declines in
November.  Exports of machinery and equipment increased 8.2% to
$6.9 billion, as volumes rose 8.6%. Exports of aircraft,
engines and parts accounted for over three-quarters of the
sector's gain.  Exports of agricultural and fishing products increased
7.6% to $3.5 billion. Gains throughout the sector were led
by higher exports of wheat, which have been rising for
five consecutive months. Wheat prices have been trending
upwards since April 2010.  Forestry products exports rose 9.7% to $2.0 billion, as
volumes increased 10.8%. Exports of wood pulp and other
wood products grew to $621 million in December, the
highest value since August 2007, reflecting higher demand
from  China .  Other consumer goods moderate the growth in imports  Imports of energy products increased 3.5% to $3.3
billion in December, the result of higher prices. Imports
of crude petroleum grew 18.6%, following the completion of
maintenance work in some refineries. Imports of coal and
other related products, namely natural gas, declined after
a strong gain in November.  After three consecutive months of decreases, imports of
agricultural and fishing products rose 3.5% to a record
high of $2.6 billion. The growth in the sector was led by
higher imports of crude vegetable products. In contrast,
imports of sugar and sugar preparations fell during the
month.  Imports of automotive products increased 0.8% to $5.4
billion, as volumes rose. The gain was the result of
higher imports of motor vehicle parts, as production
resumed following some plant shutdowns in November.  Imports of other consumer goods decreased 1.7% to $4.9
billion. Imports of miscellaneous end products, which
include medicinal and pharmaceutical products, led the
decline.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada's
international balance of payments, which also includes
trade in services, investment income, current transfers as
well as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a balance of payments and a customs
basis for the United States, Japan and the  United Kingdom .
Trade data for all other individual countries are
available on a customs basis only. Balance of payments
data are derived from customs data by making adjustments
for characteristics such as valuation, coverage, timing
and residency. These adjustments are made to conform to
the concepts and definitions of the Canadian System of
National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a balance of payments
basis, seasonally adjusted in current dollars. Constant
dollars are calculated using the Laspeyres volume formula.  Revisions  In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current
year revisions are reflected in both the customs and
balance of payments based data. Revisions to customs based
data for the previous year are released on a quarterly
basis. Revisions to balance of payments based data for the
three previous years are released annually in June.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of
import and export documentation, incorrect information on
customs forms, replacement of estimates produced for the
energy sector with actual figures, changes in
classification of merchandise based on more current
information, and changes to seasonal adjustment factors.  Revised data are available in the appropriate CANSIM
tables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  