-- Chelsea Wants Kaka for $40 Million to Play Off Torres, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-02-11T02:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/chelsea-wants-kaka-to-play-off-fernando-torres-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Chelsea Wants Kaka  Chelsea will attempt to sign Real  Madrid ’s Brazilian
playmaker Kaka, who worked with Blues manager  Carlo Ancelotti  at
AC Milan, in the offseason for 25 million pounds ($40.2
million), the Mail  reported .  The Blues want to play the former FIFA World Player of the
Year, whom Ancelotti brought to Milan from Sao Paulo in 2003,
off newly acquired striker Fernando Torres next season, the Mail
added.  Hodgson Hired  Former Liverpool coach  Roy Hodgson  will be appointed as
West Bromwich Albion manager next week, the Sun  reported .  West Brom Chairman Jeremy Peace opted for Hodgson over ex-
Newcastle boss  Chris Hughton  as Roberto Di Matteo’s replacement
because of his success with Fulham, the newspaper said. Hodgson,
63, left Liverpool by “mutual consent” on Jan. 8.  F.A. Fights Snubs  England’s Football Association will punish Premier League
players who snub the England national team by banning them from
their next club game, the Daily Mirror  reported .  A series of withdrawals from England representative teams
this week convinced F.A. officials that it was time to take
action, the newspaper said. Starting from the next international
date, the F.A. plans to ban those who fail to report for England
duty from playing for their club the following weekend, the
Mirror said.  Keane Blow  West Ham striker  Robbie Keane , who joined the Hammers on
loan from Tottenham last week, has been ruled out for six weeks
because of a torn calf muscle, the Guardian  reported .  The injury leaves manager  Avram Grant  having to select his
strikers from Frederic Piquionne, Carlton Cole and Demba Ba for
tomorrow’s match at fellow Premier League struggler West Brom,
the paper added.  Facebook Fracas  Manchester City ordered the closure of the Facebook site of
a club groundsman after an expletive-laden post attacking  Manchester United  before tomorrow’s derby match at Old Trafford,
the Telegraph  reported .  Ged Coyne, employed by City as a groundsman for the past 15
years, posted insults directed at United manager  Alex Ferguson 
and former defender Gary Neville, as well as referring to United
as “scum,” the newspaper said. He closed the site yesterday
after being contacted by a City official, the paper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  