-- 
China's Yang Seeks Zimbabwe Economic Cooperation, Wants Sanctions Lifted

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a
-- 
2011-02-11T12:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/china-s-yang-seeks-zimbabwe-economic-cooperation-wants-sanctions-lifted.html
Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi 
signed an agreement to give Zimbabwe’s government a 50 million-
yuan ($7.6 million) grant and called for sanctions against the
southern African country to be lifted.  The two nations will intensify economic cooperation, Yang
told reporters today after meeting with Zimbabwe’s President,
Robert Mugabe, in the capital, Harare.  “There is great potential to enhance cooperation in the
fields of water, infrastructure, mining, tourism and so forth,”
Yang said. “Let me be frank, we believe there should be the
lifting of sanctions by some countries.”  Yang arrived in Zimbabwe yesterday for a two-day visit with
the African country’s government hoping to attract billions of
dollars in investments and loans as it tries to rebuild after a
decade of recession caused by a political crisis. Growth was
revived after Mugabe formed a power-sharing agreement in 2009
with former opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, who is now
prime minister.  China  is seeking access to the country’s
platinum and diamond reserves, the weekly Zimbabwe Independent
said last week.  The U.S. and European Union have kept asset freezes and
travel bans against Mugabe and some members of his Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front, demanding more proof of
a commitment to democracy and human rights.  Mining  Zimbabwe and China have a long history of working together
and both country’s want that cooperation to intensify, Mugabe
said today.  “We are happy that there are Chinese companies here
operating in the mining sector and civil works like roads,” he
said.  Last year, Zimbabwe’s trade with China amounted to $520
million, according to the Zimbabwean Ministry of Industry and
Commerce. China has become the main purchaser of Zimbabwe’s
tobacco, which last year earned the country more than $300
million. It also has interests in the chrome and diamond mining
industries in  Zimbabwe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  