-- China Adjusts Reserve Ratio for Some Small Banks, Securities Journal Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-11T03:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/china-adjusts-reserve-ratio-for-some-small-banks-securities-journal-says.html
  China ’s central bank imposed
differentiated reserve requirement ratios on some of the
nation’s small and medium-sized lenders after January loan
growth surged, the official  China Securities Journal  reported
today, citing an unidentified person.  The adjustment, which mainly affected city commercial banks,
was made after the Chinese New Year holiday that ended Feb. 8,
according to the newspaper, an affiliate of the state-run Xinhua
news agency. New lending in January exceeded 1.2 trillion yuan
($182 billion) even after some banks slowed or suspended credit
later in the month, according to the report, which didn’t
specify whether the ratios were raised or lowered.  The People’s Bank of China this week raised benchmark
interest rates for a third time since mid-October to rein in
loan growth and as January inflation is estimated to have
quickened to a 30-month high. Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  on Jan. 4
pledged to use a so-called differentiated reserve ratio system
to improve liquidity management this year in addition to tools
including  interest rates , official reserve ratios and bill sales.  The use of the differentiated ratio, which was probably an
increase, “may be a prelude to the broader use of
differentiated reserve ratios - this would be a useful tool to
control lending by penalizing the most aggressive banks,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit
Agricole CIB. The reported adjustment may suggest smaller
lenders were “more active” in new lending last month, he said.  Small Lenders  Banks may have extended 1.1 trillion yuan of new loans last
month, of which 70 percent were made by small lenders, Caixin
Online reported today, citing unidentified analysts in financial
institutions.  The differentiated reserve requirement system involves
setting individual ratios for lenders according to the condition
of their balance sheets. Based on the central bank’s formula,
the lower a bank’s capital adequacy ratio, the more likely it is
to face a different ratio, the Securities Journal said, citing
an unidentified analyst. The paper didn’t identify which banks
were affected by the adjustment.  After a universal reserve ratio increase last month, the
requirement now stands at 19 percent for the biggest banks,
excluding any additional restrictions imposed on individual
lenders and not publicly announced. Ratios for smaller banks are
about 2 percentage points lower.  There remains a “clear need” to mop up liquidity added to
the economy from maturing central bank bills and continued
foreign-exchange inflows, Kowalczyk said, estimating about 1.5
trillion yuan of notes will come due through April. To rein in
liquidity, the central bank may boost reserve ratios universally
again later this month or in early March because yields at bill
sales, an alternative tool to soak up excess cash, remain too
low to attract bids from banks, he added.  --Li Yanping. Editor: Nerys Avery, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  