-- 
China Should Cut Fannie, Freddie Holdings, Lu Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-11T09:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/china-should-reduce-fannie-freddie-investment-economist-says.html
  China  should “actively” reduce its
holdings of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac-related bonds to curb
investment risks, said Lu Zhengwei, a Shanghai-based economist
at Industrial Bank Co.  The likelihood of Congress supporting a state guarantee of
the mortgage companies’ finances is becoming “slimmer” as the  U.S. economy  improves, easing lawmakers’ concerns about the
property industry, Lu said yesterday in an e-mailed note.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will present
Congress with three options for reducing the government’s role
in the nation’s housing finance system and shrinking the
footprint of the two mortgage companies, two people familiar
with the plan said on Feb. 9. Geithner will release the proposal
as soon as today, said an administration official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the proposal isn’t public.  Chinese institutions may be holding about $500 billion
worth of bonds issued by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , Lu said,
citing reports in the Chinese media.  China’s currency regulator issued a  statement  today saying
that media reports that the nation had sustained losses from
investing foreign-exchange reserves in Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac
bonds were “groundless.” It didn’t identify the reports.  The International Finance News, an affiliate of the state-
run People’s Daily,  reported  yesterday that China’s losses on
investments in the agencies’ bonds may be $450 billion.  China’s currency reserves were not invested in the
companies’ shares, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange
said.  --Li Yanping. Editor: Paul Panckhurst, Cherian Thomas.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  