-- 
Smooth Fox Terrier Dodger Aims to Be Top Dog at Westminster Show

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-02-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/citigroup-executive-s-terrier-dodger-aims-for-top-dog-at-westminster-show.html
Dodger, a Smooth Fox Terrier and the
top-ranked purebred dog of 2010, is the favorite to win the main
prize at next week’s  Westminster Kennel Club  show in New York.  Dodger won 74  American Kennel Club  pageants last year, more
than any other dog. He’s co-owned by Howard Hoffen, the chairman
and chief executive of  Metalmark Capital , a buyout firm  Citigroup Inc . acquired three years ago.  The Smooth Fox Terrier is the  6-1 favorite breed  at the
show, according to John Avello, director of race and sports
operations at  Wynn  Las Vegas .  “He’s beautiful,” said Karen LeFrak, wife of New York
real-estate developer Richard LeFrak and owner of champion
standard poodles. “Even if you’re competing against a breed
that’s not yours, you recognize quality.”  LeFrak spoke at a Westminster press event Thursday in a
ballroom at the Hotel Pennsylvania, across 7th Avenue from
Madison Square Garden, home of the show. Six breeds newly
recognized by Westminster were introduced. That makes for 179
breeds and varieties at this year’s two-day competition, which
begins Monday.  The most irresistible newbie was the  Leonberger , a furry
mass with a black mask -- a combination  Saint Bernard ,
 Newfoundland  and  Great Pyrenees .  “Unlike those breeds, these guys don’t drool,” said Jean
Boggie, standing with her 110-pound Leonberger, Gigi.  An Icelandic Sheepdog, another new entrant, showed its soft
side by licking the face of an Associated Press photographer as
she closed in for a tight shot.  Old Guard  Although any dog can triumph among the 2,600 competing,
newly introduced breeds are seldom factors because judges are
less familiar with them. David Frei, Westminster’s director of
communications, said he’s not aware of a new breed ever taking
the best-in-show award in its first year.  In the first round, Dodger faces off against other Smooth
Fox Terriers, as to who best conforms to breed standard detailed
on the American Kennel Club  website .  (It’s probably for the best that Smooth Fox Terriers can’t
read the 1,600-word stipulation, which includes, for example, a
requirement that the stern “should be set on rather high, and
carried gaily, but not over the back or curled, docked to leave
about three quarters of the original length of the tail. It
should be of good strength, anything approaching a
“Pipestopper” tail being especially objectionable.”)  Dodger’s first-round won’t be a walk in the park. The 10th-
ranked dog of any breed is also a Smooth Fox Terrier, Adam, who
won 25 shows last year.  ‘Breaking Tail’  Dodger co-owner Phillip Booth was upbeat about the rival
threat: “The figures speak for themselves -- We have three
times the best-in-shows and twice the total dog defeats,” he
said by phone. “Dodger has set a lot of records and broken a
lot of tail.”  The 2010 Westminster winner was the top-ranked dog going
in: Sadie, a Scottish terrier. Top-ranked dogs last won in
consecutive years in 1997 and 1998.  “Campaigning a dog,” as dog people describe the national
circuit, can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. Dodger
competed in about 175 shows in 2010. To raise his profile
higher, his owners advertised him in the triumvirate of doggy
media -- Canine Chronicle ,  Dog News  and Dogs in Review.  An ad inside Canine Chronicle costs as much as $1,900,
according to its website, with the back cover commanding $3,500.
Citigroup’s Hoffen didn’t return a call and e-mail to discuss
Dodger’s campaign.  Team Dodger also maintains an elaborate  website , with
photographs from his best in shows since November 2008 and
videos of his triumphs.  Robin Tomasi , Dodger’s Idaho-based advertising strategist
and webmaster, described the champion as affectionate and a
“great snuggler.”  “But when it’s time to show, he’s all business,” she
said.  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 