-- 
College Athletics Seek Bigger Profits Outsourcing NCAA Ticket Operations

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-02-11T16:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/college-athletics-seek-bigger-profits-outsourcing-ncaa-ticket-operations.html
Sales people in the  Georgia Tech  box
office used to sit by the telephone waiting for fans to call and
place an order.  When the administration got tired of seeing empty seats in
its football stadium, it outsourced its ticket operation to
 Aspire Group , a closely held company in Atlanta that inserted
its own sales team and called alumni, parents and former ticket
buyers.  Revenue from new ticket sales rose $1.75 million last year,
according to the school.  Aspire Chairman Bernie Mullin  says
universities like Georgia Tech in Atlanta are part of a trend in
athletics as schools seek to reduce overhead expenses while
increasing revenue.  “The overwhelming majority of universities don’t
aggressively market and sell their tickets,” said Mullin, a
former college athletic director and chief executive officer of
the company that owns the  National Basketball Association ’s
Atlanta Hawks. “They are order takers, not salespeople. They
don’t know how to build a database, initiate outbound e-
marketing or how to initiate a call. We train our people to do
all that.”  There are about 70  Bowl Championship Series  schools that
have an average of $2.5 million in unsold football and men’s
basketball tickets each year, amounting to $175 million in
unsold tickets, according to Aspire.  Mid-major schools, like those in  Conference USA  and the
 Mid-American Conference , have another $1 million to $1.5 million
in unsold tickets, the company said.  Not all schools agree that outsourcing ticketing operations
are necessary, though.  Outsourcing Sports  Ticket sales are the most recent example of college
athletic departments’ outsourcing their business to private
companies. Many schools outsource stadium and arena food and
beverage businesses; they hire outside companies to market their
logos for use on licensed merchandise; and have other companies
package broadcast deals for them. As more stadiums get luxury
boxes, schools hire other firms to manage them, too.  Now, it’s ticket sales.  Temple University , based in Philadelphia, hired  DiFebo Co. 
of  Orlando ,  Florida , saving almost $300,000, Senior Associate
Athletic Director  Eric Roedl  said. DiFebo was recently acquired
by IMG College, a division of privately held IMG Worldwide Inc.
based in  New York .  Sales  As the Owls’ football program improved -- Temple had its
first winning season since 1990 in 2009 -- and more effort was
put into sales, Temple increased football season ticket sales 35
percent, group sales rose 50 percent and total revenue per game
by 42 percent, Roedl said. Temple declined to disclose its
financials and is not subject to open records requests under
Pennsylvania state law.  “It comes down to expertise,” Roedl said. “Can somebody
do this better than we can do it ourselves? We are good at
recruiting students, hiring coaches and putting on athletic
events. Let the pros do what they do best.”  Ed Goble, associate athletic director for business at the  University of Texas  in Austin, said the Longhorns football
program has been sold out since the mid-1990s and that there
aren’t enough seats to justify outsourcing the operation.  He says Texas’s ticketing office takes orders and maintains
contact information, while the marketing department calls fans
like third-party sales operations are doing at Temple and
Georgia Tech.  “We’re happy with things the way they are,” Goble said in
a telephone interview. “They are our own people who understand
our business and customer base.”  Former Lineman  At Georgia Tech, the Aspire Group has 15 sales people and a
manager. The top salesman there is A.J. Smith, 25, a 6-foot-7,
300-pound former offensive lineman for the Yellow Jackets.  He sold two season tickets for men’s basketball his first
day on the job by helping the customer imagine “being in the
coliseum, when it’s packed and we’re playing against the Duke
Blue Devils in seats close enough where he can throw popcorn at
coach K if you want,” Smith said in an interview.  As the computer signaled that the man’s credit card had
been accepted, Smith did what he was trained to do; he tried to
get a referral for his next sale.  “I said, ‘Who are the two biggest Tech fans you’d like
sitting next to you?’”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  