-- 
ConocoPhillips Boosts Dividend, Adds to Share Buyback

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-02-11T21:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/conocophillips-to-raise-dividend-buy-back-10-bln-in-shares.html
  ConocoPhillips , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, boosted its quarterly dividend and capital-
spending plan while adding as much as $10 billion in stock
buybacks.  Shareholders of record as of Feb. 22 will receive a
quarterly dividend of 66 cents per share, a 20 percent increase,
payable March 1, the Houston-based company said in a statement
today. ConocoPhillips plans to spend $13.5 billion this year to
drill wells, build oil platforms and repair refineries, a 21
percent increase over its 2010 capital-spending plan.  Chief Executive Officer James Mulva sold more than $15
billion in fields and filling stations from  Australia  to Canada
last year to trim operating costs and expand profits. The 2011
capital spending program announced today will focus on crude-
rich projects such as  Canada ’s oil sands rather than gas,
according to separate statement.  “Conoco’s been more aggressive than most in monetizing
assets and they are now returning some of that cash to
shareholders,” Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in Houston, said today in a telephone interview.
“Shareholders always like it when cash is given back.”  The company’s 3.1 percent dividend yield is the highest
among major U.S. oil producers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ConocoPhillips rose $1.50, or 2.1 percent, to $71.58 at
4:08 p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
The shares have gained 5 percent this year.  Buyback Program  The repurchases announced today are in addition to an
existing $5 billion buyback program which has $1 billion
remaining available.  About 90 percent of this year’s capital budget will be
devoted to finding and developing oil and natural-gas fields,
the company said.  Last month, ConocoPhillips reported fourth-quarter profit
rose 59 percent as economic recovery boosted demand for fuels
and higher crude prices offset a decline in production. The
company’s cash and short-term investments increased 30 percent
during the quarter to $10.4 billion.    Exxon Mobil Corp . and  Chevron Corp . are the two largest
U.S. oil companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Dallas at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  