-- Copper May Drop Following China’s Rate Increase, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2011-02-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/copper-may-decline-following-china-s-rate-increase-according-to-survey.html
Copper may fall on concern about a
potential demand slowdown after  China , the world’s biggest
consumer of the metal, raised  interest rates , a survey showed.  Thirteen of 18 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 72 percent, said the metal will drop next week.
Four predicted higher prices and one forecast little change.
Copper for delivery in three months was down 1 percent for this
week at $9,945 a metric ton at 5 p.m. yesterday on the London
Metal Exchange.  China increased borrowing costs on Feb. 8 for the third
time in four months to curb inflation that a report next week
may show sped up to the fastest pace in 30 months, according to
economists. On the same day, Citigroup Inc. said last month’s
copper imports into China probably were “flat or significantly
weaker than in December.”  “We see that base-metal prices including copper will
continue to drift down following China’s interest-rate hike,
curbing near-term appetite for demand,” said  Charles Cooper , an
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London. “We also believe
prices to have limited upward support until China announces
details on its new five-year plan in March.”  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of Feb. 4.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
58 of the past 123 weeks, or 47 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bearish: 13 Bullish: 4 Hold: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 