-- 
Corn, Soy Will Rise as Prices Haven’t Cut Demand, Rabobank Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-02-11T09:44:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/corn-soy-will-rise-as-prices-haven-t-cut-demand-rabobank-says.html
Corn and soybeans will rise through
the second quarter this year as high prices haven’t rationed
demand for the commodities, Rabobank said.  Rising corn, soybean and wheat prices haven’t discouraged
buyers from purchasing the grains as countries seek to curb
food-price inflation, the bank said today in a report. Corn has
surged 90 percent in the past year, soybeans have jumped 51
percent and wheat is up 71 percent. Importing countries also may
be seeking to hedge against further price appreciation,
according to the report.  Corn prices will rise to $7.25 a bushel and soybeans will
jump to $15 in the second quarter, Rabobank said. Excessive
rainfall in  Australia  and  Canada  and drought in  Russia  have
curbed production of staple crops such as wheat and corn, and
political strife has sparked demand as leaders attempt to ensure
supply.  “Higher prices are likely for most agri-commodity markets
over the coming months given the bullish risks which remain in
the market,” Rabobank said. “Key to our continued bullish
outlook is a lack of any meaningful demand rationing thus far,
despite prices reaching such elevated levels.”  Corn futures for May delivery rose 2.75 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $7.1225 a bushel, soybeans gained 5.75 cents to
$14.3875 a bushel, and wheat added 7.25 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to $8.70 a bushel at 9:01 a.m. London time on the Chicago Board
of Trade.  Ethanol, made from corn in the U.S., may beat Department of
Agriculture forecasts for production, as blending is profitable
as long as corn futures on the Chicago Board of Trade remain
below $7.50 a bushel, according to the report. Corn will lead
the grains higher and will need to reach records to encourage
growers to plant more, the bank said.  ‘New Highs’  Soybean production will fall 7 million metric tons to 253
million tons in the current marketing year, Rabobank said. The
USDA has forecast output to fall 4.5 million tons. Prices may
reach “new highs” to ration demand for the oilseeds, which
have gained partly on purchases by  China , according to the
report.  Wheat will gain after the worst drought in a half-century
damaged crops in Russia and floods in Australia curbed
production, Rabobank said. Half of Australia’s 24 million-ton
output will be downgraded from food-quality wheat to feed-
quality, which “further compounds the tightness in the world’s
quality milling wheat supplies,” Rabobank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  