-- 
Court Dismisses Larry Hagman's Ruling Over Citigroup

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-02-11T19:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/court-dismisses-larry-hagman-s-12-million-ruling-over-citigroup.html
  Citigroup Inc ., the third-largest
U.S. bank by assets, won’t have to pay almost $12 million in
damages in a case involving actor Larry Hagman after a
California court dismissed an arbitration ruling.  Judge Michelle R. Rosenblatt in  Los Angeles  on Feb. 9
vacated the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration
board’s decision because one of the arbitrators didn’t disclose
he had been involved in a similar lawsuit in 2007, according to
court filings. The Finra case was filed in May 2009 and involved
the mishandling of investment accounts of Hagman and his wife.  The board ruled in October that New York-based Citigroup
must pay $1.1 million in compensatory damages and donate $10
million of punitive damages to charities chosen by Hagman, 79.
The bank was also told to pay Hagman, who played the oil tycoon
J.R. Ewing in the 1980s television show   Dallas ,” about
$460,000 for attorney fees and other costs.  “We think the result is absurd, and feel very comfortable
that the appellate court will reverse it,” Philip Aidikoff, a
lawyer for Hagman at Aidikoff, Uhl & Bakhtiari, said in an
interview. He said he plans to file an appeal “immediately.”  “We’re pleased with the court’s decision,” said  Alexander Samuelson , a Citigroup spokesman.  Peter Steinbroner, a member of the arbitration board, and
his wife had petitioned in  bankruptcy court  against an
investment partner who had allegedly breached his fiduciary duty
and caused substantial losses in the Steinbroner’s retirement
funds, according to the court filing.  Steinbroner said in a Finra form that he hadn’t been
involved in a dispute involving the same subject matter in the
last five years, the filing said. Hagman’s case involved the
breach of fiduciary duty resulting in losses of $1.35 million.    Asset Allocation   Steinbroner’s 2007 dispute “didn’t involve the securities
industry, didn’t involve asset allocation, which is what this
case is about,” Aidikoff said.  The Finra case was against the Smith Barney brokerage,
which was held within Citigroup Global Markets before  Morgan
Stanley  purchased a controlling stake in a joint venture with  Smith Barney  last year.  A Smith Barney broker, Lisa Detanna, put Hagman and his
wife, Maj, now 82, into a life insurance policy with annual
premiums of $168,000, according to the Finra statement of claim.
The Hagmans also told Detanna in 2005 that they needed income-
producing investments that would protect their principal,
according to the claim. By June 2008, their accounts were about
69 percent invested in equities.  The arbitration board said it enforces punitive damages
under its authority if a company “has engaged in serious
misconduct,” according to the ruling. The board didn’t provide
a reason for its decision.  Hagman has appeared in movies and television shows for more
than 50 years, according to the website IMDB.com. He played
Anthony Nelson in the TV show “I Dream of Jeannie” and was
nominated for two Emmy awards and four Golden Globes for his
role in “Dallas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 