-- 
Crude Oil Falls to 10-Week Low After Egypt’s Mubarak Resigns

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-11T21:22:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/crude-oil-declines-as-equities-drop-dollar-strengthens-on-egypt-turmoil.html
Oil fell to a 10-week low in  New
York  after Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down and
handed power to the military, reducing concern that crude
shipments from the Middle East will be disrupted.  Oil dropped 1.3 percent after Vice President  Omar Suleiman 
made the announcement on state television today. Protests to
unseat Mubarak sparked concern that shipments through the  Suez
Canal  would be shut and that unrest would spread to other
countries in the Middle East and North Africa.  “Mubarak’s resignation should end the crisis in Egypt,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The security premium
that appeared when the unrest began will probably come out of
the oil price.”  Crude for March delivery declined $1.15 to $85.58 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Nov. 30. Oil touched a two-year high of $92.19 a barrel on Jan.
31 amid the unrest in Egypt. Futures fell 3.9 percent this week
and are up 14 percent from a year ago.  Brent crude oil for March settlement climbed 56 cents, or
0.6 percent, to end the session at $101.43 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The premium of Brent to West Texas Intermediate, the grade
traded in New York, widened to a record $15.85 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. The gap averaged
76 cents last year.  Brent Tightness  “There’s a tightness in the Brent market, the North Sea
market,” said  Edward Morse , head of commodities research at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. “It’s happening at a time
when demand by refiners for distillate-rich crudes such as Brent
has gone up seasonally.”  Distillates include heating oil, diesel and  jet fuel .  Tens of thousands of protesters who crowded into Cairo’s
central Tahrir Square greeted the announcement with a roar of
delight before dancing, singing and waving the national flag.    Oil prices  have been inversely correlated to what you’d
normally think of as stability,” Morse said. “You’d normally
think that if a regime were sustained, it would lead to
stability.”  The army council, at its highest state of alert since the
1973 war with  Israel , may face calls for immediate elections
from the young people who have used Facebook and Twitter to
organize. Wael Ghonim, a Google Inc. executive and a figurehead
of the protests, read out a list of demands earlier today that
included abolishing all restrictions on forming political
parties and giving  voting rights  to Egyptians living abroad.  ‘It’s Too Early’  “It’s too early for the market to have more of a
reaction,” said Sarah Emerson, managing director of Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “At the
moment Suleiman and the military are in change. The military is
a well-respected institution, and the best result will be for
them to form a caretaker government and arrange elections.”  U.S. Vice President Joe Biden said the toppling of Mubarak
demonstrates the world and the Middle East are in
“transformative times.” Speaking at the University of
Louisville in  Kentucky  today, Biden said the protests and
changes in Cairo are “not about  Egypt  alone.”  The crisis was sparked by the ouster of Tunisian President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14 and spread in the region.
Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were responsible
for 36 percent of global oil production and held 61 percent of
proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which publishes
its BP Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  Suez Canal  About 2.5 percent of global oil production moves through
Egypt via the Suez Canal and adjacent Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The  closure of the canal  and pipeline would increase costs
and shipping times because vessels would be diverted around the
Cape of Good Hope, the U.S. Energy Department said on its
website. It would add 15 days of transit to  Europe  and eight to
10 days to the U.S., the  International Energy Agency  said.  “Now, we can return to trading on what we were focused on
before the outbreak of the unrest,” Kilduff said. “Next week
it will be back to looking at inventories, which are high and
growing, a strengthening dollar and equities that are rising on
the improving economic outlook.”  U.S. crude-oil supplies increased 1.9 million barrels to
345.1 million last week, according to an Energy Department
report on Feb. 9. It was the fourth straight weekly gain.
Gasoline stockpiles advanced 4.66 million barrels to 240.9
million, the highest level since March 1990, the report showed.  Stronger Dollar  The dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.3545 per euro at 3:12
p.m. in New York, from $1.3603 yesterday. A stronger U.S.
currency reduces the appeal of commodities as an investment.  Stocks advanced on Mubarak’s resignation. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.6 percent to 1,329.17.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 814,365
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 1.13
million contracts yesterday, 55 percent above the average of the
past three months. Open interest was 1.55 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  