-- 
Oil Gains on Supply Concern After Mubarak Defies Calls to Resign

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-11T13:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/crude-oil-advances-in-new-york-after-mubarak-speaks-refuses-to-resign.html
Oil rose as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  defied calls for his resignation, stoking speculation
that renewed turmoil may disrupt crude supplies through the
North African country.  Futures climbed as much as 1.2 percent in  New York  after
Mubarak reiterated late yesterday he intends to stay on as
president until elections in September, while handing some
powers to Vice President  Omar Suleiman  in a bid to placate
opponents. Prices reached a two-year high last week on concern
the unrest may curb oil flows through Egypt’s Suez Canal and
spread to other oil-producing nations in the Middle East.  “The greatest danger is the possible contagion in the
region, with the risk of some major oil producers becoming
involved,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG in London.  The March contract on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
gained as much as $1.04 to $87.77 a barrel and was at $87.30 at
1:32 p.m. London time. Prices are down 1.9 percent this week and
16 percent higher than a year ago. Brent crude for March
settlement climbed 88 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $101.75 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  The gain in New York futures outpaced London’s Brent crude,
narrowing the spread between the contracts from a record.
Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate was at $14.45 a
barrel, compared with an all-time high based on closing prices
of $15.11 on Feb. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The gap averaged 76 cents last year.    Iran  1979  Protests in Egypt, inspired by the popular revolt that
ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14,
sparked concern of further upheaval in a region that holds more
than 50 percent of the world’s known oil reserves.  Oil more than doubled in 1979 when the regime of Iran’s
Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi was toppled, slashing the nation’s
crude exports. Iran is the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries second-largest producer, after  Saudi Arabia .  “What we don’t know is if this is 1979 Iran all over again
or if it’s completely different,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  About 3.5 percent of global crude output moves through  Egypt  via the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Bloomberg calculations using data from the U.S.
Energy Department.  Oil in New York settled at $92.19 a barrel on Jan. 31, the
highest price since October 2008. The Suez Canal, which links
the Mediterranean and Red seas, is one of seven “world oil
transit chokepoints,” according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The International Energy Agency and OPEC said in reports
yesterday that if unrest in Egypt halts oil shipments through
the canal, flows can be diverted through the SuMed pipeline and
other export routes.  The IEA said that “the physical market has tightened
significantly,” with oil stockpiles in the world’s most
developed economies at a two-year low of 2.67 billion barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  