-- 
Cuomo's New York Budget Cuts Threatened by Fellow Democrats Pushing Taxes

-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-02-11T16:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/cuomo-s-new-york-budget-cuts-threatened-by-fellow-democrats-pushing-taxes.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s plan to cut
New York’s  budget  for the first time in at least 17 years is
meeting resistance from fellow Democrats who want to spend more
and pay for it by keeping higher income-tax rates set to expire
at year-end.  Cuomo, 53, seeks record spending reductions in the two
largest parts of the $132.9 billion budget, Medicaid and funds
for local schools. Both programs have advocates, including labor
unions with millions of dollars to spend on spreading their
message. The governor also proposes firing 9,800 state workers
unless they agree to $450 million of savings.  “With the stock market above 12,000, there might be more  tax revenue  than projected, and it could be used to avoid some
of the spending cuts,” said Assemblyman Jack McEneny, a
Democrat from Albany. He was referring to the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , which has increased 5.6 percent since Dec.
31 and is about 86 percent above its March 2009 level.  New York relied on Wall Street workers and companies for 20
percent of its tax revenue until 2009, when the stock market
plunge and the recession caused a record 11 percent decline in
tax collections. Like other states coping with deficits totaling
$125 billion in the next fiscal year, New York  faces  a drop in
federal aid that exceeds its projected 7 percent growth in tax
collections.  Top Tax Rate  The state increased its top income-tax rates to 8.97
percent from 6.85 percent in 2009, to help close a record
deficit that grew to $20 billion. The increase is due to expire
Dec. 31. Keeping the higher rates, which Cuomo opposes, would
provide $1 billion of revenue for the budget and $5 billion the
following fiscal year, according to the Albany-based  Fiscal
Policy Institute , an independent research and educational
organization.  “We have to see what cuts are being provided as a result
of that tax relief for the wealthy and whether we could afford
to provide that tax relief,” Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a
Democrat from  Manhattan , said last month.  Expiring tax rates could be adjusted, or a new higher rate
for those earning more than $1 million a year could be created,
McEneny said.  “There is a lot of bargaining ahead of us, and I expect
the higher tax rates will be extended in some form,” he said.  To help close a $10 billion deficit, Cuomo’s budget for
fiscal 2012, which begins April 1, would reduce total Medicaid
spending, including federal money, by $982 million to $52.8
billion, and trim aid to 700 local school districts by $346
million to $19.5 billon. The cuts for schools would be $1.5
billion over their fiscal year, according to budget  documents .  ‘No Future’  Redesigning  Medicaid  could save the state billions and
improve the quality of care, Cuomo said. Local school districts
have reserves and could cut their own spending, perhaps
including salaries of the 279 superintendents paid more $200,000
a year, he said in his Feb. 1 budget address.    New York  has no future as the tax capital of the
nation,” Cuomo said in his  State of the State  address Jan. 5,
referring to  studies  showing the state’s combined state and
local taxes to be among the highest.  To keep taxes down, he wants to curb the Legislature’s
spending power with new laws limiting growth in Medicaid to the
rate of medical inflation and linking education aid to the rise
in personal income.  ‘Breaks for Millionaires’  Cutting jobs and the services they provide isn’t fair in a
budget that seeks “to maintain tax breaks for millionaires,”
Danny Donohue, president of the  Civil Service Employees
Association , the largest union for state workers, said after
Cuomo presented his budget.  About 127,000 of New York’s 196,000 workers are under the
governor’s direct control.  Since announcing his budget, Cuomo has traveled the state
presenting the plan, often sharing the spotlight with Republican
lawmakers who approve of his proposals, even if they mean their
districts will receive less state aid.  Yields of New York’s income-tax backed bonds, its most
often-issued type of debt, have increased in recent months, as
have yields of most tax-exempt issues. The tax-backed bonds are
rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s and AA by  Fitch Ratings .  A bond due March 2020 was valued at 3.61 percent or 0.41
percentage point more than the AAA benchmark Feb. 10, compared
with 3.17 percent and a 0.37 percentage point spread when they
were issued Dec. 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A bond due February 2040 traded Feb. 9 at 5.38 percent on a
sale of $1 million or more, or 0.49 percentage point more than
the Bloomberg AAA index. On Oct. 6, the bonds initially sold at
4.07 percent, or 0.29 percentage point more than the index.  Skelos Comments  Senate Republican leader  Dean Skelos  of  Rockville Centre 
said he has no major points of disagreement with Cuomo.  “We all know that the deficit is real and we have to
cut,” he said at a breakfast meeting hosted by Crain’s New York
Business yesterday.  Skelos, whose party has a 32-to-30 majority in the upper
chamber, said “government at all levels has to learn to do more
with less.”  The Senate has already approved Cuomo’s plan to impose
discipline on local governments by capping their property-tax
increases at the lesser of 2 percent or the rate of inflation.  Four-Month Delay  A budget agreement may end up stalled in the Legislature,
with the Senate backing the governor and the Democratic majority
in the Assembly holding out for more spending. Lawmakers’
reluctance to reduce outlays last year delayed completion of the
budget until four months after the start of the fiscal year.  If legislators don’t act on Cuomo’s budget, he could follow
the example set last year by then-Governor  David Paterson , who
included his spending cuts in appropriations bills needed to
prevent a shutdown of the state government.  New York law gives the governor authority to veto
amendments or new spending measures added to his budget by
lawmakers, a power that Paterson used more than 6,700 times.  “The field of battle is set, and Governor Cuomo has a
considerable arsenal at his disposal,” Edward Cox, chairman of
the state  Republican Party , said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Quint in  Albany , New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  