-- 
Czech Central Bank Board Will Lose Supporter of Rate Increase

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-02-11T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/czech-central-bank-board-will-lose-supporter-of-rate-increase.html
One of the Czech central bank’s
policy makers who voted for a quarter-point interest rate
increase on Feb. 3 will leave the central bank’s board this
week, minutes from the monetary meeting showed.  The central bank board left the benchmark two-week
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent last week.  Eva
Zamrazilova , Kamil Janacek and  Robert Holman , who voted for a
quarter-point rate increase, were outvoted by the remaining four
policy makers. Holman, whose term expires this week, will
replaced by Lubomir Lizal on Feb. 13.  The Ceska Narodni Banka is weighing inflation risks against
an economic recovery as its board members debate when to start
raising  interest rates . The bank’s latest forecast sees the
inflation rate close to its 2 percent target through the first
half of 2012.  “The board agreed that the risks associated with the
February forecast were significant and were pointed in both
directions,” the minutes published on the central bank’s
website today showed.    “In this context, it was repeatedly
said that a premature rate increase might have a larger negative
impact on the economy than a delayed increase.”  The minutes don’t reveal individual opinions of board
members.  “It was also said several times that an increase in rates
would clearly signal the end of the crisis and that it would not
have negative economic impacts because it would not start to
have an effect until the first half of 2012 when growth will
accelerate,” the minutes said.  The bank has kept rates stable since May after cutting them
by 3 percentage points in less than two years as the global
crisis pushed the country into the worst recession since the end
of communism in 1989. Gross domestic product grew 2.8 percent in
the three months through September, the most in nine quarters.  The debate on the start of rate increases received a new
impulse this week when inflation data showed an unexpected
slowdown in consumer-price growth.  January Inflation decelerated to 1.7 percent, the slowest
in seven months, compared with 2.3 percent in December, the
Statistics Office said on Feb. 9.  Inflation was slower than forecast mainly due to a smaller-
than-expected increase in food prices, the central bank said. It
 estimates  inflation will match its 2 percent target in the first
quarter of 2012 and accelerate to 2.1 percent in the following
three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  