-- 
Czech Carbon Registry Aims to Reopen by Feb. 25 After Thefts

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-02-11T16:29:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/czech-carbon-registry-aims-to-reopen-by-feb-25-after-thefts.html
The  Czech Republic , one of three
nations to lose carbon permits in hacking attacks last month,
aims to have European Union approval to reopen its national
registry by Feb. 25 and work into next month on security.  The registry in Prague intends to begin a security audit on
Feb. 15 and submit the results to the European Commission on
Feb. 21, said Jiri Stastny, head of the company that manages the
Czech registry, OTE AS. Registries, which keep track of carbon
ownership in 30 European nations, need the EU regulator to
approve their security audits before reopening.  “We want to go deeper than is required by Brussels,”
Stastny said in a telephone interview.  The Czech registry said last month it lost about 1.3
million carbon permits owned mainly by Blackstone Global
Ventures and by  CEZ AS , the biggest Czech utility, in hacking
attacks on its accounts. The commission, the EU regulator,
closed  Europe ’s 30 carbon registries on Jan. 19 after thieves
illegally transferred an estimated 2 million permits from
accounts in the Czech Republic, Austria and  Greece . Italy and
Romania also reported missing permits after raids in 2010.  The regulator has allowed registries in the U.K., Germany,  France , the Netherlands, Slovakia and Portugal to reopen after
demonstrating their systems are secure. The BlueNext SA Exchange
in Paris reopened on Feb. 4. Still, spot trading volume has yet
to rebound in Europe amid legal questions about how to recover
missing permits in a market valued last year at $110 billion.  The Czech registry located its missing permits in Estonia,  Germany  and the U.K., Stastny said. Getting the permits back
will be a long and difficult process because of inconsistent
laws in EU member states, he said.  The Czech registry will reopen with an additional layer of
security, Stastny said. In addition to submitting a user name
and a password, carbon clients will also be required to submit a
code sent via text message to their cell phones.  OTE will “very probably” offer clients the ability to
check on their accounts before the Feb. 25 reopening, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  