-- 
Delta’s Comair Must Pay $7.1 Million Over Crash

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-02-11T21:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/delta-s-comair-must-pay-7-1-million-over-crash-judge-rules.html
Comair Inc., the  Delta Air Lines
Inc . regional carrier, must pay $7.1 million to the family of
one of 49 people killed in a 2006 crash in Kentucky, said a
judge who ruled out punitive damages in the case.  U.S. District Judge Karl Forester entered the judgment
yesterday in Lexington, Kentucky, where the family of Bryan
Keith Woodward won the $7.1 million compensatory damages award
after a trial in December 2009. Forester had set a trial on
punitive damages for Feb. 1, and then reversed himself, saying
the family was no longer entitled to them.  Woodward’s family sought to show that Comair engaged in
gross negligence when Comair Flight 5191, bound for Atlanta from
Lexington, crashed just before dawn on Aug. 27, 2006. Pilots
used an unlit runway that was too short for a safe takeoff, the  National Transportation Safety Board  found in 2007. The FAA
contributed by failing to require that pilots get air-traffic
control approval before crossing runways, the board said.  “There is no evidence that Comair authorized the pilots to
line up and attempt to take off from the wrong runway or that
Comair ratified that conduct,” Forester ruled Feb. 2. “To the
contrary, the overwhelming evidence is that the Flight 5191
pilots violated Comair training, the procedures in Comair’s
manuals, sterile cockpit rules, and the required taxi briefing
for the first flight of the day.”  Daughters’ Awards  Woodward, 39, was an electrician who lived in Lafayette,  Louisiana . Jurors awarded $3 million to his daughter, Mattie-Kay
Hebert, who was 15 at the time of the verdict, and $2 million to
his other daughter, Lauren Madison Hebert, who was 19 when the
panel ruled.  In his judgment yesterday, Forester upheld the jury award
of $1.35 million to his estate for his loss of earning power and
$750,000 for his pain and suffering.  “I’m disappointed in Judge Forester’s decision not to
allow a jury to decide whether Comair should be punished,”
David Rapoport, an attorney for the family, said in a phone
interview. “I’m pleased with the jury verdict on damages, which
I continue to believe is fair, reasonable and appropriate.”  Christine Wever, a spokeswoman for Erlanger, Kentucky-based
 Comair , said in an e-mailed statement: “Since the day of the
accident, we have honored our commitment to treat the passenger
families fairly. We hope this judgment provides some measure of
comfort for the family and appreciate the court’s thoughtful
consideration of this final passenger case.”  Records obtained through the Freedom of Information Act
show families of 45 passengers received $264 million in
confidential settlements, an average of $5.9 million per
passenger.  Taxpayer Contribution  U.S. taxpayers contributed $58 million, or 22 percent,
after safety investigators faulted the air-traffic controller.
Insurers for Comair paid the balance.  In his Feb. 2 opinion on punitive damages, Forester said
Woodward’s family had to establish gross negligence by clear and
convincing evidence and that Comair “authorized or ratified or
should have anticipated the conduct in question.”  He said there was no evidence that Captain Jeffrey Clay or
First Officer James Polehinke, the lone survivor of the crash,
“had previously committed a similar error or had any history of
similar conduct during their year flying for Comair.”  The judge also rejected the argument that “a wrong runway
takeoff should have been anticipated” because of another Comair
incident in  Corpus Christi ,  Texas , in January 2003. Comair
incorporated that incident into its safety training program,
according to the judge.  ‘Cavalier Attitude’  Plaintiffs also failed to prove their claims that Comair
management exhibited a “cavalier attitude toward safety,”
according to the judge.  On Jan. 4, the judge postponed the punitive damages trial
because of a conflict over who had authority to make litigation
decisions on behalf of Mattie-Kay Hebert.  Comair challenged whether the administrator of Woodward’s
estate and the mother of his daughters, Jamie Hebert, was
legally married to him, as she claimed. The company’s lawyers
said Hebert forged documents showing they were married. The
judge also said the compensatory damages were “very large in
comparison to other  Kentucky  cases and could well be reduced on
appeal.”  Comair made a post-verdict settlement offer of
$8.1 million, reflecting a $1 million premium over the jury
award, which the plaintiffs refused, the judge wrote. Forester
said “under all of these circumstances,” he “had serious
questions about the trustworthiness of Jamie Hebert” and
whether she could make legal decisions for her daughter. Because
of conflicting legal rulings on the question, he postponed the
trial.  The case is In Re Air Crash at Lexington, Kentucky, Aug.
27, 2006, 06-cv-00316, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Kentucky (Lexington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 