-- 
Detroit Symphony Faces Deadline as Strike Threatens Lost Season

-- B y   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 
2011-02-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/detroit-symphony-faces-deadline-as-players-strike-threatens-to-end-season.html
The  Detroit Symphony Orchestra  has
told its striking musicians it needs a response today that may
decide whether its season is saved or canceled.  The symphony’s union has until 5 p.m. today New York time
to make a new proposal after musicians rejected the latest
management offer this week.  Depending on that response, the two sides may negotiate
further or the season may be canceled and next year’s deferred,
said Elizabeth Weigandt, a symphony spokeswoman, in an
interview.  The musicians downed bows and brass in October. Management
says it can’t survive without pay concessions. The musicians say
they won’t take cuts as deep as management seeks.  The symphony’s woes -- escalating losses, a heavy debt load
and a declining endowment -- reflect the challenge of
maintaining a world-class orchestra in a metropolis largely
dependent on the  auto industry  that was already struggling
before the recession almost buried it.  “The question now is what will change the business
model,” Anne Parsons, the symphony’s president and chief
executive officer, said in an interview. The musicians’
proposals, she said, aren’t enough: “It delays the moment of
the truth.” Music director Leonard Slatkin declined to comment
on the strike.  Motor City Jobless  Talk of changing business models is familiar territory
in the Detroit area. The Michigan unemployment rate is 11.7
percent, down from a peak of 14.5 percent in December 2009, and
the Detroit metropolitan rate, which hit 18 percent in July
2009, is 12 percent.  Production workers at  General Motors Co ., Ford Motor Co.
and Chrysler Group LLC have accepted concessions and seen jobs
cut. GM and Chrysler filed and exited bankruptcy two years ago
as part of U.S. government bailouts.  Ford Motor Co ., which
avoided bankruptcy, cut 42 percent of its jobs from the end of
2006 through 2010.  Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  received $17.9
million in 2010 in salary, stock, options awards and other
compensation.  The 85 musicians of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra had a
base annual salary of $104,650 in the contract that expired last
year. Management had proposed paring that to $70,200, a figure
that would rise to $73,800 over three years. The musicians
proposed a reduction to $82,000, which would rise to $96,000
over three years.  Losses, Debt  As negotiations have continued, the symphony has raised its
offer in the most recent publicly disclosed proposal to more
than $87,000 a year for 38 weeks plus four weeks of vacation.
The union rejected the symphony’s most recent proposal, which
hasn’t been publicly disclosed.  The symphony’s operating losses, including debt service and
pension obligations, grew to $8.8 million in fiscal 2010, which
ended Aug. 1, from about $3.8 million in fiscal 2008. The
unrestricted segment of the symphony’s endowment is down to $20
million from $47 million in 2008 as the institution used it to
cover losses. The orchestra cut about 30 nonmusician jobs in
2008 and management took a 10 percent pay reduction, with other
employees absorbing a 5 percent cut.  A five-bank group that includes  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Comerica Inc . in December repaid
bondholders of $54 million in bonds issued for a 2003 orchestra
hall expansion project and told the symphony it owed the group
the money. Weigandt, the spokeswoman, confirmed a Feb. 3 Detroit
News story that reported the move. She said the banks haven’t
foreclosed on the loan.  Pay Cuts Inevitable  “We’re not closing our eyes,” said Haden McKay, spokesman
for the American Federation of Musicians Local 5, who plays
cello for the orchestra. “We’re going to get pay cuts.”  The union’s position is that deeper cuts will hurt the
orchestra’s ability to recruit new talent.  “We’re going to miss out on the next generation of
talent,” McKay said. “It’s valuable to put a stake in the
ground and preserve an institution that makes  Detroit  a major
city.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Koenig in Southfield, Michigan, at   wkoenig@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff Green at   jgreen16@bloomberg.net  