-- 
DuPont’s Danisco Offer Is Too Low, Shareholder Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-02-11T21:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/dupont-s-danisco-offer-is-320-million-too-low-shareholder-says.html
DuPont Co.’s offer for Danisco A/S
is at least $320 million too low as it doesn’t account for the
food-ingredient maker’s market leading position, hedge fund and
shareholder Elliott Associates LP said.  “We’re at a loss to understand why the board of directors
of Danisco should have seen fit to recommend the offer,”
Elliott said in a letter dated Feb. 7. New York-based Elliott
said its clients owned a total of 478,274 shares, or about 1
percent of Copenhagen-based Danisco’s capital.  DuPont said today its agreement to pay 665 kroner ($121) a
share for Danisco is “fair, full and firm.” The offer is equal
to $5.8 billion, 25 percent more than the Danish company’s
closing share price on Jan. 7, the last day’s trading before the
deal was announced. Danisco is worth more than 702 kroner a
share, Elliott said in the letter and added it had been in
contact with other shareholders who also find the offer too low.  “It’s our firm belief that a large proportion of the
company’s institutional shareholders share our view,” Elliott
said, without identifying other owners who may object to the
offer. “We don’t believe the price offered represents good
value, or even fair value, for the company in a takeover
situation.”  AP Pension, a Copenhagen-based pension fund with less than
0.5 percent of Danisco, has said it opposes the offer. SEB Asset
Management, which has a stake of about 2 percent, also turned
down the offer, Boersen newspaper said Jan. 31.  ‘In Dialogue’  “Danisco’s board is in dialogue with Elliott as we are
with other shareholders,” Carl Johan Corneliussen, a spokesman
with Danisco, said by telephone. He confirmed the authenticity
of the letter, which was sent to Danisco’s board.  The offer expires Feb. 22 and is contingent on the
acceptance of investors holding more than 90 percent of shares.  “Our offer for Danisco is fair, full and firm,” Anthony Farina, a spokesman for Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “We are confident that Danisco
shareholders will recognize that our offer provides certainty at
a significant premium above Danisco’s highest-ever trading
price.”  Danisco advanced 5.5 kroner to 663 kroner today in
Copenhagen trading, the highest closing price since Jan. 20.
DuPont gained 66 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $54.58 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  ‘Standalone Valuation’  Elliott said 702 kroner per share is Danisco’s “standalone
valuation.” DuPont should pay an additional 50 kroner for
synergies associated with combining the companies and an
unspecified premium for gaining control of Danisco, the hedge
fund said.  Danisco attracted more than one suitor, Chairman Jorgen Tandrup said Jan. 10. Royal DSM NV, which built a 4.95 percent
stake in Danisco, on Jan. 12 ruled out a counterbid. The Dutch
company said at the time that it will likely tender its shares,
though it will make a final decision closer to the deadline.    Belgium ’s  Solvay SA , which raised $7.1 billion from the
sale of a drugs unit in September, was outbid by DuPont, people
familiar with the matter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  