-- 
Egypt NDP Chief Says Early Presidential Poll Possible

-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-02-11T15:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/egypt-ndp-chief-says-early-presidential-poll-possible-update1-.html
The new head of  Egypt ’s ruling  National Democratic Party , Hossam Badrawi, said early
presidential elections may be possible and that protesters
calling for President  Hosni Mubarak ’s departure have won.  “The revolution has succeeded,” Badrawi, secretary-
general of the party, said in an interview in Cairo today.
“What’s the need for events that do not allow for economic
development? We want work. We want companies to make profit and
pay taxes. We want safety for tourism.”  Badrawi said the delegation of power to Vice President  Omar Suleiman , rather than Mubarak’s resignation, would pave the way
for a free presidential election. The party chief called for an
early poll if constitutional amendments are adopted before
September.  Mubarak in a speech late yesterday defied calls for his
immediate resignation and said he would stay in office until the
September vote, while handing day-to-day powers to Suleiman. The
gesture didn’t placate protesters, who have been calling for the
ouster of Mubarak and his regime since Jan. 25.  Finance Minister Samir Radwan said today that 1.2 million
tourists had left the country and that exports had dropped 6
percent as a result of the unrest, which the  United Nations  says
has claimed the lives of about 300 people.  Badrawi said he met with Mubarak on Feb. 9 and told him
“it was time for him to delegate his powers.” The NDP leader
said he urged the president by phone yesterday to speed up plans
to address the people.  “Our aim is to carry out open presidential elections under
judicial supervision,” said Badrawi. He was named head of the
party on Feb. 5, replacing  Gamal Mubarak , son of the Egyptian
president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 