-- 
Egypt Analysts Comment on Next Steps After Mubarak’s Ouster

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-02-11T19:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/egypt-analysts-comment-on-next-steps-after-mubarak-s-ouster.html
The ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  from
Egypt’s presidency today, after protests that started Jan. 25,
prompted the following comments from analysts:  Angus Blair, head of research at Cairo-based Beltone Financial:  “The army needs to move quickly to remove obstacles to
private investment, such as overhauling the bureaucracy, and
cutting tariffs.”  “The private sector needs to be as liberated as the people
have been today.”  Mona Mansour, a research director at Egyptian investment bank CI
Capital:  “Even if this means military rule at least it brings
stability. This could be positive for the economy. It may take
some time for investment flows to come in but it is positive.”  Moustafa El-Husseini, Egyptian author of   Egypt  on the Brink of
the Unknown:”  “The military cannot stop this momentum.”  “The military knows that if it tries to stop the
transformation to democracy the price it will have to pay may be
steep.”  Karim Mezran, professor of international relations at the Johns
Hopkins University campus in Bologna, Italy:  The Egyptian people’s “demands have basically been met, and
at this point continuing the protests means going up against the
military. I think most of them will go home. The army will tell
them that the transformation is under way, that the economy is
suffering, that people have to get back to work.  “The people are not fooled. They know the system is still
in place. But they have gotten much of what they wanted and they
know they can’t provoke the military.”  “It will become a semi-democracy. The emergency laws will
be lifted. There will be more freedom of speech. There will be a
political opening. But it will be a supervised democracy, a bit
like  Turkey  in the 1990s. It will be much better than what it is
now, but I wouldn’t expect a 100 percent democracy.”  “America has switched sides. Obama has made it clear they
won’t stand by dictators.”  “Regimes across the area will open up to oppositions to
try to calm things down. Algeria is most at risk because of the
internal dynamics there. But they seem to have managed to keep
things calm by making concessions.”  Hani Sabra, New York-based Middle East expert, Eurasia Group:  “I don’t think it’s the start of a domino effect but it
puts other Arab governments on notice. Some will take more
aggressive pre-emptive steps to prevent what we saw in Tunisia
and Egypt from happening.  “Obviously the opposition protesters and leaders are
rejoicing at Mubarak’s announcement, but there is still a lot of
work to be done in terms of creating the new political order in
Egypt. The military will be the power they negotiate with
directly. Military indicated they want free, fair presidential
elections, to eliminate the emergency law and so on. So people
will be watching very closely to see that they follow through
with their promise.”  On the military relationship with the U.S. and the European
Union: “On some levels it will give the EU and the U.S. some
breathing room at the negotiating table and allow them to say
democracy was won by the activists in Egypt. They will see the
army as ruling only in a transitional capacity.”  On whether a dictatorship will emerge: “I don’t think it’s
the most likely thing to happen. It’s pretty clear that the
opposition can bring millions into the streets. From the
military’s perspective they seem less likely to pursue that
course. The opposition have calmed fears that this is an
Islamist-dominated movement, so they will be more open to
instituting changes. I don’t think the military will usher in a
transition that makes Egypt as open as  Norway , but the military
will play an important role in seeing that the country
progresses, and doesn’t go back to the old order.”  On stabilizing the country: “The main issue that needs to
be addressed, in terms of maintaining stability, is how long the
transitional period will last, what the composition of the
transitional leadership will be, those are the priority issues
in the near term.  Richard Dalton, former British ambassador to Iran, now with the
Chatham House foreign-affairs institute in London, on Bloomberg
Television:  “There are parallels. The slogans in 1979 were also about
justice and freedom. What we are seeing in Egypt was very much
like the early stages when there was a broad coalition. But
what’s different is that it’s a people’s revolution in Egypt
that hasn’t yet coalesced around a strong leader.”  “The Muslim Brotherhood are saying they won’t put forward
a candidate for the presidency. That might not be the end of the
story in terms of their ambitions, but they are responding to
the fact that only a minority of Egyptians want to rally behind
their banner. The majority want a secular state, which is the
Egyptian tradition”.  “What is worrying at the moment is that the military
appears to be divided. They are not putting out a single
message. The majority in the military appear to want a rapid
transition. They are getting their act together.”  Mohammed bin Essa al-Khalifa, chief executive officer of the  Economic Development Board  of Bahrain, on Bloomberg Television:  “In Bahrain we have had a successful 10-year run of
reform. It has been a story of development, growth, and
political freedom. We are confident what we have done meets the
aspirations of the people of Bahrain.”  “People in the region are asking for more openness, more
growth, and this is positive for investment in the region.”  “Each country has its own unique set of circumstances. The
message between Tunisia and Egypt is that people want a better
life, so development must meet the demands of the people.
Countries that don’t improve the quality of their peoples’ life
will face difficulties in the Arab world.”  Yazan Abdeen, a Dubai-based  fund manager  who helps oversee $250
million at ING  Investment Management  (Dubai) Ltd.:  “This is new to the political culture in the region.
Questions need to be answered related to the transition
mechanism between the military leadership and civil democratic
leadership.  “Subject to a transition to rational civil democratic
leadership, the economic drivers that are specific to Egypt may
attract more foreign direct investment. There remains a lot of
uncertainty, and that uncertainty is translated into risk. The
risk profile of the country will increase until clarity is
available. At the beginning there may be panic, and we will see
volatility for sure” in the markets.  On reaction in regional markets: “There are companies that
have exposure to Egypt, and their risk profile might increase
because of that uncertainty. You could see some euphoria. But
because of foreign institutional participation, the risk profile
of Egypt will increase until there is more clarity on the
transition. The effect on regional markets could be limited. We
have already seen that.”  “On a regional level the risk profile has increased. But
rich people do not demonstrate.  James Wolfensohn, chairman of Wolfensohn & Co., head of  World
Bank  from 1995 to 2005, on Bloomberg Television:  “The reason you get uprisings is not that people foment to
create a problem, it’s because there is dissatisfaction.
Throughout the Middle East that dissatisfaction is caused
because people have no money and they can’t eat and they get
mad. It’s a very human reaction.”  “With the creation of networks like the Internet, ideas
from one country instantly get transmitted to other countries,
so what happened in Egypt I think you will find infections
across the Middle East.”  “We had reactions from leaders from other countries saying
they will react. They are saying we are not going to get into
this situation, we are going to make people freer. The
leadership throughout the Middle East is showing they understand
there can be an infection.”  “The autocrats have had it pretty good, they have gotten
pretty rich. What is being tested is whether millions of people
can change the minds of people at the top.”  “The Jordanians must be very worried. The king has support
from tribal leaders but the majority of the population is
Palestinian.”  ”People are most worried about the  Suez Canal  and the flow
of oil. The past days there have been very few problems. The big
issue is energy and oil from the Middle East.”  “Financial markets are saying the militaries will win and
you will get stability in these countries. Markets are always
happier with stability. They prefer certainty.”  Brian Katulis, senior fellow at the Center for American Progress
in Washington:  “The Egypt scene is as complex for us, the regional scene
is more complex now that Mubarak has stepped down.”  “The song that keeps playing through my head is the Who’s
‘Won’t Get Fooled Again,’” Katulis said. “The guys who have
essentially run the country for the last 60 years are the guys
who are still running the country.”  “So when the euphoria fades -- and I think his stepping
down obviously relieves come pressure -- this whole process of
negotiation and negotiation for power among Egyptians will go on
for a long time and the negotiation between the U.S. and the
Egyptian authorities will go on for a long time.”  “The opposition is very fractious,” he said. “Now, you’ll
have competing agendas and it will take some time for different
opposition groups to coalesce around issues and stands.”  Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer at Abu Dhabi-based
financial services company CAPM Investments PJSC:  “The succession for the president needs to be acceptable to
the people. If so, it will prompt a strong rebound in the stock
market and the economy in general. People had expected markets
to sell off, you may find them now talking about opening limit
up and not limit down. It is important that the damage that’s
been done in past 20 days is manageable.  “The exchange rate may go back to attractive levels. And
the Egyptian economy may go back to where it was. You’d see
influx of liquidity in loans from regional players” in the Gulf
Cooperation Council. “That would have positive effect on equity
markets and the  exchange rate  and it even could have positive
effects in the entire region. In my mind the new blood that may
come to the system may come up with new ideas that will help the
economy” significantly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 