-- 
Mubarak Leaves Legacy of Egypt in Turmoil While Region at Peace

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a m   S i m p s o n
-- 
2011-02-11T16:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/egypt-in-turmoil-marks-mubarak-s-legacy-after-wave-of-protests-violence.html
It took 18 days of pressure from 
Cairo protesters as the U.S. and the European Union called
for change to end the 30-year presidency of  Hosni Mubarak , who 
kept peace with Israel, battled Islamic militants and 
preserved American interests in the Middle East.  His departure came after violence killed more than 300
people, according to the  United Nations , with police sometimes
firing on demonstrators and pro-Mubarak forces attacking as
well. Egypt is the most populous country in the Arab world,
which holds more than 50 percent of all known oil reserves.  The replacement for Mubarak -- who said just yesterday that
he would stay until September elections while handing powers to
his vice-president -- must have democratic legitimacy, former
U.S. National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski said in a
telephone interview before Mubarak said he would leave.    Egypt  is now at a stage of development in which it is
reasonable and expected by the population,” Brzezinski said of
the need for a leader popularly elected in free and fair
elections.  In its final days, Mubarak’s regime also faced tough
criticism from its most powerful ally, the U.S. Since the
protests began, officials in the administration of President  Barack Obama  have been condemning violence wielded against
demonstrators, calling for a faster transition and saying
emergency laws, which had been used to justify harsh security
tactics, should be lifted.  Facebook Opponents  Mubarak was brought down by an unexpected coalition of
opposition politicians, members of the banned Muslim Brotherhood
group and, most important, tens of thousands of young people who
planned and organized the demonstrations on Facebook and
Twitter.  Chief among them: Wael Ghonim, a 30-year-old Google Inc.
executive whose social media expertise helped trigger and propel
the demonstrations. He was arrested and held in secret detention
for more than a week as Mubarak’s government shut down the
Internet and mobile services, the tools he used to help make the
protests possible.  Two days after his Feb. 7 release, Ghonim told those
gathered in Tahrir Square, “I’m not a hero. You’re all heroes,
the martyrs who have died in the struggle are the real heroes.”
Pictures of those killed were posted around the square.  Mubarak, a former air-force general who as president was
commander of the largest military force in the Arab world, was
the nation’s longest-serving ruler in more than 150 years. He
controlled a government that was the linchpin of U.S. policy in
the  Middle East  for three decades, Brzezinski said.  Peace With  Israel   Mubarak kept peace with Israel, with which Egypt had had
formal peace for only two years when he took office, supported
U.S. counterterrorism efforts, backed Iranian sanctions over its
nuclear program and helped broker Palestinian-Israeli
negotiations.  At the same time, Mubarak, an 82-year-old with jet-black
hair, controlled a regime condemned by the U.S. government for
its lack of basic freedoms at home, for its widespread
suppression of political opposition and for the  torture  of
Egyptian citizens, which was often carried out with impunity,
according to the State Department.  “If you are prepared to reconcile those two realities,
then it seems to me that, on balance, Mubarak has been a partner
and a friend to the U.S. and the region,” said former U.S.
Middle East peace negotiator Aaron  David Miller .  Still, Miller said, the cost was steep.  ‘Anger and Animosity’  “His increasing authoritarianism and repression generated
enormous anger and animosity, not just towards him, but also
toward the United States,” said Miller, who served as a State
Department official under six U.S. secretaries of state and was
a peace negotiator in the Clinton Administration. He is now a
public policy scholar at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars.  Mubarak was propelled to power by the 1981 assassination of
Anwar Sadat, the leader who made peace with Israel two years
earlier. Only Mohammed Ali, who ruled Egypt from 1805 to 1849,
governed longer in the past 200 years.  Miller said three decades of stability in the region for
the U.S. and Israel helped Mubarak buy a pass from  Washington 
when he failed to follow through on pledges to open the
country’s political system to competition that would have posed
a challenge to his own rule.  Egypt’s benchmark stock index has risen more than seven-
fold in the past 10 years. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has
almost tripled in the same period. Egypt’s stock market is the
second-biggest in North Africa by market value after  Morocco 
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Protected Ruling Elite  Since the global financial crisis, though, Egypt’s economic
growth rate has dropped below the 7 percent that the government
estimates is necessary to create enough jobs for a growing
working-age population -- such as the young people who camped
out in Cairo’s Tahrir Square.  Suppression of a wide array of perceived rivals under an
emergency law promulgated in 1981 marked Mubarak’s reign. Some
analysts and opposition groups, including the  Muslim
Brotherhood , said his policies protected the ruling elite while
leaving the poor grappling with an inflation rate that reached
more than 20 percent in 2008.  Mubarak’s governments blamed  population growth  and the
economic mismanagement of past administrations for the poverty
that plagued the nation of 80 million.  Egypt’s per-capita gross domestic product more than
quadrupled from 1981 to 2009, when it stood at $6,000, lower
than countries such as Namibia and  Gabon , according to the CIA
World Factbook.  Funeral Visit  Mubarak never put in doubt the policy of diplomatic
rapprochement with Israel, though his only visit to the Jewish
state was for the funeral of assassinated Israeli Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin in 1995.  He renewed ties with Arab states, which had almost
universally rejected Cairo’s separate peace accord with Israel
under Sadat. They showed their anger by breaking diplomatic
relations with Egypt, suspending its membership in the  Arab
League  and moving the group’s headquarters from Cairo to Tunis.  Addressing Arab leaders in Cairo in 1996, Mubarak stressed
his commitment to regional peace, which he maintained until the
end of his regime.  “There isn’t among us anyone who wants to take the region
back to the destruction of war or to the phase of no war and no
peace,” he said. “We are sincerely determined to struggle for
peace until the end.”  Brzezinski, who was national security adviser to President  Jimmy Carter  when the U.S. helped forge the Egypt-Israel accord,
said that was Mubarak’s most important legacy.  Avoiding Legacy  “I think avoiding war in the region is of importance to
the  United States ,” Brzezinski said. “The moment Egypt signed
a separate peace treaty with Israel the possibility of an
encircling attack on Israel, like in 1973, faded.”  Mubarak also retained Egypt’s alliance with the U.S., which
began with Sadat’s break with the then-Soviet Union. Egypt now
receives about $1.3 billion a year in U.S. military aid. U.S.
non-military aid last year was $250 million, according to the
State Department.  Critics, including the group  Human Rights Watch , said he
went too far, arguing that the alleged torture of terrorism
suspects created more danger than it quelled.  The government’s “foul record on torture” played an
important part in fueling the anger that brought Mubarak down,
said Sarah Leah Whitson, the Middle East director at the New
York-based Human Rights Watch.  Five Times President  She called on the new government to end torture and
prosecute perpetrators.  Mubarak was elected president five times. Four were by
referendum in which he was the only candidate, and one, in 2005,
was an election against an array of weak candidates. Throughout
his reign, he retained the state-of-emergency rules that
restricted political activity and free speech.  Like Egypt’s three other presidents since the revolution of
1952, Mubarak came from the military. Almost three decades after
he assumed power, that same military would announce that it
recognized “the legitimacy of the people’s demands” and
promise not to fire on peaceful demonstrators.  Until the crisis that began with demonstrations Jan. 25,
Mubarak had never appointed a vice president or officially
designated anyone as his likely successor. The rise of his son,
Gamal, up the ranks of the ruling  National Democratic Party  led
Egyptians to conjecture that he would succeed his father. Both
men repeatedly denied this.  Brotherhood Opponents  His most visible political opponents were members of the
Muslim Brotherhood, an Islamic group that had renounced violence
in the 1970s. Dissatisfaction among Egyptians over corruption
and economic inequality fueled its growth.  In 2005, Mubarak opened presidential elections to multiple
candidates. The regulations were so restrictive that no strong
challengers emerged; the runner-up, lawyer Ayman Nour, won only
7 percent of the vote to Mubarak’s 88 percent. After the
election, Nour was jailed for four years on fraud charges that
human-rights groups say were trumped up.  In elections later in 2005, the Muslim Brotherhood won 88
seats in the 454-member  parliament  -- a surprise result that
prompted a crackdown on Islamic activists and on anti-Mubarak
secular politicians, judges, newspaper editors, bloggers and
street demonstrators. Hundreds of Brotherhood activists were
rounded up and some put on trial in closed-door military courts.  In 2007, a constitutional amendment forbade parties with
religious ties, eliminating the Muslim Brotherhood from fielding
a presidential candidate. Rules on running as an independent
were also tightened, making a Brotherhood-affiliated nominee
unlikely.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Cam Simpson in London at 
 csimpson13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade in Dubai at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net . 