-- 
Emerging Funds Stem Outflows, Russia Has Fourth Week of Gains

-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 
2011-02-11T14:10:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/emerging-funds-stem-outflows-russia-has-fourth-week-of-gains.html
Emerging-market equity funds stemmed
losses in the week to Feb. 9 as concern accelerating inflation
will slow growth ebbed. Russia-focused holdings had a fourth
week of inflows.  Investors pulled out $3 billion compared with $7 billion
the week before, the biggest weekly outflow in three years,
Banco Santander SA and UralSib Financial Corp. said, citing data
from research firm EPFR Global. Russia received $267 million, a
fourth week of inflows, while China funds reported net
redemptions of $314 million, Brazil funds lost $165 million,
India funds were down by $120 million.  “This week’s figures should both help calm fears of a mass
exodus from the emerging market asset class,”  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at UralSib in Moscow, wrote in an e-mail today.
The inflows “create a strong case for investors to buy Russia
in this current market dip,” he wrote.  Accelerating price growth and improved predictions for
developed nations’ economies are drawing funds from emerging
markets, Cristian Moreno, an analyst at Santander, wrote in a
report dated today. While Russia’s benchmark Micex Index came
close to reversing the year’s gains this week, its 0.1 percent
year-to-date advance beats a 5.9 percent slump for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index.  “While the improved outlook of developed markets versus
GEMs justified a relative price correction, we believe that even
after adjusting growth expectations, the value-growth-risk
proposition of emerging markets is superior to that of developed
markets,” Moreno wrote.    Turkey   Turkey funds were “particularly badly hit,” Weafer said,
citing “contagion” from the protests in  Egypt  and “fears that
the unrest may spread to other countries in the region.” Turkey
lost $198 million in the week, he said.  Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak yesterday reiterated he
will stay in office until September, even after hundreds of
thousands of Egyptians flooded the country’s main squares and
thoroughfares to demand his exit. Violence in Egypt in the past
week, which the  United Nations  says has killed about 300 people,
sparked fears of contagion in a region that holds more than 50
percent of the world’s known oil reserves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 