-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Climb, Halting Six-Day Drop, After Mubarak Resigns

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 
2011-02-11T22:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/emerging-stocks-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-may-on-inflation-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, halting
a weeklong drop, after  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down as president
of  Egypt  following 18 days of protests, easing concern the
turmoil would derail the global economic recovery.  Oil fell in  New York  to the lowest level since Nov. 30
after Mubarak handed power to the military, damping speculation
that crude shipments from the Middle East will be disrupted.
U.S. stocks rose, reversing an early drop, and the cost to
insure Egyptian debt from default declined.  “Mubarak’s resignation means that there’s going to be a
smooth transition,” said Claude Tiramani, who manages $50
million of emerging-market stocks at Lutetia Capital in Paris.
“The oil market has been in a panic mode and this premium will
start to shrink to reflect less geopolitical risk, diminishing
inflation concerns in emerging markets.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.2 percent to
1.091.16 after earlier falling 1.1 percent prior to the Mubarak
annoucement. The gauge had tumbled 4.1 percent in the previous
six trading sessions and ended the week down 3.4 percent, the
biggest weekly decline since July.  Mubarak bowed to the demands of protesters who have
occupied central Cairo for the past three weeks demanding an end
to his 30-year rule. The resignation came after Egyptians
streamed out of Friday prayers vowing to topple Mubarak, 82,
after he yesterday defied calls for him to leave for the second
time this month.  Mubarak Resigns  “Mubarak has decided to relinquish the office of the
presidency,” said Vice President  Omar Suleiman  in a statement
on state television today. “He has instructed the Supreme
Council of the armed forces to take over the affairs of the
country.”  Mubarak delegated powers to Suleiman in a bid to placate
his opponents. Egypt’s Supreme Military Council said in a
statement today that it will guarantee the measures Mubarak
announced.  The cost of insuring Egyptian debt against default plunged
16 basis points to 322, according to credit default swaps data
from London-based CMA.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and  U.S. Treasuries  widened seven basis
points to 259, according to the JPMorgan Chase EMBI+ index.    Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index surged 1.8 percent as the
cheapest valuations in almost two years lured investors and
Mubarak’s resignation sparked a global rally. Tobacco company
Souza Cruz SA and cosmetics maker Natura Cosmeticos SA led gains
for consumer-goods producers rising at least 2 percent.  Russian Stocks Rise  Russia’s Micex index rallied the most in four weeks, paring
its weekly drop, after OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest
lender, doubled its earnings and OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel moved to
resolve a shareholder dispute.  Indian’ Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
rose 1.5 percent, advancing for the first day in four and
lifting the benchmark index from a seven-month low.  Tata Motors
Ltd ., the biggest truck-maker, rallied 3.7 percent after saying
third-quarter profit more than tripled on demand for  luxury
vehicles .    Centamin Egypt Ltd ., a gold company operating in the North
African, rose 6.4 percent in London trading after Mubarak
stepped down. The volume in the stock was more than five times
the six-month daily average. The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF ,
an exchange-traded fund that holds Egyptian shares, gained 4.5
percent in New York, the most this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  