-- 
Merkel’s FDP Ally Says Euro Must Get By With Unchanged EFSF

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-11T16:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/merkel-s-fdp-ally-says-euro-must-get-by-with-unchanged-efsf.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s allies
from the Free Democrats said they will oppose tinkering with the
euro’s rescue fund, including any attempt to maximize its
current financial scope, in order to protect German taxpayers.  Free Democrat finance and economy spokesman Hermann Otto Solms said his party is at loggerheads with Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  over changing the fund’s terms. Cash buffers
and guarantees cap the potential payout of the 440 billion euro
($596 billion) European Financial Stability Fund at about 250
billion euros.  While Schaeuble has indicated he may back unlocking the
fund’s full potential, the FDP’s position is “we can get by
with the current volume,” Solms said in an interview in Berlin.
Otherwise “we would have to assume a much larger share of
guarantees and payment obligations” than approved by  Germany .  FDP objections may hinder an EFSF revamp. Germany holds
elections in seven of its 16 states starting Feb. 20, and
support for Solms’s FDP has slumped, opinion polls show. About
two-thirds of Germans rejected boosting European aid for debt-
strapped euro countries in a Jan. 28 ZDF television poll.  Solms’s comments highlight limits on Merkel’s room for
maneuver as she prepares for two March European Union summits
aimed at sharpening tools to help the currency. At his
initiative, German lawmakers are drafting a resolution to keep
Merkel from making “too many concessions” in upcoming
negotiations, Solms said.  Rescue Fund  Schaeuble is looking at changes to the “mechanics” of the
euro rescue fund rather than adding to its volume, Finance
Ministry spokesman Martin Kreienbaum told reporters in Berlin on
Jan. 14, one day after the minister said “one has to discuss”
ways to ensure that the euro backstop’s full 750 billion-euro
amount, which includes money from the  International Monetary
Fund  and the EU, can be paid out.  While the 250 billion euros allowed under the fund’s
present cap and buffers would be enough to help bail out  Portugal , the cap would deprive the fund of the firepower to buy
back enough outstanding bonds to make a difference to the most
debt-mired nations.  Solms said it would be a “wrong decision” to allow the
EFSF to lend money to countries as part of bond buy-back
programs. The Free Democrats are united in rejecting the idea
because richer euro region states would “automatically” have
to extend greater guarantees and be “stuck with the risks.”  “There can be help for countries that have to be put in a
position first in which they can service their debts, but the
normal way is to get an agreement first with the creditors,”
Solms said. “That would still force other EU members to help,
but first it’s the creditors’ turn.”  Germany must accede to new and permanent steps to avert
future euro crises “that don’t end in the constitutional
court,” said Solms, a three-decade veteran of the federal
parliament.  The FDP, Merkel’s party of  Christian Democrats  and their
Bavarian Christian Social Union sister party are drawing up a
parliamentary resolution that may be sealed next week, Solms
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;  Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  