-- 
Estonia's Economy Expands Most Since 2007 on Record Exports, Industry

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-02-11T10:42:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/estonian-economy-expands-most-since-2007-on-record-exports-industry.html
Estonia’s economy expanded at the
fastest pace in more than three years in the fourth quarter on
record export growth.  Gross domestic product rose an annual 6.6 percent, the
biggest increase since the second quarter of 2007, compared with
5 percent in the third quarter, the Tallinn-based statistics
office said on its website today. The median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.7 percent. Output rose 2.3
percent from the third quarter, the biggest jump in more than
four years.  The $19 billion economy of the country that adopted the
euro on Jan. 1 benefited from Swedish and Finnish demand for its
electronics and machinery exports by companies including
Ericsson AB and  ABB Ltd . Exports of goods rose 35 percent last
year to a record 8.75 billion euros ($11.9 billion) after
declining 23 percent in 2009.  “The GDP numbers confirm the vigorous recovery seen in the
Estonian economy last year,” said  Annika Lindblad , an analyst
with Nordea AB in Helsinki, in an e-mail. “We expect to see the
strong economic recovery continuing in 2011 as the domestic
economy also continues to gain strength.”  Accelerating export growth last year was due to production
restarts and the creation of new companies, which means sales
abroad may slow this year, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-
mailed statement. Capacity utilization in the industry was about
70 percent in the second half of 2010, the central bank said in
a statement.  Ericsson’s Contribution  Full-year growth was 3.1 percent. Manufacturing boosted GDP
growth by 4 percentage points in the quarter, the office said.
Export of goods jumped an annual 53 percent in real terms, it
added. Ericsson’s Estonian unit, which manufactures wireless
network gear, contributes 10 percent of the country’s exports
and a quarter of the group’s output, Swedish foreign minister
Carl Bildt said last month.  Expansion will accelerate to 3.6 percent this year on
external demand, the  International Monetary Fund  forecast this
month. SEB AB, the second biggest lender in the Baltic
countries, this week raised its 2011 growth outlook for Estonia
to 4.5 percent from 4 percent. Nordea estimates 4.2 percent
growth.  Unemployment, at 15.5 percent in the third quarter, weighs
on domestic demand after GDP shrank 5.1 percent in 2008 and 13.9
percent in 2009 as the global credit crunch compounded a
property bubble bust. The contraction, deepened by the
government’s austerity measures to ensure meeting euro entry
terms, was second to only neighboring  Latvia  in the EU.  “Estonia is a clear example of where the so-called non-
Keynesian fiscal consolidation effect occurred,” said  Violeta Klyviene , the senior Baltic analyst with Danske Bank A/S in
Vilnius. “The positive effect from significant fiscal
consolidation outweighed the negative effects on growth from the
public spending cuts and tax increases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  