-- 
EU May Cut Grain, Sugar Import Barriers on Price Hit

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-02-11T15:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/eu-may-cut-grain-sugar-import-barriers-on-price-hit-update1-.html
The European Union is considering
easing import barriers for feed grains and sugar as livestock
breeders and food producers in the bloc face shortages and
surging prices.  The bloc’s agriculture committee met in Brussels yesterday
to discuss grain and sugar, and the European Commission said it
will work on a proposal to suspend some cereal-import duties in
response to “tight supplies” on the world grain markets. Food
prices rose to a record in January, according to the  United
Nations , with grains up 44 percent in the past year and sugar
12 percent higher at a record.  “What we’re seeing is exceptional circumstances on the
world market,” Roger Waite, a spokesman for the commission,
the EU’s regulatory arm, said today.  The goal of reducing grain-import duties would be to
“help facilitate feed cereals imports from outside the EU and
so to reduce tensions on the European markets,” the commission
said.  “The tightness is very much in the feed sector,” Waite
said. “Producers have had enormous problems because feed
prices are so high and their profit margins have been
squeezed.”  Higher grain prices are mainly hurting livestock breeders,
who face an “enormous increase” in costs that they’re unable
to pass on to end users, according to Jan Bolhuis, who follows
agricultural markets at Dutch researcher LEI, a unit of
Wageningen University.  ‘Vital’ Calls  The commission’s proposal relates to feed wheat and
barley, while corn is not being discussed for now, according to
Waite. The EU is responding to calls from the feed industry
that it is “vital” to address the issue, he said.  “At the moment feed prices are really high and we’re
concerned about the pig meat market in particular,” said
Amanda Cheesley, a spokeswoman at European farmers’
organization Copa-Cogeca. “Feed prices are a big part of input
costs.”  The European Commission yesterday also proposed to allow
more sugar imports and the sale of so-called out-of-quota
sweetener on the domestic market to ease supply shortages,
according to a person familiar with the proposals.  Scrap Levy  Under EU rules, local sugar producers can sell a limited
quantity for food use in the 27-nation bloc. The commission is
proposing to scrap a levy on 500,000 metric tons of out-of-
quota sugar and allow it to be sold in the EU, according to the
person, who declined to be identified because the proposal
isn’t public.  The commission, in a meeting with member states yesterday,
also proposed a tender system that would allow for additional
sugar imports, the person said.  Within the sugar industry there are “serious price
concerns,” and refiners in  Portugal  had “problems of supply”
in January, Waite said. The commission said yesterday it
discussed two “informal working documents” on the state of
the bloc’s sugar market.  “We face huge supply problems in the EU since summer last
year,” Muriel Korter, secretary general of the Committee of
European Users of Sugar, or CIUS, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “We believe that the commission is not managing the
market accurately.”  Data Questions  The Brussels-based sugar-users organization, whose members
include Coca-Cola Co. and Unilever, questions the EU’s market-
data collection, import expectations and estimates and its
price-communication mechanism, Korter said.  Sugar users “are desperate for cheaper sugar,” Waite
said. The commission’s goal for sugar market measures would be
“just to provide extra volume to stop the market from
overheating,” he said.  EU sugar stocks for food use in the domestic market may
tumble to a “historical low” of about 500,000 tons at the end
of September, according to Sucden, the trading arm of Sucres et
Denrees SA.  The EU’s overhaul of its sugar industry has resulted in a
“sharp decrease” in production of sweetener from sugar beets
that hasn’t been compensated by a sufficient rise in imports,
Sucden said in a report yesterday.  Least-developed countries, which benefit from duty-free
imports into the EU, have been opting to sell sugar on the
world market rather than to the bloc, Waite said, which he said
is “exceptional.” Import duties from countries other than
those on the least-developed list make shipments
“prohibitively expensive” under current rules, he said.  Any EU measures to cut import tariffs may have a limited
effect on grain and sugar prices in the bloc, according to
Bolhuis at LEI.  “Grain and sugar are not EU problems, they’re global
problems so we’re not going to solve it here,” Bolhuis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 