-- 
European Stocks Post Second Weekly Gain; Swatch, Alcatel Rise

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-02-12T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/european-stocks-post-second-weekly-gain-swatch-alcatel-rise.html
European stocks posted a second
weekly gain as companies from  Swatch Group AG  to Alcatel-Lucent
SA reported better-than-expected earnings and after Egypt’s
president stepped down.  Swatch climbed 8.5 percent, while Alcatel surged 35
percent. ArcelorMittal advanced after forecasting a stronger
year ahead as demand recovers.  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest
maker of mobile phones, dropped 14 percent after saying it will
form a software partnership with Microsoft Corp.  The Stoxx 600 Europe Index gained 0.7 percent to 287.99.
The gauge reached the highest level since 2008 earlier this
week, pushing the measure to about 16 times the reported
earnings of its companies, near the highest level in nine
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Earnings have been reassuring,” said Guillaume Duchesne,
equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas in Luxembourg. “There have
been positive surprises. Sales have progressed. Our vision of
the market is positive, without being euphoric.”  Stocks rallied on Feb. 11 after a statement on state
television said Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  will resign.
Earlier, Egyptians streamed out of Friday prayers vowing to
topple Mubarak after he defied calls for his resignation for the
second time this month.  “There is one less element of uncertainty for the
market,” said Duchesne. “Now, we have to see what happens.”  China earlier this week raised its key  interest rates  for
the third time since mid-October. The benchmark one-year lending
rate will increase to 6.06 percent from 5.81 percent and the
deposit rate will climb to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, the
People’s Bank of  China  said.  ‘Monetary Tightening’  “If there is a significant monetary tightening in China,
that could slow down the economy,” said Benoit de Broissia, an
analyst at KBL Richelieu in Paris, which oversees $4.1 billion.
“That would be negative for those companies exposed to the
economy. Today, our economies are more and more
interdependent.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 13 of  Europe ’s 18
western markets. France’s CAC 40 Index gained 1.3 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 1.1 percent, while Germany’s DAX
Index advanced 2.2 percent.  Some 57 percent of the 143 companies in the Stoxx 600 that
have reported results since Jan. 10 topped per-share earnings
projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Breguet and Omega  Swatch jumped 8.5 percent. The watchmaker on Feb. 8
reported an estimate-beating 42 percent gain in 2010 profit as
it sold more Breguet and Omega watches in Asia. Net income rose
to 1.07 billion francs from 759 million francs in 2009, the
Biel, Switzerland-based company said. The average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed in the past 28 days was 1.05 billion francs.  Alcatel, France’s largest telecommunications equipment
maker, soared 35 percent. The company on Feb. 10 beat analyst
estimates for fourth-quarter profit, fueling the biggest jump in
its shares in 18 months and restoring Chief Executive Officer
Ben Verwaayen’s credibility.    ArcelorMittal  advanced 5 percent. The world’s biggest
steelmaker on Feb. 8 reported 2010 earnings that beat analyst
estimates and forecast a stronger year ahead as demand recovers.  Nokia sank 14 percent. The company on Feb. 11 said it’s
forming a software partnership with Microsoft Corp., a bet that
together the two companies can better challenge  Google Inc . and  Apple Inc . The stock fell after Nokia’s plan to make Microsoft’s
Windows its primary software was seen as a sign of the depth of
its challenge taking on Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android
platforms.  Below Consensus  L’Oreal slipped 3.4 percent. The world’s largest cosmetics
maker said on Feb. 10 that fourth-quarter revenue rose 4.1
percent, excluding acquisitions and currency shifts. That was
below consensus estimates for growth of about 5 percent, Simon Marshall-Lockyer, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London , wrote in a note to clients.    Air France-KLM  Group sank 5.4 percent. Europe’s largest
airline on Feb. 9 reported an unexpected quarterly loss of 46
million euros ($63 million) and cut its full-year forecast after
French strikes and weather disruptions caused it to cancel
flights. Analysts had forecast a 60 million-euro profit in the
company’s fiscal third quarter, based on the average of seven
estimates.    Credit Suisse Group AG  lost 5.4 percent. Switzerland’s
second-largest bank reported fourth-quarter net income that
missed analyst estimates. The bank said it will now aim for a
return on equity, a measure of profitability, of more than 15
percent, down from more than 18 percent previously.  All-stock Transaction    Deutsche Boerse AG  climbed 8.4 percent. The company said it
is in advanced talks to buy NYSE Euronext in an all-stock
transaction that would create the world’s biggest exchange
operator.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  gained 6.3 percent
after the company confirmed it will merge with TMX Group Inc.    UBS AG  gained 5.4 percent. Switzerland’s biggest bank
attracted net new money from wealthy clients for a second
straight period even as fourth-quarter net income missed
estimates.  Automakers posted the biggest gain among the 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx 600, led by  Nokian Renkaat Oyj . The Nordic
region’s biggest tiremaker jumped 12 percent this week. The
company on Feb. 9 reported fourth-quarter pretax profit that
beat analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 