-- 
Level Global Hedge Fund to Close After FBI Raid

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-02-11T20:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/level-global-investors-will-close-4-billion-hedge-fund-after-raid-by-fbi.html
Level Global Investors LP, among the  hedge funds  raided by the FBI in November as part of a federal
insider-trading probe, decided to close and return cash to
clients, according to a letter sent to investors.  David Ganek, 47, who founded the $4 billion fund in 2003
with Anthony Chiasson, 37, after they both left SAC Capital
Advisors LLC, said he expects the firm to sell all of its
holdings by the end of March.  “Unfortunately the ongoing government investigation
presents significant challenges to maintaining our collective
focus,” Ganek said in a letter today.  Level Global, which last year sold a stake to a leveraged-
buyout fund run by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., was raided in
November by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . The hedge fund
had received withdrawal requests of about 20 percent of its
assets for the end of March, according to a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  The fund’s investors had until the end of this month to put
in redemption notices for March 31, according to the letter, and
Level Global executives knew that withdrawals for March and the
end of June could be significant.  “So, while we may be able to continue to operate Level
Global, without the appropriate scale and ability to invest with
the same strategy, it would not be the business we promised to
our investors,” Ganek wrote.  ‘Highly Confident’  Level Global, with offices in  New York  and  Connecticut ,
isn’t a target of the U.S. government’s investigation and hasn’t
been alleged to have engaged in any misconduct, according to the
letter.  Ganek said in the letter that the firm had worked with
“external legal advisers” to perform an independent review of
its electronic communications and technology-related trading
records, and conduct interviews.  “After learning the results of their in-depth review, I
remain highly confident that my conduct in leading the firm and
its investment process was lawful and ethical at all times,” he
said.  A spokesman for Level Global and a spokeswoman for New
York-based Goldman declined to comment.  Diamondback Withdrawals  Barai Capital Management LP, Diamondback Capital Management
LLC and Loch Capital Management LLC were also raided by the FBI
in November. Barai Capital, based in New York, said last month
that it was closing.  Diamondback Capital, the $5.8 billion fund run by Rich Schimel and Lawrence Sapanski, told clients today it received
withdrawal requests of 12.3 percent of assets, or $722 million,
for the end of March. Clients of the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
firm have until Feb. 15 to submit withdrawal requests for the
current quarter.  Blackstone Group LP , an investor with
Diamondback that could have pulled its money in March without
paying a penalty, plans to stay invested in the fund, said two
people briefed on the matter.  Mark O’Toole, a spokesman for Boston-based Loch Capital,
didn’t return an email seeking a comment.  Level Global has produced an annualized return of 9 percent
net of fees since inception, compared with 3.3 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  