-- 
Ex-Liverpool Owners to Wait for ‘Epic Swindle’ Ruling

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-11T16:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/ex-liverpool-owners-must-wait-for-ruling-on-epic-swindle-lawsuit-in-u-k-.html
Former Liverpool owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks  must wait two weeks to learn whether they
can sue in the U.S. over the forced sale of the 18-time English
soccer champion, which they described as an “epic swindle.”  Justice  Christopher Floyd , after a three-day hearing at
London’s High Court, said he’ll issue a written ruling into the
ex-owners’ request to amend the October ruling that cleared the
way for the 300-million-pound ($483 million) buyout by the group
that owns the  Boston Red Sox .  Hicks and Gillett, who bought the team in a 219-million-
pound leveraged buyout in 2007, have said it was sold for less
than its true value. They have also said the team’s directors
and lender  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  conspired against
them during the sale. The duo filed a suit in  Texas  to block the
deal and sought $1.6 billion in damages. They later dropped the
case when threatened with a U.K. contempt of court charge.  Hicks has said the team was worth as much as 800 million
pounds and  Forbes Magazine  in April estimated its value at 533
million pounds. Paul Girolami, a lawyer for the former owners,
said the restrictions blocking his clients from taking a case to
the U.S. were to allow the sale, and should now be lifted.  At the hearing yesterday, lawyers for Hicks and Gillett
produced an e-mail from Christian Purslow, the team’s former
managing director, in which he described the deal with Red Sox-
owner New England Sports Ventures as “bottom of the barrel.”  ‘Other People’s Money’  “They may say they have money if necessary but I do not
take this very seriously,” Purslow said in the Sept. 14 e-mail.
“Their eyes only lit up at the idea of other opportunity
improvements. An American deal guy simply can’t avoid using
other people’s money if they can.”  That was a month before he, former club chairman  Martin Broughton  and  Ian Ayre , Liverpool’s commercial director, agreed
to the sale. Purslow punched the air in celebration after Floyd
approved the deal Oct. 14. Purslow is no longer with the club.  A spokesman for the club declined to comment on the e-
mails. A mobile phone number for Purslow wasn’t in operation and
Liverpool declined to provide contact information for him.  $222 Million  Hicks and Gillett lost the club, and $222 million in
equity, after failing to repay RBS and Wells Fargo & Co a 200-
million-pound loan linked to their takeover. They still owe RBS
millions in penalties and fees.  RBS has said that, under the loan agreements they signed,
the men can only pursue their damages claim in  English courts .  To underline the former owners concern that they weren’t
kept informed of the sale, Girolami said the first they knew
about the existence of NESV’s interest in the team was at a
board meeting on Oct. 5. Purslow’s e-mail was sent on Sept. 15.  He also described an Aug. 22 e-mail from NESV’s U.S.
advisers, Inner Circle Sports, to Broughton, telling the
chairman to keep the talks “confidential” from the ex-owners.
Broughton agreed to the request, Girolami said. There are about
75,000 e-mails linked to the sale, Girolami said he was told by
Broughton’s lawyers.  Broughton is deputy chairman of International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, the company created in January via the merger
of British Airways Plc and Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  