-- 
Mexico May Expand Dollar Auctions, Protecting Economy From Capital Outflow

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-02-11T15:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/mexico-may-expand-dollar-auctions-protecting-economy-from-capital-outflow.html
Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said policy makers may increase the amount of dollar
options they auction monthly, a move that would help soften the
impact on the peso of any sudden outflow of capital.  Mexico won’t follow other emerging market countries in
adopting currency controls or intervening directly in the peso
market no matter how much the currency advances, Cordero said in
an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  An increase in the size of dollar option auctions would
quicken the pace at which Mexico accumulates foreign reserves,
providing a buffer against a sharp fall in the peso should
investors quickly withdraw money from Mexican debt and equities
markets, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  Mexico  City. Investors pulled $4.6 billion from
exchange traded funds that track developing-nation stocks in the
week ended Feb. 2, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said Feb. 4,
citing data from research firm EPFR Global.  “It’s important to have more reserves in case of any
reversal in capital inflows,” Casillas said. “If you have more
reserves, the depreciation would be slower.”  Mexico auctions $600 million in dollar options per month, a
system that bolsters foreign reserves as it takes dollars out of
the market and eases appreciation pressure on the peso.  “It’s one of the possibilities we’re exploring right
now,” Cordero said, referring to the monthly auctions.  The peso, which has strengthened 7.3 percent over the past
year, rose 0.1 percent to 12.0595 at 10:45 a.m.  New York  time.  ‘Firepower’  Having more reserves gives policy makers greater
“firepower” to stop a rapid fall in the peso by giving them
more capacity to buy the local currency, Casillas said.  The currency last month gained beyond 12 per dollar for the
first time in more than two years, and on Jan. 18 touched
11.9435, its strongest level since Oct. 14, 2008.  “We don’t have a threshold,” Cordero said when asked if
there was a level for the peso at which officials would consider
intervening. “The capital controls policies of some of the
other countries in Latin America don’t have any effect at all.”  Cordero said he doesn’t expect a sudden reversal in capital
inflows to Mexico, saying they may retreat gradually over time.  Capital flows to emerging markets soared last year as near-
zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and  Europe  prompted investors to
seek higher returns in faster-growing emerging markets.  Brazil tripled to 6 percent in October a tax on foreign
purchases of fixed-income securities in a bid to contain gains
in its currency. The real has advanced 39 percent against the
dollar since the end of 2008, the second-best performance among
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, trailing the
Australian dollar.  Chilean Intervention  Chile triggered the biggest fall in its peso in 20 years on
Jan. 4 when the central bank said it would buy $12 billion in
the spot currency market.  Foreign investment in short-term Mexican notes known as
Cetes had risen more than eightfold as of Jan. 31 from a year
earlier. Inflows increased to 147.6 billion pesos ($12.2
billion) last month from 100.6 billion pesos in December,
according to the central bank’s website.  A stronger currency can hurt exporters by making their
products more expensive in dollar terms. About 80 percent of
Mexican goods sent abroad go to the U.S.  Withdrawals from ETFs, which are listed on an exchange and
change hands throughout the day like stocks, signal hedge funds
are paring bets on the fastest-growing nations, Morgan Stanley
wrote in a Feb. 1 report. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has
dropped 5.4 percent this year as countries from  Brazil  to
Hungary and  Indonesia  raised interest rates to combat inflation.  Balanced Flows  Capital inflows became more balanced between developed and
emerging markets at the start of this year after an inflow into
developing markets last year, Barclays Capital strategists
George Christou and Avanti Save said in a Jan. 31 report.  The increase in peso bond yields over the past months won’t
deter the government from issuing debt this year, Cordero said.  “Even with the increase in the rates, they’re still very
reasonable,” Cordero said. “We still feel there are some
opportunities in the  debt market .”  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent bond due 2024 has
increased 152 basis points to 7.78 percent since hitting a low
of 6.26 percent on Oct. 12.  The government forecasts the economy will expand about 4
percent this year, more than the 3.7 percent median estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Cordero said yesterday that
the economy probably grew 5.3 percent to 5.6 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in New York at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  