-- 
Expedia Shares Tumble After Profit Misses Estimates

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-11T22:21:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/expedia-shares-tumble-after-profit-misses-estimates.html
  Expedia Inc ., the world’s largest
online travel company, fell the most in more than four years on
the Nasdaq Stock Market after the company reported fourth-
quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Excluding certain costs, profit was 32 cents a share, the
Bellevue, Washington-based company said in a statement
yesterday. That missed the 36 cents average predicted by
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Increased spending on new products and its international
expansion will likely hinder earnings growth this year, said
Herman Leung, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  San Francisco .
He downgraded his Expedia rating to “hold” from “buy,” and
dropped his 12-month price target to $25 from $33. Expedia’s
TripAdvisor, which accounted for about 13 percent of the
company’s fourth-quarter revenue, also may be losing ground to
Google Inc.’s Google Places, Leung said.  “Any degradation of traffic from TripAdvisor-U.S. will
have a direct impact on profits for the business,” Leung said
in a phone interview.  Expedia has acquired three companies in the past 12 months,
including Mobiata, the maker of the iPhone application
FlightTrack, and EveryTrail, which creates city tours for
smartphones. Mobile advancement and expansion in  Asia  and Latin
America won’t slow down “due to any short-term financial hit
that we may see as a result of any near-term events,” Chief
Executive Officer Dara Khosrowshahi said in a conference call
yesterday.  Net income attributable to Expedia fell 30 percent to $71.3
million, or 25 cents, from $102.2 million, or 35 cents, a year
earlier. Sales grew 16 percent to $808.4 million.  Expedia’s rating was also downgraded to “hold” by
ThinkEquity LLC, Benchmark Co. and Bank of America Corp.  The shares dropped $4.38, or 17 percent, to $21.31 at 4
p.m. New York time. Expedia is little changed in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  