-- 
Fannie, Freddie Debt Yield Spreads Narrow on Overhaul Proposal

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-02-11T22:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/fannie-freddie-debt-yield-spreads-narrow-on-overhaul-proposal.html
Yields on  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac ’s $1.5 trillion of debt narrowed relative to Treasuries
after a government proposal on the mortgage-finance companies’
futures reiterated U.S. pledges to continue to back their
outstanding borrowing.  The difference between yields on Washington-based Fannie
Mae’s most-recent five-year debt and similar-maturity Treasuries
declined 2 basis points to 24 basis points as of 5 p.m. in  New
York , the slimmest gap since Jan. 5, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner today presented
Congress with a set of options for overhauling the U.S. housing-
finance system, including the winding down of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, which have been government supported since 2008.
The document also calls for shrinking the Federal Home Loan Bank
system, a competing issuer of so-called agency debt.  “If you’re not moving in the direction the administration
wants, you’re going to have a hard time,”  Jim Vogel , the
Memphis, Tennessee-based analyst at FTN Financial, said in a
telephone interview. He had been forecasting a $60 billion drop
in FHLB debt this year before the proposals, which he said may
increase that number.  The 12 Federal Home Loan Banks, whose finance office is in
Reston,  Virginia , are government-chartered cooperatives that
lend to their owners, which are U.S. banks and insurers.  Mortgage securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae and McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac gained after the plan’s release.
Fannie Mae’s 5 percent bonds rose 0.17 cent on the dollar more
than similar Treasuries. Yields on its current-coupon 30-year
fixed-rate bonds were unchanged at 79 basis points more than 10-
year Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shrinking Portfolios  The Treasury proposal references a previous plan to force
the companies to shrink their $1.5 trillion portfolios, which
include many of their own securities, at a pace of “no less
than 10 percent” a year.  Rep.  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey
Republican, said Feb. 7 that he wants a faster reduction.  The FHLBs also should shrink their investment portfolios,
along with limiting borrowing by their larger members, the
administration said.  “Our commitment to ensuring Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
have sufficient capital to honor any guarantees issued now or in
the future and meet any of their debt obligations remains
unchanged,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  