-- 
Finance Guru Goes From Riches to Raga as Indian CD Seeks Grammy

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-02-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/finance-guru-goes-from-riches-to-raga-as-indian-chant-cd-vies-for-grammy.html
Chandrika Krishnamurthy Tandon , a
financial adviser who once specialized in corporate
restructuring at McKinsey & Co., dabbled in music on her off-
time. The hobby yielded a chanting CD called “Soul Mantra”
that she recorded six years ago for her father-in-law’s 91st
birthday.  A hit with family and friends, it attracted a cult
following. Her second CD of meditative chants was something
else. Released in 2009, “ Soul Call ” received a  Grammy Award
nomination  in December for best contemporary world music
recording.  On Sunday night, Tandon will mingle with other nominees
such as Jay-Z, Herbie Hancock and Wynton Marsalis at the 53rd
Grammy Awards at Los Angeles’ Staples Center.  Tandon, the chairman of Tandon Capital Associates Inc. in
New York, said it’ll be nice to beat the well-known nominees in
her category, who include Brazilian music legends  Sergio Mendes 
and Bebel Gilberto, Benin native Angelique Kidjo and banjo
master  Bela Fleck .  “But there is no success or failure in this,” said
Tandon, 56, by phone. “I’m not trying to see if I can sell a
number of albums. This CD is about what I want to share, and
that’s my motivation.  If she takes home the trophy, she will join the small club
of India-born musicians who have won Grammys, such as sitar
maestro  Ravi Shankar , tabla master Zakir Hussain and Indian
classical musician  Vishwa Mohan Bhatt .  Sarod Maestro  She’s already one of the few Wall Street executives who can
hang a Grammy nomination certificate on her office wall next to
her MBA degree, which she earned from the  Indian Institute of
Management  in 1975.  “This has changed my interaction with all my straight-
laced colleagues,” said Tandon, whose sister is PepsiCo Inc.
Chief Executive Officer Indra K. Nooyi. “It’s opened up a new
dimension.”  “Soul Call” features Tandon performing songs that
incorporate an eight-syllable chant, Om Na Mo Na Ra Ya Na Ya,
that’s more than 6,000 years old.  The inspiration to compose came early one morning in bed,
and she began writing drafts of songs. She hired  sarod  player
Tejendra Narayan Majumdar to arrange the compositions, using
more than 30 Western, Indian and folk instruments.  “I could have been a classical performer,” she said.
“But I wanted to touch the heart and sing music that makes me
feel happy and where I can lose myself.”  One Life  Tandon is funneling proceeds from the sales of “Soul
Call” into her  Krishnamurthy Tandon Foundation  that supports
nonprofits and causes focused on the economic empowerment of
women, education, spirituality and the arts.  “I thought to myself: If you had one life to live, what is
it that you want to do?” she said. “It was like creating a
business plan for myself.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 