-- 
Ex-White Sox Executive Pleads Guilty to Taking Kicksbacks From Ballplayers

-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-02-11T23:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/former-chicago-white-sox-executive-wilder-pleads-guilty-in-kickback-case.html
Former  Chicago White Sox  executive
David Wilder pleaded guilty to a crime arising from federal
charges that he took $402,000 in kickbacks from Latin American
baseball players as they were signed to professional contracts.  Wilder, who worked for the Major League Baseball team for
five years as director of its player development system and then
as its senior director of player personnel, admitted to one
count of mail fraud today before U.S. District Judge Charles R. Norgle in  Chicago .  “I understand what I’ve done,” Wilder told the judge as
he entered his plea.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Veatch, reading from a
plea agreement, told the judge that Wilder received a kickback
of more than $20,000 from a player in  Brazil  who was asked by
one of the team’s Latin America scouts to remit part of a
$300,000 signing bonus paid by the team. The kickback would have
been $50,000 if the team hadn’t subtracted taxes from the bonus
check, Veatch said.  Wilder, 50, was indicted in November on seven counts of
mail fraud, each punishable by as long as 20 years in prison.
U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald said then that the former
executive and two regional scouts misled the team about the
amount of money needed to sign 23 prospective players from 2004
to 2008. The 23 players haven’t been identified.  The White Sox won Major League Baseball’s World Series
championship in 2005.  Signing Players  “The defendants were supposed to recruit players by paying
amounts of money that matched their skills and were no greater
than the amount needed to sign the players,” Fitzgerald said.
“Instead the indictment alleges the defendants secretly
inflated those signing amounts to fund kickbacks for
themselves.”  Also charged with seven mail fraud counts was Latin
American scout Jorge L. Oquendo Rivera, who pleaded not guilty
before Norgle in November. Oquendo made the Brazilian kickback
arrangements, according to Wilder’s plea agreement.  The third defendant, Dominican Republic scout Victor Mateo,
faces three mail fraud counts. He is a fugitive and hasn’t been
arraigned.  Wilder’s co-defendants took kickbacks independent of the
sum he received, according to the plea agreement. They also
solicited payments from Mexican teams from whom the White Sox
sought to acquire rights to players.  Wilder, Mateo, Oquendo  “Wilder and Mateo were terminated by the White Sox in May
2008 as a result of a  Major League Baseball  investigation which
began at the request of the team,” the White Sox said Nov. 10
in a statement.  Oquendo was fired in 2007 for reasons unrelated to the
probe, the team said.  “The Chicago White Sox are gratified but also saddened by
today’s admission of guilt” by Wilder, the team said in an
e-mailed statement.  “We are pleased that his case has been resolved and that
he will face responsibility for his crimes, but we also remain
saddened by the betrayal of trust, the involvement of innocent
players, the abuse of the system, and the impact his criminal
actions inflicted on this organization,” the White Sox said.  The franchise previously said that it and Major League
Baseball cooperated in the federal probe, after the White Sox
reported its internal findings to baseball officials.  ‘Extremely Sorry’  “Mr. Wilder accepts responsibility for his actions,” said
defense lawyer, Thomas Bienert of San Clemente,  California . “He
deeply regrets what he did and is extremely sorry.”  The former White Sox executive will cooperate with
prosecutors in the continuing probe, according to his agreement.
In exchange for that cooperation, Fitzgerald’s office will ask
the court to impose a sentence of about 24 months.  Wilder, who lives in  San Francisco , is free on bail. He
declined to talk to reporters after the hearing. The judge
hasn’t set a sentencing date.  Bienert said his client, a former minor league ballplayer,
hoped to be able to work in professional baseball again, a
prospect the lawyer called “an uncertainty.”  “He would have to prove himself,” Bienert said.  The case is U.S. v. Wilder, 1:10-cr-00948, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago federal court at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 