-- 
France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom to Hold Network Talks

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-02-11T12:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/france-telecom-deutsche-telekom-to-hold-talks-on-cooperation.html
  Deutsche Telekom AG  and  France
Telecom SA  may expand cooperation in European wireless networks
after a previous deal in the U.K., which was designed to save
more than 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion).  The companies will hold “exploratory talks” focused on
radio-access network sharing as well as Wi-Fi and machine-to-
machine services, they said today in a joint statement.  Mobile-phone operators are trying to combine networks to
reduce expenses and bolster sales from high-speed data services.
France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom have already merged their
U.K. mobile-phone units and signed a deal in December to share
network infrastructure in Poland.  “With this collaboration, our two groups will be able to
address new growth opportunities as well as operational
efficiency issues in a limited and targeted set of business
domains,” Elie Girard,  France Telecom ’s executive vice
president for strategy and development, said today.  France Telecom, the country’s largest phone company, aims
to reach more network sharing deals in 2011, board member Olaf Swantee said in November.  The companies may be able to share networks in Romania and
Slovakia, and possibly also in Austria, according to Jeremy Dellis, an analyst at Jefferies International in  London .  Vodafone Group Plc and Telefonica SA still have separate
networks in the U.K. The two companies agreed in 2009 to share
some wireless network components, such as transmission masts in  Germany , Spain, Ireland and the U.K., to cut costs and improve
coverage for more than 140 million of their users.  The roll-out of next-generation networks supporting so-
called long-term evolution technology, or LTE, in  Europe  may
also accelerate network sharing programs as rivals share costs
for building the infrastructure, Swantee said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  