-- 
Francioni Wins NYSE After Losing With Niederauer CEO

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-02-11T10:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/francioni-proves-victor-after-losing-to-nyse-with-niederauer-as-next-ceo.html
Four years after losing to the New
York Stock Exchange in the takeover of Euronext NV,  Deutsche
Boerse AG ’s Reto Francioni is buying both companies and putting
his rival’s chief executive officer,  Duncan Niederauer , in
charge.  Francioni, the 55-year-old CEO of Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse, will become chairman should the takeover of NYSE 
Euronext succeed. The companies said Feb. 9 that they are in
advanced talks to create the world’s largest exchange. Deutsche
Boerse would pay about $10 billion in stock and control 60
percent of the combined corporation.  While Francioni is known for cutting costs by shifting jobs
to  Prague  from Frankfurt and moving to cheaper headquarters,
Niederauer, 51, built his reputation running  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc .’s specialist operation on the floor of the NYSE, describing
himself as “obsessed” with the structure of equities trading.
He has boosted technology spending as competition with about 50
U.S. trading venues helped drive  NYSE Euronext ’s stock price
down 56 percent since he became CEO at the end of 2007.  “Reto has done a good job, especially on costs,” said
Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, London-based exchange analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein Ltd. “But we are in a different world now. He’s
picked a great opportunity at this juncture to move Deutsche
Boerse into another league, and credit to him, he’s prepared to
step aside to make the deal go through.”  Technology Emphasis  Niederauer, who spent two decades at Goldman Sachs before
joining NYSE in 2007, has emphasized technology at the 219-year-
old company to combat market-share losses. He built data centers
in Mahwah,  New Jersey , and outside  London  where customers can
house trading systems and bolstered the company’s computer-
services unit with the goal of generating $1 billion in sales a
year. He pushed NYSE Euronext to make more money from data and
clearing and expanded its U.S. derivatives business.  “I’m a big fan,” said Dick Grasso, the former chairman
and chief executive officer of the New York Stock Exchange.
Grasso was forced to resign in 2003 after receiving $140 million
in pay. “He’s driven the exchange through some of the most
competitively challenging waters that the institution has ever
seen,” Grasso, 64, said yesterday. “He’s done an excellent
job.”  Futures, Options Trading  Francioni and Niederauer would control an exchange with
about $15 trillion of publicly traded companies, more than any
other market owner, and handle the most futures and options
trading in the world, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
They’re joining after NYSE Euronext’s proportion of trading in
the U.S. stocks it lists plunged to about 23 percent from 80
percent amid competition with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc ., Bats
Trading Inc. and Direct Edge Holdings LLC.  NYSE slipped 0.7 percent to $37.52 at 11:29 a.m. in Paris
trading today, while Deutsche Boerse advanced 0.4 percent to
61.32 euros in Frankfurt, a sixth day of gains.  Francioni, born in Brugg near Zurich and a speaker of
French, Italian, German and English, earned a doctorate in law
from the University of Zurich in 1987 and became a lieutenant
colonel in the Swiss army. He co-wrote “Equity Markets in
Action.”  Returned as CEO  He was a member of Deutsche Boerse’s executive board from
1993 to 2000, leaving to become co-chief executive officer of
ConSors Discount Broker AG, at the time  Europe ’s second-largest
online broker. Two years later, he moved to SWX Group as
chairman of the Swiss Exchange. He returned to  Frankfurt  as CEO
in 2005 after shareholders ousted Werner Seifert over his failed
attempt to buy the London Stock Exchange. Deutsche Boerse’s
stock has risen 57 percent since his appointment was approved.  Francioni, whose hobbies are trout fishing and reading
philosophy, cut expenses by 14 percent between 2007 and 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. Deutsche Boerse reported third-
quarter costs of 306.8 million euros ($416 million), the lowest
quarterly level since 2006, and said in March that it would move
jobs to Prague from Frankfurt and Luxembourg.  “We believe that a change in management, introducing a
less defensive and more customer- and innovation-focused
mindset, would be positive for Deutsche Boerse,” Christian Muschick, an exchanges analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie., wrote in
a note to investors. “Niederauer should be the right person.”  Merger Talks  The merger talks are the second time that  Deutsche Boerse 
and NYSE Euronext have tried to combine. Francioni and
Niederauer failed to reach a deal in December 2008. Success this
time would cap a $95.8-billion, decade-long wave of mergers
among exchanges and would unite equity and derivatives platforms
from the U.S. and  Germany  to  France , the Netherlands and  Portugal .  After NYSE acquired Euronext in 2007, Francioni bought the  International Securities Exchange , a New York-based options
market, for $2.79 billion to get a U.S. foothold. He also
purchased stakes in Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd. and European
Energy Exchange AG.  “He has good connections, and he’s diplomatic,” said
Joerg Franke, who ran the derivatives business at Deutsche
Boerse when Francioni headed the stocks unit. Franke is chairman
of the supervisory board of Berliner Effektengesellschaft AG, a
brokerage in Berlin. “So even after the failure of the Euronext
deal attempt in 2006, he’s managed to come back. The role of
chairman is the right one for him though. It worked well at the
Swiss exchange when he had a CEO to run the business.”  Autistic Son  Niederauer, a native of  Long Island ,  New York , whose father
emigrated from Germany, earned a master’s degree in business
administration from Emory University and an undergraduate degree
from Colgate University, according to NYSE’s  website . His
experience as the  father  of an autistic son has prepared him to
lead, according to  Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief
equity market strategist at Federated Investors Inc.
Niederauer’s wife Alison is on the  board  of Autism Speaks.  “That bleeds over into his professional leadership
capabilities because as big as the challenges are day to day
that we face in the investment community and the professional
world, those challenges pale in comparison to raising a special
needs child,” said Orlando, who also has a child with autism.
“It’s a humbling experience.”  ‘Obsessed’ With Structure  Niederauer worked at Goldman Sachs for 22 years. In 2005,
he helped the New York-based investment bank arrange the sale of
Archipelago to the NYSE, a deal that transformed the Big Board
into a for-profit, publicly traded company. In e-mails to
colleagues at the time, the pick-up basketball enthusiast
described himself as “obsessed” with the structure of U.S.
equity trading and critical of the NYSE’s reluctance to embrace
automation, according to documents filed during a lawsuit
against the exchange.  He was hired by NYSE CEO  John Thain  as president and co-
chief operating officer in April 2007 and got the top job later
that year after his predecessor, who bought Euronext, left to
lead Merrill Lynch & Co.  Niederauer has focused on increasing revenue at NYSE
Euronext’s technology unit to $1 billion by 2015 with margins of
25 percent to 30 percent. He also lowered costs, cutting 2
percent of jobs in the fourth quarter from the previous period.
The reductions led NYSE to report a smaller drop in fourth-
quarter earnings than analysts’ estimated.  $7.27 Million Compensation  NYSE paid Niederauer $7.27 million in 2009, less than the
previous year’s $9.18 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg that includes salary, bonus and stock awards.
Francioni’s total compensation fell to 2.47 million euros ($3.35
million) in 2009 from 3.56 million euros in 2008, based on the
company’s annual report.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext announced their merger
discussions on Feb. 9 as London Stock Exchange Group Plc Chief
Executive Officer Xavier Rolet and Thomas Kloet, CEO of TMX
Group Inc., presented details of LSE’s takeover of the Toronto
exchange. It was the biggest day ever for deal announcements in
the industry.  “The sector is taking the next leg up in the consolidation
game,” said Hoffmann-Becking, the Bernstein analyst. “The
question is how good are you at playing the game? With this
deal, Deutsche Boerse and Reto have put themselves in a very
good position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  