-- 
Freescale Files to Raise $1.15 Billion in Stock Sale

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-02-11T20:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/freescale-seeks-to-raise-1-15-billion-in-ipo-after-2006-buyout-added-debt.html
Freescale Semiconductor Inc., the 
chipmaker partly owned by  Blackstone Group LP , plans to raise
$1.15 billion in what would be the biggest initial share sale by
a U.S. technology company since Google Inc. went public in 2004.  The company will use proceeds to pay down the balance of a
$764 million loan maturing next year and other debt, it said in
a regulatory filing today. Freescale has total debt of $7.62
billion, according to the filing.  Chief Executive Officer Rich Beyer aims to reduce the
liabilities that have resulted in losses for the Austin, Texas-
based company. He’s trying to take advantage of a rally in chip
stocks that began last year. The Philadelphia Semiconductor
Index, which tracks the performance of 30 of the industry’s
largest companies, has climbed 51 percent since August.  “Things have improved in the semiconductor industry and
Freescale’s been a beneficiary of that,” said  Dave Novosel , an
analyst in Chicago with Gimme Credit LLC.  Freescale is the largest supplier of chips to the U.S.
automobile industry and makes semiconductors used in phone
networks and consumer devices. The company hired  Deutsche Bank
AG  and  Citigroup Inc . to handle the share offering.  Freescale piled on debt as it was taken private by
Blackstone, TPG,  Carlyle Group  and Permira Advisers LLP in a
$17.6 billion transaction in 2006. The chipmaker’s net loss
narrowed to $102 million in the fourth quarter as sales rose 24
percent to $1.18 billion, the company said Jan. 27.  “Clearly the huge upswing in revenue has had a very
positive effect on margins,” Novosel said.  String of Success  The move to go public follows a string of successful IPOs of
companies backed by private-equity firms, such as Nielsen
Holdings NV and BankUnited Inc. Kinder Morgan Inc., the energy-
pipeline company whose owners include Carlyle, completed the
biggest LBO-backed initial share sale yesterday, raising $2.9
billion. The stock rose as much as 7.1 percent today.  Freescale’s filing didn’t indicate whether any of its
owners would sell shares. Beyer has previously said that the
sale would consist of new shares to raise money and pay down
debt.  Buyout managers typically wait to pare their holdings until
secondary offerings, as was the case with fellow chipmaker  Avago
Technologies Ltd ., owned by KKR & Co. and Silver Lake. Avago,
based in  Singapore , has more than doubled its stock price since
its 2009 IPO.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 