-- 
Freeman Inside Trade on Sigma Said to Earn $22.7 Million

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-02-11T16:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/freeman-inside-trade-on-sigma-said-to-earn-22-million-update2-.html
Noah Freeman, the Boston hedge-fund
manager who pleaded guilty this week to securities fraud, made
$22.7 million for Sonar Capital Management LLC on illegal
insider trades in shares of semiconductor maker  Sigma Designs
Inc ., a person with knowledge of the case said.  Freeman, 34, did the alleged trading in the Milpitas,
California-based company in 2006 and 2007 while he was a
managing director with Sonar Capital, according to the person,
who asked not to be named because the information hasn’t been
made public. Freeman left the firm in May 2008 and a month later
joined the Boston office of  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The alleged Sigma trades accounted for most of a $30
million scheme involving hedge-fund managers and technology firm
employees selling material, nonpublic information as they
moonlighted as so-called expert-network consultants, according
to a civil complaint filed Feb. 8 by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. On the same day, the U.S. Attorney in  Manhattan  unveiled criminal securities-fraud charges against
Freeman and three other hedge-fund employees.  “Instead of competing on a level playing field with other
investors, these hedge-fund managers sought to illegally trade
today on what others would not learn until tomorrow,”  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s head of enforcement, said in a statement
announcing the complaint.  The agency’s suit against Freeman and nine others refers to
the stock only as “Technology Company A” and the hedge fund as
“Hedge Fund #5.” The stock in the case is Sigma and Freeman
made the alleged insider trades while he was at Sonar, the
person said.  Sonar’s Policies  Freeman pleaded guilty on Feb. 7 to a count of conspiracy
to commit securities and wire fraud and a charge of  securities
fraud . He is cooperating with prosecutors. His attorney,
Benjamin Rosenberg of Dechert LLP in  New York , declined to
comment.  Sonar Capital founder Neil Druker didn’t respond to phone
calls requesting comment. His firm hasn’t been charged with any
wrongdoing by prosecutors or the SEC. Sonar said in an e-mailed
statement on Feb. 8 that any alleged wrongdoing by Freeman was
unauthorized.  “Sonar Capital has robust policies against insider trading
and expects its personnel to fully comply with such policies,”
the firm said.  Longueuil, Barai  Donald Longueuil, another former SAC Capital portfolio
manager, and Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management in
New York, were also arrested Feb. 8. Jason Pflaum, who worked
for Barai, pleaded guilty in December and agreed to cooperate
with prosecutors in a case made public on Feb. 8.  The charges are connected to earlier arrests of eight
employees or consultants at  Primary Global Research LLC , a  Mountain View , California-based networking firm that links
investors with industry experts who work for public companies.
Prosecutors said Primary Global consultants leaked inside tips
to hedge-fund traders. The firm hasn’t been accused of
wrongdoing.  Freeman’s alleged Sigma scheme began in at least 2006 and
it hinged on secret information from a source with an unnamed
relative at the company. The source received $5,000 a month from
Sonar Capital and “other hedge-fund managers” for the tips,
according to the SEC.  Tip on Sales  In October 2006, the source told Freeman that Sigma had
already beaten analysts’ expectations for third-quarter sales,
three weeks before the quarter ended, according to the SEC
complaint. Freeman “directly or indirectly caused” Sonar to
buy $15 million of Sigma stock on Oct. 11 and Oct 12.  When Sonar sold the “vast majority” of its stake in
December 2006, it made a profit of about $9.7 million, the SEC
said. Shares in Sigma rose 45 percent from Oct. 11 to Dec. 29,
2006, according to Bloomberg data.  The source allegedly provided similar information to
Freeman throughout 2007. Two further batches of trades that year
resulted in about $13 million in “realized and unrealized
profits” for Sonar, according to the complaint. Sigma shares
more than doubled in 2007.  Sigma makes chips used in products such as high-definition
televisions and Blu-ray DVD players. Led by Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Thinh Tran, the company reported a $2.46
million profit for the year ended January 2010, down from $26.4
million in 2009. Derek Perez, a spokesman for the company,
confirmed in a phone interview that Sigma had received an
inquiry from the SEC. The firm hasn’t been charged with any
wrongdoing. SEC spokesman Kevin Callahan declined to comment.  Sigma Cooperating  “The inquiry has been limited to preliminary fact-finding
and we are fully cooperating with the SEC,” Perez said.  Sonar Capital, whose office is a block from the Public
Garden in  Boston , listed $87 million of investments in its 13F
filing with the SEC for the end of 2009. The firm valued its
Sigma stake at $20.4 million at the end of 2007, when holdings
were listed at $237 million. Sigma was its largest stake at the
time.  Sonar gained 8 percent in 2006, according to a 2009
marketing document obtained by Bloomberg News, compared with the
16 percent return by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The fund
rose 3.3 percent the next year, also half the S&P 500’s return.  According to the SEC’s complaint, Freeman’s source for
Sigma information continued to give him “material, nonpublic
information” into 2009, after he joined SAC, whose Boston
office is located in the same building as Sonar Capital’s.  SAC Sigma Stake  SAC, founded in 1992, hasn’t been charged with any
wrongdoing. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the Stamford,
Connecticut-based firm, referred to a previous statement that
said SAC was “outraged” with Freeman’s alleged actions and was
cooperating with the investigation. The firm said it fired
Freeman “due to poor performance” in 2010.  SAC, which oversees more than $12 billion, traded at least
11 stocks near the time of  insider trading  in the same shares
that prosecutors have identified at other hedge funds, including
Raj Rajaratnam’s Galleon Group LLC, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Rajaratnam is awaiting trial next month after
pleading not guilty to a 19-count U.S. indictment alleging
securities fraud.  The companies are Advanced Micro Devices Inc., Akamai
Technologies Inc., Atheros Communications Inc., ATI Technologies
Inc., Clearwire Corp., EBay Inc., Google Inc., the former Hilton
Hotels Corp.,  Intel Corp ., Marvell Technology Group and Polycom
Inc. Gasthalter declined to comment on SAC’s stock positions.  The case is U.S. v. Barai, 11-mag-00332, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  