-- 
Garuda Tumbles in Jakarta Debut as Rising Fuel May Damp Airlines' Profits

-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 
2011-02-11T10:05:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/garuda-shares-tumble-in-jakarta-debut-after-ipo-priced-at-bottom-of-range.html
PT Garuda  Indonesia  plunged in
Jakarta trading, the first decline for shares at their listing
debut in the country since at least 2006, amid concern that
rising fuel prices will damp airlines’ profit.  The stock opened at 700 rupiah, 6.7 percent lower than its
750 rupiah initial public offering price, and fell to 620 rupiah
at the 4 p.m. close on the Indonesia Stock Exchange. Garuda, the
nation’s largest airline, last month completed a 4.8 trillion
rupiah ($538 million) initial public offering at the bottom of
the price range.  Chief Executive Officer Emirsyah Satar plans to use
proceeds of the share sale to boost the carrier’s fleet to 153
planes by 2015 and add new routes. The share sale comes as
higher fuel costs and slowing economic growth this year may
slash profit at airlines worldwide 40 percent, according to
 International Air Transport Association  estimates.  “Investors see an increase in global  oil prices  impacting
Garuda’s profit,” said Norico Gaman, head of research at PT BNI
Securities in Jakarta. “Garuda can’t increase ticket prices or
it won’t be competitive with other airlines. That’s why
investors see the fair price for Garuda shares between 500 and
600 rupiah.”  Jet kerosene prices climbed to $118.05 a barrel in
Singapore trading yesterday, the highest since September 2008,
according to Bloomberg data. Fuel accounted for about 32 percent
of expenditures in the nine months ended in September, Garuda
said in its IPO prospectus.  Profit, Expansion  Net income at the Jakarta-based airline dropped to 194.9
billion rupiah in the nine months ended Sept. 30, compared with
570.2 billion rupiah the year earlier, because the carrier
accelerated deliveries of new aircraft while retiring older
aircraft ahead of schedule. The lack of pilots and lower demand
on long-haul routes also weighed on profit, it said.  The carrier, which started flying in 1949, is expanding
after signing a final debt agreement with European  export credit
agencies  in December. Garuda resumed flights to  Europe  in June
for the first time in six years after the European Union eased a
ban on some Indonesian airlines following a series of fatal
crashes.  ‘Bearish Trend’  “It is normal that the share price is down, as the market
is in a bearish trend,” Satar said at the stock exchange today
after trading started. “The more important thing is we’re going
to use the proceeds for expansion. This will make Garuda
better.”  About 80 percent of the funds raised will be to pay for 36
narrow-body and twin-aisle planes, according to Garuda’s
prospectus. The airline plans to have a fleet of 154 aircraft,
including 25 planes for its budget unit and four freighters, by
2015. It operated 84 aircraft, the document said.  Garuda and shareholder PT Bank Mandiri on Jan. 26 sold 6.4
billion new and existing shares at the bottom of a price range
that went as high as 1,100 rupiah. Mandiri, which owned about 30
percent of the 26 percent stake Garuda sold, raised about 1.5
trillion rupiah in the sale, with the airline taking the rest.
The bank is Indonesia’s largest by assets.  ‘Tougher Conditions’  The share listing came as airlines worldwide face
“tougher” conditions this year than in 2010, said  Giovanni Bisignani , Chief Executive Officer at the  International Air
Transport Association . Profit at airlines globally may drop to
$9.1 billion this year from $15.1 billion in 2010, according to
a December forecast by the trade group.  Citigroup Inc., UBS AG, PT Bahana Securities, PT Danareksa
Sekuritas and PT Mandiri Sekuritas managed the Garuda share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Sue Ling in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  