-- 
Gehry’s $875 Million Tower Ripples High Above Brooklyn Bridge

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-02-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/gehry-s-875-million-tower-ripples-over-lower-manhattan-james-s-russell.html
At 8 Spruce Street, just east of
City Hall Park in Lower Manhattan, I stared up at a 76-story
wall of stainless-steel panels and bay windows that rippled and
curled like a zipper run amok.  No mysterious force sideswiped the walls. Los Angeles
Architect  Frank Gehry , 81, designed the 903-unit rental
apartment building that way. At 870 feet, it is by a nose New
York’s tallest residential building.  Developer Forest City Ratner Cos., notorious for the
controversial Atlantic Yards megaproject (where Gehry was once
the architect), will start signing leases this month on the
first completed apartments. The topmost apartments won’t be
ready until 2012.  In contrast to the dumb, boxy towers clad in murky glass
that have defaced  New York City ’s skyline during the past
decade, Gehry has produced a gawky beauty that captures the
open-ended energy of the city. It fascinates rather than
ravishes.  I moved a good distance back, gazing at that glittering
rumpled surface from the Brooklyn Bridge. In the stretched
wedding-cake profile I see a bit of  Rockefeller Center  romance
struggling to get out. Gehry slims the tower so that it frames
the surroundings rather than obliterating them.  The building is most powerful close up, where its draping
creases evoke veins pulsing beneath the smooth surface -- a
cockeyed echo of nearby 19th-century facades covered with
pistoning columns and muscular cornice brackets. The surface has
a willful strangeness in the mold of the Barcelona mystic Antoni
Gaudi.  School of Blandness  The tower rises from a chunky new five-story orange-brick
public elementary school of utter blandness that deserved more
architectural energy. It will open next fall.  The school was part of a complex development deal
orchestrated by the  New York  State Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. Gehry designed and Forest City Ratner built the shell of
the school. The architect Swanke Hayden Connell is fitting out
the $65 million interior. The great height is thanks to air
rights sold by the adjacent Downtown Hospital.  The tower was financed when markets were crashing and at
one time it looked as if it would rise only 38 stories. Its $875
million cost benefited from $204 million in government-backed
post-9/11 Liberty Bonds.  I had feared the building’s great size would cast the
surrounding streets into gloom. Yet a recent late-afternoon
visit revealed that the reflective surface and deep setbacks
draw light in. Two small tree-shaded plazas will bring patches
of desperately needed greenery.  Bay Windows  Though the rippling exterior suggests apartments laid out
in lava-lamp blobs, you mostly get a familiar functionality.
(Gehry’s firm laid out the units, which is both fortunate and a
rarity. Almost every developer hires from a triumvirate of
specialist local firms that favor inexplicable mazelike plans or
highway-hotel dreariness.)  The plans, ranging from studios (lower floors start at
$2,600 monthly) to two-bedroom units (from $5,895), are
unpretentiously appointed and gracious if not spacious. The
exterior curves scallop the rooms, which loosens them up
pleasingly. Some of the large glass expanses kink in and some
kink out to form bay windows, one of the great architectural
inventions almost never used in New York.  There’s plenty of city on view: the Gothic extravagance of
the Woolworth Building, the gold-statued grandeur of the
Municipal Building, an assortment of East River bridges, and
your choice of  Lower Manhattan  or Midtown skylines.  No Balcony  The high units are more generous but you won’t find the
hangar-sized living rooms and pools set into outdoor terraces of
late-boom condos. You won’t even get a balcony. Prices at this
level have yet to be set but $15,000 isn’t unlikely.  Self-appointed style cops decry Gehry’s fanciful
architecture as the gaudy emblem of the last decade’s excess.
Yet nothing about this tower is gratuitous. It shows how to put
a very large building into a heavily built-up city.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 