-- 
Geithner Says Europe Needs Stronger Financial Crisis Strategy

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-02-11T17:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/geithner-says-europe-needs-stronger-financial-crisis-strategy.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that  Europe  needs to press forward with
efforts to ease the debt crisis, and he said the U.S. is “very
closely” watching developments in Egypt.  “Obviously people are concerned that Europe go ahead and
take the next step to put in place a stronger financial strategy
to help manage those pressures,” said Geithner, according to a
transcript of CNBC television interview. “They’re moving
towards that.”  The European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  have
created a backstop fund to help ensure the euro’s survival.
Countries across the continent also are under pressure to cut
budgets and rein in spending to keep the debt crisis from
spreading beyond Ireland and  Greece , which already have accepted
rescue money.  “I think the Europeans have made it clear to markets and
to their own citizens that they will do whatever it takes to
make sure that they help the countries in Europe under so much
pressure,” Geithner said. European leaders need to make sure
reforms are accompanied by “a substantial financial commitment
so that they can make the kind of change they have to.”  Geithner declined to elaborate on the economic and
financial market implications of developments in Egypt, where
President Hosni Mubarak today stepped down after 30 years in
power.  U.S. Economy  The U.S. economy is getting stronger, he said, adding that
this improvement would “diminish the pressures” on cash-
strapped state and local governments. He said managing budget
pressures will require “strong leadership at the state level.”  The Treasury chief rejected the idea that the Federal
Reserve might be monetizing  U.S. debt  through its efforts to
boost the economy by purchasing  government securities .
“Absolutely not,” Geithner said. “We have an independent  Federal Reserve  with a remarkable record.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  