-- 
Geithner Says ‘Essential’ for Congress to Raise Debt Ceiling

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-02-11T15:52:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/geithner-says-essential-for-congress-to-raise-debt-ceiling.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said today that it is “essential” for Congress to
raise the $14.29 trillion debt limit to preserve investor
confidence in the U.S.  Geithner said the Obama administration would tackle the
country’s fiscal outlook by proposing a “detailed set of
reforms” in budget proposals next week. He also pledged an
“active” tax reform process aimed at helping the U.S. be more
competitive in an interview broadcast today on CNBC television.  The Treasury secretary reiterated his view that the debt
limit should not be used as a bargaining chip and that the U.S.
doesn’t have a way to “prioritize” debt payments over other
obligations. Even if Congress tried to pay investors ahead of
other creditors, it would still be “default,” he said in the
TV interview.  At a Brookings Institution conference today, Geithner said
budget cuts won’t be enough to rein in the deficit. Republicans
have been calling for specific reductions in exchange for
raising the debt limit.  “We’re not going to solve our long-term fiscal problems
just by spending less” on non-defense discretionary spending,
Geithner, 49, said at the event.  The Treasury chief said the U.S. housing market will take
two or three years to recover from the worst of the financial
crisis. He said the administration can take initial steps to
improve housing finance on its own and will then need Congress
to act.  “Ultimately we’re going to have to explain to the market
what the end game’s going to be and we can’t wait too long,”
Geithner said.  Earlier today, the administration released its long-awaited
white paper on options for phasing out  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac , the government-backed housing companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  