-- 
German Government Bonds Rise as Egypt Spurs Demand for Safety

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-02-11T16:45:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/german-government-bonds-rise-as-egypt-spurs-demand-for-safety.html
German 10-year bonds gained, pushing
the yield down from within three basis points of the highest in
more than a year, as concern that unrest in  Egypt  may escalate
spurred demand for the safest assets.  Two-year securities led the advance, heading for their
first weekly gain this year, as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak 
resigned this afternoon after a week of resistance. German bonds
pared their gains after Mubarak handed power to the nation’s
military. Consumer prices in  Germany , the largest of the 17
economies that share the euro, declined 0.4 percent in January
from a month earlier, data showed today. Greek bonds fell,
pushing 10-year yields to a two-week high.  “Safe-haven support for bunds has ebbed a little after
developments in Egypt,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “There’s
still a lot of uncertainty as the military takes over and that
helps underpin the front end,” he said, referring to shorter-
dated securities.  The yield on the 10-year bund, the euro-region’s benchmark
government security, dropped one basis point to 3.29 percent at
4:31 p.m. in  London , after reaching 3.25 percent earlier. It
climbed to 3.32 percent on Feb. 9, the most since Jan. 14, 2009.
The 2.5 percent security due January 2021 rose 0.085, or 85 euro
cents per 1,000-euro ($1,355) face amount, to 93.41. The two-
year note yield fell five basis points to 1.40 percent.  Mubarak said earlier during a broadcast interview that he
intended to stay on as president until elections scheduled in
September, while handing day-to-day powers to Vice President  Omar Suleiman . U.S. President  Barack Obama  urged the country’s
authorities to take further steps to resolve the crisis.  Portuguese Bonds  Portuguese 10-year yields were at 7.30 percent. They
reached 7.64 percent yesterday, the most since the euro’s
introduction in 1999, before reported purchases by the  European
Central Bank  drove yields lower.  Greek bonds fell for a seventh straight day, the longest
run of declines since November, pushing the 10-year yield up 10
basis points to 11.51 percent, the most since Jan. 28, according
to Bloomberg data.  Data yesterday showed  Greece ’s unemployment rate climbed to
13.9 percent in November from 13.5 percent in October, while the
inflation rate, the second highest in the euro area, remained at
5.2 percent in January, adding to concern over the nation’s
economic recovery.  M&G Investments, a unit of Prudential Plc with $300 billion
under management, bought Greek government bonds linked to
inflation, betting a reorganization of payments by the nation
will still leave the trade profitable.  Inflation-linked Bonds  “We did buy some Greek inflation-linked bonds,” Jim Leaviss, a London-based money manager, said in a telephone
interview two days ago. These securities will likely “have to
be given a haircut at some stage, but that was probably already
more than in the price,” he said.  M&G bought the Greek index-linked bonds when the price was
in the “low 40s,” Leaviss said, declining to specify the
precise securities. M&G also bought bonds from Italy and  Spain ,
he said.  A 20 percent cut in payments and a three-year extension of
maturities would still allow Greek bonds to provide bigger
returns than German debt, Alessandro Giansanti, a rates
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, said yesterday.  The Italian government plans to sell as much as 3.5 billion
euros of debt due 2015 and 1.75 billion euros of bonds maturing
in 2040 on Feb. 14.  German  government bonds  have lost investors 2.2 percent
this year while Portuguese securities lost 2.5 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds returned
4.6 percent, Spanish debt returned 1.4 percent and Irish bonds
earned 0.3 percent, the indexes showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  