-- 
German Politics Complicate Bank Bailouts, Ireland’s Martin Says

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-02-11T12:16:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/german-politics-complicate-bank-bailouts-ireland-s-martin-says.html
German political considerations may
complicate any European-wide initiatives to share the cost of
bailing out failed banks, said Micheal Martin, leader of
Ireland’s ruling Fianna Fail party.  Irish opposition parties want international authorities to
allow the government in Dublin to impose losses on senior bank
bondholders.  Fine Gael , leading in polls before the Feb. 25
national election, has said European bailout funds should inject
capital directly into banks.  “Some politicians here are just acting with bravado and
banging tables, that won’t get us anywhere,” Martin said in an
interview on Feb. 9 in the Irish midlands. “There are domestic
political considerations in other member states, which cause
complications. One has to be mindful particularly of the German
electoral system.”    Germany  will begin holding elections in seven of its 16
states on Feb. 20, involving about 30 percent of the population.
About two-thirds of Germans rejected boosting European aid for
debt-strapped euro countries in a poll for public broadcaster
ZDF published Jan. 28. In talks on an Irish bailout last year,
the Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  rebuffed a plan to
impose losses on senior bank bondholders  “The ECB made it clear to us that even for the
unguaranteed senior bondholders, they said they don’t want them
burnt as of now,” said Martin, who took over as leader of
Fianna Fail last month after Prime Minister Brian Cowen
resigned.  Martin wants a European mechanism to help resolve banking
problems, which the ECB is now “working through.”  “Ultimately a restructuring or re-burdening is the
desirable outcome,” Martin said. “That is the way it should be
done on a euro-wide basis. There is interdependence between the
banking systems in  Europe , so this is not just an
an Irish banking problem anymore.”  Bank of Ireland Plc and five other Irish lenders had some
senior debt ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service today, on
concern that investors may be asked to share the cost of saving
the country’s financial system. Ireland has already injected
about 46 billion euros ($62.2 billion) into its banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  