-- 
Germany Bans Porsche-Style Stealth Takeover Bids, Leaves Hochtief to ACS

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-11T11:58:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/germany-bans-porsche-style-stealth-takeover-bids-leaves-hochtief-to-acs.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition won parliament’s backing for  legislation  that will
block stealth takeovers such as Porsche SE’s 2008 acquisition of
shares in  Volkswagen AG .  The legal step, backed by lower-house lawmakers in Berlin
today, targets a gap in disclosure rules for  stock options 
including swaps held by investors building up a position in
companies. The law applies to derivative holdings of at least 5
percent of a company’s stock. Disclosure now applies only to
common shares.  The bill was drafted after Porsche used the provision to
gain a majority stake in Volkswagen and the  Schaeffler Group  was
able to take control of tiremaker  Continental AG . While both
bids finally backfired, the volume of global hostile takeovers
has continued unabated, reaching a four-year high in 2010,  Allen
& Overy’s M&A Index  showed in January.  Derivatives or “non-reportable financial instruments have
been used in concrete cases in the past to move with stealth on
a company including taking it over,” said a preamble to the
bill. The instrument may “choke liquidity in stock markets as
well as cause market distortions.”  Herzogenaurach-based Schaeffler began amassing a position
in Continental through equity swaps in March 2008. When the
stock dropped close to a three-year low in July of that year,
Schaeffler made a takeover bid that  Europe ’s second-largest car-
parts maker was powerless to fight off. The financial crash
intervened, and Schaeffler was stuck with more shares than it
intended to purchase, plunging it into debt.  Hochtief Fight  While the legislation helps Germany as it catches up with
its European partners including the U.K. in improving disclosure
rules, it won’t help  Hochtief AG  as it tries to fight off a
takeover bid by Spanish builder Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA.  Critics of German stock-market rules such as the HVB
construction industry federation say ACS has benefitted from
current law that lets investors holding almost 30 percent of an
incorporated company make and time a voluntary offer for
remaining shares that is below the current stock value.  Once the 30 percent threshold is reached, the investor
isn’t obliged to disclose further share acquisition or compelled
to make a new offer to buy up remaining shares. ACS said on Feb.
3 that it holds 33.5 percent of Hochtief, up from 31.6 percent
reached by Jan. 21.  “There are parallels with Porsche and Schaeffler,” HVB
spokesman Heiko Stiepelmann said in an interview. “ACS can
legally exploit so-called creep-in rules that draw a veil over
an investor’s intentions as well as allow actions that are not
in shareholders’ interests.”    Germany ’s main opposition Social Democrats failed to win
support for an amendment that aimed to compel investors to
disclose increments to share holdings over the 30 percent
threshold as well as force them to offer to buy remaining stock.  German finance-industry groups including the  BVAI
Alternative Investment Federation  welcomed the legislation,
saying it is timely and increases transparency without hampering
takeovers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 