-- 
MGIC, Radian Advance as Geithner Aims to Curtail FHA

-- B y   A p r i l   L e e
-- 
2011-02-11T21:31:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/mgic-leads-mortgage-insurer-rally-as-geithner-aims-to-curb-government-role.html
  MGIC Investment Corp . and  Radian
Group Inc . led mortgage insurers higher after U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called for limiting the role of
government-backed competitors.  MGIC, the largest private U.S. mortgage insurer, jumped 9.6
percent, the most in five months, to $10.05 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. No. 2 Radian, based in
Philadelphia, surged 13 percent, to $8.03, the biggest advance
since November.  “We will encourage  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac to pursue
additional credit-loss protection from private insurers,”
according to a report today from Geithner and Housing and Urban
Development Secretary Shaun Donovan.  The  Federal Housing Administration , which competes with
private firms selling mortgage insurance, should cover fewer
loans and raise prices, according to the report. Private
mortgage insurers are seeking to gain market share and tighten
underwriting standards to replenish capital depleted by the
collapse of the housing market. Mortgage insurers pay lenders
when homeowners default and foreclosure fails to recoup costs.  “Our industry will continue to regain share against the
FHA albeit slowly as borrowers, originators and Realtors
recognize the financial and operational benefits of conventional
financing,” Curt Culver, chief executive officer of Milwaukee-
based MGIC, said in a Jan. 19 conference call.  PMI, Genworth    PMI Group Inc ., the third-biggest mortgage insurer, and
Richmond, Virginia-based  Genworth Financial Inc . also rallied.
Walnut Creek, California-based PMI climbed 2.8 percent to $3.34.
Genworth, the seller of life insurance and mortgage coverage,
advanced 4.4 percent to $13.59.  “Under our plan, private markets, subject to strong
oversight and standards for consumer and investor protection,
will be the primary source of mortgage credit and bear the
burden for losses,” according to the report.  Scaling back the FHA’s role is a “modest positive” for
private mortgage insurers, Nathaniel Otis, a KBW Inc. analyst,
said today in a note to clients.  “Overall, the administration’s proposal is supportive of a
private mortgage insurance market going forward,” he said.  The cost to protect Genworth’s debt from default fell 19.6
basis points to 294 at 2:24 p.m. in  New York , according to data
provider CMA. Credit-default swaps on MGIC declined 24.4 basis
points to 392.5, and swaps on Radian eased 29.1 basis points to
508, the data show.  Credit swaps, which typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
April Lee in New York at 
 alee355@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  