-- Gillard Reopens Stalled Healthcare Talks in Bid to Reach Deal With States
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2011-02-11T01:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/gillard-reopens-stalled-healthcare-talks-in-bid-to-reach-deal-with-states.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard  opened stalled talks on health with state leaders,
vowing to pay 50 percent of the growth in hospital costs worth
an extra A$16.4 billion ($16.44 billion) in the next decade.  Gillard said she wouldn’t cut revenue to the eight states
and territories to enact her plan aimed at meeting the needs of
an aging population. The prime minister, who is scheduled to
meet with state leaders on Feb. 13, dumped her predecessor  Kevin
Rudd ’s plan to take control of hospital spending and cut state
funding.  “Our health system is running out of money,” Gillard said
in an e-mailed statement. “Without structural reform, rapidly
rising health costs will overwhelm state and territory budgets
within the next few decades.”  Gillard’s  Labor Party  formed a minority government after
elections in August with a promise to provide extra health
spending to country areas represented in Parliament by
independent lawmakers. She needs the support of four
legislators, either independents or from the Greens Party, to
hold a majority in  Australia ’s 150-seat lower house.  Australia’s population will rise to 36 million by 2050 from
22 million this year and one quarter will be aged 65 and over,
up from 13 percent, according to Treasury projections.  State leaders, in return for the increased funding, will
have to guarantee four-hour maximum waiting times in hospital
emergency departments, deliver surgery faster and reduce funding
waste, Gillard said. The government will also publish an on-line
guide to the performance of each hospital.  Voter Confidence  Health changes are key to Gillard winning voter confidence.
Her popularity fell to 48 percent, the lowest since the
election, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper this week.  Parliament earlier this week delayed Gillard’s plan to
impose a A$1.8 billion tax levy on middle and high income
earners to help rebuild after floods that decimated Queensland
state and hit Victoria and New South Wales in the past two
months.  The levy, part of a A$5.6 billion rebuilding package
announced by the government last month, was referred to a
committee for discussion, a move that will put off Parliament’s
consideration of the plan for at least a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  