-- 
GM Offers Leasing Deals That May Counter Goal to Cut Incentives

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-02-11T14:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/gm-offers-leasing-deals-that-may-counter-goal-to-cut-incentives.html
  General Motors Co . is offering to
waive the last three payments on existing leases if holders buy
a new car, adding an incentive onto deals that last month
exceeded offers made by rivals.  The promotion began this month and is valid on most models
with leases that expire between now and Aug. 31, according to
the company. GM raised incentive spending in January by 16
percent to an average of $3,663 per vehicle, the highest among
major carmakers, according to researcher Autodata Corp. GM sales
outpaced the industry that month.  GM said in a video presentation for its initial public
offering in November that it intended to offer fewer incentives
that crimped margins and created an impression that price was
the main selling point for GM vehicles. Early-return leasing
deals may conflict with the that pledge, said Jessica Caldwell,
an analyst at Edmunds.com.  “I hope they’re not walking down that road,” said
Caldwell, who is based in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Sales at Detroit-based GM rose 22 percent last month,
topping the industry’s 16 percent gain.  Don Johnson , GM’s vice
president of U.S. sales, said on the company’s monthly sales
conference call with analysts and reporters that the company
would begin discussing incentives “directionally” rather than
giving specific data on a month-to-month basis.  “I am not seeing any internal behavior that suggests we
have gone back to old ways,” Rick Scheidt, GM’s vice president
of Chevrolet marketing, said in a Feb. 9 interview at the
Chicago Auto Show. “It’s still way too close to the bankruptcy
for us to be sliding back into bad habits. We know everybody’s
watching.”  Smart Incentives  GM is being smart about incentives, said Duane Paddock, who
owns Paddock Chevrolet in Kenmore, New York. His dealership
advertises a Chevrolet Cruze compact for $119 a month and the
Chevrolet Equinox sport-utility vehicle for $219, including
other incentives. The promotions fend off Honda Motor Co. and  Toyota Motor Corp ., both of which have drawn customers away with
attractive lease offers, Paddock said.  Toyota, which halted deliveries a year earlier due to a
recall, raised incentive spending in January by 24 percent to an
estimated $1,962 a sale. Honda boosted discounts 41 percent to
$2,016. GM had increased its promotions by $498, or 16 percent.  The incentives may be GM’s way of signaling it’s back in
the leasing business after spending $3.3 billion last year to
buy General Motors Finance, said Nicholas Colas, chief market
strategist at BNY ConvergEx Group in New York.  “I don’t think these incentives have as much to do with
overall discounting as they have to do with messaging to the
marketplace,” Colas said.  Below Average  Leasing was about 14 percent of GM’s deliveries in January,
up from less than 5 percent during the recession, Johnson, the
U.S. sales chief, said on the Feb. 1 conference call. GM remains
below the industry average of about 20 percent, he said.  GM’s leasing partners also include Ally Financial Inc.,
which was formerly known as GMAC Financial Services and served
as the captive lending arm of the automaker’s predecessor.  GM fell 53 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $35.88 yesterday in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen
8.7 percent since the company’s IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:  David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;  Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 