-- 
Goldman Sachs Former Chief Whitehead Says NYSE Deal ‘An Insult’

-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/goldman-sachs-former-chief-whitehead-calls-nyse-s-planned-sale-an-insult-.html
John C. Whitehead isn’t celebrating
the 219-year-old  New York  Stock Exchange’s plan to be acquired
by  Germany ’s 18-year-old  Deutsche Boerse AG .  “I think it’s a terrible idea and I hope it can be
stopped,” Whitehead, the 88-year-old former co-chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., said in an interview yesterday. “It
would be an insult to New York City, and New York State, and
indeed to all America.”  The erstwhile U.S. deputy secretary of state, NYSE director
and Lower Manhattan Development Corp. chairman said his
experience gives him the credibility to speak out against the
potential takeover.  “I speak out rarely, and this is one time when I can’t
hold myself back,” he said, adding that the exchange is an
“important symbol” of American capitalism and of  New York
City ’s status as a global financial center. “I think of it as a
holy institution,” he said.  Whitehead, whose autobiography “A Life in Leadership”
chronicles his command of a landing craft at Omaha Beach on D-
Day, said his opposition has nothing to do with his World War II
experiences. “I’d be anti- any other country buying the New
York Stock Exchange,” he said. “It’s not that it’s German.”  Whitehead, who joined Goldman Sachs in 1947, said he
remembers visiting the exchange in his early days at the firm.  Proud Chairmen  “I remember the various chairmen of the New York Stock
Exchange, and how important they were in the world of finance,”
he said. He added that Gustave Levy was “as proud” of chairing
the NYSE as he was of leading New York-based Goldman Sachs,
where Whitehead followed at the helm.  He wouldn’t discuss  NYSE Euronext  Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer , who had been a 22-year Goldman Sachs veteran
when he joined the exchange in 2007, other than to say, “I
cannot believe that the board and the president and the staff
would be in favor of this idea.”  Robert Rendine, global head of communications at NYSE
Euronext, owner of the exchange, declined to comment.  Naomi Kim, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Boerse in New York,
said the exchange declined to comment beyond its Feb. 9
statement announcing the merger talks. Deutsche Boerse
shareholders would get about 59 percent to 60 percent of the
combined companies’ equity, with dual headquarters in New York
and  Frankfurt , according to the statement.  The combined firm would be the world’s biggest exchange
owner, handling equities worth $15 trillion. Earlier on Feb. 9,
London Stock Exchange Group Plc agreed to buy TMX Group Inc,
owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Endorsing Competition  Whitehead said the consolidation makes him uncomfortable.  “Competition among  stock exchanges  is a good thing, not a
bad thing,” he said.  Whitehead, who spoke out in 2007 about Wall Street’s
“shocking” salaries, said he hopes New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and Mayor Michael Bloomberg will, “how should I say,
carefully consider” the merger. “I would like to say about the
CEOs of the listed companies: I’m appealing to them to speak
out,” he said.  Bloomberg, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, voiced support for the transaction at a
news conference yesterday.  “I think it’s very good for New York,” he said. “You’ll
have the two strongest stock exchanges together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 