-- 
Greenspan Says Home Prices Need to Rise 10% for a `Full-Fledged' Recovery

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-02-11T19:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/greenspan-says-u-s-housing-prices-may-need-to-rise-10-for-solid-rebound.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said a recovery in the U.S. housing market may not be
solid until  home prices  rise by at least 10 percent.  “Stabilization is important not only to the housing
market, but to the economic recovery as a whole,” Greenspan
said today in a speech at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington. “Home prices will have to rise unequivocally and
perhaps by 10 percent or more before signs of a full-fledged
housing recovery become unambiguous.”  Home values in the U.S. fell during the fourth quarter as
mounting foreclosures sidelined buyers who think prices may
decline further. The median price of a single-family home
dropped from a year earlier in 71 of 152 metropolitan areas
tracked by the National Association of Realtors, the group said
yesterday.  The number of homes in foreclosure in December rose to a
record 2.2 million, according to Lender Processing Services
Inc., based in Jacksonville,  Florida . Including foreclosures and
late payments, there were 6.87 million non-current mortgages,
the company said.  Owners won’t be able to borrow more against the equity in
their homes, which provides more for spending, until the value
of their houses increases, Greenspan said. Household spending
makes up about 70 percent of the economy.  After demand for houses peaked in 2006, home prices in the
U.S. tumbled for three years in a “largely futile endeavor to
uncover enough demand to absorb the inventory excess,”
Greenspan said.  Fueling Demand  To lift prices, demand must be driven by either an increase
in the rate of household formation or an increase in the share
going toward owner-occupancy, according to Greenspan.  “Tax credits rarely do either,” he said.  In response to audience questions, Greenspan said the rise
in equities has created a “wealth effect” that is prompting
consumers to boost spending. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
advanced 17 percent since the beginning of last year.  “What we are in the process of seeing is the fact of the
wealth effect in the consumer markets,” Greenspan said,
pointing to household spending, which grew 4.4 percent during
the fourth quarter.  “In the last four or five months, these markets are
beginning to look very much like they used to prior to the
crisis,” Greenspan said.  “This thing is just building, and if we somehow could get
beyond this very heavy overhang in the residential housing
markets it would be very helpful,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  