-- 
Greece ‘Successfully’ Rescued From Abyss, EU, IMF Say

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 
2011-02-11T15:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/greece-economy-successfully-rescued-from-abyss-eu-imf-says.html
  Greece ’s economy has been rescued
from the “abyss” as austerity measures aimed at restoring
order to public finances “are being implemented as planned,”
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  said.  “While there have been some delays and shortfalls, it
should not undermine the fact that the program is broadly on
track,”  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF’s Greece mission, told a
news conference in Athens today. “We are ready for the second
phase of the program, having successfully pulled the economy
from an abyss.”  Greece’s fiscal health still requires a “broad base of
structural reforms” to underpin a sustainable recovery, he
said. The second phase will focus on a tax overhaul and state-
asset sales that may raise as much as 50 billion euros ($68
billion) by 2015 to pay down debt, while further salary cuts and
levy increases have been ruled out for the medium term, Servaas Deroose, a European Commission economist, told the briefing.  Thomsen and Deroose were in  Athens  for a quarterly review
of Greece’s progress under a 110 billion-euro EU-IMF bailout it
received last May to avert default. Approval of Greece’s efforts
will ensure payment of the plan’s next installment of 15 billion
euros in March. Deroose said he’s “confident” the funds will
be disbursed.  Shares Advance  Shares in state-controlled banks shot up after the remarks
by Deroose, who said an estimated 15 billion euros may be raised
in 2011 and 2012 by selling commercial real estate and stakes in
companies, both listed and unlisted. Hellenic Postbank SA gained
10.5 percent, Attica Bank SA rose 9.7 percent and Agricultural
Bank of Greece SA added 13.2 percent at 4:45 p.m. in Athens. The
government will complete the sale of the 110-year-old Postbank
in 2011, according to a commission report released in December.  Greece has vowed to trim the budget gap to 7.4 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011 from 9.4 percent in 2010. The EU
and the IMF said today the 2010 deficit was about 9.5 percent.
Fallout from Greece’s crisis led to a surge in bond yields of
distressed euro-area nations as investors shunned their debt.  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond remained at a euro-area
high of 11.15 percent today. The extra yield that investors
demand to hold the 10-year security instead of German bunds was
at 824 basis points compared with 811 basis points yesterday and
a record 973.6 basis points on Jan. 7.  Austerity Moves  Prime Minister George Papandreou’s wage and pension cuts
and sales-tax increases in return for the emergency loans from
the EU and the IMF have contributed to a slump in demand, with
Greece’s economy shrinking an estimated 4.2 percent last year.
EU and IMF officials today stuck to forecasts for a 3 percent
contraction this year.  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said earlier this
month he was confident a comprehensive package from the EU would
stem borrowing costs and allow Greece to return to international
markets for financing this year. The country is banking on lower
lending rates on the EU-IMF loans, as well as an extension of
the maturities, to help assuage market fears of a Greek default.  Greece may return to markets no later than early next year,
Thomsen said today, adding that external conditions aren’t “as
favorable as expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen@bloomberg.net  