-- 
Blockbuster Bid by Carl Icahn Looks Like a Loser, Analysts Say

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-02-12T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/icahn-s-bet-on-blockbuster-looks-like-a-loser-analysts-say.html
A second bet on  Blockbuster Inc .,
the bankrupt movie-rental company, by billionaire  Carl Icahn  is
starting to look like a loser, analysts said.  Icahn and Monarch Alternative Capital LP are among
Blockbuster creditors who are considering a bid for the company
at less than $300 million, a person familiar with the matter
said. If they bought it, they would be gambling on whether the
company can be sold, or remade as a second  Netflix Inc ., at a
time when at least one supplier, Summit Distribution LLC, says
Blockbuster can’t pay its DVD bills and should be liquidated.  “If these guys are delusional, they might think they can
compete with Netflix,” said  Michael Pachter , a managing
director of research at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles .
More likely, the idea of a sale has been revived because some
creditors “aren’t willing to give them any more money,” he
said. “They’re trying to salvage what they can.”    Martin Sosland , a lawyer for Dallas-based Blockbuster,
declined to comment on whether the company might be sold or at
what price. Icahn and Michael Weinstock, managing principal at
New York-based Monarch, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Blockbuster can’t pay $1.6 million owed for DVDs of “The
Twilight Saga: Eclipse” and other bills, Summit said this
month. That will make other suppliers wary, and Blockbuster will
have trouble getting more money for advertising, Pachter said.  “You’d need $30 million in annual profit to justify a
price of $300 million,” he said.  Blockbuster posted a net loss of $53.5 million on sales of
$736.6 million in the third quarter of 2010.  2005 Proxy Fight  The 74-year-old Icahn led a 2005 proxy fight that put him
on Blockbuster’s board as the company’s largest shareholder,
when shares were worth about $10. He resigned five years later
and in March 2010 sold most of his 16.9 percent common-share
stake, according to a regulatory filing. By then, shares were
trading at less than 50 cents.  Before Blockbuster’s September bankruptcy filing he spent
about $100 million to buy about a third of the company’s senior
bonds at less than 50 cents on the dollar, putting up more money
toward a $175 million loan intended to adapt the storefront
business into an online video service, said the person familiar
with the matter.  Blockbuster plans to close 110 underperforming stores by
the end of this quarter, according to court papers. Four years
ago, Icahn said the future lies with bricks and mortar.  ‘Our Greatest Assets’  “In the online battle with Netflix, our stores have become
one of our greatest assets,” he told Time magazine in a 2007
interview.  “We tell the consumer, ‘Subscribe to Blockbuster online
because if you don’t feel like waiting for the mail, you can run
down to the store with your old movie, and we’ll give you a new
one for free,’” he said. “We’re up to 2.2 million
subscribers.”  Blockbuster is a special challenge for its creditors
because it needs to do more than cut debt and close stores, said
Richard Dorfman, a media investor and managing director at
Richard Alan Inc. in  New York .  “It’s not a turnaround, it’s more of 180 degrees,” he
said in a phone interview. “You’re saying a whole new business
plan, a whole new set of skills, a whole new management team.”  “Icahn may not like the job,” he said. “Someone who
takes the gamble has to be willing to get knee deep in this.
He’s not an investor operator. He’s more of an investor
agitator.”  Blockbuster entered bankruptcy with the outline of a
reorganization plan supported by senior bondholders. The
company’s deadline for filing a plan and a disclosure statement
to explain it has been extended.  ‘Anything But Insolvent’  “It’s hard to say this debtor is anything but insolvent,”
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  said last month at a
hearing in Manhattan.  The company was founded in 1985, and grew to serve almost
47 million customers daily in the U.S. and 16 other countries.
Viacom Inc., which owns the Paramount film studio, bought
Blockbuster from Wayne Huizenga for $8.4 billion in 1994, then
spun it off to shareholders in 2004.  Icahn, whose fortune was valued at $10.5 billion by Forbes
magazine last year, made his name as a corporate raider in the
1980s targeting companies such as Phillips Petroleum Co. and
Texaco Inc. He often holds stocks for years waiting for them to
pay off.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 