-- 
ICE Requiring Bigger ‘Haircuts’ Against CO2 Permits After Thefts

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-02-11T10:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/ice-requiring-bigger-haircuts-against-carbon-permits-after-thefts.html
ICE Futures  Europe , the London-based
exchange that suspended trading of carbon allowances for
immediate use, is requiring more collateral when traders use
emission futures to back open positions.  The clearing house for the London-based exchange started
using a bigger discount, known as a “haircut,” on European
Union allowances and United Nations emissions credits, ICE said
in a  circular dated Feb. 4 . The new discount as of Feb. 9 is
32.5 percent, up from 25 percent before.  ICE, the largest exchange for carbon trading, didn’t stop
futures trading when it suspended next-day contracts on Jan. 20
in response to hacking attacks that left an estimated $40
million of permits missing. ICE is subjecting carbon futures to
the biggest discounts of any commodity or security traded on the
exchange, including 11-year Greek-government debt, which gets
the second-biggest haircut.  “I’m not aware of the specific reason, but it would be
prudent for them to increase the haircut, because their ability
to liquidate the asset is severely compromised in the current
market environment,” Louis Redshaw, managing director of
environmental markets at Barclays Plc in London, said by phone.  EU emission permits for December rose 0.5 percent to 14.76
euros ($20) a metric ton as of 10:30 a.m. on ICE. Prices are up
3.6 percent since the end of last year.  The new collateral requirements are part of “routine
activity carried out by the clearing house, resulting in changes
to different products,” Elaine Bailey, a spokeswoman for the
exchange, said yesterday in an e-mail.  ICE’s clearing house boosted the haircut on some Greek
government debt to 25 percent from 18 percent.  Greece , which got
a 30 billion-euro bailout after struggling to sell bonds to
cover its  budget deficit , is subject to the biggest haircut of
 any other sovereign bond traded on the exchange.   Halt Extended Again  ICE has extended its suspension on its next-day carbon
contracts, even as Paris-based BlueNext SA, the biggest exchange
for spot trading last year, and registries in five EU nations
said they would reopen after the alleged hacking attacks by
thieves.  “We will advise the market at least 36 hours before
reopening the daily futures contracts to ensure a fair and
orderly market,” David Peniket, president and chief operating
officer at ICE, said Feb. 3. The exchange extended the closure
for the second time in a week while it “assesses market
conditions.”  Barclays Plc’s investment bank said Jan. 31 it had stopped
buying carbon-permit forwards and some futures from certain
customers after the reported thefts roiled the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  