-- 
Michelin Seeks Asian Low-Cost Rivals to Expand, CEO-Designate Senard Says

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-02-11T12:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/michelin-finance-chief-senard-to-succeed-rollier-as-ceo-after-profit-jumps.html
Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-
largest tiremaker, will target acquiring low-cost Asian rivals
to expand in the region, said Jean-Dominique Senard, named today
to become chief executive officer.  “These are markets we can’t ignore if we are to
participate in global growth to the extent we’d like,” Senard
said in an interview. The company’s low debt means “we don’t
have to ask ourselves too many questions if we need to move.”  Senard, who succeeds Michel Rollier, will receive a four-
year contract, subject to extension by the supervisory board,
Michelin said. The move breaks a tradition of lifelong mandates.  The French tiremaker, which ranks behind  Bridgestone Corp .
in global production, raised 1.2 billion euros in a share issue
last September to finance expansion plans that include factory
investments in  India ,  Brazil  and  China . Michelin plans to add
plants to harness tire-demand growth averaging 9 percent in
emerging markets, the company said at the time.  “Senard is the logical successor and the markets like
him,” said Erich Hauser, a London-based Credit Suisse analyst
with an “underperform” rating on the shares. “He has previous
experience with raw-material mechanics that will come in handy
starting this year.”  Michelin pledged to increase 2011 earnings before interest,
tax and one-time items even as rising raw-material prices are
expected to wipe 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) from profit, and
sales volume growth slows to 6.5 percent from 13 percent in
2010. Operating profit last year doubled to 1.7 billion euros.  Shares Advance  Michelin rose as much as 2.52 euros, or 4.4 percent, to
59.60 euros and was 1.7 percent higher as of 1:31 p.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has gained 8.1 percent this year, valuing the
company at 10.2 billion euros.  Senard, 58, joined Michelin as finance chief in 2005 after
holding senior executive roles at  Total SA , Cie. de Saint-Gobain
and aluminium-maker Pechiney. Michelin said shareholders will
vote May 13 on the proposal to appoint Senard as a general
managing partner alongside Rollier, 67, who will remain for at
least 18 months.  Net income jumped 10-fold last year to 1.05 billion euros,
beating the 911 million-euro average of 13 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, as higher freight traffic boosted truck-tire sales
and vehicle production rose in  Asia  and  North America . Revenue
rose 21 percent to 17.9 billion euros. Net debt fell to 1.63
billion euros from 2.93 billion euros a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  