-- 
Woods Shoots 66 at Dubai Desert Classic to Trail McIlroy by Four Strokes

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-11T14:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/tiger-woods-shoots-66-at-dubai-desert-classic-to-trail-aiken-by-3-strokes.html
Tiger Woods shot 6-under-par 66 to
pull within four shots of leader Rory McIlroy after two rounds
of the Dubai Desert Classic.  Woods, seeking his first victory since November 2009, made
six birdies in posting the lowest score of the day at the
Emirates Golf Club. He’s in a five-way tie for fifth place at 7-
under.  “It felt good,” Woods, who shot 71 yesterday, told
reporters. “It was steady. I cleaned up the round and didn’t
make as many mistakes as yesterday.”    Northern Ireland ’s McIlroy, who led by two after the
opening round, shot 68 to reach  11-under . He’s one stroke ahead
of  Spain ’s Sergio Garcia and South African Thomas Aiken, who
both shot 67. England’s Steve Webster is two shots back after a
68.  McIlroy made a bogey on the second hole before rebounding
with five birdies, including one on the par-5 18th hole that
moved him ahead of Garcia and Aiken.  “Maybe this time last year I would not have been able to
grind out a 68 after the start I had,” McIlroy, who won his
only European Tour title in Dubai two years ago, said. “Rounds
like this prove I am doing the right thing.”  Woods started the day six shots behind McIlroy and briefly
tied for the lead with his final birdie on his 15th hole. He
then finished with three straight pars.  “I played myself right back into the tournament,” the
two-time winner of the event said. “I felt I hit the ball a lot
better and the greens were absolutely perfect.”  Top Three  Woods was grouped for the second straight day with
England’s  Lee Westwood  and  Germany ’s  Martin Kaymer , the two
players ahead of him at the top of the  Official World Golf
Ranking . Top-ranked Westwood shot 70 and is 5-under, one stroke
better than No. 2 Kaymer, who had a 71.  Denmark’s Anders Hansen, Northern Ireland’s Michael Hoey,
France’s Jean-Baptist Gannet and Australian Brett Rumford are
tied with Woods. Hoey shot 67 today, Hansen and Rumford had 68s
and Gannet shot 69.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 