-- 
Khodorkovsky’s Son Goes to Grammys to Lobby for Jailed Oligarch

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-02-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/mikhail-khodorkovsky-s-son-goes-to-grammys-to-lobby-for-oligarch-s-release.html
In the lounge of a New York condo
building thousands of miles from his father’s jail cell in
Moscow, Pavel Khodorkovsky presses play on his iPad.  The room fills with the dark slow swell of strings that
suggest nightfall in the Symphony No. 4 by Estonian composer
Arvo Part.  Part has dedicated the symphony to Mikhail Khodorkovsky,
inspired by the plight of a tycoon who was once  Russia ’s richest
man, the founder of its top oil producer, the now dismantled
Yukos Oil Co.  On Sunday, Pavel Khodorkovsky, 25, will represent Part at
the Grammys, at the composer’s request. The symphony,
commissioned by the Los Angeles Philharmonic, is up for a Grammy
award in the category of Contemporary Classical.  “When I look at his soul I see that he is a noble person.
All these wrong accusations have not broken him. To the
contrary, it has made him stronger,” says Part, speaking by
telephone from his home in  Estonia . “I want this person to have
freedom one day.”  In 2005, the elder Khodorkovsky was sentenced to eight
years in prison on charges of fraud and tax evasion, charges he
continues to deny. On Dec. 27, he was sentenced to six years
more on charges of stealing money and oil from Yukos.
The prime minister of Russia,  Vladimir Putin , shed no tears.  Toddler Diana  Pavel Khodorkovsky left Russia in 2003 to attend Babson
College in Wellesley,  Massachusetts , and hasn’t seen his father
since. When his father was arrested, “he told me not to come
back,” Khodorkovsky says.  At the latest trial, lawyers managed to show the elder
Khodorkovsky photos of his granddaughter Diana on their laptops,
though an attempt to play Part’s music was silenced quickly by
the judge, says the son, who lives with his wife, Olesya, and
toddler near the High Line and Chelsea galleries on the far West
Side of Manhattan.  He runs the back end of three Russian news portals,
including newsru.com, which he said has 25 million to 30 million
page views a month. At his father’s request, he has set up the
Institute of Modern Russia in  Sparta ,  New Jersey , to promote
democratic values in Russia.  Through old-time snail mail, his father also advises him on
a new venture he started with a friend from college called
 Enertiv .  “It’s a very sophisticated electricity meter” Pavel
Khodorkovsky says, which measures and gives reports on energy
use. The company has placed the device in four schools in  Connecticut .  “He is a macro manager, thinking about how to structure
the company. I write back, ‘Dad, we’re only a year old.’”  ‘Resolute’  The symphony has three movements, Pavel Khodorkovsky
explains. The first is about nobility and thought, the second is
titled “Breathless,” and the third is “Resolute.”  “The third movement is what I relate to most. It opens up
with cellos, I see a door opening. Then there is a tense line, a
violin solo. And at the end, the percussion comes through,
almost like a march. I see a man walking.”  There is no dramatic finale, he notes. “I like that
because it means the story of my father is not over,” the son
says.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 