-- 
India’s Rupee Completes Weekly Decline as Factory Output Slows

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-02-11T12:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/india-s-rupee-completes-weekly-decline-as-factory-output-slows.html
  India ’s rupee completed a weekly
loss as a government report showed that the nation’s factory
output grew at the slowest pace in 20 months.  Industrial production increased 1.6 percent in December
from a year earlier, the smallest gain since April 2009, the  Central Statistical Organisation  said today. The Bombay Stock
Exchange’s Sensitive Index had a third weekly decline, touching
a seven-month low after overseas investors pulled out $1.5
billion from local stocks this year.  “The rupee is under a bit of pressure because there’s some
concern about a potential slowdown that may fuel a shift of
capital to developed markets,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar,
treasurer at FirstRand Ltd. in Mumbai. “The negative theme in
the stock market is influencing the currency.”  The rupee declined 0.2 percent this week to 45.69 per
dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It pared losses by 0.1 percent today. The rupee’s
2.2 percent drop this month is the second-worst performance
among Asian currencies this month.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 46.50 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 46.46
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  The pace of India’s economic expansion may drop to 7.7
percent in the year ending March 31, 2012, from an estimated 8.4
percent this year,  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , the Singapore-based
head of India and Southeast Asia economics at Credit Suisse,
said on Feb. 9. Samiran Chakraborty, a Mumbai-based economist at  Standard Chartered , this month reduced his growth projection for
the period to 8.1 percent from 8.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  