-- 
India’s Industrial Output Growth Slows to 20-Month Low

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-02-11T12:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/india-s-december-industrial-production-increased-1-6-government-says.html
  India ’s industrial output grew at
the weakest pace in 20 months, adding to concern the economy may
slow after the steepest interest-rate increases in  Asia .  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 1.6 percent
in December from a year earlier after a revised 3.62 percent
gain in November, the government said in a statement in New
Delhi today. The median estimate of 27 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 2 percent increase.    Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has
signaled borrowing costs will rise further to damp inflation
after boosting rates seven times in a year. Concern price gains
and costlier credit will damage purchasing power has spurred a
15 percent slump in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index
this year, the region’s worst fall.  “Higher inflation and borrowing costs will have a damping
effect on the demand going forward” said  Ramya Suryanarayanan ,
an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “But the
main reason output slowed is because of very strong base
effect.”  December’s production number in India may have been
affected by the comparison with a year earlier period when
output jumped as the economy rebounded from the global financial
crisis. Industrial output climbed 18 percent in December 2009,
according to government data.  Stocks Gain  The Sensitive Index erased the day’s losses by close of
trading and gained 1.5 percent. The yield on the 7.8 percent
bond due in September 2020 rose two basis point to 8.15 percent.
The rupee was little changed.  Production growth in December was dragged down by
manufacturing, which rose 1 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 3.2 percent gain in the previous month, today’s
report showed. Mining production rose 3.8 percent and
electricity output gained 6 percent. Capital goods production
fell 13.7 percent.  “The output growth slowed mainly because of the base
effect and doesn’t mean we are going into weak growth,” India’s
Industry and Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  told reporters in
New Delhi today. “We’ll end with higher growth this year than
last year.”  Subbarao raised the key repurchase rate by a quarter of a
percentage point last month to a two-year high of 6.5 percent
and pledged to persist with an “anti-inflationary monetary
stance” as he lifted the nation’s inflation forecast because of
higher food costs.  Inflation Forecast  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate may be at
7 percent by March 31, more than the 5.5 percent estimated
earlier, Subbarao said. The gauge stood at 8.43 percent in
December.  In  China , where industrial output climbed 13.5 percent in
December, the central bank this week increased rates for the
third time since mid-October ahead of a report forecast to show
inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 30 months.  IDBI Gilts Ltd. economist Namrata Padhye said demand in
some segments of  India’s economy , such as real estate, is
showing signs of easing.  DLF Ltd ., India’s biggest real-estate
developer, on Feb. 1 said net sales rose 22.4 percent in the
quarter through December compared with a 35 percent gain in the
previous quarter.  Cement production by companies including Ambuja Cements
Ltd., a subsidiary of Holcim Ltd., the world’s second-largest
maker of the building material, fell 2.2 percent in December,
according to separate government data.  Investor Confidence  Investor confidence in India may be hurt as rising rates
cause growth to slow,  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , the Singapore-
based head of India and Southeast Asia economics at Credit
Suisse, said on Feb. 9.  The pace of India’s economic expansion may drop to 7.7
percent in the year ending March 31, 2012, from an estimated 8.4
percent this year, Prior-Wandesforde said.  Samiran Chakraborty, a Mumbai-based economist at  Standard
Chartered , this month reduced his growth projection for the
period to 8.1 percent from 8.8 percent.  The government on Feb. 7 predicted gross domestic product
will gain 8.6 percent in the year ending March 31, the fastest
pace in three years.  Citigroup Inc. this week recommended investors buy Indian
shares, saying analysts had become “overly pessimistic” on the
outlook for corporate earnings.  Subbarao said Jan. 25 that India’s production data has been
“volatile” this year and that company sales, indirect tax
collections and leading indicators of growth in services suggest
“persistence of the growth momentum.”  Car sales in India rose 26 percent to a record in January,
adding to evidence of strong consumer demand. Excise tax
collections in the nine months through December rose about 34
percent, indicating growing sales at companies.  “There are some segments that are looking strong while
others aren’t,” said IDBI Gilts’ Padhye. “One needs to look at
numbers for the next couple of months to firmly establish growth
is slowing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  