-- 
India Top Court Allows Iron Ore Shipments From Karnataka Ports

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n i a k   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-02-11T08:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/india-top-court-allows-iron-ore-shipments-from-karnataka-ports.html
  India ’s  top court  today allowed
shipments of iron ore accumulated at ports in Karnataka, pending
its verdict on a ban on exports of the steelmaking raw material
from the nation’s second-largest producing state.  The regional government must enact by the next hearing on
April 4 rules covering transport and storage of metals in the
state’s new mining law, the Supreme Court said today in an
interim order. About 400,000 metric tons of iron ore are lying
at the ports, David Pichamuthu, director at the  Federation of
Indian Mineral Industries , said today in an interview.  The Karnataka high court on Nov. 19 had upheld the
provincial government’s decision to halt  iron ore  exports, aimed
at lowering local prices and boosting availability. The miners
in the state had appealed against the ban to the Supreme Court.  The state authority wants to regulate the use of iron ore
because the resource is limited, K.V. Vishwanath, advocate for
the Karnataka government, said today. The proposed rules are
aimed at monitoring and checking illegal mining and
transportation of iron ore, he said.  The shipments may begin within a week, Pichamuthu said.
Exports from Karnataka in the nine months to Dec. 31 fell 17
percent to 64.4 million tons from a year earlier, the federation
said on Jan. 24    Sesa Goa Ltd ., India’s largest iron ore exporter, MSPL Ltd.
and other mining companies had approached the  Supreme Court  last
month. Karnataka, which exported as much as 30 million tons of
ore in the year ended March 31, on an average shipped about 2.5
million tons a month until July 26, when the ban was imposed.  Sesa Goa’s Managing Director P.K. Mukherjee last month said
he expected the ban on overseas sales of iron ore from Karnataka
to be lifted this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
PS Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net 
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  