-- 
Iowa, Indiana Hamlets Bleed as College Towns Boom, Census Finds

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/iowa-indiana-hamlets-bleed-as-college-towns-boom-census-finds.html
The U.S. is draining residents from
its rural areas and small factory cities, a shift showcased in
2010 census data from  Iowa  and Indiana released yesterday.  Both states saw gains in population concentrated in
capital-city suburbs and college towns such as Iowa City and
Bloomington, Indiana. The lopsided gains exacted a price in
economic growth, retirement costs and political power.  As young people move away from rural and industrial areas,
their absence threatens the long-term prospects of the places
they leave behind, said  David Swenson , an economist at  Iowa
State University  in Ames.  “Without those young adults, you cannot have a growing
economy,” he said. “You need that productive labor.”  Indiana’s population grew 6.6 percent to 6.4 million
between 2000 and 2010, compared with 9.7 percent for the U.S.
The state’s losses played out in its northern and eastern
sections, where cities that buzzed for generations with
manufacturing jobs are losing residents.  Gary, a northwest Indiana city near Chicago, was the
state’s biggest percentage loser among communities of more than
1,500 people, dropping 22 percent of its population. The city,
home to a U.S. Steel Corp. plant, fell to 80,294 in 2010 from
102,746 in 2000.  Automaker Fallout  Anderson, a community along  Interstate Highway 69  whose
fortunes once were linked to parts suppliers of  General Motors
Co ., lost 6 percent, during the decade. Workers left in search
of new opportunities as assembly plants run by then-Delphi Corp.
and others shut down.  Indiana’s unemployment rate in December was 9.5 percent,
just above the national average of 9.4 percent that month.
Iowa’s December unemployment rate was 6.3 percent.  Almost a third of Indiana’s counties lost population. The
biggest declines were 9.1 percent for Blackford County in
eastern Indiana and 6 percent in the northern rural county of
Benton.  “A lot of out-migration compounds itself,” said Matthew
Kinghorn, demographer at the  Indiana Business Research Center  at  Indiana University  in Bloomington. “People most likely to move
are 20 to 35 years old, looking for jobs. And those are the
childbearing years. So they’re not just taking themselves but
their future children as well.”  Counties around Indianapolis, the state’s most-populous
city, drove much of Indiana’s growth. Six counties that surround
and include the city accounted for 56 percent of  Indiana ’s
population gain.  Political Loss  In Iowa, two-thirds of counties lost population between
2000 and 2010, the new data shows. Depopulation of the state’s
rural counties -- a trend that began after World War II -- is
leaving behind empty storefronts, churches, schools and
farmsteads. It’s also costing political capital.  While Iowa’s overall population grew 4.1 percent to 3
million during the decade, it wasn’t nearly enough to keep up
with growth in southern and western states. As a result, Iowa
will give up one of its five seats in Congress -- the biggest
proportional loss of representation in the nation as a result of
the 2010 census.  Swenson said he is concerned that there will be an
“intergenerational echo,” as the departure of young families
in rural areas means fewer children down the road. He said about
a third of Iowa’s counties already record more deaths than
births.  “Unless something turns around and changes, we are looking
at this state at a level where it may contract,” he said.  The drain of families leaves behind the elderly, placing
added demands on social services amid a limited tax base.  Isolated Elderly  “The rural elderly population is increasingly isolated,”
Swenson said. “They are more and more insular from the state
and isolated from others.”  Almost 15 percent of Iowa’s population is 65 or older,
compared with 12.9 percent nationally, according to 2009  census
estimates .  Iowa’s growth during the decade took place in its largest
metropolitan areas, fueled in part by the Hispanic population.
It almost doubled during the decade, and Hispanics now represent
5 percent of the state’s population.  The  Des Moines metropolitan area , which includes five
counties, grew 18 percent during the decade. Dallas County, a
suburban area west of  Des Moines , grew 62 percent during the
decade, the largest percentage gain in the state.  The area is home to  Principal Financial Group Inc ., an
asset manager and retirement plan provider that has about 6,800
employees in Iowa, and  Meredith Corp ., publisher of  Better Homes
and Gardens  and other magazines.  White House Contest  While rural counties continue to lose population, the
growth of urban and suburban counties could affect the campaign
leading to the Iowa presidential caucuses. The contest will
provide the first chance to choose among Republicans seeking to
challenge President  Barack Obama  in 2012.  Some of Iowa’s other large counties also recorded double-
digit growth during the decade.  Johnson County, home to Iowa City and more than 30,000
students at the  University of Iowa , grew 18 percent, the second-
largest county gain in the state.  Indiana saw a similar pattern. Indianapolis’s population
grew almost 5 percent to 829,718, boosted in part by Hispanic
growth. The city’s Hispanic population grew 153 percent during
the decade.  The population of Bloomington, home of  Indiana University ,
increased to 80,405, or 16 percent.  West Lafayette , where  Purdue
University  is based, grew to 29,596, or 2.8 percent.  ‘A Real Pickle’  The residents who remain in population-shrinking counties
present “a real pickle” for the economy, said Jim Connolly,
director of the Center for Middletown Studies at  Ball State
University  in Muncie, Indiana.  “The population is older, and the people with the
resources to move are moving,” he said.  School enrollment has dropped and that has created
financial problems, as state financial aid is tied to the number
of students in a district, Connolly said.  In 1969, almost half of the jobs in Madison County,
Indiana, which includes Anderson, were in manufacturing,
compared with less than 10 percent now, according to Mike Hicks,
an economist at Ball State.  For now, Iowa’s economy is benefiting from corn and soybean
prices at levels not seen in more than two years.  Iowa  is the
biggest U.S. producer of the two commodities.  Climbing agriculture prices helped push farmland values in
Iowa up 16 percent in 2010, an  Iowa State University   survey 
showed in December. The value of Iowa farmland is 93 percent
higher than it was in 2004, according to the report.  Farmland Threat  Still, the lack of labor in rural America is a threat to
agriculture, said  Fred Kirschenmann , a North Dakota farmer and
the distinguished fellow at the  Leopold Center for Sustainable
Agriculture  at Iowa State University.  “It seems to me we are headed toward a very serious human
capital problem,” he said. “It’s not just the population loss,
but also this issue that we face in our food and agriculture
system.”  As farms get larger, Kirschenmann said, they tend to be
more aggressive about purchasing supplies as cheaply as
possible, often from dealers outside the area or even the state.  “The wealth no longer stays in the local communities,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 