-- Tiresias Aims to Triple Asia Event Fund Assets After 20% Return
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2011-02-11T00:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/tiresias-aims-to-triple-asia-event-fund-assets-after-20-return.html
Tiresias Capital Ltd. , a Cayman-
based hedge  fund manager , plans to start taking capital from
investors for its Asia event-driven fund for the first time,
after it returned more than 20 percent in its first year.  Tiresias aims to raise $150 million directly from investors
starting as early as March 1, bringing the size of the Omni Asia
Fund to $250 million within a year, Matthew Moskey, 34, its Hong
Kong-based fund manager, said in an interview yesterday.  Hedge fund investors are seeking managers taking advantage
of a revival in mergers and acquisitions, share sales and
reorganizations after the global financial crisis without
suffering from stock market gyrations. Deals with Asia-Pacific
region target companies rose to 23 percent of total mergers and
acquisitions globally last year, a 10 percentage points increase
over 2004, according to a Citigroup Inc. report this month.  “Some investors want direct  Asia  exposure,” said Moskey.
“We’re happy to provide that platform and have a more diverse
investor base.”  Investors added $765 million to Asia-focused event-driven
funds last year, making it the most popular strategy in the
region, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. That
was more than the $511 million total inflows into the regional
hedge fund industry.  Tiresias’s market-neutral Asia event fund so far has only
taken money from Tiresias’s $635 million Omni Global Fund, said
Moskey. The global fund’s allocation allowed the Asian pool to
start trading on Jan. 14, 2010, with $50 million, which has been
increased to more than $70 million now and will grow to $100
million by March, he added.  Outperformer  The Asia fund is estimated to have returned just over 20
percent last year, compared with the 15 percent preliminary gain
of the Eurekahedge Asia Event-Driven Hedge Fund Index.  A number of existing investors in Tiresias’s global fund
have indicated their interest to invest directly into the Asian
pool, Moskey said, without giving specific numbers.  Tiresias plans to cap the size of the Asia fund at $250
million for better returns and to retain its focus on “hard
events” such as mergers and acquisitions involving publicly
listed Asian companies, Moskey said. The fund targets a 15
percent annual return after fees.  It will further expand the fund when Asian opportunities
grow and market trading becomes more active, he said. Asian
trades offer greater returns to compensate for risks, he said.  ‘More Difficult’  “The Asian markets tend to be more difficult to trade
mergers and acquisitions than  Europe  and the U.S.,” Moskey said.
“That’s primarily because you are dealing with a number of
different regulatory and legal regimes. And you don’t always
have the rule of law in Asia.”  The Asia fund aims to make about 80 percent of its
investments in announced mergers and acquisitions, which
contributed the majority of its profits last year, Moskey said.
It also acquires shares in initial public offerings and
secondary sales and trades stocks in industries that are ripe
for corporate events, he added.  Moskey said he expects more deals in Japan, second-tier
markets such as Malaysia, Indonesia and  Thailand , and among
resource-related companies. Private-equity buyers have returned,
selectively putting money to work, providing further support for
deal volumes, he added.  “We think 2011 will be a very good year for mergers and
acquisitions,” said Moskey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  