-- 
Missile Defense Interceptor Gets $1.7 Billion U.S. Budget Boost

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-11T20:30:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/missile-defense-interceptor-gets-1-7-billion-u-s-budget-boost.html
The Pentagon has shifted $1.7
billion in efficiency savings through 2016 to pay for
development of a new interceptor intended to let U.S. forces hit
long-range Iranian missiles, according to a congressional memo
obtained from a staff member who didn’t want to be identified.  The Pentagon’s Missile Defense Agency identified $2.4
billion of budget savings and seeks to shift most of that for an
upgrade of a weapon known as the Standard Missile, according to
a Jan. 24 memo prepared for House Armed Services Committee
members by the panel’s staff. The missile agency’s proposed
savings are part of $100 billion the Pentagon has said it wants
to trim from overhead and low-priority items so it can increase
spending on higher priority weapons and personnel through 2016.  The missile program will be announced Monday as part of the
$75.7 billion research and development budget in the Defense
Department’s overall $553 billion budget request for the fiscal
year beginning Oct. 1.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  announced  Jan. 6 that he
would propose more money for “long-range interceptors.” He
didn’t identify the program or disclose how much he would
propose to spend.    Lockheed Martin Corp ., of Bethesda, Maryland, Chicago-based  Boeing Co ., and Los Angeles-based  Northrop Grumman Corp .
announced they are  competing  for three Missile Defense Agency
early concept contracts to be awarded by June 30.  Raytheon Co .
also submitted a bid, said  John Patterson , a spokesman for the
Waltham, Massachusetts-based company.  A single company will be selected in 2013 to proceed with
full development and flight testing, according to Missile
Defense Agency officials.  Air Defense Units  The new missile is intended to be fielded by 2020 for land-
and sea-based Aegis air-defense units in southern  Europe  and the
Persian Gulf region designed to counter Iranian missiles.  The so-called  SM-3 IIB  is intended to be the latest
variation of Raytheon’s Standard Missile program with an
improved warhead, new rocket motors and a redesigned nose cone
using lighter weight material to increase velocity.  Missile Defense Agency spokesman Richard Lehner declined to
comment until the budget is released.  “This competition is in the proposal-evaluation phase,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 