-- 
Ivory Coast’s Gbagbo Is Muzzling Press, Media Group Says

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-02-11T11:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/ivory-coast-s-gbagbo-is-muzzling-press-media-group-says.html
Ivory Coast’s  incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo  is clamping down on the media after he dismissed
the head of the country’s National Press Council in a move that
threatens press freedom, according to Reporters Without Borders.  Gbagbo’s government fired on Feb. 4 the president and the
board of governors of the media regulator, known by its French
acronym CNP, and appointed journalists loyal to him, the Paris-
based press-monitoring group said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  “We fear the CNP will cease to perform its regulatory
function and will henceforth be used to punish opposition
journalists and media harshly, " said Jean-Francois Julliard,
secretary-general of  Reporters Without Borders , in the
statement. The move “is liable to set Cote d’Ivoire back 20
years in terms of respect for media freedom,” the group said.  On Feb. 9, the National Broadcasting Council withdrew the
permit of ONUCI FM, the radio station controled by the United
Nations mission in the West African nation. The decision to take
the station off the air followed several calls by Gbagbo for the
peacekeeping mission to leave the West African country, the
council said.  The radio station has not been officially notified of the
ban and is still broadcasting, said Hamadoun Toure, spokesman
for the Abidjan-based mission, in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “We are implementing our mandate, we are doing our
job, we are broadcasting,” he said.  Gbagbo accuses UN peacekeepers in the country of supporting
his rival,  Alassane Ouattara , who is the internationally
recognized winner of a Nov. 28 election. Gbagbo refuses to cede
power, alleging voting fraud in part of the country’s north.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 