-- 
JPMorgan Taps Bisignano to Oversee Home Lending

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-02-11T16:43:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/jpmorgan-chase-names-bisignano-to-run-home-loans-as-losses-erode-earnings.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., the second-
largest  U.S. bank  by assets, named Chief Administrative Officer
Frank Bisignano to oversee mortgage lending as home-loan losses
erode the company’s earnings.  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon and Charlie Scharf, the
CEO of Retail Financial Services, told employees in an e-mail
today that David Lowman, the unit’s CEO who joined JPMorgan from  Citigroup Inc . in 2006, will report to Bisignano, effective
immediately.  “As you know, our home lending business has gone through a
period of enormous challenge and change,” the e-mail said.  Bisignano takes over the unit as it struggles with the
worst housing decline since the Great Depression and soured
mortgage investments inherited from the 2008 acquisitions of
Washington Mutual Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos.  Bank of America
Corp ., the biggest U.S. lender, split its mortgage unit this
month and put Terry Laughlin in charge of cleaning up bad loans.  Bisignano, 51, retains most of his administrative
responsibilities, including overseeing technology, real estate,
procurement and security. He joined JPMorgan in 2005 from
Citigroup where he headed its global transactions services
business and was a member of Citigroup’s management committee.
The Brooklyn native serves on the boards or is a trustee of New
York-based nonprofit groups including The National September 11
Memorial & Museum and St. Patrick’s Cathedral.  Last month, Bisignano received 115,164 shares of restricted
stock worth $5 million and 76,924  stock options  for his
performance last year, according to securities filings. His full
compensation wasn’t disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  