-- 
Dimon Calls Fannie, Freddie ‘Biggest Disasters’ Ever

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-02-11T14:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/jpmorgan-chief-dimon-calls-fannie-freddie-biggest-disasters-of-all-time-.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co . Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said government-sponsored mortgage companies
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were “the biggest disasters of all
time” and a leading cause of the U.S. financial crisis.  “That one was an accident waiting to happen,” Dimon said
in an Oct. 20, 2010, interview with the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission. The congressional panel yesterday released audio
files of  interviews  gathered during its 18-month investigation
into the causes of the crisis.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  recommended
gradually winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in a proposal
sent to Congress today. The Obama administration is trying to
end taxpayer support for the companies and wean the $11 trillion
mortgage market from its dependence on the government.
Washington-based Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , in McLean,  Virginia , have taken more than $150 billion in federal aid since
regulators seized their operations in September 2008.  “We all knew about it, we all worried about it, no one did
anything about it,” Dimon, 54, told investigators. New York-
based JPMorgan is the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets
behind Bank of America Corp.  Subprime Lending  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were privately owned by
shareholders, received federal tax breaks and other subsidies to
help fulfill their public mission to bolster the U.S. housing
market. Dimon said they financed risky loans like subprime
mortgages that helped drive more than $1.9 trillion in
writedowns at financial institutions across the world.  Dimon said lax lending standards across the industry and
excessive leverage and risk-taking by banks helped cause the
crisis.  “You kind of got sucked into this whole sense of security
because there were no losses,” Dimon said. “I would also say
people lied. There was more and more of that in a frothy
market.”  The report delivered today by Geithner and Housing and
Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan presents three
approaches for a future housing finance system. It calls on the
government to shrink “and ultimately wind down”  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac, which regulators said were insolvent after the two
suffered record losses from investments in subprime and other
risky home loans.  Winding Down  “This is a plan for fundamental reform -- to wind down the
GSEs, strengthen consumer protection and preserve access to
affordable housing for people who need it,” Geithner said in a
statement accompanying the report. The report also pledges
ongoing U.S. government support to make sure Fannie and Freddie
can make good on their debt payments and mortgage guarantees.
The companies don’t lend directly to consumers. Instead, they
buy mortgages from private lenders, package them into securities
and guarantee timely loan payments to investors who buy the
mortgage bonds.  Together, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac accounted for
67 percent of the mortgage bonds issued in the third quarter of
last year, according to U.S. government data. Government
mortgage bond insurer Ginnie Mae accounted for 29 percent,
leaving about 4 percent to private lenders.  President  Barack Obama ’s plan doesn’t endorse a particular
option or offer legislation. All three proposals seek to end
taxpayer support for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  