-- 
Kinder Morgan Rises After Biggest LBO-Backed U.S. IPO

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-02-11T21:22:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/kinder-morgan-raises-2-9-billion-in-biggest-u-s-ipo-backed-by-lbo-firms.html
Kinder Morgan  Inc., the energy-
pipeline company whose owners include the  Carlyle Group  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , gained 3.5 percent in its first day of
trading after expanding its initial public offering.  The company, which is trading again after it was taken
private in 2007, raised $2.9 billion or 23 percent more than it
sought in the biggest U.S. IPO backed by leveraged-buyout firms.
Kinder Morgan’s shares closed at $31.05 in trading on the  New
York  Stock Exchange, after advancing as much as 7.1 percent.  Kinder Morgan completed its offering after Nielsen Holdings
NV’s initial sale last month set the previous U.S. record for a
private equity-backed IPO. The deals are a boost to leveraged
buyout firms betting the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ’s rally to
the highest level since June 2008 will increase demand for sales
of debt-fueled acquisitions completed as credit markets started
to freeze four years ago.  “Now that people are seeing deals that are really coming
out and doing well, they’re willing to come back to the table,”
said Daniel Genter, president of RNC Genter Capital Management
in  Los Angeles , which oversees about $3.7 billion. “People are
willing to come back into the market with liquidity and extend
their risk profile. It’s the perfect time for private equity to
unwind deals.”  Most of Kinder Morgan’s assets are owned by  Kinder Morgan
Energy Partners LP (KMP) , a master-limited partnership whose units are
publicly traded. The partnership structure has tax benefits for
individual unit holders, though some institutional investors
avoid the structure because of tax issues and liquidity, said
 Kevin Gallagher , a vice president at Dallas-based Swank Capital
LLC, which owns a group of funds that invest in MLPs.  Biggest Sale  Kinder Morgan sold 95.5 million shares, a 13.5 percent
stake, to investors at $30 each, according to a company
statement yesterday. It had proposed to raise $2.3 billion
selling 80 million shares at $26 to $29 apiece, according to a
Feb. 3  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The price indicates “a ton of demand for this deal,”
Gallagher said. Selling shares as a corporation rather than an
MLP “opens up the potential universe of investors,” he said.  The share sale was the biggest by a U.S. oil and natural-
gas company since Conoco Inc. raised $4.4 billion in 1998,
according to Bloomberg data.  All of the shares offered were owned by Carlyle, Goldman
Sachs, New York-based Highstar Capital LP and Riverstone
Holdings LLC, leaving them with a combined ownership of 50.1
percent, according to an  SEC filing  today. Co-founder Richard Kinder’s stake remained unchanged at 30.6 percent, the filing
said.  Dividend  Kinder Morgan plans to pay annual dividends of $1.16 in
2011, or 3.9 percent of the offering price, today’s filing said.
 Targa Resources Corp. (TRGP) , the Houston-based gas pipeline company
that completed an IPO on Dec. 6, planned a quarterly dividend
payout of about 26 cents a share, or an annualized 3.3 percent
of yesterday’s closing share price of $30.98, its prospectus and
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Kinder Morgan is still attractive to investors because it
has a good history of dividend-payout increases,” said  Francis
Gaskins , president of IPOdesktop.com in  Marina del Rey ,
 California . “People are buying the potential of future dividend
increases.”  Underwriter Options  The offering price valued the pipeline owner at $21.2
billion. Carlyle’s stake before the IPO was worth about $2.4
billion based on that figure, more than double the initial
investment of $882 million that the Washington-based firm
disclosed in a March 31 investor letter.  Kinder Morgan’s underwriters, led by Goldman Sachs of New
York and London-based Barclays Plc, have the option to buy an
additional 14.3 million shares within 30 days after the
offering, according to the statement.  Nielsen, the New York-based television-ratings company,
raised $1.64 billion from its Jan. 25 IPO, which two days later
expanded to $1.89 billion after underwriters led by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley opted to buy more shares,
according to Bloomberg data.  Kips Bay, Wave2Wave  Kips Bay Medical Inc. (KIPS)  slipped 0.9 percent to close at $7.93
in its first day of trading on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market after the
developer of supports for blood vessels yesterday raised $16.5
million in its IPO.  The Minneapolis-based company sold 2 million shares at $8
apiece after slashing the size of its offering by as much as 40
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s
shares had gained as much as 2.8 percent.  Kips Bay’s offering was led by Rodman & Renshaw LLC of New
York and  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based Newbridge Securities
Corp.  AcelRx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACRX)  tumbled 9 percent to close at
$4.55 in its first day of trading on the Nasdaq after the
developer of treatment therapies for post-operative pain
yesterday raised $40 million in its initial offering. The
company’s shares had gained as much as 1.8 percent.  The  Redwood City , California-based company, which had
initially sought as much as $81 million, sold 8 million shares
at $5 each after slashing the size of its IPO by 50 percent on
Feb. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wave2Wave Communications Inc., the Hackensack, New Jersey-
based broadband service provider that had sought $14 million,
yesterday withdrew its IPO, according to an SEC filing.  The company, which first filed for an initial sale in
February 2010, had previously postponed its offering twice and
had originally sought to raise as much as $91 million, Bloomberg
data show.  Clarus Therapeutics Inc., the Northbrook, Illinois-based
developer of an experimental testosterone pill for men that had
sought $65 million this week, postponed its offering, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  