-- New Zealand January House Prices Slump, Property Sales Fall to Record Low
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2011-02-11T03:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/new-zealand-january-house-prices-slump-transactions-reach-a-record-low.html
  New Zealand  house prices declined by
a record 2.6 percent in January from a month earlier, adding to
signs of a sluggish economic recovery this year.  Prices fell for the fourth month in five, according to an
index published today by the  Real Estate Institute of New
Zealand Inc.  The number of properties sold fell to a record low
of 3,252 from 4,397 in December, the Auckland-based group said
in an e-mailed statement.  A weaker housing industry underscores the central bank’s
view that  home prices  may be slow to recover, which may prompt
Governor Alan Bollard to keep  interest rates  unchanged until the
second half of the year. Finance Minister Bill English this week
said it was possible New Zealand was in a recession in the
second half of 2010 after gross domestic product declined 0.2
percent in the third quarter.  "The housing market is still on shaky ground," said Phillip
Borkin, economist at Goldman Sachs & Partners New Zealand in
Auckland. The report "shows households are still very cautious.
Until prices stabilize I don’t think we are going to see any
action from the  Reserve Bank ."  A report last week showed the jobless rate climbed to 6.8
percent in the fourth quarter as employment fell by 0.5 percent,
or 11,000 jobs, from the three months through September. A
report on Feb. 14 may show retail sales declined 0.5 percent in
the final three months of the year, according to the median
estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Seven of 12 economists expect Bollard will leave the
official cash rate at 3 percent until September, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Four expect an increase in June and one
forecasts a rise in July.  House sales fell 11 percent from January last year, which
was the previous record low, the institute said.  The number of days needed to sell a house widened to 51
from 43 a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  