-- 
New Mauritius Hotels Says First-Quarter Profit Climbed 10% as Tourism Grew

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-02-11T08:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/new-mauritius-hotels-says-first-quarter-profit-climbed-10-as-tourism-grew.html
  New Mauritius Hotels Ltd ., the
Indian Ocean island’s biggest leisure operator by market value,
said first-quarter profit rose 10 percent to 568 million rupees
($19.2 million) as tourist numbers increased.  The group’s hotels hosted 12 percent more guests during the
three months to Dec. 31 than a year earlier as tourist arrivals
on the island rose 9.8 percent, the company said in a statement
published by the Mauritius Stock Exchange today. Revenue climbed
to 2.4 billion rupees from 2.2 billion rupees, it said.  New Mauritius Hotels operates in the high-end segment of
the  tourism industry , owning and managing nine hotels in
Mauritius and the Seychelles, and is building a resort in  Morocco  with hotels, villas and a golf course.  “It was noted with satisfaction that the up-market segment
fared better than last year and increased its market share quite
appreciably,” the company said.  New Mauritius Hotels expects earnings in the second
quarter, which coincides with the tourist industry’s busiest
period, to follow the same trend as the previous three months,
it said. The low season, which starts in early April, will be
“very challenging” because of excess room capacity on the
island and as rivals discount prices, the company said.  Shares in New Mauritius Hotels climbed to the highest in
almost three months, gaining 2.7 percent to 115 rupees, the
strongest intraday level since Nov. 16, and traded 1.8 percent
higher at 114 rupees at 12:03 p.m. in  Port Louis , the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  