-- 
Nokia Tumbles on Concern Partnership With Microsoft `May Kill' Phonemaker

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-02-11T21:53:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/nokia-joins-forces-with-microsoft-to-challenge-dominance-of-apple-google.html
  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, tumbled the most in almost 19 months on
investor concern that a partnership with  Microsoft Corp . won’t
be enough in its battle with  Google Inc . and  Apple Inc .  Nokia, led by Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop,
unveiled plans today to make Microsoft’s Windows its primary
software in the competition for smartphone customers against
Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android platforms. Nokia’s shares fell
14 percent, the steepest slide since July 16, 2009.  “My first thought is to sell Nokia stock because Nokia has
just given themselves away for free and Google and Apple are
laughing all the way to a duopoly,” said Neil Campling, an
analyst at Aviate Global LLP in London.  The move may be the biggest strategy shift by Nokia since
the one-time wood pulp company began making  mobile phones  in the
1980s. Elop, who was hired from Microsoft in September to lead
the Espoo, Finland-based company, is struggling to revive Nokia
after its piece of the fast-growing smartphone market plunged to
27.1 percent in the last quarter from  50.8 percent  when Apple
shipped its iPhone in June 2007, according to Gartner Inc. Nokia
has lost more than 60 percent of its market value in that time.  Nokia’s shares fell 1.16 euros, closing in Helsinki at 7
euros. Microsoft slipped 25 cents to $27.25 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  “When you are facing a fire, you need to move quickly
because it expands fast,” said  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein in London. “This partnership will take time
to implement and deliver phones. This is what may kill Nokia.”  Partnership Plan  Microsoft, whose Windows Mobile software licenses were
doubling annually before the iPhone hit the market, has likewise
struggled to win acceptance for its revamped Windows Phone 7
software. The Redmond, Washington-based software maker said it
shipped more than 2 million licenses for the new smartphone
system in its first quarter on the market. Nokia shipped 28.3
million smartphones in that period.  The deal gives Microsoft access to one of the world’s
largest mobile-phone distribution networks. Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  said at a press conference in  London  that companies are
already working on making the first Nokia Windows phone.  Under the plan unveiled today, Nokia and Microsoft will
combine assets and jointly develop and market mobile products.
Nokia’s Maps product will become a core part of Microsoft’s
services, while Microsoft’s development tools will create
applications for Nokia Windows phones.  Question Mark  “Nokia and Microsoft will combine our strengths to deliver
an ecosystem with unrivalled global reach and scale,” Elop said
at the press conference. “It’s now a three-horse race.” Nokia
has no plans to merge with Microsoft, Elop said in an interview.  The Finnish company said that after the “transition
years” of 2011 and 2012, it targets Devices & Services non-IFRS
operating margin of 10 percent or more. Elop declined to provide
a timeline for the first products from the alliance.  “It’s a clear admission that Nokia’s own platform strategy
has faltered,” said Ben Wood, a London-based analyst with CCS
Insight. “Microsoft is the big winner in this deal, but there
are no silver bullets for either company given strength of
iPhone and Android.”  Nokia plans to ship another 150 million phones based on its
current smartphone operating system called Symbian. It will ship
Windows phones in large volumes in 2012, Elop said.  Job Cuts  Nokia plans to “substantially reduce” it research and
development budget, Elop said. At 5.9 billion euros ($8.1
billion), Nokia’s corporate R&D spending is more than four times
that of Apple’s. Elop said there will be “significant
reductions” in Nokia jobs. He didn’t elaborate.  Hundreds of Nokia workers walked out in Tampere,  Finland ,
where about half the about 3,000 employees are Symbian
developers -- the platform Nokia is phasing out.  “A lot of workers decided to use flexible working hours and
go home to think about what these changes bring,” said Kalle
Kiili, a union representative at the unit.  Elop, 47, was hired to put Nokia on a comeback plan,
especially for software, the biggest point of difference in
smartphones. He made only small adjustments in his first months
as he reviewed the business. He announced 1,800 job cuts in the
workforce of more than 120,000, changed the development process
for the Symbian smartphone code, and appointed a new marketing
chief, Jerri DeVard.  Nokia today said it will have two units: Smart Devices and
Mobile Phones. It named Jo Harlow to head the Smart Devices
unit, while the other will be led by Mary McDowell. In  North
America , a weak spot for Nokia, it appointed Chris Weber, a 16-
year Microsoft veteran, as president of its U.S. unit.  ‘Burning Platform’  Since Elop became the first non-Finn to head Nokia on Sept.
21, Google’s Android software has become the biggest smartphone
operating system, passing Nokia’s Symbian, according to Canalys
and IDC analysis of shipments. The company’s N8 smartphone with
the revamped Symbian 3 operating system was greeted by analysts
as an improvement, although not enough to reverse the slide.  A memo written by Elop to employees recently said Nokia was
“standing on a burning platform” and needed to make
significant changes. With the plan unveiled today, Elop is
terminating the company’s main Symbian platform, a move that
make torpedo sales of existing devices, analysts said.  “Elop has decided to run the risk of really triggering a
collapse of Symbian phone sales over the next three quarters,”
said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst with MKM Partners LLC in
Greenwich,  Connecticut . “This is what jumping into the icy sea
looks like; embracing a mobile OS with 3 percent smartphone
market share. I expected a move to Windows, but not one with
this level of religious fervor.”  Android Option  Nokia will bring out a device this year on MeeGo, a high-
end operating system it’s developing with  Intel Corp ., to gauge
market reaction, Elop said. MeeGo engineers will then be shifted
to work on innovations that can help Nokia leapfrog rivals.  Both Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  put
the company’s debt on review for a downgrade after fourth-
quarter net income fell 21 percent and it signaled margin
pressure. The ratings companies said the results showed a loss
of competitiveness in the crowded smartphone marketplace.  Android, which is supported by mobile manufacturers
including Samsung Electronics Co., HTC Corp. and Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications AB, offers users a slick interface similar
to the iPhone for a lower cost of ownership.  Elop said while he did explore the Android option,
differentiation would have been difficult.  ‘Biggest Question Mark’  Android phones typically have more flexibility in data
plans than the iPhone, and make it easy to use virtual calling
programs like Skype that reduce monthly bills. The system has
proven popular with app developers who have built its Android
Market up to more than 100,000 download items.  Google Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  said last month
that his company is activating more than 300,000 phones a day.  Nokia started as a wood pulp mill in 1865 and expanded in
papermaking, rubber, cables, and telephone equipment before
helping develop the world’s current cellular phone systems in
the 1980s. It passed Motorola Corp. to become the world’s
largest maker of mobile phones in 1999, and was  Europe ’s most
valuable company at 203 billion euros in December 1999.  “The biggest question mark here is the timetable,” said  Michael Schroeder , an analyst at FIM Bank in Helsinki. “Nokia
says 2011 and 2012 are transition years, and no one knows how
far along Nokia’s competitors are by then. Nokia can’t do
anything to slow its competitors from innovating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  