-- 
Norilsk Nickel Offers Rusal $12.8 Billion to Buy Back 20% Stake

-- B y   Y u l i a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-02-11T14:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/norilsk-nickel-offers-rusal-12-8-billion-to-buy-back-20-stake.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s
biggest nickel producer, increased its offer to buy back shares
held by billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s United Co. Rusal as it
seeks to end an ownership feud.  Norilsk offered $12.8 billion in cash for 20 percent of its
shares, the Moscow-based company said today in a statement on
its  website . That’s a 43 percent premium to the closing price
yesterday. In December, it bid $12 billion for Rusal’s entire 25
percent holding, a proposal rejected by Deripaska, who said the
stake was a “strategic investment” and not for sale.  Deripaska has been locked in a dispute with fellow Norilsk
shareholder  Vladimir Potanin  since 2008 over control of the
board and management of the company’s $2.3 billion cash pile.
Deripaska has rebuffed two proposals since October to sell out
of the company, even as Rusal shareholders including billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  urge him to consider a sale.  No one at Rusal was available for comment when Bloomberg
News called. Dmitri Razumov, chief executive officer of
Prokhorov’s Onexim Group, declined to comment.  Norilsk rose as much as 5.3 percent to 7,214 rubles in
Moscow trading, the biggest gain this year, and was at 7,150
rubles as of 5:55 p.m. local time. Rusal closed at HK$12.48 in  Hong Kong  earlier today.  The nickel company discussed a price of $14 billion in late
December, while Deripaska demanded $16 billion, a person
familiar with the talks said at the time, declining to be
identified because the negotiations were confidential.  Prokhorov said Dec. 23 that Rusal, the world’s largest
aluminum producer, should sell its stake to offload debt and
unlock value. “As soon as Rusal sells the stake in Norilsk,
you’ll have a minimum 50 percent rise” in the market value of
the aluminum company, he said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  Rusal must either agree to the proposed transaction or call
a shareholders meeting to consider it by 6 p.m. Moscow time on
March 4, Norilsk said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Brad Cook  at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  