-- 
Sick Oxen May Rattle Kim Jong Il Regime as Food Shortages Worsen

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-02-11T10:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/north-korea-reports-foot-and-mouth-outbreak-amid-food-shortages.html
  North Korea ’s dependence on animals
to plow fields and haul harvests adds greater urgency to
containing an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease before planting
begins in the country, already dependent on food handouts.  “Oxen are so important in North Korea’s agricultural
industry that the government owns them all,” said Kwon Tae Jin,
a vice president of the Korea Rural Economic Institute in Seoul
who specializes in North Korea’s agriculture industry. “During
the rice planting season you can see more oxen than tractors in
the country.”  More than 10,000 draught oxen, as well as cattle and pigs
have been infected with the disease, with thousands of them
already dead, North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency
reported yesterday. For North  Korea , the outbreak comes as
leader  Kim Jong Il  struggles to ease shortages after floods and
as the  United Nations  and the U.S. maintain diplomatic and
economic sanctions.  “It takes only a small cut in  food supply  to trigger a
huge shock to North Koreans, who are already barely surviving in
normal times,” said Cho Bong Hyun, a research fellow at the IBK
Research Institute in Seoul. “North Koreans are already fed up
with Kim Jong Il’s regime. Society is at a point where you can’t
rule out large-scale riots.”  The outbreak may disrupt farming in a nation where an
estimated 2 million people died from famine in the mid-1990s.
The disease may also mar plans to mark Kim’s 69th birthday next
week and deliver on a pledge to put meat on every table.  Kim has promised to build a “thriving nation” by 2012,
when he turns 70. The year would also mark the 100th birthday of
his late father and the country’s founder,  Kim Il Sung .  FAO Team  The  Food and Agricultural Organization  is discussing with
the North Korean government how it can help and will send an
expert team to the country to evaluate the situation if needed,
the agency’s regional office for  Asia  said today in an e-mailed
response to inquiries by Bloomberg News.  North Korea faces a food deficit of 542,000 tons in the
year ending October 2011, the  World Food Program  said on Nov. 17
after officials visited North Korea in September.  “A small shock in the future could trigger a severe
negative impact and will be difficult to contain,” Joyce Luma,
chief of the WFP’s Food Security Analysis Unit and co-leader of
the mission to North Korea, said in the  November statement .  The WFP’s program to feed 1.7 million North Koreans, mainly
women and children, is only 20 percent funded, Marcus Prior, a
Bangkok-based spokesman for the agency said today in an e-mailed
response. The agency is reassessing the situation after the
North asked for assistance last month, according to the e-mail.  Oxen Risk  North Korea’s use of  oxen  to transport crops and plow the
land also increases the risk of spreading the virus if it isn’t
contained by May, when planting begins, said Kwon.  Failure to halt the outbreak “will disrupt farming with
fewer animals to put to work,” Kwon said. North Korea had
577,000 cattle and 2.2 million pigs last year, he said, citing
FAO data. Dead animals have been buried and markets have stopped
selling meat from those infected, KCNA said yesterday.  North Korea last appealed for international help in dealing
with foot-and-mouth disease in 2007, South Korean Unification
Ministry spokesman Chun Hae Sung told reporters today in  Seoul .
South Korea, which helped North Korea during the 2007 outbreak,
hasn’t received any request for help from Kim’s regime, he said.  The outbreak comes as global food prices are at a record
high, according to a UN index. Protests fueled by rising costs
of living and unemployment have roiled governments in North
Africa and the Middle East, toppling the regime in  Tunisia  and
threatening the rule of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  Shrinking Economy  North Korean  rice prices  have jumped more than 30-fold
since the end of 2009, signaling food shortages in the country,
according to data collected by Daily NK, a Seoul-based group
with informants inside North Korea. Daily NK’s information
cannot be independently verified.  North Korea’s economy shrank 0.9 percent in 2009 when UN
sanctions were toughened following the regime’s second nuclear
test in May that year, curbing trade and international aid,
according to the latest data from the  Bank of Korea  in Seoul.  President  Barack Obama  and his South Korean counterpart  Lee Myung Bak  have followed a policy of shunning contact with North
Korea until the nation falls in line with commitments made to
end its nuclear weapons program and ceases provocative acts.  Aid from both countries that peaked at almost $400 million
in 2007 fell close to zero last year. Kim’s regime unveiled a
uranium plant that could be used to make fuel for nuclear
weapons last year and was blamed for two attacks that killed 50
South Koreans, the sinking of a warship and the first shelling
of South Korean territory since the 1950-53 war.  Talks Fail  Military talks between  South Korea  and North Korea
collapsed this week after two days of discussions, dimming the
prospects of a thaw in relations.  Kim relies on aid mainly from China to help prop up his
regime. While  China  wants to avoid a regime collapse that would
risk a flood of refugees across its border, the government is
facing its own difficulties in securing food supplies.  China has set aside almost $2 billion to boost grain
production and help counter a drought that is affecting the
country’s main wheat-growing region.  The United Nations on Jan. 27 said the outbreak of foot-
and-mouth in Asia is “unlike anything that we’ve seen for at
least half a century.”  South Korea has culled and buried a total of 3.27 million
animals, mostly pigs and cattle, since an outbreak of the
disease was first reported in November, which is equivalent to
about 25 percent of the nation’s total herds, according to a
statement e-mailed from the Agriculture Ministry today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  