-- 
Kim Jong Il’s Dependence on Oxen Increases Foot-And-Mouth Risks

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-02-11T08:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/north-korea-s-dependence-on-oxen-for-farming-raises-risk-of-foot-and-mouth.html
North Korea ’s dependence on animals
to plow fields and haul harvests adds greater urgency to
containing an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease before planting
begins in the country, already dependent on food handouts.  “Oxen are so important in  North Korea ’s agricultural
industry that the government owns them all, while individuals
can keep pigs,” said Kwon Tae Jin, vice president of the Korea
Rural Economic Research in Seoul. “During the rice planting
season you can see more oxen than tractors.”  The outbreak of the contagious animal virus may disrupt
farming in a nation where an estimated 2 million people died
from famine in the mid-1990s and where flood damage to crops
late last year exacerbated shortages. The disease may also mar
plans to mark leader  Kim Jong Il ’s 69th birthday next week and
deliver on a pledge to put meat on every table.  More than 10,000 draught oxen, milk cows and pigs have been
infected with the disease, with thousands of them already dead,
North Korea’s state-run Korean Central News Agency reported
yesterday. The United Nations’ Food and Agricultural
Organization is discussing with the North’s government how it
can help, the Rome-based agency’s regional office for  Asia  said
today in an e-mailed response to inquiries by Bloomberg News.  “If North Korea fails to contain the virus before the
planting season begins, it will disrupt farming with fewer
animals to put to work,” Kwon, an economist specializing in
North Korea’s agriculture industry, said today in a telephone
interview. “That explains why they are in such a hurry to seek
help from outside.”  Virus Risk  Using animals to transport crops and plow the land also
raises the risk of spreading the virus if it isn’t contained by
May, when planting begins in North Korea, he said.  North Korea last appealed for international help in dealing
with the disease in 2007, South Korean Unification Ministry
spokesman Chun Hae Sung told reporters today in Seoul.  North Korea had 577,000 cattle and 2.2 million pigs last
year, Kwon said, citing data from the FAO of the  United Nations .  Dead animals have been buried and markets have stopped
selling meat from those infected, KCNA said.  Crop losses from last year’s flooding restrained the
increase in  food production  to 3 percent for the year ending
October from a year ago, even though the use of fertilizer,
pesticides and tractors rose, the UN’s World Food Program said
in November after a trip to North Korea. North Korea faces a
food deficit of 542,000 tons for the period, it said.  A unit of North Korean soldiers refused orders to work and
protested recently after days of not being fed, Seoul-based  YTN 
television reported today, citing a South Korean military
official it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  