-- 
NYSE-Deutsche Boerse Merger Is Free With Derivatives: Real M&A

-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-02-11T05:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/nyse-deutsche-boerse-merger-is-free-with-derivatives.html
Derivatives are so valuable that  Deutsche Boerse AG ’s takeover of NYSE Euronext means the
combined company may get a stock trading business for free.  Deutsche Boerse, in talks to buy the owner of the New York
Stock Exchange, would acquire a company that generates at least
half its net income from trading options and futures contracts,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd. That portion of earnings will
reach $462 million by 2013, based on analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Add  Deutsche Boerse ’s projected profit from its
Eurex unit and the combined entity will earn $1.18 billion from
derivatives in the U.S. and Europe within three years.  The derivatives business of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche
Boerse alone would then be worth $24.7 billion, based on the
average valuation for options and futures exchanges, more than
the companies’ combined capitalizations before the talks were
announced this week. The deal shows how lucrative derivatives
have become for trading venues, producing operating margins as
high as 55 percent. By creating the world’s largest futures
exchange that also controls 40 percent of U.S. options, the new
entity would offset revenue declines in equities trading.  “The main reason that this deal occurred is that the
market is moving towards the derivatives,” said  Matt McCormick ,
a money manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which
oversees about $3.2 billion. “It’s not because they want real
estate on  Wall Street .”  Medieval Fairs    Ray Pellecchia , a spokesman at  NYSE Euronext , and Deutsche
Boerse’s Naomi Kim both declined to comment.  Deutsche Boerse of Frankfurt and NYSE Euronext said on Feb.
9 they were in advanced talks, which would create an exchange
with about $15 trillion of publicly traded companies. The all-
stock transaction would give Deutsche Boerse, which traces its
roots back to the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and the  medieval
fairs  of the 11th century, about 60 percent of the new entity.  Prior to the announcement, the companies had a combined
market capitalization of $23.4 billion, based on their 20-day
trading averages, with NYSE Euronext valued at $8.5 billion.  The New York-based exchange said derivatives revenue
climbed 14 percent last year, while cash equities fell 10
percent. By 2013, NYSE Euronext may generate more than 50
percent of its earnings from options and futures, according to  Ed Ditmire , an analyst at Macquarie in  New York , who has an
“outperform” rating on the stock.  A derivative is a contract between two parties linked to
the future value or status of the underlying asset to which it
refers, including the development of  interest rates  or prices of
commodities such as oil or wheat.  Relative Value  Net income at Eurex, the derivatives unit of Deutsche
Bourse, may increase to about $716 million by 2013, based on
estimates provided by Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Rupak Ghose
in  London . Deutsche Boerse’s Xetra cash-market revenue declined
about 10 percent last year, according to Ghose.  “Derivatives are faster growing and the more profitable
for exchanges,” said Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP’s New York-
based Rich Repetto, the top-ranked exchange analyst according to
Bloomberg rankings. “It’s one of the most valuable areas no
question, and one of the main reasons” for the deal, he said.  With  CME Group Inc . and  CBOE Holdings Inc . of Chicago and
Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc . trading at an
average of 21 times earnings, the estimated $1.18 billion in net
income would give the derivatives business of NYSE Euronext and
Deutsche Boerse a value of $24.7 billion, or 5.7 percent more
than the standalone companies together prior to the
announcement, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cost Savings  That doesn’t include the 300 million euros ($410 million)
in cost savings the two companies said the takeover will create.    Deutsche Bank AG  in Frankfurt and New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . are advising Deutsche Boerse, while Perella Weinberg
Partners LP of New York is helping NYSE Euronext, said two
people familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified
because the discussions are private.  The New York Stock Exchange, formed in 1792 under a
sycamore tree on Wall Street, became the center of American
capitalism through its grip on stock listings and trading.  NYSE Euronext was formed when the operator of the New York
Stock Exchange bought Europe’s second-largest exchange in 2007.
It now owns exchanges in Amsterdam, Lisbon, Paris and Brussels,
as well as London-based Liffe, Europe’s second-largest
derivatives market. The company also runs three U.S. stock
exchanges: NYSE Arca, NYSE Amex and the New York Stock Exchange,
two options platforms and the NYSE Liffe U.S. futures exchange,
which will trade contracts linked to interest rates.  ‘De Facto Monopoly’  Deutsche Boerse operates the Frankfurt stock exchange and
Clearstream, Europe’s second-biggest securities-settlement firm.
The company also has Eurex Clearing AG and a holding in Eurex,
the region’s largest futures market. Eurex owns  International
Securities Exchange , an options market that competes with CBOE.  The takeover is subject to review in the U.S. and Europe
and may be viewed as creating a “de facto monopoly” in some
futures markets, making antitrust concern “the largest outside
risk,” according to a report from New York-based  Evercore
Partners Inc .  “Over a longer period of time, it makes sense, but the
devil is going to be in the details,” said Bahl & Gaynor’s
McCormick. “There are regulatory issues. This is a trade that
does have some risk associated to it.”  Futures exchanges around the world traded 8.2 billion
contracts in 2009, almost three times the turnover in 2003,
according to data from the Futures Industry Association, a trade
group representing Wall Street banks active in derivatives.  Size and Scope  The deal would give the new company about 40 percent of
U.S. options volume by adding NYSE Euronext’s two markets with
the ISE. CBOE was the biggest options exchange operator last
month with 30 percent of contracts handled on its venues.  In all, the merged firm would control 11 derivatives
markets that handled a total of 4.8 billion contracts in 2010,
according to FIA. That compares to 3.1 billion trades last year
at CME, the world’s largest futures exchange.  NYSE Euronext would also handle clearing, the guaranteeing
of payments for transactions and delivery of securities, for
equities and futures in Europe through businesses run by
Deutsche Boerse. Combining products in the same clearinghouse
limits the ability of other markets to compete.  ‘All About Scale’  “It’s all about scale in this business,” said Kevin Shacknofsky, who helps manage $6 billion in Purchase, New York,
for Alpine Mutual Funds, which owns NYSE shares. “One of the
main attractions is the derivatives area. At the end of the day,
that was a good deal when you look at the synergies.”  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Amadeus IT Holding
SA  of Madrid said in a filing to Spanish regulators yesterday
that it had agreed to sell its Opodo online travel agency to Axa
Private Equity and Permira Advisers LLP for 500 million euros.    American International Group Inc .’s Chartis Inc. unit plans
to buy the remaining shares of Oaska-based Fuji Fire & Marine
Insurance Co. it does not already own for 46 billion yen ($553
million) to strengthen its business in Japan.  The general insurance unit of New York-based AIG plans to
buy all common shares and stock acquisition rights of Fuji Fire
through its wholly owned unit Chartis Japan Capital Co. for 146
yen per share, Fuji Fire and Chartis said in statements.  There have been 2,707 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $226.2 billion, a 21 percent increase from the $186.9
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 