-- 
Obama Seeks to End $46.2 Billion in Energy Tax Breaks in Decade, Chu Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-02-12T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/obama-seeks-to-end-46-2-billion-in-energy-industry-tax-breaks-over-decade.html
The Obama administration will seek
to repeal $46.2 billion in subsidies for oil, natural gas and
coal companies in the next 10 years, to fund renewable energy
spending, Energy Secretary Steven Chu said.  The plan is part of President Barack Obama’s commitment to
lower dependence on fossil fuels and increase to 80 percent the
share of U.S. electricity from “clean” sources by 2035.
Cutting the subsidies will help pay for $8 billion in “clean
energy” investments, Chu wrote on his blog yesterday. The
president is scheduled to present the 2012 budget on Feb. 14.  “Fiscal responsibility demands shared sacrifice,” Chu
wrote.  The reduction in subsidies, which would cost energy
companies $3.6 billion in 2012, can be easily absorbed by the
profit-rich oil industry, Obama said in Jan. 25 State of the
Union address.  Exxon Mobil Corp ., the world’s largest company,
increased profit to the highest level in more than two years in
the fourth quarter, Irving, Texas-based Exxon said on Jan. 31.  “We do not seek and do not ask for any subsidies,” Bill
Colton, vice president for corporate strategic planning at
Exxon, said on a Jan. 27 conference call with reporters. “If
somebody wants to take away incentives from us, we think they
should be taken away from everyone.”  The Energy Department will also seek to cut the budget for
fossil-fuel research by 45 percent, or $418 million, according
to the posting.  The cuts to the fossil energy office include ending a
program that studies how to extract oil and gas from shale rock,  tar sands  and other “unconventional reservoirs,” according to
an Energy Department fact sheet.  ‘Responsible Steps’  The program also researches how to produce coal from mines
now deemed un-minable.  Chu said the department was taking “responsible steps to
cut wasteful spending and reduce expenses.”  The department also is closing the Holifield Radioactive
Ion Beam Facility at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in  Tennessee , saving $10.3 million. In January, the department
announced it would shut down the Tevatron at Fermi National
Laboratory in Batavia,  Illinois , saving $35 million in 2012.  The budget would cut funding for the hydrogen technology
program by more than 41 percent, or about $70 million, according
to Chu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  