-- 
Obama Says Egypt Forever Changed by `Moral Force,' Transition to Take Time

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-02-12T05:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/obama-says-egypt-forever-changed-transition-to-democracy-will-take-time.html
President  Barack Obama  shared in the
Egyptian people’s exhilaration in forcing  Hosni Mubarak  from
power, while cautioning of “difficult days ahead” for the
Mideast nation’s fledgling embrace of democracy.  “For Egypt, it was the moral force of non-violence -- not
terrorism, not mindless killing -- but non-violence, moral force
that bent the arc of history toward justice once more,” Obama
said yesterday in remarks at the White House, hours after
Mubarak resigned the presidency he had held for 30 years.  “This is the power of human dignity, and it can never be
denied,” Obama said.  The departure of the 82-year-old Mubarak is the beginning,
not the end, of the country’s transition, Obama said. “There
will be difficult days ahead. But I am confident that the people
of  Egypt  can find the answers and do so peacefully.”  Obama’s words echoed the language of the U.S. civil rights
movement and of his own presidential campaign. An emotional high
point of his 2008 campaign stump speech came when he quoted  Martin Luther King Jr . on the “arc” of the “moral universe.”
The line is now inscribed on a carpet in the Oval Office.  After weeks in which the administration balanced support
for democratic aspirations with a hesitancy to openly repudiate
Mubarak, a longtime U.S. ally, Obama’s statement yesterday
showed him clearly endorsing the Egyptian uprising.  Obama’s televised comments may amplify the “psychological
impact” of the events in Egypt on the region’s leaders and
people, said Tom Malinowski, Washington director of  Human Rights
Watch  and one of the regional experts the administration has
consulted on Egypt.  ‘Legitimate Demands’  “The poetry and the power of his words today should
accentuate the sense that many leaders in the Middle East will
likely now have: that the Americans are not going to rescue them
if they ignore legitimate demands from their people for
political reform,” Malinowski said. “To many people in the
Middle East who are accustomed to what they see as unconditional
backing for dictatorships in their region, that may be a bit of
a revelation.”  Obama said the U.S. will provide whatever assistance is
needed to keep Egypt’s transformation on the right track.  “There are very few moments in our lives where we have the
privilege to witness history taking place. This is one of those
moments,” Obama said. “The people of Egypt have spoken, their
voices have been heard, and Egypt will never be the same.”  Managing Policy  Mubarak’s bow to the demands of protesters who crowded
central Cairo for 18 days in what became a demand for his ouster
relieves one challenge for the Obama administration and presents
another in managing policy in the Mideast.  “The Egypt scene is as complex for us. The regional scene
is more complex now that Mubarak has stepped down,” said Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at the  Center for American Progress , a
policy research organization in Washington.  U.S. regional interests are at stake, with  Israel  concerned
about being isolated, and allies such as  Jordan  and  Saudi Arabia 
anxious about discontent among their own citizens, Katulis said.    Robert Gibbs , in his final daily briefing as White House
press secretary, said the U.S. believes “it’s important” that
the next Egyptian government abide by the country’s peace treaty
with Israel.  While U.S. influence over future events in Egypt is
limited, the Obama administration must press for “change to be
dynamic, responsive to the needs of democracy and human rights
and economic justice,” said Edward Djerejian, a former U.S.
ambassador to Israel and  Syria .  ‘Peaceful and Orderly’  The U.S. will also have to urge that the transition “be
done in a peaceful and orderly manner so that that this people’s
revolution is not hijacked by radicals,” he said.  Djerejian said it’s unlikely the government will be taken
over by extremists.  “The Egyptians will bring in the representative groups,
including the Muslim Brotherhood, but there is a vibrant middle
class and a liberal entrepreneurial class in Egypt,” he said.  Obama was informed during an Oval Office meeting of
Mubarak’s decision to step down. He then went to an outer office
to watch television coverage of the scene in Cairo for several
minutes, Tommy Vietor, an administration spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  Statements by Obama and other administration officials Feb.
10 indicated they had expected Mubarak to step aside sooner.  “We are witnessing history unfold. It’s a moment of
transformation,” Obama had said before Mubarak addressed his
country on Feb. 10 and said he was staying on.  Change in Plans  Instead, Mubarak had said he would cede some authority to
his vice president,  Omar Suleiman , and remain in office until
elections scheduled for September. He also decried outside
interference, a rebuke to the U.S.  Obama then expressed impatience in a written statement
issued afterward that also called on the Egyptian leaders to
explain their plan for a transition from Mubarak’s reign.  That all changed yesterday as Mubarak resigned after
Egyptians renewed their demand that he leave.  The administration had been monitoring financial and oil
markets on concern that the turmoil would spread to other
nations in the region, including Gulf oil-producing states.
Stocks rose and oil fell after Egyptian state television
announced Mubarak was stepping down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 