-- 
Obama Says Egyptian Government Failed to Give a Clear Message on Changes

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-02-11T05:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/obama-says-egyptian-government-failed-to-give-clear-message-on-changes.html
President  Barack Obama , expressing
impatience with the pace of the transition to democracy in
Egypt, said President  Hosni Mubarak ’s announcement that he would
cede some powers failed to provide a “clear and unambiguous”
statement that the needed changes are being made.  In a written statement issued hours after Mubarak delivered
a televised address last night, Obama said the Egyptian people
remain unconvinced that the government is serious about a
transition to democracy.  “The Egyptian government must put forward a credible,
concrete and unequivocal path toward genuine democracy, and they
have not yet seized that opportunity,” Obama said.  The statement made no direct mention of Mubarak, who
refused to yield to demands from protesters crowding central
Cairo seeking his immediate ouster. Mubarak’s speech had the
administration chasing to keep up with the pace of events in  Egypt  and limited its ability to influence the outcome,
according to analysts.  Mubarak put the U.S. in an “enormous bind,” said Steven Clemons, an analyst at the Washington-based research
organization  New America Foundation  who has been meeting with
National Security Council officials.  The administration is forced into a position of either
“backing down and basically becoming more quiet” or saying
more publicly to Mubarak that he has to go, Clemons said.  Little Influence    Aaron David Miller , a former Mideast peace negotiator and
State Department official and now a public policy fellow at the
 Woodrow Wilson International Center  for Scholars, said the
administration has little influence over the situation in Egypt
at this point, and further prodding of Mubarak without results
may end up making the U.S. look weak.  “The more we comment on it, the more we convince people
we’re somehow capable of managing this or what we say or don’t
say counts right now, the weaker we look,” Miller said.  Time also may be running out for the U.S. to manage the
outcome.  “We don’t know what’s going to happen with the protestors
tomorrow, we don’t know what happens with the military,” said
Jon Alterman, a Middle East analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington. “For the next 12 hours
the best the U.S. government can do is to push all sides to
avoid violence and hope for the best.”  U.S. Expectations  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures lost 0.3 percent as of
10:56 a.m. in  Hong Kong  while the dollar and oil rallied after
Mubarak’s speech. Oil gained as much as 1.2 percent in  New York 
and traded above $101 a barrel in  London .  Statements made earlier in the day suggest the
administration was expecting a more significant move by Mubarak,
rather than an announcement he would delegate powers to his vice
president,  Omar Suleiman , and remain in office until elections
scheduled for September.  “We are following today’s events in Egypt very closely,
and we’ll have more to say as this plays out,” Obama said in
Michigan earlier in the day, before Mubarak spoke. “What is
absolutely clear is that we are witnessing history unfold. It’s
a moment of transformation.”  At a hearing at the U.S. Capitol, Central Intelligence
Agency Director Leon Panetta told lawmakers in response to
questions that he had seen news reports saying “there is a
strong likelihood that Mubarak may step down this evening.”
That would be a “significant” step in Egypt’s transition, he
said.  Emergency Law  Panetta said later that the CIA had no confirmation that
Mubarak would leave office and the public should not take his
remarks as “insight that this in fact going to happen.”  Obama watched Mubarak’s speech aboard Air Force One as he
was returning from the event in  Michigan . Upon arrival at the
White House he went directly into a meeting with his advisers.  When Mubarak made his first address responding to the
protests on Feb 1, Obama went before television cameras to
deliver his reaction. This time, he issued a statement.  While saying the future of Egypt must be determined by its
citizens, Obama laid down benchmarks for the government: lifting
the emergency law, “meaningful” negotiations with opposition
groups, revising the Egyptian constitution and developing a road
map to free and fair elections.  ‘Egypt Has Changed’  “The voices of the Egyptian people must be heard,” Obama
said in the statement. “Egypt has changed, and its future is in
the hands of the people.”  He said the Egyptian government must explain the changes
that were announced and spell out a step-by-step process that
will lead to a representative government.  Alterman and Richard Haass, president of the New York-based
Council on Foreign Relations, were among the analysts who said
the administration may be best served by making few public
statements at this point.  “They are having as much trouble as anyone else in
following the hour-to-hour, day-to-day comings and goings of
events there,” Haass said.  “What advice they’re giving they’re largely now giving in
private,” he told reporters on a conference call today.
“That’s exactly the way it should be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in  Washington , at 
 Njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 