-- 
Treasury Report Calls for Winding Down Fannie, Freddie

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-02-11T20:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/obama-administration-calls-for-ultimately-winding-down-fannie-freddie.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  presented Congress with a set of options for weaning
the $11 trillion mortgage market from its dependence on the
government, while calling for changes to be phased in
“responsibly and carefully” to avoid economic disruptions.  The report delivered today by Geithner and Housing and
Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan presents three
approaches for a future housing finance system. It calls for the
government to shrink “and ultimately wind down”  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac, the bailed-out government-sponsored enterprises
that helped fuel the housing bubble before being felled by
investments in subprime mortgages.  The transition to a new housing-finance system will likely
take five to seven years, Geithner said during a conference call
with reporters.  “I want to emphasize we’re going to proceed on this path
to reform very carefully, so we make sure we’re supporting the
process of economic expansion and repair of the housing markets,
which of course are still suffering from the damage caused by
the crisis,” he said.  The plan doesn’t endorse a particular long-term option or
offer legislation. All three proposals would accompany an end of
taxpayer support for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , which together
have drawn more than $150 billion from the Treasury since they
were seized by the government in September 2008.  Congressional Debate  In Congress, the report’s release is the opening bell for a
political and policy bout over how to fix the mortgage-finance
system, a debate that is likely to last months or years. Real
estate brokers and developers have told lawmakers that the
housing market dominated by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac remains
too fragile to survive a precipitous overhaul.  With the decline of private investment in home loans since
the credit crisis, the two companies, along with the Federal
Housing Administration, have come to own or insure almost 97
percent of mortgage bonds.  Geithner, who said the government took its support for
housing “too far” heading into the credit crisis, said the
administration of President  Barack Obama  can take initial steps
without legislation and then will need lawmakers to step in.  “We don’t want legislation to be too far deferred,” he
said at a conference in Washington today. “Ultimately we’re
going to have to explain to the market what the end game’s going
to be and we can’t wait too long.”  Meeting Commitments  Geithner said the federal government will continue to back
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac during the transition.  “We’re going to make it very clear to the market and to
investors we will make sure Fannie and Freddie have the
resources they need to meet all their commitments as they go
through the process of reform,” he said on the call with
reporters.  Though the administration envisions a smaller federal role
in the mortgage market, the  Federal Housing Administration 
should continue to support affordable housing, Donovan told
reporters.  “FHA is a critical part of ensuring access and
affordability for low-income Americans and we must continue
that,” Donovan said.  The three options presented by Treasury suggest differing
degrees of government involvement in the system. The most
dramatic would largely privatize housing finance, leaving a
government role to help “narrowly targeted” low-income buyers,
rural residents and military veterans.  ‘Acute Costs’  The approach would “drastically reduce” taxpayer exposure
to failed loans, the report said, while adding “particularly
acute costs” to credit for many borrowers. The plan would boost
interest rates and could make the traditional 30-year, fixed-
rate mortgage hard to get, according to the report.  A middle ground would replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
with a system that helps low-income, rural and veteran buyers in
normal times and also provides an expanded guarantee that the
government could ramp up in a crisis. The paper suggests using
high-priced fees or restricted amounts of public insurance to
achieve this goal.  “Private actors would be on the hook for their own risky
decisions and the government would not be putting taxpayers at
direct risk in backing the nation’s mortgage market,” the
report said. Designing a guarantee system that could grow and
shrink would be a “significant operational challenge,” the
report concluded.  Backstop  A third option, which has drawn the most attention and
interest from consumer and industry groups, would have the
biggest government role and would hew closest to the current
system. It would impose more regulation and give the government
a role in “catastrophic reinsurance behind significant private
capital” to provide a backstop in times of crisis.  Under this system, private companies could insure mortgage
bonds with the government paying out only to shareholders who
“have been entirely wiped out,” according to the report.  The approach would provide the “lowest-cost access to
mortgage credit,” the report said, by attracting a large pool
of investors, thus boosting liquidity. The option carries risks.
If the system attracts too much capital, it could “artificially
inflate the value of housing assets,” much like what happened
in the years leading up to 2008.  It also doesn’t necessarily protect taxpayers, the report
said. If oversight is lax or government premiums are
underpriced, “private actors in the market may take on
excessive risk and the taxpayer again could bear the cost,” the
report said.  Mainstream Credit  All options threaten to make mainstream credit less
available, pushing low- and moderate-income borrowers into FHA
loans, said Debby Goldberg, a project director at the National
Fair Housing Alliance. “It’s possible that the third option
might provide the best protection against concentration in the
market but it lacks the details to assure us that that’s the
case.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage securities were little
changed after the plan’s release. Fannie Mae’s current-coupon
30-year fixed-rate bonds yielded 0.78 percentage point more than
10-year Treasuries as of 2:30 p.m. in  New York , compared with
0.79 percentage point yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Debt Spreads  Spreads on Fannie Mae’s five-year unsecured debt fell 0.02
percentage point to 0.11 percentage point, down from 0.19
percent point on Feb. 3, as the proposal suggested shrinking the
balance sheets of the companies and Federal Home Loan Bank
system over time, reducing the supply of their borrowing.  The Treasury proposal also recommends several steps that
can be taken quickly to begin easing government out of the
market.  One is to increase the monthly insurance premiums, or
guarantee fees, now charged by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Higher premiums would in theory give other companies incentive
to compete for lending.  The fees, which are negotiated lender by lender and vary
depending on a loan’s size and quality, averaged 0.22 percent
for GSE-insured mortgages in 2009, down from 0.25 percent a year
earlier, according to the Federal Housing Finance
Administration, which regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Loan Limits  The administration plan also recommends increasing Federal
Housing Administration premiums by 0.25 percentage points. The
plan suggests lowering the ceiling for loans that Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac can insure. The cap on those conforming loans is
scheduled to drop from $729,750 to $625,500 on Oct. 1 if
Congress doesn’t act. Larger nonconforming, or jumbo, loans
typically carry higher  interest rates .  The administration endorsed an existing law that forces the
GSEs to shed loans in their almost $1.5 trillion portfolios by
at least 10 percent a year as a way to reduce government
exposure to failing mortgages.  The outcome could be a question of survival for many in the
real estate industry, including millions of brokers and builders
whose livelihoods depend on an abundance of inexpensive loans.  They are generally aligned with housing and consumer
advocates who say a government withdrawal that goes too far
would put homeownership out of reach for many borrowers and give
too much power to financial companies.  ‘Sensitivity and Oversight’  “Greed is not going to disappear,” said  John Taylor ,
president and chief executive officer of the  National Community
Reinvestment Coalition , a Washington-based group that promotes
access to banking and credit services for underserved
communities. “What will disappear is the sensitivity and
oversight not to engage in bad practices.”  Congress established Washington-based Fannie Mae in 1938
and Freddie Mac of McLean,  Virginia , in 1970 to increase the
capital available for home lending by packaging mortgages into
bonds for sale to investors. The companies insured bond buyers
against losses, with an implied promise that the U.S. government
would make investors whole if the system failed.  In an Oct. 20 interview with the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission, made public when the panel released audio tapes
yesterday, JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were “the biggest
disasters of all time” and a leading cause of the U.S.
financial crisis.  Freddie Mac Chief Executive Officer Charles E. Haldeman Jr.
today congratulated the administration on its report.  “Clearly they understand the key issues and the need for
private-sector capital to return to the housing market,”
Haldeman said in a written statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  