-- 
Obama Rhetoric Shift May Affect IBM, Microsoft Taxes

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 
2011-02-11T16:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/obama-s-rhetorical-shift-could-affect-ibm-microsoft-tax-deferral-plans.html
President  Barack Obama ’s consistent
pledge to “end tax breaks for companies that ship jobs
overseas” disappeared from his stump speech after Republicans
won the  House of Representatives  in November and he began
talking with executives about a corporate tax code overhaul.  Now, tax lobbyists are watching Obama’s next budget, set to
be released Feb. 14, to see if it reflects that shift by scaling
back proposals that restrict companies’ ability to defer taxes
on overseas profits. Those ideas from previous Obama budgets
have drawn criticism from such companies as  Microsoft Corp . and  International Business Machines Corp .  Dropping the limits, projected to raise $122 billion over
10 years, would move Obama’s position closer to those espoused
by business groups and would demonstrate an interest in
rewriting tax laws, said  Martin Sullivan , an economist at Tax
Analysts in  Falls Church ,  Virginia , who testified before
Congress last month on the corporate tax code.  “The deletion of international revenue raisers from the
next budget would signal a major turning point in international
tax policy,” he said. “Business no longer would have to play
defense against possible tax increases.”  The administration won’t discuss details of the budget
before its release, said Treasury Department spokeswoman Sandra
Salstrom.  Jacob Lew , the president’s budget director, signaled
on Feb. 8 that a corporate tax overhaul will not be detailed in
the budget plan. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  also said
on Feb. 9 that the budget won’t include a one-time
“repatriation” provision that would let businesses bring
overseas profits back to the U.S. at a reduced  tax rate .  Rhetorical Shift  Catherine Schultz, vice president of  tax policy  at the
National Foreign Trade Council which supports expanded global
commerce, welcomed the elimination of Obama’s “ship jobs
overseas” line, which she said eroded trust with business
groups. “I think he really figured out from talking to a lot of
people that that rhetoric is not helpful,” she said.  Obama’s stance had caused conflicts with corporations.
U.S.-based companies pay taxes on income they earn worldwide
after receiving credits for foreign taxes. They can delay U.S.
tax payments until the profits come home.  Obama’s fiscal 2011 budget included scaled-down versions of
earlier proposals to limit deferral and foreign tax credits. For
example, it would have prevented companies from taking interest
deductions related to overseas profits until they brought those
profits home. Obama and many Democrats have argued that deferral
gives companies an incentive to move jobs out of the U.S.  Shifting Jobs Overseas  Companies and their lobbyists say deferral doesn’t
encourage them to shift jobs overseas. Instead, they say they
need overseas operations to serve global markets.  Kenneth Kies, managing director of the Federal Policy
Group, a Washington tax lobbying firm, said he couldn’t tell
whether the president’s shift in language reflects the altered
politics of divided government or the altered policy of an
administration changing course.  “Maybe they finally realized they were wrong,” said Kies,
whose clients include  Caterpillar Inc . and  General Electric Co .  If so, the change happened quickly. As recently as October,
Obama used the international tax issue to shape a populist
message designed to appeal to labor unions and voters in states
where manufacturing has declined.  “We don’t want to keep giving tax breaks to companies that
ship jobs overseas,” Obama said at an Oct. 29 campaign rally.
“We want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing
right here in Charlottesville, right here in Virginia.”  Familiar Language  It was familiar language that he deployed in the 2010
State of the Union address and repeated during campaign-trail
stops -- and then stopped using after the Nov. 2 election,
according to news reports and White House transcripts.  The tax portion of his 2011 State of the Union address
focused on broadening the corporate tax base and lowering rates.
Obama’s Feb. 7 speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce labeled
the  tax code  “burdensome” without highlighting the
international features.  At times, Obama has echoed the corporate response to his
international tax policy, contending that overseas jobs do not
replace domestic ones.  “When a company sells products overseas, it leads to
hiring on our shores,” he said in a Jan. 21 speech at a GE
facility in Schenectady,  New York .  The White House wouldn’t respond on the record to questions
about the administration’s shift in language.  Representative Earl Blumenauer, an Oregon Democrat, said he
thinks Obama’s rhetorical shift reflects an attempt to examine
tax policy more thoroughly and broadly.  Tax Holiday  Geithner’s recent comments signaled that any change in
administration policy wouldn’t repeat the 2005 “tax holiday”
that let businesses repatriate profits at a reduced tax rate.
Companies such as  Cisco Systems Inc . have been seeking such a
change. Many economists argue that another holiday may not
necessarily create jobs.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  told the House Budget
Committee Feb. 9 that if Congress is interested in the issue
that it should not look at a temporary repatriation holiday and
instead should consider switching to a “territorial” tax
system that exempts foreign profits.  Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means Committee, said the 2005 experience makes
him wary of another temporary measure.  “It was clear that it did not promote economic growth and
jobs,” he said. “That’s the test of any proposal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan J. Donmoyer in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  