-- 
Ocado Plunges After John Lewis Sells Stake in Grocer

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-02-13T21:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/ocado-plunges-after-john-lewis-fund-sells-stake-in-online-food-deliverer.html
(Corrects name of Ocado’s largest shareholder in eighth
paragraph of story originally published Feb. 11.)    Ocado Group Plc , the U.K. online
grocer that sold shares to the public for the first time last
year, dropped as much as 18 percent in  London  trading after the
second-biggest shareholder sold its entire stake.  The shares fell as much as or 50 pence to 235 pence, after
surging 57 percent in the month before the sale by John Lewis
Partnership Plc’s pension fund of its 10.4 percent holding. The
sale was executed at a price of 265 pence a share, according to
a statement from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., which managed the
offering of 57.3 million shares to institutional investors.  The sale is likely to address an “imbalance” between
supply and demand in the shares that had helped boost the price,
according to James Grzinic, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London. Yesterday’s closing price of 285
pence was the highest since Ocado initially sold shares to the
public on July 21, 2010. The original offer price was 180 pence.
Today’s drop was the steepest since the IPO.  Ocado said the sale won’t affect its commercial arrangement
with  John Lewis ’s Waitrose supermarket chain, under which the
online retailer supplies Waitrose goods. The companies entered a
decade-long supply agreement in May 2010 that allows Ocado to
use the Waitrose brand on its website and vans.  John Lewis’s transfer of the stake to its pension fund in
2008 “signalled the relationship had evolved some time back
from an operational to more of a financial interest,” Grzinic
wrote. He has a “hold” recommendation on Ocado.  First Profit  John Lewis said today that the sale of the stake was part
of the fund’s “investment management activities.”  Appleby Trust (Jersey) Ltd., an independent company that
acts as the trustee for Ocado’s employee benefits, holds 5.9
percent of the stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Apple Trust is the company’s largest shareholder with a
10.7 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Web retailer reported a quarterly profit for the first
time in February as customer numbers increased and shoppers
bought more products. Ocado is Britain’s fourth-largest online
food and grocery retailer, according to  Verdict Research .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 