-- Oil Risk Premium on Egypt Limited by Alternatives, Nomura Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2011-02-11T03:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/oil-risk-premium-on-egypt-limited-by-alternative-supplies-nomura-says.html
A further increase in  oil prices 
because of political turmoil in  Egypt  is unjustified as supplies
can be rerouted from the  Suez Canal  while stockpiles can make up
for any shortfall, according to Nomura International Ltd.  “Any further increase in risk premium due to the current
Egypt crisis is unjustifiable from a fundamental standpoint,”
Michael Lo and Cheng Khoo, Hong-Kong based analysts at Nomura,
said in a report. “We do not see any immediate threat to oil
supply even if the Suez Canal or the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline
are forced to halt operations.”  Shipments along the canal are “almost balanced” with 55
percent flowing northward and 45 percent to the south, meaning
that disrupted supplies can be reallocated, the bank said in the
report dated yesterday. A shutdown on the  SuMed Pipeline , which
pumps about 1.1 million barrels a day of oil to  Europe  via
Egypt, would be overcome by continental stockpiles that are
“near an all-time high, with 93 days of demand cover,”
according to the bank.  Protests against the government of President  Hosni Mubarak 
last week pushed oil traded in  New York  to a two-year high of
$92.19 a barrel. Demonstrations may escalate after he refused
yesterday to resign his position, agreeing only to delegate some
authority to a deputy. About 3.5 percent of global crude
production moves through Egypt through the Suez Canal and SuMed,
according to Bloomberg calculations using data from the U.S.
Energy Department.  Excess tanker supply in the Middle East may be able to
replace shipments on the SuMed pipeline in the event of a
shutdown, said Nomura. Moving around  Africa  will cause delays of
“only 10 to 15 days,” the bank estimates.  “It is not in the interest of any political party in Egypt
to stop the SuMed Pipeline or the Suez Canal as they both
generate revenue for the country,” Lo and Khoo wrote. “Extra
troops have been deployed to guard both the pipeline and the
canal in case of any sabotage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  