-- 
Hollywood Finds Wall Street Open for Buyout, Film Lending Again

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/hollywood-finds-wall-street-open-for-buyout-film-lending-again.html
Wall Street money is flowing to
Hollywood again after three years of decline, paying for new
production and purchases of the legendary film libraries of
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. and Miramax.  The money isn’t cheap. MGM is paying 6.5 percent and the
group that bought Miramax, including Colony Capital owner Tom Barrack, is paying 7.75 percent for 6-year senior loans, versus
an average 5.6 percent for comparable borrowers three years ago.  The rates partly reflect the changing cast of characters
willing to hold loans. Bank funds available to small studios and
private equity have shrunk to about $250 million from $1
billion, said Clark Hallren, a former  JPMorgan Chase & Co .
executive whose Clear Scope Partners advises film companies.
That has forced borrowers to market loans to hedge funds, mutual
funds and others demanding higher returns, he said.  “The market was hit by a double whammy,” said Amir Malin,
managing principal of Qualia Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that invests in entertainment. “Toxic deals were getting
exposed and the number of banks actively participating in film
financing were exiting in droves.”  The number of banks doing business in Hollywood has shrunk
to less than a dozen from as many as 30 three years ago, said
Hallren. Many, including most foreign banks, pulled back after
loans to MGM and TV producer  RHI Entertainment Inc . soured and
the companies filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, he said.  The most recent transactions involved corporate financing,
rather than so-called slate deals, or dedicated funds designed
to invest in a specific selection of movie projects, according
to Peter Hoffman, a partner in GHL & Co. in  New York , which
advises studios on funding.  Summit’s Loans  Summit Entertainment LLC, producer of the “Twilight”
vampire films, is seeking to raise $800 million and negotiating
to pay lenders about 5.25 to 5.5 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate for the $600 million, 7-year
secured term-loan portion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. JPMorgan and  UBS AG  are arranging the credit.  Libor is the rate banks charge each other for loans, with
corporate borrowers paying more. In recent years, investors have
demanded a so-called Libor floor to protect against record low
levels as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s efforts to stimulate the
economy drove Libor down to 0.31 percent as of Feb. 10.  For Summit, Libor will have a floor of 1.5 percent, making
the loan rate as high as 7 percent for the closely held studio
based in  Santa Monica ,  California . That compares with an average
of 5.62 rate for a comparable loan three years ago, according to
Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  The company plans to use the proceeds to refinance debt,
fund production and pay investors a dividend. Melissa Zukerman,
an outside spokeswoman for Summit, declined to comment.  Miramax Loan  The new owners of Miramax, producer of the Oscar-winning
films “The  English Patient ” and “Shakespeare in Love,”
obtained $325 million in December in a 6-year, first-lien loan
to complete the purchase from  Walt Disney Co .  Priced at 6 percentage points above Libor, plus a 1.75
percent floor, the loan carries a minimum rate of 7.75 percent.
An $83 million second-lien loan has a margin of 11 percentage
points and a 2 percent floor, Bloomberg data show.  “There is not any sort of a punitive rate,” said Hoffman,
who previously worked at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . “It’s giving
the entertainment companies good access to financing.”  The Miramax loans were arranged by  Jefferies Group Inc . and  Barclays Capital  and sold to hedge funds and other private
investors. The Miramax buyers originally sought commercial bank
financing.  Kristin Celauro, a spokeswoman for Miramax, declined to
comment, as did  Mark Lane , a Barclays spokesman in New York, and
Josh Passman, an outside spokesman for Jefferies in New York.  DVD Slump  Along with the 2008 credit crisis, the weakening market for
DVDs has reduced access to capital.  “The reduction in the value of film libraries caused by
the decline in the DVD business has made commercial banks less
willing to lend against libraries,” said Stephen Prough, a
founder of  Salem Partners , a Los Angeles-based investment
banking boutique focused on media and entertainment. “Four or
five years ago, banks were lending amounts up to 60 percent of a
production company’s library value. Today, that rate is closer
to 25 percent to 30 percent.”  Highland Capital Management LP, a Dallas-based hedge fund,
owns equity and new debt in Los Angeles-based MGM after the
studio’s exit from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in December.  Weeks, Not Months  MGM Studios’ $325 million, 6-year loan was priced at 5
percentage points above Libor, which is subject to a 1.5 percent
floor, according to Bloomberg data.  “DVDs are down, but with Netflix and Epix and streaming,
there’s a lot more value than people think,” said Pat Daugherty, a Highland Capital partner and MGM board member.  The emergence of private investors has also shortened the
time it takes to arrange and place a loan to weeks from months,
according to GHL’s Hoffman.  DreamWorks Studios,  Steven Spielberg ’s company, took nine
months to raise a $325 million revolving loan in 2009. The
financing, arranged by JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp.,  Wells
Fargo & Co . and  SunTrust Banks Inc ., closed in August, according
to a company statement at the time.  The studio cut the amount it was seeking from $750 million,
and obtained some financing from Disney, which will distribute
the films. Reliance Big Entertainment, its India-based partner,
had previously committed $325 million in equity. Chip Sullivan,
a DreamWorks spokesman, wouldn’t comment.  According to Prough, investors are willing to finance deals
where they have confidence in future  cash flow  or “ultimates,”
whether it’s the next installment of  James Bond  from MGM or
Summit’s final film of the “Twilight” series.  “The deals that are getting done are those where producers
can show lenders a piece of paper with studio ‘ultimates,’”
Prough said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  