-- 
China Forestry CEO's Asset Freeze Extended by Hong Kong Court on SFC Probe

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-02-11T09:56:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/hong-kong-judge-extends-freeze-of-china-forestry-ceo-s-assets-on-sfc-probe.html
A Hong Kong judge extended an order
to freeze HK$398.2 million ($51.1 million) of assets held by  China Forestry Holdings Ltd .’s chief executive officer, who had
sold shares before it disclosed accounting irregularities.  Hong Kong Court of First Instance Judge Carlye Chu today
extended an earlier freeze granted to the  Securities and Futures
Commission  until March 4.  The freeze of the proceeds of Li Han Chun’s share sale is
part of an investigation following China Forestry’s announcement
on Jan. 31 that its auditors had identified possible
irregularities, the regulator said in a statement. Shares of  China  Forestry fell 13 percent on Jan. 13, a day after the
company said Li sold 119 million shares for HK$398.7 million. It
suspended its shares on Jan. 26.  Li is on vacation and the company doesn’t have any further
comment on the situation, according to his assistant who
declined to be identified.  Li will return to  Hong Kong  from mainland China on Feb. 28,
SFC lawyer Roger Beresford told the court today.  Moody’s Investors Service put China Forestry’s debt on
review for a downgrade after the share suspension. The company
sold $300 million of 7.75 percent five-year notes in November.  Shares Suspended  Trading in China Forestry remains suspended. Shares have
fallen 18.7 percent to HK$2.95 this year.  China Forestry said in a Feb. 9 statement it was
“operating normally and board members are actively seeking to
resolve the current situation.” The company has 229,113
hectares of forests in China, and is amongst the country’s top
three private operators, according to its  web site .  Washington-based private equity firm The  Carlyle Group  has
an 11 percent stake in Beijing-based China Forestry. Carlyle’s
Beijing-based spokesman Brian Zhou said the firm is making
detailed inquiries into the possible accounting irregularities.  “We look forward to receiving the findings from the
independent review,” Zhou said by phone today.  The Hong Kong regulator has also alleged Hontex
International Holdings Co. disclosed “materially false or
misleading” information in its Hong Kong listing prospectus.
The SFC won a court order freezing the company’s assets in April
and an investigation continues, according to  a November press
release . Hontex shares have been suspended since March.  The SFC said in its statement today that it had first
obtained an interim freeze on Li’s assets on Feb. 2 without
notifying him. Its investigation became public with its Feb. 7
court application which was heard today.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Li Han
Chun. HCMP176/2011. Hong Kong Court of First Instance (Hong
Kong).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  