-- 
Toshiba in Talks With NTPC for Carbon Capture Project

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-02-11T09:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/toshiba-holds-talks-with-ntpc-to-build-carbon-capture-project-in-india.html
  NTPC Ltd ., India’s biggest power
producer, is in talks with  Toshiba Corp . to build a pilot
project in India for capturing and storing carbon emissions, a
Toshiba official said.  The Japanese power-equipment maker aims to develop its
first 5-megawatt carbon capture plant in India by 2016, Kenji
Urai, managing director of its Toshiba India Private Ltd. unit,
said in an interview. The project may be similar to one set to
start this year at a 47-megawatt plant at Mikawa in Japan.  “Now that we are almost finished in Japan, we’d like to
bring that technology to other parts of the world, like India,”
Urai said. “I think in five years we should have it.”    India  plans to add about 64,000 megawatts, or the
equivalent of more than 50 new nuclear plants, in coal-fired
electric plants in the five years through 2017. The nation is
searching for ways to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions after
having agreed to reduce the greenhouse gas in proportion to
gross domestic product by 25 percent from 2005 levels by 2020.  NTPC is leading a group of power utilities trying to curb
Indian blackouts and increase electricity supplies, which the
government estimates are about 10 percent less than demand.  Deepna Mehta, a spokeswoman for NTPC, said company
officials declined to comment.  Carbon capture-and-storage technology typically traps
emissions and pumps them underground for what its promoters say
is safe, permanent storage. So far it has mostly been used in
pilot projects and storing only a portion of total plant
emissions. Critics have said the cost is too high for its
benefits.  Double Investment  “It’s certainly not economically feasible because if we
fit CCS equipment to a coal-based plant, it would double the
investment,” said Shyam Saran during a seminar in New Delhi in
April. Saran quit his post as special envoy to the prime
minister on  climate change  in February.  Toshiba, Japan’s largest supplier of nuclear reactors,
entered the Indian power market through a joint venture with
Indian power utility  JSW Energy Ltd . Toshiba plans to sell $400
million of power-generation equipment in India by 2015.  Through two joint ventures, Toshiba and JSW will open a
plant in July in Chennai to make 3,000 megawatts of boilers and
turbines a year, Urai said.  The joint venture is expecting orders from NTPC for four
660-megawatt turbines this year and has already received orders
for two 660-megawatt turbines and generators from Essar Group
for its coal-fired Salaya plant in Gujarat.  The  International Energy Agency , an adviser to oil-
consuming nations, supports carbon capture as a measure to limit  greenhouse gases . Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka  in December
said the world needs about 3,400 projects by 2050 to reduce
emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  