-- 
Total Aims to Increase Investment as Profit Climbs 23%

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-02-11T17:22:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/total-profit-climbs-23-as-oil-natural-gas-output-prices-rise.html
  Total SA ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
producer, reported fourth-quarter profit climbed 23 percent and
said 2011 investments will rise to $20 billion to increase
output that flattened in the latest period.  Profit excluding changes in inventories and the value of a
stake in  Sanofi-Aventis SA  rose to 2.6 billion euros ($3.5
billion) from 2.08 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the 2.5 billion-
euro average of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income
dropped 1.5 percent to 2.03 billion euros.  Total expects output to be little changed this year because
of a lull in startups and has pledged to explore more
aggressively for oil and gas. The Paris-based company reversed a
production slump that touched a nine-year low in 2009 by
starting new fields and liquefied natural gas projects, and has
forecast average output growth of 2 percent a year through 2015.  “Earnings are below our expectations mainly due to flat
production,” said Alexandre Andlauer, an analyst at Alphavalue
SAA. “We will focus on the new exploration strategy.”  The shares fell 0.01 percent to 43.445 euros in Paris.
They’ve advanced 4.6 percent in the last year while the
benchmark  SBF-250 Index  added 16 percent.  Fourth-quarter production rose 0.4 percent to 2.39 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day compared with a year earlier,
according to the statement. Total replaced 124 percent of the
oil and gas reserves used last year.  ‘Bolder Exploration’  The year was marked by a new strategy for a “bolder
exploration program and profound changes to the portfolio,”
Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said in the
statement.  Investment excluding acquisitions is expected to rise to
$20 billion from $18 billion a year earlier. Exploration and
production spending will account for 80 percent of the total
while the planned exploration budget will be $2.1 billion
compared with $1.8 billion in 2010.  “The company’s medium-term financial framework is one of
very modest growth and relative profitability deterioration,”
Citigroup analyst Alastair Syme wrote in a Jan. 27 research
note. “A five-year historic trend of falling exploration and
production volumes looks to have turned the corner in 2010.”  Gladstone Project  Total is expecting a “significant increase” in output in
2012 compared to this year, when output is expected to remain
“flat,” de Margerie said at an analyst conference. Output
growth in 2013 will be “a little lower” than 2012 and higher
again in 2014, he said.  Total last month sanctioned investment with partners in the
$16 billion Gladstone liquefied natural gas project in
Australia. The company also decided to develop Clov off  Angola 
and has said final investment decisions could come for Ofon II
and Engina in  Nigeria  as well as Sulige in  China , Ichthys LNG in  Australia , Shtokman in Russia and Ahnet in  Algeria .  Investment decisions are likely to come this year for
Engina and Ofon II, Yves-Louis Darricarrere, head of exploration
and production, said at an analyst conference.  The French  oil company  said today there would be the start
up of 10 “large” upstream projects this year and next while 12
would be “launched.”  Brent oil averaged 16 percent more in the fourth quarter
than the year-earlier period. U.K. natural-gas prices were 88
percent higher.  Profit from turning crude into fuels such as gasoline and
diesel rose to $32.2 a metric ton compared with $11.7 a ton a
year ago, the company said last month.  Total temporarily shut all five of its active refineries in  France  because of a strike by oil workers in October over a
government plan to overhaul the country’s pension system. The
labor action was the second last year led by the CGT union, the
biggest among refinery workers, and cost the company an
estimated 100 million euros.  Refining Capacity  Total said refining capacity will fall to an estimated 1.8
million barrels a day this year from 2 million barrels a day
last year due to a planned sale of the Lindsey refinery in the
U.K. and a dismantling of the Flanders plant in Dunkirk, France.  Total had announced plans to reduce its refining capacity
by about one-fifth, or 500,000 barrels a day, between 2007 and
2011, a target that de Margerie said will be met with the sale
of Lindsey. The company will “continue to adapt refining and
petrochemicals” this year and next, according to a
presentation.    Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s biggest oil company, posted
earnings that missed analyst estimates for the first time in a
year on weak refining margins while BP Plc’s adjusted profit
also missed analyst expectations after the oil company increased
the charge it took for the Gulf of Mexico spill.    Exxon Mobil Corp ., the world’s largest company, posted its
biggest quarterly profit in more than two years as energy demand
boosted oil and fuel prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  