-- 
Total ‘Irritated’ by French Shale Concerns Amid Drilling Freeze

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-02-11T16:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/total-irritated-by-french-shale-concerns-amid-drilling-freeze.html
  Total SA  Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie said French concerns about domestic shale
oil and gas exploration that led the government to halt drilling
until at least the middle of April are premature.  “The day there is proof that there is something to
develop, something to explore then we can talk about problems of
water injection, injection of some products used to fracture,”
de Margerie said at a press conference today on fourth-quarter
earnings. “My irritation comes from people being told we are
going to ruin their homes and forests when in fact there is
nothing.”  The French government yesterday announced a drilling
moratorium for shale oil and gas exploration projects until at
least mid-April when the first conclusions of a report on the
economic, social and environmental implications will be
published. The Energy Ministry had already awarded exploration
permits to companies searching for oil in shale rock around
Paris and shale gas in southern regions.  Environmental groups have said drilling risks contaminating
the water supply because chemicals are used when blasting shale
to extract oil and gas, a method that has also met opposition in
the U.S. Total holds the southern French Montelima permit.  “We don’t even know whether there is shale gas in
France,” de Margerie said. “When we look at a map of the
world,  France  isn’t considered the most attractive country for
it.”  Schuepbach Energy LLC is planning to drill two wells in
October to search for shale gas while Total has plans for a
first well at the start of 2012, Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet and Industry Minister Eric Besson said in a
joint statement late yesterday.    Toreador Resources Corp . planned to start in March the
first of three wells at the Chateau Thierry permit outside Paris
to explore for shale oil while  Vermilion Energy Inc . was
planning to fracture shale rock in three existing wells this
month, according to the ministers.  Toreador shares have dropped about 21 percent since trading
began in Paris in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  