-- 
House Republicans Accede to Members' Demands for Bigger U.S. Spending Cuts

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/house-republicans-accede-to-members-demands-for-bigger-u-s-spending-cuts.html
House Republican leaders said they
will seek another $26 billion in government spending reductions
this year, bowing to pressure from colleagues to keep their
campaign promise to cut $100 billion.  Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold Rogers of  Kentucky 
said his panel will boost the savings in a proposed budget
measure Republicans plan to unveil as early as today and debate
on the House floor next week.  “Our intent is to make deep but manageable cuts in nearly
every area of the government, leaving no stone unturned and
allowing no agency or program to be held sacred,” Rogers said
in a statement yesterday. “We are continuing to work to
complete this critical legislation.”  He didn’t say where the additional savings would come.
Representative Norm Dicks of Washington, the top Democrat on the
Appropriations Committee, said the cuts would force agencies to
furlough employees. “It’s going to affect jobs -- it has to,”
he said.  The revised plan will make it harder to reach agreement
with Senate Democrats who were already balking at savings
outlined a day earlier by Rogers. That proposal would have cut
$74 billion from President Barack Obama’s budget request for
this year, which amounts to $35 billion less than last year.  A $100 billion reduction in the president’s request for
fiscal 2011 would be about $60 billion less than last year’s
spending.  Government Shutdown  The cuts would be attached to a resolution to keep the
government in business through September. Current spending
authority expires March 4, and without agreement between the two
chambers the government will shut down.  “Different factions of the House Republicans keep trying
to outbid each other on spending cuts,” said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat. “They are blindly swinging a meat
ax to the budget,” and “some of these House Republicans won’t
be satisfied with anything less than a shutdown of the
government,” he said.  Representative Mike Simpson, an Idaho Republican, called a
government shutdown a “possibility, but we’re going to do
everything we can to make sure that doesn’t happen.”  House Republicans’ “ Pledge to America ” during last year’s
campaign promised to reduce discretionary spending to 2008
“pre-stimulus” levels, saving $100 billion in the first year.
Because the fiscal year began in October, Republicans said last
month they would set spending at 2008 levels for just the final
seven months and seek the rest of the $100 billion in savings
later.  Republican Study Committee  A group of fiscally conservative lawmakers known as the
Republican Study Committee threatened to seek additional cuts on
the House floor to keep the $100 billion promise. That
threatened a potentially embarrassing intraparty dispute over
how to cut the budget.  Representative Jim Jordan, an Ohio Republican who leads the
group, said he was pleased with plans to increase the savings.
“We like the fact that we’re getting more savings for the
taxpayer,” he said.  Another member of the group, California Republican  John Campbell , said he didn’t know where the additional savings would
come nor was he especially concerned.  “I’m such a hawk on spending that it’s almost like I don’t
care what it is -- there’s nothing that they can cut that I will
say no to,” Campbell said. “My view is that the debt is the
greatest single threat to American security, prosperity and
hegemony going forward and if you believe that everything else
pales in comparison.”  House Freshmen  The party’s large class of freshman lawmakers had also
pushed for steeper cuts.  “We have 87 new colleagues we’re just getting to know and
we’re trying to get their perspective,” said House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin . “I love the fact
that we are now changing the dynamic in Congress to how much we
should cut, versus how much we should spend.”  Representative Mike Pompeo, a freshman Republican from  Kansas , said “leadership is listening,” while first-termer  Tim Scott  of  South Carolina  said, “We absolutely made progress.”  House Republicans announced earlier this week they would
seek to end more than 60 government programs, including Obama’s
high-speed rail initiative, the Americorps volunteer program and
funds for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Scores of
other environmental, energy, health care,  law enforcement  and
other initiatives would also be reduced.  Representative Bill Young, a Florida Republican who leads
the defense appropriations subcommittee, said his panel will
produce an additional $1.5 billion in savings, which would mean
cutting $15 billion from the Pentagon’s budget request.  Simpson, whose appropriations subcommittee sets the budget
for the Environmental Protection Agency and other departments,
said the cuts will mean “some more comes out of EPA, some more
comes out of everybody else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  