-- 
Hovensa Said to Have Explosion, Fire at St. Croix Refinery

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-02-11T20:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/hovensa-said-to-have-explosion-fire-at-st-croix-refinery.html
Hovensa LLC, owner of the third-
biggest refinery in  North America , had an explosion and fire at
its St. Croix refinery in the Virgin Islands at a distillate
desulfurizer, a person familiar with refinery operations said.  The fire and explosion occurred after a line ruptured at a
unit that was shut and the fire is under control, said the
person, who declined to be identified because he was not
authorized to speak for the refinery.  Everyone in operations at the plant has been accounted for,
the person said.  Hovensa LLC reported a “major” fire at the Allick
container port, located next to the St. Croix refinery in the
Virgin Islands, according to an alert from the Virgin Islands
Territorial Emergency Management Agency.  All roads near the refinery and port were blocked off,
according to the notice.  Hovensa said on Jan. 26 it plans to shut some processing
units permanently at the plant, cutting crude distillation
capacity 30 percent to 350,000 barrels a day to trim losses.  The capacity reduction is scheduled to be completed this
quarter,  Alex Moorhead , a company spokesman in the  U.S. Virgin
Islands , said in an e-mailed statement that day. Two crude
distillation units, one vacuum distillation unit, two distillate
desulfurizers, a production fractionator, a platformer, a
naphtha fractionation unit and a visbreaker will be shut.  The Hovensa refinery receives and processes crude oil from
around the world via tankers. It sends finished products,
including heating oil and gasoline, to the U.S. Gulf and East
coasts. The plant has onsite crude oil and petroleum product
storage tanks with a total capacity of 32 million barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  