-- 
Democrat Hoyer Backs U.S. Corporate-Tax Overhaul Without Cutting Revenue

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-02-11T17:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/hoyer-backs-corporate-tax-overhaul-without-revenue-cut.html
Congress should eliminate the
“extraordinary complexity” in the U.S. corporate tax code and
lower rates without giving companies a net  tax cut , said Steny Hoyer, the second-ranking U.S. House Democrat.  “We’ve got to have a corporate tax structure that is, in
fact, competitive with the rest of the world,” so Congress
should “reduce preference items very substantially and bring
rates down,” Hoyer said during an interview on “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend on Bloomberg
Television.  Hoyer said Congress cannot afford to lose revenue in
overhauling taxes. Asked whether his position was  tax reform 
that doesn’t lose revenue, he said, “yes.”  Hoyer, 71, said Republicans who control the chamber may
eventually discuss a long-term deficit-reduction package that
addresses tax increases and entitlements such as Social
Security.  “At this point” Republicans “won’t talk about
revenues,” said Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat. “But they know in
the back of their heads, even if they don’t articulate it” that
“revenues have to be a part of this.”  “In order for us to bring down the deficit, we’ve got to
cut spending, but we’ve also got to increase revenue,” Hoyer
said. He noted that the U.S. is “at the lowest level” of tax
collection in more than 50 years.  Hoyer, while stressing the need to “get a handle on this
deficit” -- projected at $1.5 trillion this year -- took issue
with some cuts being contemplated by House Republicans and
President  Barack Obama .  Social Security, Medicare  So far, Republicans are concentrating on a small portion of
the total federal budget -- about 13 percent -- that doesn’t
include defense or entitlements such as Social Security and
Medicare.  They have “deluded, I think, the American people and
themselves in believing” those cuts will solve the long-range
deficit problem, Hoyer said.  By focusing on a relatively small and “very visible part
of the pie” that “lends itself to demagoguery, you will not
solve this problem,” he said.  House Republicans would be “penny-wise and pound-foolish”
if they push plans to cut spending for education and the  National Institutes of Health , he said.  The government’s “investment” in treating or curing
cancer, diabetes and other “chronic diseases that cost our
nation very substantial amounts of money” is “going to pay off
in much bigger dollars,” Hoyer said.  Cuts in Education  “Clearly they’re looking at cuts in education, which are
going to undermine” long-term investment in U.S.
competitiveness, he said.  Hoyer said divisions over budget cuts among Republicans
continue to leave Democrats “a little bit in the dark” about
the majority’s plans for financing the government for the next
seven months of the 2011 fiscal year. That’s due to a “very
animated” discussion among Republicans seeking deeper cuts,
forcing their leaders to find more ways to reduce spending, he
said.  The 2012 budget Obama will submit to Congress next week
will also include “painful cuts” of such programs as heating
assistance for the poor. “They’re going to be troubling,
particularly in a very cold winter,” Hoyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 