-- 
Hoyer Backs Corporate Tax Overhaul, No Revenue Loss (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-11T21:39:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/hoyer-backs-corporate-tax-overhaul-no-revenue-loss-transcript-.html
Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the second-ranking U.S. House Democrat, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that Congress
should eliminate the U.S. corporate tax code’s complexity
and lower rates without giving companies a net  tax cut .  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with House Democratic
Whip Steny Hoyer of Maryland. Thank you for being with us,
Congressman.  REPRESENTATIVE STENY HOYER: Always good to be with
you, Al.  HUNT: Republicans ran on slashing federal spending,
and they’re beginning to offer some details on scope and
particulars. You don’t like their spending cuts or many of
them, I know, but give us an idea of some specific cuts and
the effects you think they would have.  HOYER: Well, first of all, let me say that we heard
the message and we believe strongly we’ve got to get a
handle on this deficit. It’s unsustainable. We’ve got to
cut spending. We, frankly, have to look across the board at
revenues, entitlements, defense, discretionary spending.
Unfortunately, what the Republicans are doing is looking at
only one segment of that -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Which is discretionary.  HOYER: - which is discretionary spending, which is
about $450 billion of the $3.7 trillion.  HUNT: Any particular cuts that they are making that
you think will -  HOYER: I think, clearly, they’re looking at cuts in
education, which are going to undermine what the president
talks about, investment. Every business leader I talk to
says we’ve got to invest in education.  China  is.  India  is.  Europe  is. Our competitors are educating their young people
so that they can be competitors in the international global
marketplace.  They want to cut, as I understand it, funds from
programs which help - a safety net for some of our people,
whether it’s nutritional programs -  HUNT: They’re going to cut - are they going to cut the
NIH budget?  HOYER: I understand the basic biomedical research
budget is, in fact, being cut.  HUNT: And what would -  (CROSSTALK)  HOYER: Now, again, Al, I want to make clear: As we
talk, they have not put yet online the cuts that they’re
proposing. And the reason they haven’t done so is because
they thought they had an agreement, but that agreement fell
apart at a very animated caucus this week. And as a result,
we don’t yet have specific cuts. So I’m a little bit in the
dark -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: All right. Let’s turn to Obama then, because
Obama said he is also going to offer painful cuts in his
budget which is going to come out on Monday. That’s going
to include reducing low-income energy assistance. It’s
going to include no longer civilian pay parity with
military. Are those are going to be acceptable to you and
your caucus?  HOYER: I think we’re going to have to look at them.
Again, his budget doesn’t come out until next week. So
we’re going to have to look at those. And some of the
information I hear is there’s going to be painful cuts,
women and some children funding apparently is going to be
cut. Some of the cuts that you just mentioned, low-income
energy assistance cuts. They’re going to be troubling.
Particularly in a very cold winter with a lot of snow,
people are going to -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: So he may not get some of that?  HOYER: Having - having said that, though, I think it
is a recognition by the administration, which we recognize,
as well, that there are going have to be some very tough
decisions made. As you know, I’ve taken a position for the
last year that we’re going to have to look across the
board. And I applaud the two commissions that reported,
which reported across-the-board focused and across-the-
board fiscal discipline financial cuts. I think that’s
going to be necessary.  We need to get a handle on this deficit. The American
people are correct. However, the Republicans have deluded,
I think, the American people and themselves in believing
that the cuts that they want to get can be taken from about
13 percent or 14 percent of the budget on which people
rely, and you mentioned  National Institutes of Health ,
which are looking at how to cure cancer,  heart disease ,  lung disease , diabetes, chronic diseases that cost our
nation very substantial amounts of money, and the
investment in either preventing them or treating them or
curing them, are going to pay off in much bigger dollars.  So I think in some cases the Republicans are being
pennywise and pound-foolish.  HUNT: Republicans say that, all right, you want to
have entitlements. The president has to lead on that.
Should the president make some specific proposals on Social
Security, say, and should that be tied to revenue
increases, also?  HOYER: Al, I have said and continue to believe that
the president, the Republicans in the House and Senate, and
the Democrats in the House and Senate need to sit down and
come to grips with how we deal with entitlements, defense
spending, and - and discretionary spending, because the
deficit is, in fact, a crisis.  HUNT: And not taxes?  HOYER: And taxes, excuse me. I’m glad you mentioned
that. Revenues have to be a part of this package.  HUNT: But should the president -  (CROSSTALK)  HOYER: Tax reform needs to be a part of the package.  HUNT: Should the president take the lead in - in that?  HOYER: I think the president took the lead when he
appointed the commission that has reported, the Bowles-
Simpson commission. I think the recommendations they made
are very useful recommendations. That doesn’t mean I agree
with every one of them. But we’ve got to follow a formula
similar to the recommendation of not only that commission,
but of Domenici-Rivlin commission.  HUNT: Do you think anything will happen seriously?  HOYER: I hope so.  HUNT: I know you hope so. But do you think anything
will happen?  HOYER: I think - I think it can. I think that when I
talk to David Camp, when I talk to  Paul Ryan , when I talk
to other Republicans, they believe that action needs to be
taken.  HUNT: And they will not just say, “We’re not going to
talk about taxes”? They are going -  HOYER: At this point in time, they will say, “We ought
not to be talking about revenues.”  They won’t talk about
revenues. But they know in the back of their heads, even if
they don’t articulate it, that revenues - as each one of
the commissions headed up by Republicans, as - as - as the
members - two of the three members, Republicans from the
Senate signed on to the commission report, which said that
revenues have to be a part of this.  So I think the answer to that question is that I think
all sides understand that if you don’t consider all of the
options, including revenues, including defense, including
entitlements, just focusing on discretionary spending,
which is a relatively small part of the pie, but is a very
visible part of the pie and lends itself to demagoguery,
you will not solve this problem.  HUNT: The business community says it wants corporate
tax reform that reduces overall corporate taxes. Is that
doable?  HOYER: I think that the president said in his State of
the Union, Al, that we need to be competitive with the
world. We have an agenda that’s called the “Make It in
America” agenda. I’m pushing it very, very hard. “Make It
in America,” of course, means two things: A, we’re going to
succeed in America. We’re going to have a brighter future.
We’re going to grow our economy and compete with the rest
of the world. And it also means we’re going to make it,
we’re going to manufacture or grow it in America and sell
it here and abroad.  In order to do that, we’re going to have to look at  tax policy  and regulatory policy. And to make sure that we
have an environment - we’ve created an environment in which
people can profitably make it in America -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: So when you do corporate tax reform -  HOYER: So the answer to your question is, we’ve got to
have a corporate tax structure that is, in fact,
competitive with the rest of the world. One of the things
we have to do, in my opinion, is look at all the
extraordinary complexity of our  tax code , the loopholes
that have been put into it. I think we ought to reduce
preference items very substantially and bring rates down.  HUNT: So, therefore, it would be revenue-neutral? You
would not have a corporate tax cut?  HOYER: I talked to a corporate leader the other day,
and I said, look - we mentioned corporate - revenue-
neutral. I said, look, on the one hand, you have said our
deficit is a real problem. On the other hand, you say you
want to reform the tax code with - and have revenue-
neutrality. The two are not compatible.  In order for us to bring down the deficit, we’ve got
to cut spending, but we’ve also got to increase revenue.
We’ve got to increase revenue, because right now, we are at
the lowest level of tax collections of revenues we’ve been
in over a half-a-century.  HUNT: Let me just make sure I have this right, then.
Corporate tax reform that doesn’t lose revenue, is that -
is that your position?  HOYER: I would be for tax - yes.  HUNT: Okay.  HOYER: I think neutrality in that sense.  HUNT: Congressman Hoyer, thank you so much for being
with us.  And when we come back, we’ll talk to Bloomberg
reporters about the battle of the budget and about the
crisis in Cairo.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.77.31389.25>#
-0- Feb/11/2011 21:39 GMT
 