-- 
Pakistan Airline Halts Flights as Strike Extends to Fifth Day

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 
2011-02-11T10:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/pakistan-airline-halts-flights-as-strike-extends-to-fifth-day.html
  Pakistan International Airlines
Corp ., the national carrier, halted operations as workers struck
for a fifth day and demanded Managing Director Mohammad Aijaz Haroon be fired over a route-sharing plan with  Turkish Airlines .  Employee protests caused the airline to close its booking
office in Karachi and to cancel about 250 flights at airports
across the country today, Mashhood Tajwar, spokesman for the
airline, said by telephone in Karachi.  Pakistan International’s services have been disrupted since
the strike began Feb. 7 over plans to let  Turkish Airlines  fly
the carrier’s passengers to North American and  Europe  via
Istanbul. Union leaders said the route-sharing plan would reduce
revenue and jobs and that Haroon, 55, had mismanaged the
airline.  “Airports will remain closed across  Pakistan  because we
will continue with our strike if the managing director is not
removed,” Shaukat Jamshed, president  Society of Aircraft
Engineers of Pakistan , said by phone from Islamabad. “That area
is non-negotiable.”  Shares of the carrier slumped 7.3 percent to 2.54 rupees as
of 3:38 p.m. in Karachi trading, set for their biggest decline
since Aug. 10.  Interior Minister Rehman Malik has said he will deliver a
reply today to protesters’ demands from the country’s prime
minister, Jamshed said.  The agreement with Turkish Airlines would transform
Pakistan International into a domestic airline because it would
no longer fly on key transcontinental routes,  Pakistan Airlines
Pilots Association  President Suhail Baluch said.  The two airlines have not signed an agreement on the plan,
Tajwar said.  Pakistan International, which posted a fifth straight
annual loss in the year ended December 2009, also lost money in
the first three quarters of last year. The company has yet to
report full-year results for 2010.  To contact the reporter responsible for the story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  