-- 
Pandora Media Files IPO to Raise $100 Million for Web-Based Music Service

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-02-12T23:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/pandora-media-files-for-100-million-ipo-capitalizing-on-dot-com-rebound.html
Pandora Media Inc., the biggest
Internet-radio company, plans to raise as much as $100 million
in an initial public offering, aiming to capitalize on its
growing audience and renewed demand for dot-com investments.    Morgan Stanley ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., William Blair & Co.
and Stifel Nicolaus Weisel will handle the IPO, Pandora said
yesterday in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The Oakland, California-based company didn’t say how
many shares it would offer or at what price.  Founded in 2000 by Tim Westergren under the name Savage
Beast, Pandora’s ad revenue surged over the past two years as
its music application became one of the most popular on  Apple
Inc .’s iPhone and  Google Inc .’s Android devices. Sales more than
doubled to $55.2 million in the year ended January 2010 and then
jumped to $90.1 million in the first three quarters of the
following year. The service has more than 80 million users.  “They are almost a household name at this point,” said
Brian Zisk,  co-founder  of the Future of Music Coalition, a
Washington-based nonprofit that advocates for artists. “The
whole concept that you can go out and have an IPO as an Internet
music company is a great thing.”  Pandora followed Freescale Semiconductor Inc. in filing for
an IPO yesterday. Freescale, a maker of chips for cars, phone
networks and consumer devices, plans to raise $1.15 billion --an
amount that would make it the biggest U.S. technology IPO since
Google in 2004.  ‘Clearly Optimistic’  More Internet companies also are moving toward IPOs.
LinkedIn Corp. announced plans last month to raise $175 million
in an offering. HomeAway.com Inc., the vacation-rental website,
is choosing bankers for an IPO, people with knowledge of the
plans said this week. And the daily-deal site Groupon Inc. is in
talks with banks about going public, people familiar with the
matter said last month.  “Management and their investors are clearly optimistic
about IPO prospects this year,” said  Lise Buyer , principal of
the IPO advisory firm Class V Group. Pandora is “a highly
regarded consumer brand, which certainly could help with the
deal marketing.”  The company’s growth has helped bring it closer to
profitability. Its net loss for the nine-month period ended in
October was $328,000, compared with $18.6 million in the year-
earlier period.  Ad-Supported  Pandora offers its service for free and makes most of its
money by selling advertisements to marketers such as Hallmark
Cards Inc. and MillerCoors LLC, which target users based on age,
gender, home ZIP code and musical taste. The company generates
more than 86 percent of its revenue from ads, though it also has
a subscription for users who prefer to pay for an ad-free
service.  As more music goes online, Pandora faces increased
competition from companies such as CBS Corp.’s Last.fm, as well
as startups like  Slacker Inc. , Spotify Ltd. and  Rdio Inc . Apple,
Facebook Inc. and Google could offer competing services in the
future, Pandora said.  The company also said in the filing that its auditor has
identified “material weakness” in the way it handles financial
reporting. The company said it’s working to remedy the concerns.  Top Investors  Pandora’s biggest shareholder is venture firm Crosslink
Capital in  San Francisco , which owns 23 percent of the company.
 Walden Venture Capital , also in San Francisco, owns 19 percent,
and  Menlo Park , California-based  Greylock Partners  controls 14
percent. Westergren owns 2.4 percent, and Chief Executive
Officer  Joseph Kennedy  has 2.7 percent.  Earlier this month, the company added former News Corp.
President Peter Chernin and former Netflix Inc. Chief Financial
Officer Barry McCarthy to its board.  Pandora’s IPO marks a recovery from the brink of
bankruptcy. In 2007, a ruling by the  U.S. Copyright Royalty
Board  increased song royalty rates -- a cost the company
struggled to absorb. Westergren lobbied the government to allow
the rates to be renegotiated, saying Pandora would go out of
business without the change.  New terms were reached in July 2009, when online-radio
companies agreed to pay a per-song royalty or 25 percent of
revenue, whichever is greater, for music they stream. The money
is paid to SoundExchange, a nonprofit group for music labels.  From its early days as a song-recommendation site, Pandora
has remade itself as a top  Internet service , said David Pakman,
a New York-based partner at venture capital firm Venrock
Associates and the former CEO of digital-music company
EMusic.com.  “It’s a great service, an important Internet brand, and a
company that has made a great transformation over 10 years,”
Pakman said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  