-- 
Peru’s Sol Rises to 33-Month High After ‘Preventative’ Rate Rise

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-02-11T20:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/peru-raises-rate-for-second-month-to-3-5-in-preventative-step.html
  Peru ’s sol rose to the strongest
level in 33 months after the central bank increased its
benchmark lending rate for a second straight month amid surging
growth and higher commodity prices.  The sol earlier today touched 2.7630 per  U.S. dollar , its
strongest level since May 2008. The currency closed little
changed at 2.7665 after the central bank purchased dollars to
stem its gains.  Policy makers raised the benchmark rate by a quarter-point
to 3.50 percent yesterday after inflation in the $130 billion
economy accelerated at the fastest pace in 27 months in January.
Inflation may quicken beyond policy makers’ 1 percent to 3
percent target range this year for the first time since 2009 as
global food and crude oil prices climb.  “The  central bank  runs the risk of bolstering the sol,”
said Augusto Saldarriaga, head of analysis at Banco
Internacional del Peru, the country’s fourth-largest bank. “The
higher rate will fuel demand for soles. The bank will be running
this risk in the coming months as foreign investors have a
margin to borrow in dollars and invest in soles.”  Consumer prices rose a greater-than-forecast 0.39 percent
in January, more than double December’s rate, on higher food and
electricity costs, according to the national statistics agency.
The annual rate jumped to 2.17 percent.  Economists predict consumer prices will rise 3.3 percent
this year, according to the central bank’s  monthly survey 
published Feb. 4. The analysts projected 2011 inflation of 2.5
percent in the previous survey.  Rate Outlook  Policy makers will probably boost rates to 5.5 percent by
October, including half-point increases in April and May, given
Peru’s growth, Barclays Capital Inc. said in a note to clients
today.  “The presence of overheating risks will require a more
active monetary policy,” said Barclays, which projects growth
of 8.3 percent this year and inflation of 3.6 percent. “With
the experience gained since 2007-08 and the shields put in place
in the onshore money market, we think the central bank should
feel more confident in its ability to manage a fundamentals-
driven appreciation.”  Rising inflows led the central bank to buy $497 million
since Feb. 1, including $130 million today, after restarting
purchases halted in October.  The sol is likely to strengthen to 2.60 per dollar in the
next 12 months, Barclays said.  Price increases may affect other goods and services unless
policy makers tame inflation expectations amid surging growth,
said  Roberto Flores , an economist at Lima-based brokerage
Inteligo SAB.  Inflation Expectations  The rate increase was “preventative” in a context of
rising international prices for food and energy and “rapid”
growth in domestic economic activity, the central bank said in a
 statement  posted on its website announcing its rate decision.  “This measure seeks to reduce the potential impact of
these supply factors on inflation expectations,” the central
bank said. “Future adjustments in the benchmark rate will
depend on new inflation data and its determinants.”  The central bank said Feb. 6 that while the drivers behind
January’s price rises are “temporary,” it will act to keep
annual inflation within its target range.  Price data for the “first days” of February indicate this
month’s inflation may be slower than January’s, the central
bank’s research director Adrian Armas said during a conference
call with reporters today. The annual inflation rate is likely
to remain within the central bank’s target range this year, he
said.  Economic Growth  “This precautionary tightening cycle is going to continue
because the bank wants to keep things under control,” Flores
said in a phone interview. “The economic indicators show
activity is still growing rapidly.”  Peru’s economy probably grew 8.9 percent last year,
matching 2007’s increase, the second-highest since 1994,
according to Scotiabank Peru, the country’s third-largest
lender.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 was unchanged at to 6.01 percent, according
to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  The bond’s yield rose to its highest level in more than six
months on Feb. 7 as traders bet the central bank will raise the
benchmark rate.  “Keeping inflation within the Central Bank’s tight
inflation target in 2011 could prove to be more challenging than
it was in 2010,” Eduardo Cavallo, a Latin America economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York , said in a research note e-
mailed to investors last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  