-- 
Ex-SEC Heads Pitt, Levitt Fault Missed Tips, Regulatory Capture

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-11T18:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/pitt-levitt-say-u-s-ignored-tips-on-mortgage-backed-bond-manipulation.html
U.S. regulators failed to act on “a
gift” of a tip from Paulson & Co. Inc. that a major brokerage
had approached the hedge fund to solicit help in a scheme to
manipulate markets, former Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Harvey Pitt  said.  “We had the name of the person who made the call. We had
the language the person used,” Pitt said in an  interview  with
the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission on Sept. 17, which was
posted on its  website  yesterday. Pitt was an adviser to the New
York-based hedge fund at the time. “This was a gift, and no
cases were brought,” he said.  In June 2007, the hedge fund told the SEC to be on the
lookout for manipulation of bonds backed by subprime mortgages.
The firm said investment banks were seeking to pay inflated
prices to buy bad loans underlying some bonds in order to
prevent the bonds from defaulting, which would trigger losses in
the banks’ derivatives investments.  Pitt said he met with regulators on Paulson’s behalf,
including the SEC, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the  Federal Reserve .
The regulators had difficulty understanding the scheme, and each
agency questioned whether it had the authority to stop it, Pitt
said.  Pitt said the scheme did not go forward, in part because of
attention from some government agencies. Pitt didn’t specify the
date of the discussions and didn’t identify the brokerage firm
that allegedly approached Paulson.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for
Paulson & Co., declined to comment.  Skills Lacking    Arthur Levitt , who served as SEC chairman from 1993 to
2001, echoed Pitt’s comments about regulators’ shortcomings.  “They lacked the skills to compete with the array of power
represented by the business community and their lobbyists and
their lawyers and their staffs,” Levitt said in an  interview 
with the FCIC on Oct. 1, which was posted by the commission
yesterday.  In addition to government agencies’ inability to keep up
with industry, “regulatory capture” was also to blame for weak
oversight, Levitt said. “When you meet with the head of a stock
exchange, or the head of an accounting firm, or a lawyer, or a
market maker” as a regulator, a friendship develops, he said.  “Over a period of time, that friendship allows you to look
at the regulatory process with less skepticism than that which
should be the attitude of every regulator,” Levitt said.  Avoiding Friendship  Levitt, the longest-serving chairman in the SEC’s history,
said the structure of regulatory agencies and the people who
conduct the oversight should “constantly change” to prevent
regulators from becoming too friendly with industry.  Levitt is an adviser to the  Carlyle Group , Promontory
Financial Group and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . He is also on the
board of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  “I’ve had enough experience both in business and
government to understand the seductions thrown at regulators,”
Levitt said. “These are not criminal seductions in most cases
but they’re just as pernicious in many ways.”  The FCIC was created by Congress to study the causes of the
worst economic slump since the 1930s. The commission’s findings,
which were published last month, were endorsed by the panel’s
Democratic majority. Four Republican members issued two
dissenting assessments of the causes of the financial crisis.  Editors: Maura Reynolds, Gregory Mott  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 