-- 
Playboy Mansion Worth $54 Million, 45 Times What Hefner Claims, Suit Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-02-12T01:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/playboy-mansion-valued-at-54-million-in-shareholder-lawsuit.html
The Playboy Mansion, the 29-room
home, movie studio and corporate throne of  Playboy Enterprises
Inc . founder  Hugh Hefner , is worth $54 million, or 45 times what
the publisher claimed on its books, a shareholder lawsuit said.  Hefner, 84, and Playboy Enterprises are hiding the true
value of the company’s assets in an effort to take it private
without paying a fair price for the minority stake that Hefner
doesn’t own, according to an amended complaint filed Feb. 4 in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  The information sent to minority shareholders describing
the deal “seems designed to intentionally mislead, or at a
minimum, confuse Playboy’s public shareholders,” lawyers for
the shareholders, Charles A. Germershausen and Feivel Gottlieb,
said in the complaint.  The lawsuit, originally filed in July, is one of at least
two from shareholders challenging Hefner’s takeover attempt.
Hefner has offered $6.15 for each share he doesn’t own,
according to the lawsuit. Through two classes of stock, Hefner
controls 69.5 percent of Playboy’s voting power. The Playboy
Mansion is located in  Los Angeles .  Abi O’Donnell, a company spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  The shareholders are seeking an injunction to prevent
Playboy from closing the proposed buyout, which the board
approved last month after a special committee of directors
negotiated with other bidders, including FriendFinder Networks
Inc., owner of Penthouse adult magazine.  Special Committee  The special committee also negotiated with entities
associated with Plainfield Asset Management LLC, the complaint
alleges.  Shareholders claim that at least two members of the special
committee were controlled by Hefner and didn’t do enough to get
a higher price.  Playboy’s agreement is with Icon Acquisition Holdings LP, a
limited partnership controlled by Hefner. Icon has received
commitments from Rizvi Traverse Management LLC and Jefferies &
Co. to finance the transaction.  The $54 million appraisal was made by Raine Securities LLC
in October after the special committee was contacted by the
shareholders, according to the complaint. Playboy said in its
annual report for 2009 that the mansion was worth as much as
$1.2 million, slightly more than $1.05 million Hefner paid for
the property in 1971.  Highest Price  At that time, the price was the highest ever for a property
of its kind in Los Angeles, according to Playboy.com. Hefner
added a pool, gymnasium, tennis courts and studios. The site is
now owned by Playboy Enterprises, which leases the property back
to Hefner.  The $54 million appraisal may be accurate, according to Syd
Leibovitch, president of Bel Air-based  Rodeo Realty Inc.   “It could be worth $50 million,” Leibovitch said in a
phone interview. “It’s a huge lot. It’s about 17,000 square
feet of living area in the main house and all together 20,000
square feet. In my wildest dreams I couldn’t image it being any
lower than $40 million.”  The highest sale price in 2010 for a home in the greater
Los Angeles area was $50 million, according to Leibovitch.  “That $50 million house was just a mile and a half from
the Playboy Mansion, and the Playboy Mansion is better,” he
said.  ‘Very High End’  Sales of homes valued at $2 million to $5 million have been
slow in the last year, Leibovitch said.  “It’s not that slow at the very high end,” he said.
“There seems to be a bigger gap than we’ve had in a long time
between people doing very well and people not doing well.”  In Los Angeles County, there were 6,161 sales of homes
priced at more than $1 million last year, according to research
by San Diego-based DataQuick Information Systems Inc. That was a
17.6 percent increase from 5,239 in 2009, while still only half
of the 12,214 homes sold in that price range in 2005, the peak
year for the region.  The Playboy Mansion hosts parties and other events
throughout the year, bringing in an undisclosed amount of
revenue to Playboy.  “This is what God would have done if he’d had the money,”
actor Peter O’Toole once said of the property.  The Wilmington case is Germershausen v. Hefner, 5632,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington). The Chicago case is Braun
v. Playboy Enterprises Inc., 10CH30121,  Chancery Division , Cook
County Circuit Court   Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 