-- 
Pound Weakens on Diminishing Speculation That Rates Will Rise This Year

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-11T17:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/pound-falls-before-british-producer-price-data-headed-for-weekly-drop.html
The pound weakened against the
dollar on concern this year’s gains were overdone after the Bank
of England left  interest rates  at a record low yesterday,
dimming speculation that rates may rise later in the year.  Sterling traded weaker against 13 of its 16 most-traded
peers. The U.K. central bank yesterday kept its key rate
unchanged at 0.5 percent. Gilts snapped a nine-day slump today,
even as data showed producer-price inflation accelerated.  “The argument for a much stronger pound is not a good one
based on current rates policy,” said  Steve Barrow , the London-
based head of research for Group-of-10 currencies at Standard
Bank Plc. “At the moment the economy is still sufficiently
vulnerable for inflation to come down. On that basis, one would
tend to favor a scenario where rates only go up towards the back
end of the year.”  The pound lost 0.6 percent to $1.6002 at 4:45 p.m. in  London . Sterling declined 0.7 percent this week, though it has
still advanced 2.5 percent this year. Britain’s currency
depreciated 0.1 percent to 84.61 pence per euro.  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell two basis points to 3.87
percent. The 4.75 percent security due March 2020 rose 0.12, or
1.20 pound per 1,000 pound ($1,612) face amount, to 106.70. Two
year gilt yields were little changed at 1.556 percent.  Producer Prices  The cost of goods at factory gates jumped 1 percent from
December, when it rose 0.4 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. That’s the most since April and
exceeded the 0.5 percent median forecast of 14 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The PPI data isn’t having a material impact on
sterling,” said Gavin Friend, a markets strategist at National
Australia Bank in London. “The market has been long sterling
for a while, so it’s due for a bit of a pullback, especially in
light of the Bank holding yesterday.”  The  Bank of England  has faced mounting pressure to raise
borrowing costs for the first time since July 2007 to help curb
inflation, which has exceeded its target for more than a year.
Inflation accelerated to 3.7 percent in December, equalling an
April reading that was the highest since November 2008.  Former Bank of England policy maker  Kate Barker  said
officials may be wary of increasing rates if it risks stoking
gains in the pound that would undermine the economic recovery.  Inflation Outlook  “Having a reasonably weak sterling is very helpful, that
is certainly a reason why you’d expect a lot of caution on
changing rates,” Barker said in an interview in London. “The
bank would certainly be uncomfortable if sterling appreciated
strongly, because that would solve the inflation problem but it
would be depressing the economy.”  Governor  Mervyn King  has dismissed inflation risks as
temporary, saying government spending cuts and slower-than-
estimated economic growth will curb price pressures.  “The market has fully priced in two rate hikes this year
with the risk that the bank hikes sooner rather than later, but
they might pause to see what effect the austerity measures have
on growth,” said Friend. “Cable is also down because of a
stronger dollar,” he said, referring to the dollar-pound  exchange rate .  Britain’s government has lowered spending and lifted taxes
to reduce its fiscal deficit from an estimated 10 percent of
gross domestic product in the year through March.  Short-sterling futures rose, lowering the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December by two basis points to 1.72
percent. A lower yield indicates investors are reducing bets
that policy makers will increase borrowing costs.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations over the life of the
securities, derived from the yield gap between conventional and
index-linked bonds, fell three basis points to 3.24 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  