-- 
Powerfuel Seeks EU Funds on Second U.K. Carbon Capture Plant

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-02-11T18:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/powerfuel-seeks-eu-funds-on-second-u-k-carbon-capture-and-storage-plant.html
Powerfuel Power Ltd . said it plans
to start a second  carbon capture  project in the U.K. and that it
applied for funds from the European Union’s sale of 4.5 billion
euros ($6 billion) of carbon-dioxide permits.  Powerfuel Power, a unit of the coal mine operator Powerfuel
Plc that went into administration in December, will enter its
Hatfield Endex Combined Cycle Gas Turbine project for the
European Commission funding program known as the New Entrants
Reserve 300. It is developing the project, its second
application to the NER300, with Calix Ltd., the company said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Powerfuel’s project would fit technology known as carbon
capture and storage to a 450-megawatt plant at the site near
Doncaster, northern  England . It would siphon off emissions from
natural gas or gasified coal before it’s injected for storage
underground in depleted oil and gas fields.  The technology at Hatfield’s Endex plant would draw away
more than 85 percent of the emissions from the facility,
according to the statement. The companies plan to have a 10-
megawatt pilot plant working in 2012. Both projects could be
working at a commercial scale by the end of 2015.  B9 Coal Ltd., a London-based coal company, and fuel cell
technology company  AFC Energy Plc , also will participate in the
project. Their plan involves using the waste hydrogen left over
after the carbon capture process. The gas will be used to power
fuel cells that convert the fuel into electricity through
chemical processes.  “The technology’s high efficiency and load-following
capabilities make it a key ingredient in the recipe for
commercial CCS success,” Alisa Murphy, a director at B9 Coal,
said in an e-mail.  Nine Entries  Companies had to submit applications to governments for
funding by Feb. 9. The U.K. Department of Energy and Climate
Change received nine proposals, a spokeswoman said.  Funds will come from the sale of 300 million allowances to
emit carbon dioxide under  Europe ’s cap-and-trade program.
Revenue from the sale will be used to aid carbon-capture and
renewable energy projects. The  European Investment Bank  will
sell the permits and disburse revenue via national governments.  Powerfuel is also seeking funds for a carbon capture device
at a 900-megawatt integrated gasification combined cycle power
plant. Those plans, which also involve capturing emissions
before combustion, are among the most advanced in Europe,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Britain’s coalition government has pledged 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) to fund the first commercial demonstration
project to capture and permanently store carbon dioxide. This
money will go to a CCS technology that captures CO2 from a coal
plant after burning the fuel. Iberdrola SA’s Scottish Power unit
is the only company in the running for these funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  