-- 
Premier League Television Lawsuit May Be `Disastrous,' Soccer Clubs Say

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-02-11T14:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/premier-league-television-lawsuit-may-be-disastrous-soccer-clubs-say.html
A U.K. pub manager’s bid to show
televised Premier League games more cheaply could cut the
revenue of European soccer clubs, according to the continent’s
biggest leagues.  Landlady Karen Murphy is seeking to show Greek broadcasts
of the games at her pub in Portsmouth,  England . Advocate General
Juliane Kokott of the Luxembourg-based  European Court of Justice 
said Feb. 3 in a non-binding opinion that it was unlawful to
block access to the transmissions under European Union
regulations. A ruling is expected in the next few months.  The case could change the way broadcasters bid for soccer
rights on a country-by-country basis, reducing the money they
pay to leagues and clubs, Emanuel Macedo de Medeiros, chief
executive of the Association of European Professional Football
Leagues, told reporters in  Madrid . In turn, clubs would have to
reduce investment on youth training, he said.  “The consequences are uncertain and disastrous” if the
Premier League loses the case, Macedo de Medeiros said. It could
turn into a “new Bosman case that will change the way
television rights are sold.”  In the 1995 Bosman case, the EU court changed European
soccer’s player transfer model by ruling fees demanded by clubs
for out-of-contract players were unlawful. The case was brought
by a Belgian player Jean-Marc Bosman.  The Premier League started a three-year, 1.78 billion-pound
($2.9 billion) U.K. television contract in August, and receives
a further 1 billion pounds from the sale of international TV
rights. British Sky Broadcasting Plc and ESPN, a unit of  Walt
Disney Co ., have exclusive U.K. rights.  Murphy pays a fraction of the cost to get a Greek broadcast
of the matches at her pub. The U.K. league said Feb. 3 that
Kokott’s opinion on the case doesn’t mesh with existing EU law.  “We have unconditional support for the Premier League,”
Macedo de Medeiros, whose group also represents  Italy ’s Serie A
and  Spain ’s La Liga among other championships, said after a
board meeting in Madrid. Transmitting foreign broadcasts of
games is a “predatory practice,” Macedo de Medeiros added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 