-- 
President Obama to Make Statement on Mubarak Stepping Down at 1:30 P.M.

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-02-11T18:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/president-obama-to-make-statement-on-mubarak-stepping-down-at-1-30-p-m-.html
President  Barack Obama  was informed
during an Oval Office meeting of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s decision to step down and plans to make a statement
at 1:30 p.m. Washington time.  After being told about Mubarak’s action, Obama went to an
outer office to watch television coverage of the scene in Cairo
for several minutes, Tommy Vietor, an administration spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  Vice President  Joe Biden , giving the first administration
reaction to the events, called Mubarak’s departure a “pivotal
moment” for Egypt and the Middle East. He said the stakes are
“not about Egypt alone.”  “All has changed in the last 15 years internationally and
all continues to change,” Biden said in remarks at a spring
lecture series at the University of Louisville in  Kentucky . The
future “depends on our ability to adequately understand and
engage the truths of our time.”  Mubarak’s bow to the demands of protesters who have
crowded central Cairo for the past three weeks demanding his
ouster relieves one challenge for the Obama administration and
presents another in managing policy toward Egypt in transition.  “The Egypt scene is as complex for us, the regional scene
is more complex now that Mubarak has stepped down,” said Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at the  Center for American Progress , a
policy research organization in Washington.  Statements by Obama and other administration officials
yesterday indicated they expected Mubarak to take this step
last night.  ‘Witnessing History’  “We are witnessing history unfold,” Obama said before
Mubarak addressed his country. “It’s a moment of
transformation.”  Instead, Mubarak announced last night he would cede some
authority to his vice president,  Omar Suleiman , and remain in
office until elections scheduled for September. He also decried
outside interference, a rebuke to the U.S.  Obama expressed impatience in a written statement issued
afterward that also called on the Egyptian leaders to explain
their plan for a transition from Mubarak’s reign.  “The Egyptian government must put forward a credible,
concrete and unequivocal path toward genuine democracy, and
they have not yet seized that opportunity,” Obama said.  Mubarak’s resignation came after Egyptians streamed out of
Friday prayers vowing to topple the 82-year-old leader, who has
been in power for three decades.  Stocks rose and oil fell after Egyptian state television
announced Mubarak was stepping down.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,327.01 at 11:27 a.m. in  New York . The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  gained 30.16 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,259.45.  Crude oil futures for March delivery fell $1.05, or 1.2
percent, to $85.68 a barrel at 11:07 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net 
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 