-- 
Rand Falls, Near Weakest in 5 1/2 Months, on Egypt Crisis, Inflation Worry

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-11T12:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/rand-slumps-near-weakest-in-6-months-on-egypt-crisis-inflation-concern.html
South  Africa ’s rand slid to the
weakest in almost 5 1/2 months against the dollar, set for a
sixth weekly decline, as Egypt’s political crisis intensified
and on concern global inflationary pressures are rising.  The rand depreciated as much as 1.2 percent to 7.3490 per
dollar, the weakest intraday level since Sept. 1. The currency
traded 1 percent down at 7.3204 at 1:57 p.m. in Johannesburg,
extending this year’s decline to 9.4 percent, the most among
more than 20 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. Its loss
this past week was 0.9 percent.  Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak defied calls for his
immediate resignation late yesterday, agreeing only to delegate
powers to his deputy, as thousands crammed into central Cairo
demanding an end to his 30-year rule. South African President  Jacob Zuma ’s State of the Nation speech in Cape Town yesterday
had little impact on the market, analysts said.  “Mounting global inflationary concerns and uncertainty
surrounding the geopolitical tensions in Egypt have seen
participants scale back on risky assets,” Michael Keenan, a
currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg,
wrote in a client note today. “There were no surprises in last
night’s State of the Nation address, so we expect the rand to
keep tracking international sentiment.”  Stocks fell from  Asia  to  Europe  after Egyptian President
Mubarak’s refusal to step down following two weeks of protests
hurt investor appetite for higher-yielding assets. Oil prices
rose on concern the turmoil in  Egypt  will destabilize the Middle
East, adding to concerns global inflation will rise.  Jobs Program  “We foresee that  risk aversion  will remain in place for
the current trading session, which is why selling into rand
strength with a target of 7.32 would be our preferred strategy
into the weekend,” Keenan wrote.  South Africa’s government will implement a 39 billion-rand
($5.4 billion) job creation and tax incentive scheme to help
ease the unemployment crisis in Africa’s biggest economy,
President Zuma said last night. The country’s jobless rate eased
to 24 percent in the final three months of last year, down from
25.3 percent in the third quarter, the government’s statistics
office said Feb. 8.    Government bonds  fell for a second day in  South Africa ,
with the 13.5 percent security due September 2015 losing 3 cents
to 121.33 rand. The yield was unchanged at 7.86 percent.  Against the euro, the rand lost less than 0.1 percent to
9.8983. The move extended the rand’s fifth straight weekly loss
against the common European currency to 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  