-- 
Realia May Miss Analysts' 2010 Profit Estimate on Spanish Market Struggle

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-02-11T12:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/realia-may-miss-analysts-2010-profit-estimate-on-spanish-market-struggle.html
  Realia Business SA , a Spanish real
estate company, may miss 2010 analyst estimates for profit as
Spain’s real estate market struggles to recover from the
property bust.  Realia, which is controlled by  Fomento de Construcciones y
Contratas SA  and a group of savings banks led by  Caja Madrid ,
said it considers 2010 net income estimates compiled by
Bloomberg to be “slightly high,” Director of Corporate
Strategy and Investor Relations Jaime Llorens Coello said in an
interview. The company is expected to post net income of 10.1
million euros ($13.7 million), its first profit since 2007, on
300.5 million euros in revenue, according to analysts surveyed.  “The estimates are in line” with the company’s results,
Llorens said at his office in Madrid late yesterday. “Perhaps
net income is a bit high.”  After  Spain ’s debt-fueled real estate boom ended, prompting
the worst economic recession in six decades, Madrid-based Realia
swung to a 45.8 million-euro loss in 2008 from a profit of 140.4
million euros in 2007.  The company aims to expand its commercial property assets,
which include offices and shopping malls, from about 60 percent
to 80 percent of assets in two years, and become “less
dependent on the residential market.” Residential buildings
still have negative margins and the company aims for them to
turn “slightly positive, about 3 or 4 percent this year,”
Llorens said.  Changed Strategy  Realia changed its strategy five years ago, putting more
emphasis on commercial property assets, Juan Jose Fernandez Figares, an analyst at Link Securities in  Madrid , wrote in an e-
mail today. “It was a correct decision that has allowed it to
overcome the crisis better than its competitors, which are more
exposed to the residential market.”  Spanish home sales fell for a fourth month in December as
tax incentives for buyers expired. Home transactions fell 1.7
percent from a year earlier, after a 6.2 percent drop the
previous month, the National Statistics Institute said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  The company, which operates in Spain, France, Portugal,
Poland and  Romania , will invest its “approximately 140 million
euros in liquidity” and considers the U.K.,  Italy  and  Germany 
as potential markets, in addition to purchasing more assets in
Spain and  France .  “We’ll see something in Paris or Madrid,” Llorens said,
though the Spanish capital offers few “quality” options and
Paris is too expensive.  Measuring Success  “The key issue this year is where they’ll invest that
liquidity,” Javier Hombria, a Madrid-based analyst at Ahorro
Corporacion Financiera, said by phone today. “The stock market
will measure Realia’s management success based on that.”  Spanish real estate shares have soared this year with  Quabit Inmobiliaria SA  more than doubling,  Metrovacesa SA 
surging 57 percent and  Inmobiliaria Colonial SA  gaining 45
percent. Realia shares have advanced 5.4 percent, valuing the
company at 458 million euros, a 75 percent decline since its
2007 initial public offer as of yesterday.  Realia shares added 1.2 percent to 1.66 euros at 1:54 p.m.
in Madrid.  ‘Speculative Movements’  The surge in Spanish real estate stocks “cannot be
justified either by looking at companies’ fundamentals or the
latest industry data,” Marta Gomez, a Madrid-based analyst at
Banesto Bolsa, wrote in a Feb. 9 report. “The only explanation
we find follows speculative movements.”  Llorens said in the interview that Realia has “no
explanation” for the industry’s recent performance.  Realia halted its dividend payment in 2008 as it incurred
losses. The company doesn’t plan to pay a dividend any time
soon, Llorens said. It plans to report full-year earnings in
about two weeks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 