-- 
Treasury’s Housing Plan Lacks Detail, Republicans Say

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-14T15:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/treasury-plan-has-promise-while-lacking-detail-republicans-say.html
(Corrects home state of Senator Johanns in 17th paragraph in
story published Feb. 11.)  Congressional Republicans criticized
what they termed a lack of detail in the Treasury Department’s
plan to overhaul mortgage finance while saying they would use
the report as a starting point for debate over legislation.  The proposal delivered to Congress today by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Shaun Donovan, the secretary
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, would have
the government shrink “and ultimately wind down” mortgage
firms Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  under three possible scenarios.  Congress already has scheduled hearings on the matter,
kicking off a complex legislative process that lawmakers and
administration officials said may last months or years.  “What the administration offered today isn’t a plan to
move us forward, but rather a collection of options to
consider,” Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama
Republican who heads the Financial Services Committee, said
today in a statement. “What’s needed is a real plan, and we
intend to sit down with administration officials to find common
ground.”    Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, which were taken into
government conservatorship in 2008 and have drawn more than $150
billion from the Treasury since then, were left untouched in the
Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul last year over the objections of
Republicans. A provision in the law required Treasury to present
Congress with a proposal this year.  Senior House Republicans, in statements today, said they
were “encouraged” by portions of the administration’s plan
that would phase out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and reduce the
federal role in the mortgage market.  Political Risk  The 31-page plan may force the hand of the Republicans who
have railed against the mortgage companies since their collapse,
said  Brian Gardner , the senior vice president of Washington
research for Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.  “This tries to flush out the congressional Republicans a
little bit,” Gardner, a former House Republican aide, said in a
phone interview. The proposal is an effort to “actually have
them take some political risk and actually propose legislation
and alternative systems.”  Where Congress ends up has implications across the
financial system, with the largest banks like  Bank of America
Corp . and  Wells Fargo & Co ., as well as  credit unions , community
banks, homebuilders and real estate brokers all holding stakes
in the outcome.  Crossing Party Lines  Yet unlike the legislative debate on the overhaul of
financial regulation, which was a largely partisan process, the
battle lines on housing finance don’t track along party lines,
Gardner said.  Conservative Republicans, long critical of the role Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac play in the housing market and their burden
on taxpayers, have pushed for a quick end to federal involvement
in mortgages. Still, as a group Republicans may be wary of
risking harm to the fragile housing recovery or the ire of major
realtor and homebuilder trade groups, said Representative Brad Miller, a North Carolina Democrat.  “I can’t imagine that they would really want to do
something that would make that important of a constituency
apoplectic,” Miller said in an interview.  Some Democrats have argued that a form of federal guarantee
is necessary to protect affordable housing goals.  ‘Underlying Concern’  “My underlying concern is that they may radically increase
the cost of homeownership, and housing in general, over the
coming years,” Representative Maxine Waters,  a California
Democrat and member of the Financial Services panel, said today
in a statement.  The split in power between a Senate run by Democrats and a
House in Republican hands will add another layer of difficulty
that didn’t exist during the Dodd-Frank debate.  Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South
Dakota Democrat, said he welcomed the report and looked forward
to finding “bipartisan consensus around sound policy
solutions.”  The top Republican on the panel, Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , said the report doesn’t contain many details and lacks
“any sense of urgency.” Senator Mike Johanns of  Nebraska ,
Shelby’s Republican colleague on the panel, said “the
administration’s failure to step forward with a concrete plan is
disappointing.”  Geithner, who led the Obama administration through the
Dodd-Frank debate after being at the center of President George W. Bush administration’s response to the financial crisis as
head of the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York , noted that
regardless of lawmakers’ plans and positions, the process will
take time.  “This is going to take five to seven years,” Geithner
said.  Donovan also said there wouldn’t be quick action on the
proposals.  “There is an education and discussion that needs to happen
about the implications of these reforms,” he told reporters
today. “Given the fragility of the market at this point, there
is no need to rush into a decision, particularly when that
education needs to take place.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  