-- 
Treasuries Rise on Refuge Demand as Mubarak Steps Down Amid Turmoil

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-02-11T22:51:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/treasuries-rise-as-auctions-end-next-round-of-fed-debt-purchases-begins.html
Treasuries rose, with 10-year notes
erasing a weekly loss, as political change amid continued mass
protests in  Egypt  fueled demand for refuge in U.S. government
assets.  Treasuries gained as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak 
resigned, reversing plans outlined in a speech last night that
drew calls for continued and larger protests in Cairo.
Treasuries were also supported by the end yesterday of note and
bond sales this week totaling $72 billion and continued debt
buy-backs by the  Federal Reserve .  “The Egyptian story is adding a bit to the market because
there is still a lot of uncertainty about what the situation
will look like going forward,” said Christian Cooper, head of
U.S. dollar derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies & Co.,
one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “We
rallied when he refused to leave and we are rallying now because
we don’t know who is coming in. In many ways, it’s more
uncertain when you have the potential for a power vacuum.”  Ten-year yields slid seven basis points to 3.63 percent at
5:03 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 advanced 18/32, or
$5.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 30/32. The yield touched 3.6
percent, compared with 3.64 percent Feb. 4.  Thirty-year yields fell eight basis points to 4.69 percent.  Mubarak Moves  Mubarak stepped down and handed power to the military,
bowing to the demands of protesters who have occupied central
Cairo for the past three weeks demanding an end to his 30-year
rule.  “Mubarak has decided to relinquish the office of the
presidency,” said Vice President  Omar Suleiman  in a statement
on state television today. “He has instructed the Supreme
Council of the armed forces to take over the affairs of the
country.”  The Fed bought $7.4 billion of Treasuries due from August
2016 to January 2018 today as it continues its $600 billion plan
to spur the economy to grow fast enough to reduce unemployment.  The central bank said yesterday it plans to buy about $97
billion of Treasuries in 18 operations from Feb. 11 through
March 9. Thus far, the central bank has purchased $320.7 billion
of Treasuries.  ‘Some Support’  “Treasuries are getting some support as supply is behind
us and we are facing several days of Fed buybacks that help the
flow dynamics,” said  David Ader , head of government bond
strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC.
“With uncertainty coming from Egypt, no one wants to be short
Treasuries going into the weekend.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  offered a report
that said the U.S. should “ultimately wind down” government-
sponsored secondary mortgage market companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  Geithner presented Congress with a set of options for
weaning the $11 trillion mortgage market from its dependence on
the government, while calling for changes to be phased in
“responsibly and carefully” to avoid economic disruptions. The
report delivered today by Geithner and Housing and Urban
Development Secretary Shaun Donovan presents three approaches
for a future housing finance system.  Government’s Role  “The administration is signaling that they want more
private markets and wants to reduce government’s role in the
housing market, which is generally bond friendly,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG,
one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly with the Treasury.  U.S. government securities maturing in more than a year
have handed investors a 1.5 percent loss this month, among the
worst performers of 26 sovereign-bond markets tracked by the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg.  “We’ve had oversold conditions in the market and with
supply out of the way and another round of Fed purchases
beginning the market is finding firming ground,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in  New York  at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker. The 10-year note “will stay in a
range from 3.6 percent to 3.7 percent until the fundamentals
change.”  The U.S. Treasury Department said yesterday it will sell
$32-billion in three month bills and $30 billion in six-month
bills at auction on Feb. 14. It will also sell $9 billion in 30-
year inflation-indexed bonds, securities intended to provide
investors with a hedge against inflation, it said.  Debt Ceiling  The  U.S. trade deficit  grew 5.9 percent to $40.6 billion,
in line with the $40.5 billion median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists, Commerce Department data showed today in  Washington . Excluding petroleum, the shortfall shrank to $15.3
billion, the smallest since March.  The  University of Michigan  consumer sentiment index rose to
75.1 this month from 74.2 in January, in line with a Bloomberg
survey before today’s report.  The difference between yields on 2-year and 30-year
Treasuries narrowed to 385 basis points from 393 basis points
yesterday and a record 402 basis points on Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  