-- 
Treasuries Head for Second Weekly Loss Before Consumer Confidence Report

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-11T06:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/treasuries-head-for-second-weekly-loss-before-consumer-confidence-report.html
Treasuries headed for a second
weekly decline, making them the biggest losers among the world’s
largest bond markets this month, on speculation an industry
report today will show  consumer confidence  is rising.  U.S. government securities maturing in more than a year
have handed investors a 1.5 percent loss this month, the worst
performance of 26 sovereign bond markets tracked by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Morgan
Stanley, one of the 20 primary dealers required to bid at the
government debt sales, recommended Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities in a report.  “The momentum for yields to push higher is very strong,”
said Zeal Yin, who helps oversee the equivalent of $51.8 billion
as an investor at Shin Kong Life Insurance Co.,  Taiwan ’s second-
largest life insurer. “The U.S. economic data are very good.”  Ten-year Treasuries yielded 3.70 percent as of 1:48 p.m. in  Singapore , according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.625 percent
note due in February 2021 traded at a price of 99 11/32. Ten-
year yields increased seven basis points this week.  Shin Kong Life holds fewer Treasuries than the percentage
in the benchmark it uses to gauge performance, Yin said.
Financial markets were closed in Japan for a holiday.  Treasury futures contracts, the dollar and the Swiss franc
rose as protests in  Egypt  and a decline in Asian stocks boosted
demand for safer assets. President  Hosni Mubarak  defied calls
for his immediate resignation as thousands of people crammed
into central Cairo.  Ten-year futures advanced 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face
amount, to 118 9/32. The dollar and the franc each strengthened
0.2 percent against the euro. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of
shares slid 0.9 percent, dropping for a third day.  Nine-Month High  Treasuries are starting to become attractive after the 10-
year yield climbed to a nine-month high earlier in the week,
said Chungkeun Oh, a fixed-income trader in  Seoul  at Industrial
Bank of Korea,  South Korea ’s largest lender to small and mid-
sized companies.  “The  U.S. economy  is still patchy,” Oh said. He plans to
buy 10-year notes if the yield rises to another five basis
points 3.75 percent, he said. A basis point equals 0.01
percentage point.  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to purchase $6 billion to
$8 billion of Treasuries due from August 2016 to January 2018
today as part of its plan to sustain the economic expansion,
according to its  website .  The  University of Michigan  consumer sentiment index rose to
75 this month from 74.2 in January, according to a Bloomberg
survey before the report today. First-time claims for jobless
insurance fell to the lowest since July 2008, the Labor
Department said yesterday.    General Motors Co . and Chrysler Group LLC, may award some
managers bonuses of as much as 50 percent of their salary, three
people familiar with the plans said.  Quicker Inflation    Core inflation  has bottomed and will move gradually
higher this year,” Morgan Stanley said in a report yesterday by
strategists Anton Heese, Igor Cashyn and Rachael Featherstone.
Short-maturity TIPS offer the best value, they wrote.  So-called core consumer prices, which exclude food and
energy, increased 0.8 percent in December from a year earlier,
the Labor Department said Jan. 14. The gain was 0.6 percent in
October, a record low based on figures that start in 1958.  TIPS have fallen 2.1 percent in February, headed for their
steepest loss since October 2008, indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch show. That same month credit markets froze
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Wider Spread  The difference between yields on five-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
securities, widened to 2 percentage points. It was the most in
nine months based on closing levels.  Treasuries fell yesterday after the U.S. sold $16 billion
of 30-year bonds, the last of three auctions this week totaling
$72 billion of debt.  “The bias seems to be towards higher rates now with
economic numbers generally coming in better than expected,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of government
debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “People are getting
defensive and positioning themselves for higher rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  