-- 
Treasuries Rise as Egypt, Stock Losses Boost Demand for Debt

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-11T12:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/treasury-futures-rise-as-egypt-protests-stock-losses-boost-safety-demand.html
Treasuries rose, trimming this
month’s loss, as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  defied calls
for his resignation, spurring demand for the safest assets.  Bonds gained as stock markets fell in  Europe  and  Asia ,
feeding demand for the relative security of government debt
after Treasury yields increased to a nine-month high this week.
Data today is forecast to show an index of U.S. consumer
confidence rose and the country’s trade deficit widened.  “We can expect yields to come down because there is
concern that the situation in  Egypt  will get out of control,”
said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA
in Munich. “After the positive performance of Treasury yields
in recent weeks, there is potential for a correction today
because investors will definitely err on the side of caution.”  Ten-year yields slid four basis points to 3.66 percent as
of 7:05 a.m. in  New York , according to BGCantor Market Data. The
3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 advanced 11/32, or
$3.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 23/32. Five-year yields fell
three basis points, to 2.36 percent.  Mubarak, 82, handed day-to-day powers to Vice President  Omar Suleiman  while repeating plans to stay on until September
elections as thousands crammed into central Cairo demanding an
end to his 30-year rule. U.S. President  Barack Obama  urged
Egyptian authorities to take further steps to resolve the
crisis.  Shares Slump  Europe’s Stoxx 600 Index declined 0.4 percent, while the
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index fell 0.9 percent. Crude-oil futures
climbed as much as 1.2 percent before erasing gains.  Treasuries are still headed for a second weekly decline,
making them the biggest losers among the world’s largest bond
markets this month, as U.S. data added to evidence the world’s
largest economy is improving. First-time claims for jobless
insurance fell to the lowest since July 2008, the Labor
Department said yesterday.  U.S. government securities maturing in more than a year
have handed investors a 1.5 percent loss this month, among the
worst performers of 26 sovereign-bond markets tracked by the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg.  “The momentum for yields to push higher is very strong,”
said Zeal Yin, who helps oversee the equivalent of $51.8 billion
as an investor at Shin Kong Life Insurance Co.,  Taiwan ’s second-
largest life insurer. “The U.S. economic data are very good.”  Trade Deficit  The  University of Michigan  consumer sentiment index likely
rose to 75 this month from 74.2 in January, according to a
Bloomberg survey before today’s report. Separate data is
forecast to show the trade deficit widened to $40.5 billion in
December from $38.3 billion a month earlier as the cost of
imported oil climbed.  A good confidence number could cause Treasuries to “give
up the gains,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income
strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “The scope is
there for an upside surprise, and that would be a negative for
the Treasury market.” Egypt’s turmoil won’t support the market
all day, he said.  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to purchase $6 billion to
$8 billion of Treasuries due from August 2016 to January 2018
today as part of its plan to sustain the economic expansion,
according to its  website .  Treasuries fell yesterday after the U.S. sold $16 billion
of 30-year bonds, the last of three auctions this week totaling
$72 billion of debt.  Supply Traction  “The market is trying to find some traction coming out of
this week’s supply,” said Eric Wand, an interest-rate
strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets. It’s obviously
helping sentiment now that’s out of the way and the belly of the
curve is very modestly outperforming.”  The U.S. Treasury Department said yesterday it will sell
$32-billion in three month bills and $30 billion in six-month
bills at auction on Feb. 14. It will also sell $9 billion in 30-
year inflation-indexed bonds, securities intended to provide
investors with a hedge against inflation, it said.  Morgan Stanley, one of the 20 primary dealers required to
bid at the government debt sales, recommended Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities in a report.    Core inflation  has bottomed and will move gradually
higher this year,” Morgan Stanley said in a report yesterday by
strategists Anton Heese, Igor Cashyn and Rachael Featherstone.
Short-maturity TIPS offer the best value, they wrote.  So-called core consumer prices, which exclude food and
energy, increased 0.8 percent in December from a year earlier,
the Labor Department said Jan. 14. The gain was 0.6 percent in
October, a record low based on figures that start in 1958.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  