-- 
Republicans Beat Unions With Pension ‘Fright,’ Fund Lawyer Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-02-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/republicans-peddle-fright-on-state-pensions-california-fund-lawyer-says.html
Congressional Republicans are using
scare tactics to push a bill blocking bailouts of state pensions
as a way to undermine government unions, said John Stanton, a
lawyer for the California State Teachers’ Retirement System.  “They are peddling fright about the supposed imminent
insolvency of public pension plans,” Stanton said yesterday at
a meeting of the second-largest U.S. public pension fund’s
board. “It really is an attack on the public-employee unions.”  U.S. Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican,
has proposed requiring state pension plans to report their
liabilities based on more common accounting techniques, such as
Treasury rates. That would enlarge estimated unfunded
obligations because Treasuries typically provide lower returns
than are projected now for pension assets. The bill would strip
noncompliant states of their ability to issue tax-exempt debt.  “The congressman’s legislation is intended to protect the
interests of government employees and their employers, namely
the taxpayers,” Andrew House, a Nunes spokesman, said today by
e-mail. “Allegations beyond this clear intent are little more
than an effort to hide the truth by peddling fright,” he said,
turning Stanton’s words back on him.  Called the  Public Employee Pension Transparency Act ,
Nunes’s bill would prevent the federal government from sending
aid to help states cover unfunded pension obligations. Nunes
cited estimates that state pension plans are underfunded by as
much as $3 trillion.  Funding Study  A study released in October by  Joshua Rauh  and Robert Novy- Marx, who teach finance at  Northwestern University  and the
University of Rochester, respectively, said state and local
pensions have unfunded liabilities of about $3.6 trillion, if
their returns on assets were projected using Treasury discount
rates to adjust for risk. Republicans are using the study as
proof that the public funds need bailouts, which is a “red
herring,” Stanton said.  Representatives of the $146.4 billion California fund’s
board should convey to legislators and the public that “states
are working on this issue,” Stanton said at the meeting in West
Sacramento. Board members should make it clear that they “don’t
need a one-size-fits-all solution” from Congress, he said.  “It’s not been lost on the Karl Rove crowd that the only
group that was able to keep up with them in federal campaign
spending was public-employee unions,” said Stanton, a partner
in the Washington office of  Hogan Lovells , referring to the
Republican political strategist and former White House adviser.  Rove’s Role  Rove, 60, helped run two organizations, which with other
Republican groups operating independently of the parties and
candidates, spent almost $100 million more than Democratic
organizations in 2010, according to the  Campaign Finance
Institute , a Washington-based research group. Rove was a top
aide to former President  George W. Bush , a Republican.  A Bloomberg analysis of state pensions showed funding
levels across the 50 states, as of fiscal 2009, ranged from 51
percent of projected liabilities in  Illinois  to more than fully
funded in  New York . The median level was 76 percent of estimated
obligations, according to the analysis.  The California teachers plan reported a funding level of 78
percent in June 2009, according to a  statement  last month.
That’s the most recent figure available, said Ricardo Duran, a
spokesman. The fund, which covers 852,000 public-school
educators and their families, had a 12.7 percent return in 2010.  No Crisis  “In our state, there is not a crisis, funding levels are
improving with  investment performance ,” Stanton said.  Requiring states to put an additional $3 trillion into
their pensions would result in surpluses, he said. Talk of a
crisis, meanwhile, has spooked holders of municipal bonds, many
of them individual investors, who have pulled $24.8 billion out
of municipal-bond mutual funds since mid-November, according to
Lipper US Fund Flows in Denver.  The ultimate goal of the Republicans is to prompt local
governments to eliminate traditional defined-benefit pensions
and replace them with 401(k)-like contributory  retirement plans ,
Stanton said.  “The federal bill has been described as air cover for
folks working on the ground,” Stanton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  