-- Republicans Hug Big Government in Abortion Fight: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2011-02-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/republicans-hug-big-government-in-abortion-fight-ann-woolner.html
Among the seemingly bedrock
principles that gird conservative policy are these:  The less government involvement in private lives, the
better.  The money you earn is yours, not the government’s to decide
how much you can have.  And yet some House Republicans now say that whatever money
a tax break lets you keep is actually government cash going into
your pocket.  Likewise, you might be shocked to learn that while
Republicans are directing a multifront assault on a government
requirement to buy insurance, these House Republicans want to
dictate what kind of coverage Americans can and can’t buy with
their own money.  What issue could possibly prompt conservative Republicans
to hammer away at bedrock precepts?  Abortion, of course.  Not content with the  Hyde Amendment  making it impossible
for federal money to go for abortions (except in extreme cases),
not satisfied with complicated measures enacted to ensure no
federal funds indirectly touch privately funded abortions,
sponsors of a new bill are trying to use last year’s health-care
overhaul to make it even less likely that insurers will offer
abortion coverage to anyone.  It’s called the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion bill, but
don’t let the title fool you. The measure could curtail
privately funded abortions, too.  Voiding Tax Breaks  Sponsored by New Jersey Republican Representative Chris Smith, it would void tax breaks given to companies and the self-
employed for insurance premiums on policies that cover abortion.
The idea is that by leaving more of your money in your pocket,
the government is giving you some of its cash.  Nor could a woman pay premiums for such a policy with
pretax, flexible-spending accounts. True, she earned every penny
of that money, but if she’s not paying taxes on it, she can’t
spend it on something anti-abortionists don’t like.  Smith would also make sure that no one who gets a federal
subsidy under the new health-care law could sign up at an
insurance exchange for a plan that offers abortion benefits,
thus discouraging insurers from offering such policies even to
the unsubsidized.  As for abortion riders for people willing and able to pay
for the benefit, insurers  reported  last year that employers tend
not to ask for them. It’s one thing to have a policy that covers
it along with other unplanned injuries and illnesses, as most
insurers do. But apparently not many people pay extra in advance
just in case they have an unplanned, unwanted pregnancy.  Conservative Thought  Given the overblown rhetoric about the “nationalization”
of health care, surely Republicans should oppose government
dictates on what sort of policy an insurer can provide, an
employer can offer and an individual can buy privately.  Where are we,  Canada ?  And then there’s the fact that this bill would invite the
government to intervene in the most intimate of decisions, which
should turn conservative thought on its head.  No, that principle, too, gets a blink when the issue is
abortion.  I get it that some opponents consider abortion, even some
forms of contraception, to be murder. To some, you might as well
kill a newborn as use a pill that prevents a zygote -- a
fertilized egg smaller than a grain of salt -- from attaching to
the uterus.  But that’s  theology , not science, and it shouldn’t dictate
public policy.  Building Barriers  The Smith bill’s true  aim  isn’t to prevent taxpayer funding
but to take the movement closer to its ultimate goal of ending
all abortion.  Anti-abortion forces can’t do that outright because it
would be unconstitutional and has been since 1973. But ever
since the U.S. Supreme Court so ruled in Roe v. Wade, opponents
have been passing state and federal laws to throw as many
barriers between women and abortion as courts will allow, while
pushing Republican presidents to name judges who will permit
more hurdles.  Humiliating gauntlets now greet women seeking even
privately funded, early term abortions in many states. A poor
woman must somehow scrape together the money, even if the
pregnancy endangers her health.  Only if she’s at risk of dying or the victim of rape or
incest can Medicaid pay for it, unless she lives in one of the
17 states that let state money pay.  Women at War  For women who put their lives on the line to serve their
country in war zones, safe, legal abortions are almost
impossible because military hospitals can’t provide them.  That’s how it is already.  With this and other anti-abortion measures on their agenda,
House Republicans are undercutting their claim that they want to
focus on fiscal restraint and on jobs.  Any characterization of the Smith bill as a cost-saver
insults anyone within earshot. It is less expensive to end a
pregnancy than to carry it to birth.  As for diverting focus from employment and spending issues,
it seems there’s always time to enact another limit on a woman’s
right to abortion.  It’s nothing to deviate from an agenda aimed at giving
Americans what they most want, which is jobs. Not for those who
are willing to ignore basic conservative principle to involve
government in more people’s private lives.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  