-- 
RIM Said to Plan PlayBook Software to Run Google Apps

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-02-11T21:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/rim-said-to-plan-playbook-software-to-run-google-android-apps.html
  Research In Motion Ltd ., preparing
to start sales of its BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, is working on
software to allow the device to run applications for  Google
Inc .’s Android, three people familiar with the matter said.  RIM plans to integrate the technology with the PlayBook
operating system, giving customers access to Android’s more than
130,000 apps, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the effort isn’t public. RIM, after looking outside the
company, is developing the software internally and may have it
ready in the second half, two people said.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company aims to make the
PlayBook stand out against  Apple Inc .’s iPad and a rising number
of competing devices. By offering a tablet with the security and
messaging of BlackBerry smartphones and the wide choice of
Android apps, RIM may be able to woo customers who would
otherwise opt for alternative devices, said Tero Kuittinen, an
analyst with MKM Partners LLC.  “This is very exciting,” said Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Kuittinen, who has a “buy” rating on RIM and doesn’t own
the shares. “This gives an extra boost to the PlayBook.”  The feature could push up sales of the PlayBook by 30
percent to 50 percent, said Kuittinen. He said he is considering
raising his estimates for PlayBooks to be sold this year to more
than 4 million units from 3 million.  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment.
RIM has said it plans to introduce its tablet in the U.S. in the
first quarter and then overseas.  RIM fell 1 cent to $66.87 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. RIM fell 14 percent last year as Apple
climbed 53 percent and Google declined 4.2 percent.  Android Rising  Android tablets captured 22 percent of global shipments in
the three months to Dec. 31, a tenfold jump from a year earlier,
according to Boston-based  Strategy Analytics . That narrowed
Apple’s share of the tablet market to 75 percent from about 95
percent three months earlier.  There are about six times as many apps available from
Google’s  Android Market  as the 20,000 in RIM’s App World. The
selection has helped companies that make Android devices,
including Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co. Android became the world’s top smartphone
platform, researcher  Canalys  said last month.  “It will be a shrewd move to let Android apps run RIM
without any performance or user interface hiccups,”  Chetan Sharma , an independent wireless analyst in Issaquah,  Washington ,
said in an interview. “It will make the RIM platform attractive
to consumers as it lacks the strength of the rivals from an apps
perspective.”  No Dalvik  PlayBook sales may reach $1.1 billion, or 4.8 percent of
the $22.8 billion in revenue analysts predict for RIM in its
next fiscal year that begins in March. The calculation is based
on the median of 17 estimates in a December Bloomberg survey for
RIM to sell 2.55 million tablets at an average price of $430.  RIM had considered using Google’s Dalvik, the Java software
used in running Android apps, and decided against it for reasons
including an ongoing patent dispute between  Oracle Corp . and
Google over the software, two people said.  Oracle gained the Java programming language as part of its
$7.3 billion purchase of Sun Microsystems Inc. last year.
Developed by Sun in the mid-1990s, Java lets developers write
programs that work across different operating systems and on a
variety of computers.  Katie Barron, an Oracle spokeswoman, and Shari Doherty, a
Google spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment.  Looking for Sales  RIM is looking to the PlayBook to boost revenue as its
share of the global smartphone market drops. BlackBerry
represented 14.4 percent of the market in the fourth quarter,
down from 20 percent a year ago, according to Canalys.  RIM is building its tablet on QNX, software bought as part
of a $200 million acquisition from Harman International
Industries Inc. in April. QNX will give the PlayBook more
reliability than rival operating systems built for smartphones
and adapted for tablet devices, RIM co-Chief Executive Officer
Jim Balsillie has said.  Opting for QNX also put the PlayBook a step closer to
Android as they share the common Posix standard, said Peter Misek, an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York.  Wade Beavers, who runs mobile application developer DoApps
Inc. in  Minneapolis , said he would welcome an easier way to sell
software to RIM customers. He used to make apps for BlackBerry
smartphone users and now focuses on Apple and Android devices.  “It was too much headache for too little return,” he said
in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  