-- 
Rio May Expand Buyback on Higher Prices, Analysts Say

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-02-11T17:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/rio-tinto-may-increase-share-buyback-on-higher-metals-prices-analysts-say.html
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-
largest mining company, may increase its $5 billion share
buyback should the commodity price rally persist, analysts said.  “We see potential for this to be progressively increased
with subsequent result announcements, especially given the
strength of our forecast earnings,”  Lyndon Fagan , a Sydney-
based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a
report. RBS estimates Rio’s profit at $18.8 billion in 2011.  The London-based mining company announced the buyback
yesterday after an increase in iron ore and copper prices drove
2010 net income to a record $14.3 billion. The price for Chinese
iron ore imports, an Asian benchmark, jumped 43 percent last
year and reached $188 a metric ton yesterday, the highest since
at least 2008, on higher demand from  steel mills  in the region.
Copper on the  London  Metal Exchange rose 30 percent last year.  Rio may double its capital management plan, buying back $5
billion in shares this year and $5 billion next if  iron ore 
prices remain high, Neil Goodwill, a Melbourne-based analyst at
Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty, said in a report
yesterday. Rio’s cash flow is “stunning,” he said.  Rio yesterday said cash from operations swelled by 70
percent last year to a record $23.5 billion.  ‘Carefully Judged’  “We’ve only just announced the $5 billion and you’re
already asking us to look at another version,” Chief Financial
Officer Guy Elliott told analysts yesterday regarding the
possibility of a mid-year or end-of-year review. “We really
have got no plans to do that. We think this $5 billion is very
carefully judged.”  Rio raised its final dividend by 40 percent yesterday to 63
cents a share, bringing the full-year payout to 108 cents. The
dividend forms the basis of a new “progressive” policy aimed
at boosting the U.S. dollar value of payouts over time, Rio
said. Rivals  Vale SA  and  Xstrata Plc  have also announced plans
to raise their dividend as commodity price gains boost profits.  Rio advanced 1.6 percent to 4,623.5 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close of trade in London today. The stock earlier fell 1.6
percent to A$87.28 at the close in Sydney.  Rio said yesterday it planned to complete the buyback by
the end of 2012 and would probably buy its London-listed shares
because they trade at a discount to the Australian stock. The
buyback is equal to about 2 1/2 months of operating cash flow,
RBS’s Fagan said in yesterday’s report.  Alcan Acquisition  Rio halted its last buyback in July 2007 after agreeing to
buy Alcan Inc. for $38.1 billion. At that point, the company had
repurchased $5.4 billion of shares in a $7 billion program that
began in 2006.  “While always a delicate balance, it is hard to consider
the program announced as being particularly aggressive in light
of the amount and duration flagged,” Macquarie Group Ltd.
analysts wrote in a report today.    JPMorgan Chase & Co . analysts reduced their earnings
estimates for Rio by 5 percent this year and next, citing
expected higher costs in the iron-ore unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Melbourne  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;  Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 