-- 
Romney's `No Apology' for Health Law in Massachusetts May Hinder 2012 Bid

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-02-11T16:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/romney-s-no-apology-for-health-law-in-massachusetts-may-hinder-2012-bid.html
The title of  Mitt Romney ’s book,
“No Apology,” has some Republican critics saying he should
think about making an exception.  The former Massachusetts governor has been insistent that
the 2006 health-care law he shepherded into law in his state
that requires individuals to purchase insurance is distinct from
President Barack Obama’s national plan.  Rulings by federal judges in Virginia and Florida that the
U.S. law’s so-called individual mandate is unconstitutional,
though, have highlighted skepticism among many Republicans about
Romney’s argument.  “The grassroots feels this is a litmus test” as Romney
prepares for a presumed 2012 presidential run, said Tom Gaitens,
co-founder of the Tea Party in Tampa, Florida, site of the
Republican nominating convention. “Defending his law in  Massachusetts  is a misstep. Admit you made a mistake and let’s
move forward.”  Romney, 63, didn’t broach the health-care issue in a speech
today to the annual Conservative Political Action Conference in
Washington. Instead, he aimed attacks at Obama’s foreign and
economic policies.  “An uncertain world has been made more dangerous by the
lack of clear direction” from Obama, Romney said.  ‘Moral Tragedy’  He also said Obama failed in not focusing on America’s
“job crisis” during his first two years in office. Romney
called the nation’s unemployment rate, which stood at 9 percent
in January, a “moral tragedy.”  Romney’s avoidance of the health-care issue left some
supporters grumbling. Christopher Kniesler, a political
consultant from  New Jersey  wearing a Romney sticker, said after
the speech that he was heading to talk with Romney’s advisers
about the matter.  Romney “upped his game,” and “is ten times more
polished” than when he ran for president four years ago, said
Kniesler. Still, referring to health care, he said, “I would
love to see him take that issue right on in his stump speech. It
has to happen. That’s going to be the biggest criticism hanging
around his head.”  Straw Poll  The CPAC gathering, which organizers say will attract more
than 10,000 participants, has become an early testing ground for
Republican presidential prospects. Results of a straw poll at
the event will be announced at its concluding session tomorrow.  In previous remarks, Romney has defended the Massachusetts
health-care law by saying insurance mandates should be the
prerogative of states and not the federal government. And the
topic remains something he can’t ignore in his still unofficial
nomination bid, said Alex Castellanos, an adviser to Romney in
his 2008 presidential campaign.  “What he did at the state level is what Obama did at the
federal level,” Castellanos said. “This will be an interesting
test for him.”  Castellanos, who no longer advises Romney, said he believes
his one-time client needs to quickly make a clear distinction
between the Massachusetts health-care law and the federal one.
“If he doesn’t swing at this pitch, he doesn’t have many
strikes left,” Castellanos said.  Other Republicans mentioned as presidential prospects
include Governors Mitch Daniels of  Indiana  and Haley Barbour of  Mississippi , Senator John Thune of  South Dakota , Representatives
Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and Ron Paul
of  Texas , former Governor Tim Pawlenty of  Minnesota , former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , and former Senator
Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania  -- all of whom had speaking slots
before CPAC.  Not Present  Potential contenders who aren’t attending the event include
Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate,
former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who sought the
nomination four years ago, and Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman,
who has announced he’ll resign that post.  Romney raised $4.7 million for his political action
committee last year, more than any of his party’s presidential
prospects. As of yesterday, he was in a virtual tie for first
place with Huckabee in an  average of polls  compiled by the
RealClearPolitics website. Each had an overall figure of about
19 percent support; Palin was next with a little more than 16
percent.  For the paperback release last week of “No Apology,”
first published last year, the subtitle was changed from “The
Case for American Greatness” to “Believe in America.” It also
contains a new introduction in which Romney criticizes Obama’s
“extreme liberal agenda.”  Equity Firm  Before his 2003-2007 stint as governor, Romney co-founded
the Boston-based private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, and
helped turn the 2002 Winter Olympics in  Salt Lake City ,  Utah ,
into a financial success. He touts those credentials as the  U.S.
economy  struggles to rebound from the worst downturn since the
Great Depression.  As president, he said in his speech today, he wouldn’t have
to rely on advisers for instruction on how the economy works. “I
know,” he said.  Still, repealing the  federal health-care law  remains
paramount for the anti-tax activists who fueled Republican gains
in the 2010 midterm elections.  “That issue is the number one reason why Mitt Romney’s
candidacy is not going to be successful with the Tea Party
movement,” said  Francisco Gonzalez , founder of the Tea Party
movement in Tallahassee,  Florida .  Romney, through his staff, declined interview requests.  ‘Template’  Amitabh Chandra, a professor at  Harvard University  in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said the Massachusetts law “was the
template” for the federal one, “there’s absolutely no question
about it.”  In Massachusetts, taxpayers face a fine of up to $1,116 per
year for failure to purchase insurance. The penalty in the
federal law will be phased in, reaching up to $2,085 or 2.5
percent of a family’s income -- whichever is greater -- by 2016.  Romney, in defending Massachusetts’ individual insurance
mandate during a Feb. 1 appearance on ABC’s “Good Morning
America,” said “states have rights that the federal government
doesn’t have” under the U.S. Constitution.  He also said, “We don’t need the federal government
imposing a one-size-fits-all requirement on the nation.”  ‘Federalist Argument’  Romney spokesman Eric Fehrnstrom said the former governor
will keep offering a “strong federalist argument” that health-
care policy should be handled by each state. Fehrnstrom cited an
August 2007 speech to the Florida Medical Association in which
Romney said, “I like what we came up with, but I will let other
states make their own choice.”  His argument could backfire if voters fail to see a
difference between a state or the federal government doing the
mandating.  “This could be a made-to-order TV ad for one or several of
his opponents,” said Keith Appell, a public relations executive
and former spokesman for the anti-tax Club for Growth. “As  Jerry Seinfeld  would say, ‘good luck with THAT.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 