-- 
Romney, Pawlenty Prep for Potential White House Bids in Wooing Activists

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-02-12T05:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/romney-pawlenty-prep-for-potential-white-house-bids-in-wooing-activists.html
Former governors Tim Pawlenty
and  Mitt Romney , two of the more active unofficial Republican
White House contenders, wooed party activists yesterday with
attacks targeting President  Barack Obama .  “Now, I’m not one who questions the existence of the
president’s birth certificate,” Pawlenty, of  Minnesota , said at
the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington.
“But when you listen to his policies, don’t you at least wonder
what planet he’s from?”  Romney, of Massachusetts, told his audience that he
wondered how Obama “went from change you can believe in, to can
you believe this change?”  Pawlenty’s critique of Obama included a call for repeal of
the health-care overhaul the president pushed into law last
year. Romney, who during his 2003-2007 gubernatorial term
spearheaded enactment of a state law comparable to the national
one, didn’t mention that issue.  Unlike many of the other roughly dozen prospective
presidential contenders addressing the conference -- which began
Feb. 10 and attracted more than 10,000 people -- Pawlenty, 50,
and Romney, 63, are actively competing for donors and building
staff in the states with early nominating races next year.  In their conference appearances, the two former governors
were seeking to win over skeptical Tea Party activists whose
energy spurred Republican gains in November’s midterm elections.
Many of these activists prefer party insurgents such as Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee who didn’t
attend the conference, and Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who
spoke at the gathering yesterday.  ‘Thin Base’  “Romney has a base here, but it’s a thin base,” said
David Keene, former president of the American Conservative
Union, which organizes the conference. “He’s trying to augment
that.”  Keene judged that Pawlenty was making some inroads. “If
there were a most-improved candidate, it would be Pawlenty,” he
said.  Prospective candidates who spoke on Feb. 10 included
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota and former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia and former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania . And billionaire real estate developer
Donald Trump created a buzz when he told the conference he might
enter the race. “I will decide by June whether I will become”
a candidate, he said.  Among other potential Republican White House contenders,  Indiana  Governor Mitch Daniels addressed the conference’s dinner
yesterday and Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour speaks to
today’s concluding session.  Daniels avoided direct swipes at Obama while highlighting
his fiscal record in Indiana and casting the nation’s burgeoning
national debt as a national security dilemma.  ‘Financial Niagara’  “We face an enemy lethal to freedom,” he said. “It is
the new ‘Red Menace,’ this time consisting of ink.” He
cautioned that “if our nation goes over a financial Niagara, we
won’t have much strength and ultimately we won’t have much
peace.”  Remedies he proposed included revising the tax system so
that it “looks like someone designed it on purpose.” And in
calling for a reduction of the government’s regulatory
authority, he suggested the Environmental Protection Agency
should be renamed the “Employment Prevention Agency.”  Romney and Pawlenty offered stump-like speeches that didn’t
shy from directly assailing Obama.  ‘Fired Up’  Pawlenty began his remarks with his own version of a phrase
Obama used in the 2008 campaign, asking his listeners “are you
fired up and ready to take this country back?” They responded
with shouts of “yes.”  He said the country needs “more common sense and less
Obama nonsense.”  Focusing on the top priorities of the fiscally conservative
Tea Party movement, Pawlenty said Republicans should reject, as
part of a push to reign in “reckless”  government spending , a
soon-to-come administration request for an increase in the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.  In an appeal to social conservatives, he said, “We, as a
nation, must move towards God, not away from Him,” he said.  Romney concentrated on Obama’s economic record, saying the
president failed in his response to America’s “job crisis”
during his first two years in office. Romney called the nation’s
unemployment rate, which stood at 9 percent in January, a
“moral tragedy.”  ‘Uncertain World’  He also criticized Obama’s foreign policy in  Afghanistan ,  Iran  and elsewhere, saying “an uncertain world has been made
more dangerous by the lack of clear direction” from the
president.  Romney touted the business experience he gained as co-
founder of the Boston-based private-equity firm Bain Capital
LLC. “I wouldn’t be asking Timothy Geithner how the economy
works or  Larry Summers  how to start a business. I know,” Romney
said.  Geithner serves as Obama’s treasury secretary; Summers
recently stepped down as director of the administration’s
National Economic Council.  Romney’s avoidance of the health-care issue left some of
his own supporters grumbling.  Christopher Kniesler, a political
consultant from  New Jersey  who wore a Romney sticker, said after
the speech that he was heading to talk with Romney’s advisers
about the matter.  ‘More Polished’  Romney “upped his game,” and “is 10 times more
polished” than when he ran for president four years ago, said
Kniesler. Still, referring to health care, he said, “I would
love to see him take that issue right on in his stump speech. It
has to happen. That’s going to be the biggest criticism hanging
around his head.”  Romney has faced increased pressure over the issue amid
court rulings in Florida and Virginia finding unconstitutional
the law’s requirement that individuals carry health insurance.
The so-called individual mandate is also at the heart of
Romney’s 2006  Massachusetts  health law.  Attacks on the national law Republicans have dubbed
“Obamacare” were mainstays in the speeches by others. “The
individual mandate in Obamacare is a page right out of the Jimmy Carter playbook,” Pawlenty said.  For Pawlenty, the looming challenge is to increase his
national profile. “I recognize his name,” said Peter Evans, an
editor of the Politics and Prayer website attending the
conference. “I believe he’s a governor somewhere.”  Poll Data  A Real Clear Politics average of polls of the potential
2012 Republican candidates has Romney and former Arkansas
Governor Mike Huckabee, who didn’t attend the conference, in a
virtual tie for first place, each with almost 19 percent,
followed by Palin, with 16.4 percent. Pawlenty’s support was 4.1
percnet.  Palin and Huckabee cited scheduling conflicts as their
reason for skipping the conference. A Palin impersonator was
surrounded by dozens of attendees yesterday as she walked
through the hotel where the conference is being held.  Paul, who won the straw poll of potential candidates at
last year’s conference, got a boisterous reception for his
speech. Paul attracted a following among some young voters
in his unsuccessful bid for the Republican nomination in 2008.  “I’m glad to see the revolution is continuing,” he said
to loud cheers.  Hatch Heckling  Activists heckled Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican,
when he was asked at a panel yesterday about his vote in 2008
for the government financial rescue package aimed at stabilizing
the economy.  “I probably made a mistake” voting for it, Hatch said,
among hoots from some in the crowd. He added that at the time,
it appeared the economy badly needed the injection of funds
provided by the Troubled Asset Relief Program and that it was
the Republican administration of President  George W. Bush  that
was proposing it.  “All I can say is, there aren’t many people who will say
I’m sorry. I’m one who will,” Hatch said.  Hatch is up for re-election next year and may face an
insurgent challenge in the primary. Senator  Mike Lee , a Utah
Republican who won his seat in November after Tea Party
activists blocked the re-nomination of Republican incumbent
Robert Bennett earlier in the year, said yesterday he wouldn’t
endorse Hatch in next year’s primary.  Hatch promised activists that he would take a more fiscally
conservative position for the remainer of his term. “I’m
prepared to be the most hated man in this Godforsaken city in
order to save this country,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at   llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 