-- Rousseff's Tackling Lula Legacy `Positive Surprise,' Brazil's Cardoso Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2011-02-11T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/rousseff-s-realism-positive-surprise-for-brazil-cardoso-says.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
first month in office has been a “positive surprise” as she
seeks to dismantle the free-spending policies of the previous
government, former President  Fernando Henrique Cardoso  said.  Cardoso, who campaigned against Rousseff, said it’s too
early to know whether Brazil’s first female president can manage
her coalition in Congress as skillfully as her mentor and
predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva . She’ll also have to
“face her own heritage” of overly ambitious, expensive “mega-
projects” that she designed as Lula’s cabinet chief, he said.  Still, Brazil’s president from 1995 to 2002 said he’s
heartened by Rousseff’s willingness to curb spending, distance
herself from Lula’s outreach to Iran and toughen Brazil’s stance
toward China.  “She has some different views from Lula and to me that’s a
surprise,” Cardoso, a 79-year-old  sociologist , said in a Feb. 3
interview at his office in  Sao Paulo . “The starting point was
not negative.”  Since taking office Jan. 1, Rousseff has pledged to roll
back  government spending  that jumped 22.4 percent last year,
helping to fuel the fastest economic growth in more than two
decades. On Feb. 9 the government said it would cut 50 billion
reais ($30 billion) from the budget to help cool inflation
running at a 26-month high.  “It’s enough to look at the numbers to know that it’s
necessary to be much more strict in public spending,” said
Cardoso, who as finance minister in 1994 slashed spending to
help tame 4,922 percent inflation. “Lula preferred not to pay
attention to numbers. She’s an economist.”  Rebalancing Aspirations  Cardoso said Rousseff has been “very clear” in her
refusal to yield to union demands for a bigger increase in the
minimum wage than the government is proposing. Unlike Lula, for
whom high commodity prices made managing the economy “very
simple,” Rousseff will need to “reconnect  Brazil  with a reform
agenda” that tackles barriers to growth, he said.  “You need to rebalance the aspirations a little bit,”
Cardoso said, adding that it was impossible for the government
to simultaneously build a high-speed train between Sao Paulo and  Rio de Janeiro , develop offshore  oil fields  and build the
world’s third-largest hydroelectric dam in the Amazon River
basin.  ‘Big Power’  “The last part of Lula’s government was very close in
imagination to the military regime,” said Cardoso, who spent
part of Brazil’s 1964-1985 dictatorship exiled in Chile and  France . “The military also had the idea of big power and that
growth automatically will solve every problem. Rousseff has to
remold her mind to be more sensitive to realities.”  Latin America’s biggest economy expanded 7.3 percent last
year, according to central bank estimates, as inflation
accelerated to a two-year high of 5.91 percent at the end of
December. This year gross domestic product is projected to
expand 4.6 percent with inflation easing to 5.66 percent,
according to a weekly central bank survey of economists.  The benchmark Bovespa stock index, which surged five-fold
under Lula, has fallen 8.6 percent since Rousseff’s victory over  Jose Serra  in an Oct. 31 runoff. The spread for Brazilian
government dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries narrowed 4 basis
points in the same period, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.    China , Iran  While the 63-year-old Rousseff won’t veer far from Lula’s
foreign policy, her willingness to confront China on its policy
of undervaluing the yuan is a welcome change, Cardoso said.  “Under Lula, illusions about what could be done with China
were enormous,” he said.  China surpassed the U.S. as Brazil’s biggest trading
partner in 2009, as demand for the South American country’s iron
ore, soybeans and beef surged. At the same time, local
manufacturers are facing stiffer competition from Chinese-made
goods. Chinese exports to Brazil rose 61 percent last year to
$25.6 billion as a 34 percent rally by the real against the yuan
since the start of 2009 lowered the cost of imports.  “We don’t want to turn the Chinese into enemies,” said
Cardoso. “But you can’t deny that China poses several question
marks for us.”  Cardoso said Rousseff has also been “very frank” with  Iran , which Lula courted during a series of meetings with
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in Tehran, Brasilia and  New York .
While Rousseff and Lula’s Workers’ Party have an ideological
aversion to the U.S., such sentiment should be “less profound”
in the new government, he said.  Rousseff said she’d make human rights a priority in her
relationship with the Islamic Republic, and told the Washington
Post in December that she opposed Lula’s decision to abstain on
a U.N. resolution condemning Iran for ordering the stoning death
of a woman accused of adultery.  Cardoso’s Legacy  Cardoso was elected president as a member of the Social
Democracy Party in 1994 after implementing as finance minister
the Plano Real that tamed hyperinflation. That success gave him
the popular support to advance in Congress his agenda to
modernize the economy.  Rousseff, who never ran for office before being elected
president and only joined the Workers’ Party on the eve of
Lula’s election, lacks similar leverage to manage her coalition,
he said.  Handling Congress “is very difficult for anyone, but for
her still more because she has no political experience and she’s
not like Lula, who controlled the party,” he said.  As president, Cardoso adopted a floating currency exchange
rate, passed a law requiring spending restraint and implemented
an inflation targeting system.  He handed power to Lula in 2003 with a 24 percent approval
rating and after seeking $30 billion in loans from the  International Monetary Fund  to stem capital flight.  Instead of acting on campaign threats to default, Lula left
in place Cardoso’s policies and expanded programs that helped
lift 21 million people from poverty. Economic growth during
Lula’s eight years in office accelerated to an average annual
pace of 4 percent from 2.3 percent under Cardoso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  