-- 
Trump Joins Others Hinting at Republican Presidential Bids Among Activists

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/trump-joins-others-hinting-at-presidential-bids-among-activists.html
Even “the Donald” couldn’t resist
asking for a new job.  “While I’m not at this time a candidate for the
presidency,” billionaire real estate developer and television
personality  Donald Trump  told a throng of conservative activists
in Washington yesterday, “I will decide by June whether I will
become one.”  Trump joined close to a dozen other would-be contenders for
the Republican presidential nomination in testing their messages
at the opening session of the annual  Conservative Political
Action  Conference. Event organizers said more than 10,000 people
would attend the three-day gathering, and several thousand of
those were on hand to hear Trump.  The activists, emboldened by Republican gains in November’s
midterm elections, are eager to turn those victories into a
White House win for the party in 2012. So far, though, no one
has emerged as a clear front-runner.  “I don’t even see a five-person front-runner,” said
Grover Norquist, president of Americans for  Tax Reform , as he
navigated through crowds of conference attendees at the Marriott
Wardman Park hotel. “Partly because we won, lots of people want
to play.”  Former governors Tim Pawlenty of  Minnesota  and Mitt Romney
of  Massachusetts , and South Dakota Senator John Thune -- all
weighing a presidential run -- are among those addressing the
conference today. Two activist favorites, former Alaska Governor
Sarah Palin and former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, opted to
skip the event, citing scheduling conflicts.  Testing Messages  Other potential candidates yesterday used the gathering to
test possible primary messages, introduce themselves to voters,
and rally activists with attacks on President  Barack Obama .  After speaking, they greeted attendees amid a maze of
advocacy groups handing out fliers, media booths, and vendors
selling items such as an “Obama countdown clocks.”  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann , a favorite of anti-
tax Tea Party activists who’s flirting with a presidential bid,
began the conference by urging Republicans to make Obama “a
one-term president.”  “We have seen President Obama usher in socialism under his
watch over the last two years,” she said to cheers.  Newt Gingrich, the former House Speaker from  Georgia  who’s
considering a run, hinted at a possible campaign platform with a
number of policy suggestions. They included repealing the 2010
health-care law, eliminating the estate tax, signing a fiscally
conservative budget, codifying an executive order that blocks
taxpayer money from funding abortion, and signing a law to
“decisively control the border now.”  New Energy Policy  He also proposed the outline of a new  energy policy . Saying
the administration is waging “a war against American energy,”
he called for replacing the Environmental Protection Agency with
an “Environmental Solutions Agency.”  Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, a popular figure
with social conservatives who also might run, accused the Obama
administration of siding against a U.S. ally in its response to
the unrest in  Egypt  and of failing to denounce Islamic extremism
in strong enough terms.  “He doesn’t say that Jihadism is evil,” Santorum said of
Obama. “This is someone who doesn’t believe in truth and evil
and America.”  Conference participants gave their loudest applause to
Trump, a last-minute addition to the schedule. The host of “The
Apprentice” television program said he was weighing a
presidential bid because the country “has become a whipping
post” for the world.  No Tax Increase  “If I decide to run, I will not be raising taxes,” he
told a cheering audience. “We’ll be taking in hundreds of
billions of dollars from other countries that are screwing us.”  The conference, now in its 38th year, exposed potential
rifts between the activists and Republican orthodoxy that may
challenge the party as it attempts to win the White House.  Freshman lawmakers, elected on a wave of Tea Party support,
cautioned in speeches that Republicans shouldn’t take the
backing of fiscally conservative activists for granted.  “We weren’t elected because the American people love
Republicans,” said new Representative Raul Labrador, an Idaho
Republican. “We were elected because they love conservative
principles.”  Some conference participants made clear they consider at
least one part of the federal budget sacrosanct. A call by
freshman Senator  Rand Paul , a Tea-Party backed Republican from  Kentucky , for Congress to take a “long and hard look” at
cutting the  defense budget  prompted boos from audience members.  Protesting Rumsfeld, Cheney  At another conference gathering, Libertarian supporters of
his father, Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , filed out of the
ballroom in protest when former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and former Vice President Dick Cheney took the stage.  Some of those who remained heckled the two key officials in
Republican President  George W. Bush ’s administration. Ron Paul
developed a strong following among some young activists when he
sought the Republican presidential nomination in 2008, and is
being urged by backers to run again. He opposed the Iraq War and
continues legislative efforts to undo the anti-terrorist Patriot
Act enacted under the  Bush administration , arguing it infringes
on civil liberties.  In another sign of discord, groups including the Family
Research Council, Concerned Women for America, and the  Heritage
Foundation  boycotted the event because GOProud, which represents
gay Republicans and opposes a federal ban on gay marriage, is a
conference participant.  Bachmann in her remarks urged unity among all those who
oppose Obama. “For our conservative coalition to be victorious
in 2012, it will take every one of us and then some,” she said.
“We cannot shun each other for 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at   llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 