-- 
SAC’s Trading Mimics Insider Dealings Identified by Prosecutors

-- B y   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/sac-trading-of-11-stocks-mimics-insider-dealings-identified-by-prosecutors.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP traded at
least 11 stocks near the time of insider trading in the same
shares that prosecutors have identified at other  hedge funds ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Former SAC portfolio managers Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil obtained material, nonpublic information on two of the
11,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc . and Marvell Technology Group, in
a conspiracy beginning before they joined the hedge fund in
2008, according to a lawsuit filed this week by the Securities
and Exchange Commission. The SEC accuses Longueuil of trading
Marvell shares in May 2008 based on an illegal tip from Freeman.
SAC hired Freeman that June and Longueuil that July.  SAC securities filings from 2006 through 2009 show position
changes in at least nine other stocks during periods when
prosecutors have said Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam and others were trading based on insider tips. The
companies are  Akamai Technologies Inc .,  Atheros Communications
Inc ., ATI Technologies Inc.,  Clearwire Corp .,  EBay Inc .,  Google
Inc ., the former Hilton Hotels Corp.,  Intel Corp . and  Polycom
Inc .  The $12.8 billion hedge fund’s positions in the 11 stocks
moved up or down consistent with buying and selling that federal
prosecutors have described in criminal filings related to other
insider trading cases, the data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Rajaratnam is awaiting trial next month after pleading not
guilty to a 19-count U.S. indictment alleging securities fraud.  Securities filings by SAC, based in Stamford, Connecticut,
and run by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen , are quarterly snapshots
of the hedge fund’s positions that may change daily or hourly.
They don’t show purchase or sale dates, or whether any trading
was profitable.    Insider Trading  Probe  More than three dozen people have been charged since
October 2009 in three overlapping insider trading schemes
involving Rajaratnam, former Galleon employees, and consultants
who link investors with industry experts working at publicly
traded companies.  Longueuil and Freemen, both 34, were among four people
named in criminal complaints filed Feb. 7 by the  Justice
Department . Freeman’s lawyer, Benjamin Rosenberg, declined to
comment. Longueuil’s attorney, Craig Carpenito of Alston & Bird
LLP in  New York , didn’t respond to a request for comment.  In a Feb. 8 statement, SAC said it was “outraged” by the
alleged “egregious violations of our ethical standards” by
Freeman and Longueuil, who left SAC in 2010 “due to poor
performance.” The government alleged that their illegal conduct
took place between 2006 and 2010.  Hilton Tip  Federal authorities haven’t accused SAC or any current
employee of wrongdoing. Prosecutors subpoenaed SAC in November.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to
discuss the firm’s stock positions and said SAC is cooperating
with investigators.  SAC filings show the firm almost tripled its stake in
Hilton to 1.2 million shares in the quarter ended June 30, 2007.
Three days later, on July 3,  Blackstone Group LP  said it would
buy Hilton. When trading resumed on July 5 following the
Independence Day holiday, Hilton shares soared 26 percent. SAC
reported liquidating 99 percent of its stake by that Sept. 30.  Pleading the Fifth  U.S. prosecutors accuse Rajaratnam of receiving an illegal
tip on the deal “in or about late June early July 2007,”
according to criminal case records. Federal authorities allege
that Rajaratnam learned about the hotelier’s buyout and arranged
for Galleon to purchase 400,000 Hilton shares on July 3. The
Blackstone deal was announced at 5:58 p.m. that day, after the
close of trading in New York.  At Bloomberg’s request,  Houman Shadab , an associate
professor at New York Law School, reviewed SAC’s holdings in
stocks that federal prosecutors have identified as subjects of
insider leaks. He also reviewed the government’s complaints
against Longueuil and Freeman.  “While the trades by themselves don’t prove insider
trading or fraud, they are consistent with patterns federal
investigators are examining based on trading of nonpublic
information,” Shadab said in an interview Feb. 8. He has
 testified  before a congressional panel on the role of traders in
the financial crisis and writes books on hedge-fund regulation.  In the same New York courtroom where Rajaratnam will go on
trial, Cohen is being sued by his former wife, Patricia, in a
civil lawsuit that alleges she is owed money from the couple’s
1990 divorce settlement. In that complaint,  Patricia Cohen 
alleges that the SAC founder has profited in the past on insider
information.  Patricia Cohen Suit  Her former husband gained $10 million in early 1986 on a
tip that  General Electric Co . would acquire RCA Corp., according
to the complaint.  Steven Cohen  invoked his Fifth Amendment right
under the U.S. Constitution not to incriminate himself during
sworn testimony to the SEC in June 1986, the lawsuit says.
Patricia Cohen received a transcript in response to a request
under the Freedom of Information Act, she says in the suit.  Gasthalter said Patricia Cohen’s lawsuit is without merit.
The SEC didn’t sue Cohen.  The government’s insider trading cases have multiple
allegations related to microchip maker AMD, from July 2006
through November 2009. SAC filings with the SEC show the hedge
fund actively traded the company’s shares during the period.  AMD-ATI Deal  Just before AMD announced a deal to buy ATI Technologies
Inc. on July 24, 2006, the hedge fund’s filings show that it
raised its stake in the graphics chip supplier, by 89 percent,
to 479,261 shares in the quarter ended June 30, 2006.  From July 1 until the transaction became public on July 24,
Markham, Ontario-based ATI climbed 35 percent, including a 19
percent jump the day of the disclosure. SAC sold off its holding
by Sept. 30, the filings show.  Rajaratnam allegedly received the tip that AMD would
acquire ATI in March 2006. His firm, Galleon, bought an
undisclosed number of ATI shares before the July 24
announcement, according to a criminal complaint filed in January
2010 against Anil Kumar, a partner in the consulting firm
McKinsey & Co., who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and  securities
fraud .  Two years later, Rajaratnam got advance word that
Sunnyvale, California-based AMD was spinning off its
semiconductor manufacturing and would receive a capital
injection from Abu Dhabi-based investors, prosecutors allege.  AMD Spinoff  Just before the restructuring announcement on Oct. 7, 2008,
Rajaratnam invested tens of millions of dollars in AMD,
according to the criminal case against him. SAC filings show it
reported a 380-fold increase in its AMD holdings to 614,416
shares in the third quarter ended Sept. 30.  After AMD disclosed the transaction, the company’s stock
fell and kept falling in the midst of a market meltdown, losing
59 percent of its value in the 2008 fourth quarter. SAC’s next
filing showed it liquidated 98 percent of its stake by year end.  About the same time, on Oct. 3, 2008, Rajaratnam learned of
pending job cuts at EBay, prosecutors say, and sold the stock
short. In short selling, investors borrow shares and sell them
expecting that the price will fall and the stock can be replaced
at a lower cost.  Cohen’s hedge fund reported slashing its position in EBay
by 68 percent, to 288,300 shares, as of three days earlier, its
filings with the SEC show.  EBay Job Cuts  On Oct. 6, the  San Jose , California-based Internet auction
site said it was eliminating 10 percent of its workforce and the
stock fell. EBay shares dropped 5.5 percent between the date
Rajaratnam allegedly obtained the inside information and when
the job cuts became public. By the end of the year, the stock
lost 26 percent of its value. Galleon netted “illegal profits”
of $50,000, investigators say.  Earlier that year, in March 2008, Rajaratnam received a tip
that Intel planned to invest in Clearwire, a broadband service
provider, according to government lawyers. Galleon bought
260,800 Clearwire shares just before the stock jumped on news
reports of talks with Intel, prosecutors said.  SAC added 1.1 million shares of Clearwire to its holdings
in the same quarter, which ended about a week after Galleon’s
purchases on March 24 and 25. It then sold two-thirds of its
position by the end of the next quarter, the hedge fund’s SEC
filings show.  The SEC suit against Longueuil says he generated a $2.5
million trading profit in Marvell Technology in May 2008 based
on the illegal tip from Freeman. SAC owned 309,636 shares of
Marvell on June 30, 2008, according to its SEC filings, and also
held options to buy and sell more shares.  Later, in January 2009, an employee of Marvell told a
Galleon portfolio manager of a reduced internal revenue forecast
at the  Santa Clara , California-based maker of computer chips,
according to government correspondence with Rajaratnam’s defense
attorneys. During that same quarter, SAC liquidated its 203,498
shares of Marvell, the hedge fund’s filing shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  