-- 
Seci Energia, Serbia’s EPS Sign Hydroelectric Development Accord

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-02-11T19:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/seci-energia-serbia-s-eps-sign-hydroelectric-development-accord.html
Seci Energia SpA , a unit of
Maccaferri Group, and state-run Serbian power producer
 Elektroprivreda Srbije  signed an agreement to develop 10
hydroelectric plants.  The plants will cost an estimated 819 million euros ($1.1
billion) and have an installed capacity totaling more than 300
megawatts, Gaetano Maccaferri, president and chairman of
Bologna, Italy-based Seci Energia, said today at a press
conference. They will be located on the Drina River along the
border between  Serbia  and Bosnia-Herzegovina.  Tapping into the river’s hydroelectric potential will help
Italy to meet a goal of deriving 17 percent of its power
consumption from renewable sources by 2020, said Industry
Minister Paolo Romani, who attended the signing in Belgrade.
That compares with 8 percent now, he said.  “This is only a beginning,” Romani said, without
elaborating. “More initiatives will follow in the coming
months.”  Some of the plants’ expected annual output of 1,200
gigawatt hours will be exported to Italy via Montenegro and an
underwater cable across the  Adriatic Sea , Maccaferri said.
Construction should begin in 2012, said Dragomir Markovic,
general manager of EPS, as the Serbian company is known.  Government officials from  Italy , Serbia and the Serb-run
portion of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, signed an
agreement in September to jointly support development of
hydroelectric plants on the Drina.  Seci Energia is already working with EPS to build three
plants on the Ibar River in southern Serbia, Maccaferri said.
They will have a combined capacity of 103 megawatts and cost 300
million euros to build, he said.  Maccaferri Group  has roots going back to 1879 and
activities ranging from engineering to tobacco, its website
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  