-- 
Serbian Rate Moves Hinge on Wage Demands, Inflation, Central Banker Says

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-02-11T15:32:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/serbian-rate-moves-hinge-on-wage-demands-inflation-central-banker-says.html
  Serbia ’s central bank will monitor
the wage demands of government workers and the impact of its
current policy positions in making future rate decisions,
Governor Dejan Soskic said.  While inflation, at 10.3 percent in December, remains a
concern for the Belgrade-based National Bank of Serbia, monetary
policy makers must strike a balance between price stability and
medium-term growth, Soskic said today in an interview in  Athens .  The central bank yesterday left its benchmark two-week
repurchase rate unchanged at 12 percent, the highest in  Europe ,
as investor interest in Serbian debt eased pressure on the
dinar, one of the nation’s key inflation generators.  “Wage increases in the public sector, regulated price
movements and external shocks remain something which we will
watch closely and which will definitely have an impact on future
decisions,” Soskic said.  Serbian teachers, health workers and police demanded wage
increases of as much as 40 percent during a series of protests
over the past week. Government officials dismissed the demands,
arguing that they would cripple the economy.  The central bank raised the two-week repurchase rate six
times since August to curb price pressures stemming from higher
food prices and two years of dinar declines. The bank targets
inflation at 4.5 percent plus or minus 1.5 percentage points at
the end of 2011.  Over the past month, the central bank also amended  reserve
requirements  to provide some incentives for longer-term lending
in dinars.  Dinar Gains  The dinar has strengthened 2.7 percent against the euro
over the past month, making it the best performer among more
than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It fell 8.5 percent in
the previous 12 months, the world’s third-biggest drop.  Serbia forecasts the economy will grow 3 percent this year
after an estimated 1.9 percent expansion in 2010. The government
pledged to keep its 2011  budget deficit  below 4.1 percent of
gross domestic product to qualify for a 3 billion-euro ($4.1
billion) bailout from the  International Monetary Fund .  “Our policy is to stick to our main objective, that is  price stability  in line with the inflation target, but also to
try to minimize the mid-term cost concerning GDP growth and
employment in the country,” Soskic said. “If we are to have a
deficit of 4.1 percent of GDP this year it is very important not
to have lower GDP growth than projected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  