-- 
Shell, Aramco May Build Indonesia Plant, Hidayat Says

-- B y   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-02-11T08:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/shell-aramco-may-build-indonesia-plant-hidayat-says-update1-.html
  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Europe ’s
largest oil producer, may build a refinery in Indonesia even as
National Iranian Oil Co. scrapped a similar plan, Industry
Minister Mohamad Hidayat said.  Shell may team up with Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and PT
Pertamina to build the refinery in Tuban in the province of East
Java, Hidayat told reporters in Jakarta today after meeting
executives from a unit of Shell. Darwin Silalahi, head of
Shell’s Indonesian unit, and Budiman Moerdijat, a spokesman,
didn’t respond to two phone calls and mobile  text messages . A
Dharan-based spokesman for  Saudi Aramco  declined to comment when
contacted by telephone.  “The government is preparing a fiscal policy to help
attract investors, including for the Aramco project,” Hidayat
said. Pertamina will act as an agent to market fuels from the
Tuban refinery, he said.    Indonesia  wants to boost investments in refineries to
reduce the nation’s dependence on imports of oil products.
Consumption of subsidized fuel may rise 6 percent this year to
42.5 million kiloliters because of an increase in vehicle sales,
Djaelani Sutomo, marketing director at Pertamina, said in June.  Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest crude oil producer,
imports diesel, gasoline and jet fuel because its refining
capacity lags behind consumption.  Refinery Expansion  Pertamina, Indonesia’s state oil company, will agree this
year with Saudi Aramco on the development of a $5 billion
refinery project, Karen Agustiawan, president director of
Pertamina, said Dec. 6. The plant will have a capacity of as
much as 300,000 barrels a day, she said.  Pertamina will also sign a $5 billion accord with Kuwait
Petroleum Corp. to expand the Balongan refinery in West Java by
as much as 300,000 barrels a day, Agustiawan said. The plant has
a capacity of 125,000 barrels a day, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Kuwait Petroleum has performed a feasibility study and in
August they will start construction,” Hidayat said today.  Iranian Oil may cancel a plan to build a refinery because
of a disagreement on the price of the crude oil supply, he
added. Pertamina and Iranian Oil had planned to build a refinery
in western Java with a daily capacity of 150,000 barrels of oil
in 2014, Priyo Utomo, then senior vice president at Pertamina,
said in July 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bambang Djanuarto in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  