-- 
Southern Sudanese President Kiir Calls U.S.-Financed Highway 'Lifeline'

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-02-11T09:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/southern-sudanese-president-kiir-calls-u-s-financed-highway-lifeline-.html
Steamrollers began flattening
asphalt yesterday on  Southern Sudan ’s first highway, a stretch
of road leading to neighboring Uganda that the region’s
president,  Salva Kiir , called a “lifeline of the people.”  When finished next year, the 192-kilometer (120-mile)
highway from the regional capital, Juba, to Nimule will more
than double the length of paved roads in Southern Sudan, a
region bigger than  France  that is due to become independent in
July.  The $225 million road project, financed by the  U.S. Agency
for International Development , will also provide landlocked
Southern Sudan a link to Kenya’s port of  Mombasa  and ease its
dependence on northern Sudan. Almost 99 percent of Southern
Sudanese voters chose independence in a referendum last month.  “We are not crippled anymore,” Kiir said yesterday at a
ceremony marking the start of paving the road. “It is
development that we need, and the development starts with these
roads.”  Road building will be one of the main priorities for the
government of  Southern Sudan  as it prepares for independence, he
said. After almost five decades of war against the north, the
region has no steady power supply, large-scale farms or
factories, and half of its 8 million people live on less than $1
a day, according to the  United Nations .  At independence Southern Sudan will assume control of about
three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of 490,000
barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,
Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. Sudan’s output is the third-biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa .  Economic Transformation  The challenge for Kiir and his ruling party, the  Sudan
People’s Liberation Movement , will be to use that wealth to
transform an economy where 80 percent of the people depend on
subsistence agriculture for their livelihood.  With the improvement of the road to Uganda and plans to
upgrade routes to Ethiopia and  Kenya , the south is moving
further away from dependence on the north, said Joseph Lagu, a
leader of the first southern rebellion against the north that
ended in 1972 and now a presidential adviser in the south.  “We now belong to East Africa, not North Africa,” Lagu
said to cheers from the officials gathered for the ceremony.  The war against the north left the region virtually cut off
from the rest of the world, with  land mines  making roads
impassable.  “Five years ago, it would have taken you eight hours to
drive this road,” the U.S. consul general in Southern Sudan, R.
Barrie Walkley, said at the ceremony. “One year from now, it
will take you 2½ hours to get from Juba to the  Uganda  border.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Nimule via Johannesburg at +27-
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 