-- 
South Korea May Be Forced to Raise Rates in March As Price Pressures Mount

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-02-11T17:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/south-korea-may-raise-rates-in-march-as-price-pressures-mount.html
The  Bank of Korea  may raise
borrowing costs again as early as March to counter inflation
pressures after unexpectedly leaving policy unchanged yesterday.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his officials held the seven-
day repurchase rate at 2.75 percent in a split decision, after
economists had forecast a quarter-point increase.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc say the next
move will be next month after inflation breached the central
bank’s 4 percent ceiling last month and producer prices jumped
the most in two years. President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government
pledged yesterday to boost imports of pork and milk powder and
review oil pricing in the latest efforts to restrain prices.  “The Bank of Korea still has a long way to go,” Kim Song Yi and  Frederic Neumann , economists at HSBC, said yesterday,
adding that the normalization of monetary policy has “barely
begun.” They see the key rate at 3.75 percent by year-end.  Yesterday’s decision was forecast by only three of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with the others
predicting a quarter-point move after the bank raised rates by
that margin in January.  The won fell 1 percent to close at 1,128.47 per dollar in  Seoul  yesterday and touched 1,128.70, the weakest level since
Jan. 20. The Kospi dropped 1.6 percent, finishing below 2,000
for the first time since Dec. 13.  ‘Not Too Slow’  “We will move ahead with normalizing  interest rates  at a
pace that’s not too slow, nor too fast,” Governor Kim said at a
press briefing in Seoul.    South Korea ’s pause contrasts with the People’s Bank of  China  this week raising interest rates for the third time since
mid-October. While Asian policy makers face heightened inflation
risks as money flows into the region, Korean officials may still
be assessing the effects of last month’s boost to borrowing
costs after economic growth cooled in the fourth quarter.  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent last month from a year
earlier and producer prices jumped 6.2 percent. Inflation may
stay at about 4 percent for “some time,” Kim said yesterday.  While policy makers remain concerned about inflationary
pressures, higher borrowing costs could add to the burdens of
debt-bearing households, small businesses and low-income earners,
he said. Lending to households fell for the first time in 11
months in January.  The Bank of  Korea ’s decision “failed to stabilize
inflation expectations,” said Kwon Young Sun, an economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong .  Policy Split  Borrowing costs have lagged behind the pace of inflation
for 15 straight months, a sign that further rate increases may
be warranted. Details of the split among the six members of the
monetary-policy board will be disclosed in six weeks’ time, when
the minutes of the meeting are released.  “It was a close call, but we thought that it’s more likely
for them not to raise this time and pause and signal a hike
later in March,” Goohoon Kwon, a Seoul-based economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said on Bloomberg Television. He
expects the rate to rise to 3.5 percent by the end of this year.  Policy makers will allow gains by the won, along with rate
increases, to cool inflation, Kwon said.  The  Bank of Korea  targets inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent through 2012 and aims for the midpoint of the range in
the medium term. Its policy board raised the benchmark rate by a
quarter of a percentage point in July, November and January from
a record-low 2 percent.  Foreign Investors  If the  Bank of Korea  “fails to anchor inflation
expectations, foreign investors will question the authorities’
willingness to tackle inflation and may decide to leave the
country,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  Foreign investors’ net holdings of South Korean debt fell
for the second straight month in January.  The central bank forecasts a 4.5 percent economic expansion
in 2011, slowing from the 6.1 percent pace last year, and
predicts inflation will accelerate to 3.5 percent from 2.9
percent.  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy expanded 0.5 percent in
the three months through December from the previous quarter,
when it grew 0.7 percent.  Exports, which account for about half of the $833 billion
economy, rose 46 percent in January from a year earlier, the
most since August 1988. The resurgence in demand has bolstered
earnings at companies including Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  