-- 
Southern Sudan Fighting in Jonglei State Kills 89, Army Spokesman Reports

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-02-11T11:27:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/southern-sudan-fighting-in-jonglei-state-kills-89-army-spokesman-reports.html
Fighting between  Southern Sudan ’s
army and a rebel militia in Jonglei state this week killed 89
people, an army spokesman said.  The clashes took place in Fangak county between the army
and a militia loyal to renegade general George Athor, Philip
Aguer, spokesman for the  Sudan People’s Liberation Army , said
today in a phone interview from Juba, the regional capital.  The government of oil-rich  Southern Sudan , which is due to
become independent in July, signed a cease-fire agreement with
Athor’s forces on Jan. 5. The fighting started after fighters
loyal to Athor captured Fangak town on Feb. 9 and ended
yesterday, Aguer said. The casualties included 39 civilians, 20
members of the army, police and wildlife service, and 30 of
Athor’s men, he said.  “We were just waiting for the completion of the
reconciliation process,” Aguer said. “We have no clue why he did
this. In fact, we were transporting provisions, food and
supplies to his forces when the attacks happened.”  Athor, a former chief of staff in Southern Sudan’s army,
took up arms against the government after losing a state
election in April. Southern  Sudan  President  Salva Kiir  offered
amnesty to Athor and his forces in October.  “This shows that we have security challenges to deal with
in the south,” Aguer said.  Southern Sudan accounts for about three quarters of Sudan’s
490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP Statistical
Review of World Energy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 