-- Spies at Work Know Where to Find Your Secrets: Joel F. Brenner
-- B y   J o e l   F .   B r e n n e r
-- 2011-02-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/spies-at-work-know-where-to-find-your-secrets-joel-f-brenner.html
“A mental health specialist
recommended that the Army private accused of leaking classified
material to the anti-secrecy website  WikiLeaks  not be deployed
to  Iraq , but his immediate commanders sent him anyway.”  That’s according to the Washington Post, which noted that
the soldier, Bradley Manning, was allegedly storing classified
material on an unclassified server, had been demoted for
assault, and was acting so erratically that his master sergeant
disabled his weapon. So why did this man have a security
clearance, and what was he doing in a war zone with access to
State Department cables unrelated to his job?  Before you call the Army stupid and forget it, why does
your mailroom clerk have unrestricted access to everything on
your company’s server, including corporate secrets, or your
clients’ merger plans and bid data? And why was a  Ford Motor Co .
engineer allegedly able to steal thousands of sensitive
documents that had nothing to do with his job? Poor information
security isn’t just a government problem.  Economic espionage is intensifying. The foreign
intelligence services of  China ,  Russia ,  Iran  and other countries
are after our technology, and most of what they want is in the
electronic-information systems of private companies -- and the
law and accounting firms that work for them.  When people like Manning have access to classified material
or your company’s trade secrets, you have an unsuitable employee
as well as a worker in trouble. Like Robert Hanssen, the FBI
agent now serving a life sentence for selling U.S. secrets to
the Soviets, Manning was a serial rule-breaker.  Easier to Ignore  But suitability issues are less glamorous than
counterintelligence investigations, so they get less attention.
Hanssen and Manning were both left in place. It was easier to
ignore the rules than cause a fuss.  Remember the  Societe Generale  case in 2007, where junior
trader  Jerome Kerviel  incurred massive risks that ultimately
cost his firm almost $7 billion? He was another serial rule
breaker. The Paris-based bank said only a criminal mastermind
could have undone its sophisticated system of trading controls.  This was nonsense. SocGen monitored traders’ individual
position limits, but it had no corporate position restrictions
and did not even know its risk position in particular
securities. Meanwhile, Kerviel evaded his own limits by using
his co-workers’ computers to enter trades and by never taking a
vacation -- which meant that no other trader would look at his
positions in his absence. If they had looked, they would have
found a mess, and Kerviel would have been out.  ‘Typical’ Spy  National security leaks, industrial espionage, and criminal
fraud have more in common than most people think. After  Bernie Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme collapsed, the pop psychology arguments
were eerily familiar to anyone concerned with catching spies: He
was narcissistic. No, he did it for the money. No, he was
insecure -- or simply evil.  Counterintelligence officials go through this drill every
time they nail some wretch for selling out his country and then
try to figure out why he wasn’t caught sooner. Psychologists
have a field day trying to profile the “typical” spy (there’s
no such thing).  But the Army didn’t have to predict that Manning might
create a wholesale hemorrhage of secrets before stripping him of
a security clearance and sending him home. Before he became a
counterintelligence emblem, he was just a garden variety HR
case. If he had been dealt with that way, we never would have
learned his name.  Banks are better at spotting financial risk among credit
card holders than companies or government agencies are at
spotting security risks among their employees. Why? Because they
examine the information their customers give them.  Management Failure  Manning is a case in point. So was Hanssen. And so was
Madoff. What was remarkable about Madoff wasn’t his personality
but the river of available trading data that, had it been
examined, would have shown him to be an expensive but empty
suit. Look behind these cases and you find mundane management
failure.  In November, Xiang Dong (aka Mike) Yu, a former product
engineer at Ford, pleaded guilty to stealing design
specifications. The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  said he
copied thousands of company documents to an external drive and
took them to his new employer, Beijing Automotive Group. As in
Manning’s case, most of the information Yu had access to and
allegedly stole had nothing to do with his job.  Universal access to corporate information is normal at many
companies. In government, where it isn’t normal, “information
sharing” has become a slogan, and like all slogans, it’s bad
for clear thinking.  Electronic Strip  Unless you propose to share everything with everybody --
and nobody proposes that -- you must decide what to share, whom
to share it with, and on what terms. Repeating slogans doesn’t
make this problem go away, and as the WikiLeaks fiasco
demonstrates, pretending otherwise is a prelude for undressing
ourselves electronically faster than our adversaries can do it
to us.  Information security is too important to be left to the
privacy police. It’s critical for any organization with secrets
to keep. For many companies, the risk of a breach is a strategic
risk to their technology. Reducing that risk starts with taking
care of your people, enforcing clear rules and implementing
role-based access to information. Companies that fail to take
these steps are asking to have their pockets picked.  (Joel F. Brenner, of counsel at Cooley LLP, is the former
head of U.S. counterintelligence under the Director of National
Intelligence and inspector general at the National Security
Agency.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Joel F. Brenner at  joelbrenner@cooley.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  