-- 
Steel Says Wachovia Securities’ Loans Helped Force Bank to Sell

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-11T22:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/steel-says-wachovia-securities-loans-helped-force-bank-to-sell.html
Robert K. Steel, the former chief
executive officer of Wachovia Corp., said the lender was forced
to sell itself in part because it made bad loans in an attempt
to be among the top U.S. investment banks.  “You have an aspirant in the securities business, Wachovia
Securities, and as they are seeking to develop commercial
relationships, investment-banking relationships, they are using
the balance sheet to get the flywheel going as part of the
strategy,” Steel said in an interview with the  Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission , according to audio files released yesterday.
“Those assets were not at the top of the quality spectrum.”  Richard Kovacevich, then chairman of San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co ., said the loans caused the bank on Sept. 28,
2008, to demand government assistance in any purchase of
Wachovia, according to his interview with the FCIC panel.  “Our people in San Francisco said we are having some
problems understanding the risk in the wholesale commercial
investment-banking portfolio,” Kovacevich told the commission,
which conducted an 18-month investigation into causes of the
financial crisis. “When we ask questions, we aren’t getting
good answers, the files aren’t complete.”  On Sept. 29, New York-based  Citigroup Inc . signed an
agreement with  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Wachovia to join
operations. That bid was trumped by Wells Fargo on Oct. 3
without government assistance because the lender had conducted
enough due diligence to feel comfortable, Kovacevich told the
panel.  In July 2009, the Wachovia Securities brand was changed to
Wells Fargo Securities. Former Wachovia executives Robert Engel
and Jonathan Weiss were appointed in January 2009 to lead the
group.  Wells Fargo paid $12.7 billion in 2008 for Wachovia to
become the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets. The lender has
reported more than $23 billion in profits since it bought the
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 