-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise on Mubarak Resignation, Consumer Confidence

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-02-11T22:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/stock-index-futures-drop-kraft-expedia-microsoft-shares-fall-in-europe.html
U.S. stocks rose, extending a second
straight weekly advance, as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
resignation and a jump in consumer confidence to an eight-month
high bolstered optimism in the global economic recovery.    Caterpillar Inc .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Bank of America
Corp . climbed at least 1.9 percent to lead the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  higher.  ConocoPhillips  added 2.1 percent on
plans to raise its dividend and buy back as much as $10 billion
in stock.  Kraft Foods Inc . dropped 1.5 percent after lowering
its forecast because of rising commodity costs. An exchange-
traded fund tracking Egyptian equities rallied 4.5 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.6 percent to
1,329.15 at 4 p.m. in New York, its highest level since June
2008. The benchmark gauge rose 1.4 percent this week. The Dow
gained 43.97 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,273.26. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which measures the cost
of using options as insurance against declines in the  S&P 500 ,
fell 2.5 percent to 15.69, a four-week low.  “As some of the uncertainty clears in Egypt, people can
focus on fundamentals,” said  Peter Sorrentino , who helps
oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati. “We’ve had a fair amount of pretty good economic
reports, including  consumer confidence . Unfortunately, the
optimism was recently disrupted by geopolitical concern. We’ll
see how that plays out. There’s enough momentum in the  U.S.
economy  right now.”  Earnings  The S&P 500 has risen 5.7 percent this year as better-than-
forecast economic data and company earnings boosted confidence
in the economic recovery. Earnings at 74 percent of the 348
companies in the S&P 500 that reported results since Jan. 10
posted per-share profit that beat analyst estimates, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Benchmark indexes began erasing an early slide today after
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment for the month climbed to 75.1. Stocks
extended gains as Mubarak bowed to the demands of protesters
that have occupied central Cairo for the past three weeks
demanding an end to his 30-year rule. He handed power to the
nation’s military.  “Mubarak has decided to relinquish the office of the
presidency,” said Vice President  Omar Suleiman  in a statement
on state television today. “He has instructed the Supreme
Council of the armed forces to take over the affairs of the
country.”  Egyptian Resort  Mubarak left Cairo for the Egyptian resort town of  Sharm
El-Sheikh , state television reported today before the
announcement. His resignation opens a new phase in a crisis that
was sparked by the ouster of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine
Ben Ali on Jan. 14 and is rippling through a region that holds
more than 50 percent of the world’s oil reserves.  “The characteristics of Egypt and Tunisia are common
throughout the region -- authoritarian rulers, high
unemployment, poverty and a young populace,” said Howard Ward,
a money manager at Mario Gabelli’s Gamco Investors Inc., which
oversees about $33 billion in Rye, New York. “Tunisia seemed to
embolden Egypt. It’s possible that Egypt will embolden Bahrain
or Iran, among others. High food prices could be the trigger.
There is nothing like hunger to fuel a restless society.”  The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF , an exchange-traded fund
that holds Egyptian shares, climbed 4.5 percent to $18.60.  Caterpillar rose 2.9 percent to $103.54, while JPMorgan
Chase gained 2.3 percent to $46.57 and Bank of America advanced
1.9 percent to $14.77.  Dividend  ConocoPhillips rose 2.1 percent to $71.58 after it said it
is increasing its quarterly dividend to 66 cents a share from 55
cents, and has authorized the repurchase of as much as $10
billion in shares.    MGIC Investment Corp . and  Radian Group Inc . led mortgage
insurers higher after U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner called for limiting the role of government-backed
competitors. MGIC, the largest private U.S. mortgage insurer,
jumped 9.6 percent to $10.05. No. 2 Radian, based in
Philadelphia, surged 13 percent, to $8.03.    Ford Motor Co . gained 2.7 percent to $16.38. The second-
largest U.S. automaker will redeem $2.98 billion of convertible
notes in March as the company works to gain an investment-grade
credit rating.  ‘Support’  “The bottom line is that the market has support,” said
Joseph Keating, chief investment officer at CenterState Wealth
Management, who manages $1 billion in Birmingham, Alabama.
“Even if we see a pullback on global concerns, there are better
measures in the U.S. The outlook for stocks comes down to
earnings. The outlook for earnings comes down to the economy.
There’s both consumer and business confidence. That shows me the
recovery is sustainable.”  Kraft dropped 1.5 percent to $30.66. The world’s second-
largest food company lowered its full-year earnings forecasts
because of rising commodity costs. Profit excluding certain
items such as integration costs will increase 11 percent to 13
percent. That’s down from the company’s November projection of a
rise in the “mid-teens.”    Expedia Inc . tumbled 17 percent to $21.31. The online
travel company reported fourth-quarter earnings, excluding some
items, of 32 cents a share, missing the average analyst estimate
of 36 cents, Bloomberg data show.  JPMorgan’s  Thomas Lee  said the risk of inflation means
investors should buy energy and material stocks, which
historically perform better as prices rise, while utilities and
telecommunication companies lag behind.  Higher Prices  A team led by Lee, JPMorgan’s chief U.S. equity strategist,
found that in periods of higher prices for goods and services in
nine countries, energy companies and materials stocks beat their
benchmarks by an average of 5 percent and 4 percent,
respectively, in six months. Utilities and telecommunications
were the worst-performing groups, as accelerating inflation
detracts from the groups with the highest dividend yields,
according to the New York-based firm.  Inflation forecasts have increased around the world as a
United Nations index of 55 food commodities climbed to an all-
time high in January, the seventh straight monthly increase.
Credit Suisse Group AG cut its weighting on global emerging-
market stocks to 10 percent “overweight” from 25 percent on a
two-month view as inflation accelerates, analyst Andrew Garthwaite wrote in a report dated yesterday.  “The greatest concern in our view remains inflation and,
in particular, the fact that monetary policy remains too easy in
many emerging markets,” Lee wrote in a note dated today. “The
rise in inflationary pressures suggests sticking with cyclicals
for now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  