-- 
Sumitomo, Mitsui Seek Russian Rare Earths After China Curbs, Governor Says

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-02-11T19:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/sumitomo-mitsui-hold-rare-earth-talks-with-russia-as-china-limits-supply.html
Mitsui & Co. and  Sumitomo Corp . are
interested in Siberian rare-earth deposits that weren’t expected
to be mined until 2030 as  Russia  tries to fill the gap left when
China slashed exports, Yakutia Governor Yegor Borisov said.  Tokyo-based Mitsui and Sumitomo, Japan’s second- and third-
biggest trading companies, have held talks with regional
officials about niobium and scandium resources in Yakutia, an
area of northeastern Russia the size of  India , Borisov said
yesterday in an interview.  Prices for rare earths, a group of elements used in
products ranging from electric cars and laptops to guided
missiles and satellites, have soared since July, when China cut
second-half export quotas by more than 70 percent. China
 accounted  for 97 percent of rare-earth output in 2009 and more
than half of consumption,  U.S. government  data show.    South Korea  and Japan have begun to go hungry,” Borisov
said in the Ural Mountains city of Ufa, where he attended a
meeting with President  Dmitry Medvedev . “Now there’s good
reason to reconsider our position on rare-earth deposits in
Yakutia that were scheduled for development after 2030.”  Mitsui and Sumitomo officials in Moscow and Tokyo declined
to comment when contacted by Bloomberg. They declined to be
identified, citing company policies.  Russia has the largest reserves of rare-earth minerals
after China, though production is minimal, according to  U.S. 
government data. The world holds about 99 million metric tons of
commercially viable rare earths, with China and Russia
accounting for 36 percent and 19 percent, respectively, the
Interior Department said in a report last year.  ‘Strategic Deposits’  “Our counteragents are taking a broad look at this and
aren’t counting on something today,” Borisov said. “They know
that we won’t let them have direct access to strategic
deposits.’  Japan, the world’s largest consumer of rare earths, has
sought alternative suppliers. Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara met
with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in Moscow yesterday
amid renewed tensions in a 65-year dispute over four islands off
the northern tip of Japan.  Yakutia, which has fewer than 1 million people, probably
holds “many more” rare-earth deposits than most analysts
estimate, Borisov said, declining to be more specific.  Yakutia’s Tontorskoye deposit, which primarily contains
niobium, is “many times bigger in volume and quality than  Brazil ’s famous deposits,” Borisov said.  Outstripping Demand  Brazil is home to the world’s largest deposit of the
mineral, used in alloys such as stainless steel for oil and gas
pipelines. The Brazilian deposit has enough niobium to meet
current world demand for 500 years, according to the Brussels-
based  Tantalum-Niobium International Study Center .  Global consumption of rare earths last year was about
124,000 tons, 10,000 tons less than production, a difference
covered by stockpiles, the U.S. Congressional Research Service
said in a Sept. 30 report. Demand will probably reach 180,000
tons next year.  China’s commerce ministry said Jan. 18 that it and other
agencies were still considering the full-year export quota. The
ministry set the first-half quota at 14,446 tons, a 35 percent
decline from the same period last year.  With  China  continuing to restrict exports, Borisov said
he’s in talks with the Federal Subsoil Agency in Moscow about
starting auctions for deposits as early as 2014. The agency’s
press service declined to comment.  “We’re reconsidering our position,” Borisov said. “We’re
trying to determine how much we have now. We’re in the early
stages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 