-- 
U.K.-Denmark Power Cable May Spur ‘Crucial’ Supergrid, Dong Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-02-11T10:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/u-k-denmark-power-cable-may-spur-crucial-european-supergrid-dong-says.html
  Dong Energy  A/S, the world’s largest
operator of offshore wind farms, said a proposed power cable
connecting the U.K. and Denmark may encourage the development of
a Europe-wide  supergrid  ``crucial'' to meeting renewable targets.  Building the link would be a step in developing a network
connecting nations and offshore wind farms,Anders Eldrup, Dong
Energy’s chief executive officer, said yesterday. This would
help minimize the risk to supply from variations in wind.  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive
arm, is trying to spur development of a  power grid  covering the
27-nation bloc as it aims to get 20 percent of its energy from
renewable sources. The plan is to establish more electricity
links between countries, connect offshore turbines to prevent
blackouts when the wind doesn’t blow and allow utilities and
traders to move power from one market to another more easily.  “The supergrid is crucial if you have the vision that in
the future the  North Sea  will be the powerhouse of northern
Europe,” Eldrup said in an interview before officially opening
Dong Energy’s first U.K.  power station , a plant fueled by
natural gas. “Developing this simultaneously as we develop all
the offshore parks is a big task, a very costly thing, but
absolutely necessary. We have to start the preparations.”  Eldrup said he suggested “a few weeks” ago to U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  to connect Britain and Denmark.  “We could start off small-scale, building a grid from the
U.K. to Denmark, and that could be one of the legs of this
future supergrid system,” he said.  London Array  Skaerbaek, Denmark-based Dong Energy, the country’s biggest
utility, plans to start producing electricity from its 1,000-
megawatt London Array wind project next year, he said. The
project is being developed along with  E.ON AG , Germany’s biggest
utility, and Masdar, the  Abu Dhabi  government-backed renewable
energy company.  Britain is connected via a 2,000-megawatt cable to France
and a 1,000-megawatt link to the Netherlands. More cables can
bring more trading to the market as utilities, banks and  hedge
funds  can profit from trading between the countries.    Scottish & Southern Energy Plc  is working with Norway’s
Adger Energi AS, E-Co Energi AS and Lyse Energi AS as well as
Sweden’s Vattenfall AB, to study the feasibility of a power link
between Scotland and Norway, the Scottish Government said Feb.
1.  National Grid Plc  and Statnett SF, the grid operators of
Britain and Norway, are also exploring linking the two nations.  In an effort to boost competition Ofgem, Britain’s energy
regulator said last year it was concerned with the insufficient
 trading  of future electricity contracts. While the U.K.
government wants to  reshape the market  to attract investment to
replace aging power stations and cut carbon dioxide emissions.  The U.K. hasn’t created a liquid power market, as it has
done for natural gas, Eldrup said. “There should be a more
liquid power market” he said. “We can bring more competition,
we are the newcomer in the British market and I think it would
be healthy with more competition. In order to obtain that we
need a more liquid market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in  London  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 