-- U.K. House Prices Decline for a Fourth Month, Acadametrics Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-02-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/u-k-house-prices-fall-for-fourth-month-on-recovery-concerns-loan-limits.html
U.K.  house prices  fell for a fourth
month in January after the economic recovery stuttered and
consumers faced a lack of mortgage finance, research company
Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said today.  The average price of a home in England and Wales declined
0.1 percent to 221,211 pounds ($354,933) from December, they
said in a report issued in  London  today. Values are up 0.6
percent from a year earlier.    Bank of England  data show that mortgage approvals fell in
December to the lowest level since March 2009, and former policy
maker  Kate Barker  said prices may continue to decline this year.
The central bank kept emergency stimulus unchanged yesterday,
enduring above-target inflation as officials try to nurture the
recovery after the economy shrank in the fourth quarter.  “Concerns over the direction of the economy, and the
ongoing difficulties in obtaining mortgage finance continue to
take their toll,” said LSL Commercial Director  David Brown .
“At a time when wage inflation is being outstripped by
inflation, would-be buyer finances are under increasing
financial pressure.”  Brown said prices are being “cushioned” by demand from
cash-rich buyers and a “slight” reduction in the supply of
properties for sale. Halifax,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc ’s
mortgage unit, said a supply shortage was partly behind an
increase in house prices in January, according to its index.  “I find it hard to see house prices picking up any time
soon,” Barker said in an interview yesterday in London. “My
general expectation is they may drift a little bit lower this
year. But I wouldn’t be talking about a big fall.”  The Acadametrics report showed the number of transactions
in January was 40,600, which is about 60 percent of the long-
term average. It expects prices will be “relatively stable” or
show “marginal declines” in the coming months.  Acadametrics combines initial housing transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures to
produce an estimate for the most recent month. That number is
then revised in following months.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  