-- 
U.S. Audit Watchdog to Ramp Up Enforcement, New Chairman Says

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-11T20:51:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/u-s-audit-watchdog-to-ramp-up-enforcement-new-chairman-says.html
James R. Doty, the new head of the
board that oversees auditors of U.S.-registered companies, said
he expects the panel to ramp up the scale and number of its
enforcement actions.  Doty, 70, who took over as the chairman of the  Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board  last week, said that the
board -- which was established eight years ago -- has been
building its capacity to scrutinize auditors certifying
companies’ books.  “We’re going to be litigating bigger cases, and there are
going to be more cases litigated, because we have a bigger
pipeline,” Doty said in an interview today. “We’re now further
along in the process of developing inspection and enforcement.”  Doty, who was general counsel of the SEC in the 1990s,
said the board would act quickly to hire a new director of
inspections as well as more inspectors.  The PCAOB, created in the aftermath of Enron Corp.’s
accounting scandal, sets standards for auditors certifying the
books of companies with U.S.-registered securities. It is
responsible for holding 2,500 registered firms to those rules.
Its work is overseen and authorized by the SEC.  From 2006 until last year, the board’s work was hampered by
a lawsuit challenging its constitutionality. In June, the U.S.
Supreme Court ruled narrowly in favor of the board.  In its history, the PCAOB has resolved 36 enforcement
cases, most of them by settling, said board spokeswoman Colleen Brennan. Only two were adjudicated, she said.  Inspection Director  On Monday -- less than a week after Doty began work -- the
board announced the retirement of George Diacont, director of
registration and inspection since the board’s beginning in 2003.
Doty said that one of his first priorities is filling that
position.  Doty said the board is also “going to ramp up”
negotiations with other countries, to improve the board’s
ability to inspect auditors working overseas, particularly in  China . In January, the board announced an arrangement with the
U.K. to allow such inspections.  Doty was appointed along with two other new board members:
Jay D. Hanson, a former accounting partner at McGladrey & Pullen
LLP in Bloomington,  Minnesota , and Lewis H. Ferguson, formerly a
partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in  Washington .  Their arrival brings the board to its full strength of five
members. While the outcome of the Supreme Court case was
uncertain, former board members stayed in office well past the
expirations of their terms.  When it was founded, Congress decided that PCAOB member
salaries would be commensurate with the private sector. As a
result, pay for the panel’s five members far outpaces the norm
for most government jobs. Doty earns $672,676, more than four
times what Schapiro pockets as SEC chairman. Board members get
$546,891, exceeding President  Barack Obama ’s $400,000 salary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 