-- 
U.S. Economy: Sentiment Climbs to Eight-Month High

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-02-11T21:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/u-s-consumer-confidence-gained-last-month-as-michigan-gauge-rose-to-75-1.html
  Consumer confidence  rose in February
to the highest level in eight months as decreasing unemployment
lifted Americans’ spirits.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for the month climbed to 75.1 from
74.2 in January, in line with the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report showed the  trade gap 
widened in December for a second month on a jump in oil imports.  The sentiment data showed households’ perceptions of the
economy and job market turned positive this month for the first
time in seven years, signaling  consumer spending  may keep
contributing to the expansion. The increase in confidence and
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s resignation helped stocks
advance, extending a second straight weekly gain.  “At the end of the day, people spend on how they feel
about their job prospects, and additional gains in confidence
are likely to provide further support for spending,” said
Millan Mulraine, senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in  New
York , who projected the sentiment index would climb to 75.  Rising share prices may also be helping as the report
showed confidence among affluent Americans, those making more
than $75,000 a year, increased to the highest level since the
last recession began in December 2007. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.6 percent to 1,329.15 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York.  The median forecast of 68 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the sentiment gauge would climb to 75. Estimates
ranged from 71.5 to 78.5. The index averaged 89 in the five
years leading up the recession that began in December 2007.  Current Conditions  The sentiment measure’s current conditions gauge, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether they consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, increased to 86.8, the highest since January 2008,
from 81.8 the prior month.  The index of consumer expectations six months from now
decreased to 67.6 from 69.3.  Nonetheless, Americans grew more optimistic about job
prospects. The report showed the share of Americans who expected
unemployment to fall over the next 12 months exceeded the share
of those who projected an increase by 8 points, the first
positive reading in seven years and highest level since 1984,
according to economists at Credit Suisse in New York.  Unemployment Declines  While employers added a fewer-than-forecast 36,000 jobs to
payrolls in January, the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to
9 percent, the lowest since April 2009, according to Labor
Department figures released Feb. 4. Joblessness dropped to 9.4
percent in December from 9.8 percent the previous month, in the
biggest two-month decrease since 1958.  “The sharp 0.8 percent drop in the unemployment rate the
past two months is resonating across consumers’ current view and
future prospects for the labor market,” the Credit Suisse
economists led by Neal Soss wrote in a note to clients.  Household purchases, which make up about 70 percent of the
economy, grew at a 4.4 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter, the fastest since the first three months of 2006,
Commerce Department figures showed Jan. 28.    Whole Foods Market Inc ., the largest U.S. natural-goods
grocer, this week raised its forecast for revenue and earnings
for 2011 because it expects more consumer demand. The Austin,
Texas-based company reported sales at stores open more than a
year rose 9.1 percent in the company’s first-quarter.  Sales, Confidence  “Our results underscored signs that consumer confidence
continues to improve,” Walter Robb, the grocer’s co-chief
executive officer, said Feb. 9 during a conference call with
analysts. Sales are “the greatest indicator of people’s
confidence,” he said.  Also today, a report from the Commerce Department showed
the trade deficit widened in December for a second month as the
cost of imported oil climbed to the highest level in two years.  The gap grew 5.9 percent to $40.6 billion, in line with the
$40.5 billion median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Excluding petroleum, the shortfall shrank to $15.3
billion, the smallest since March.  For all of 2010, the trade gap surged 43 percent, the
biggest jump in a decade, as the recovery in spending led to
record imports of  consumer goods . At the same time,
manufacturers like  Caterpillar Inc . benefited from a drop in the
value of the dollar that drove the biggest annual increase in
exports in two decades, capped by record demand in December from  China  and newly industrialized Asian nations.  Growth Overseas    Asia , led by China, and Latin America are growing very
fast, and exports to those regions will continue going up,”
said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts .  Exports increased 1.8 percent to $163 billion, the most
since July 2008, led by sales of autos, chemicals and industrial
machines.  The gap in trade will probably stabilize around current
levels as growing U.S. demand also draws in more imports to
replenish depleted inventories, Gault said.  Imports rose 2.6 percent to $203.5 billion, the most since
October 2008. The value of crude oil purchases increased to
$22.5 billion from $19.8 billion. The average price per barrel
of imported crude reached $79.78, the highest since October
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  