-- 
U.S. Trade Gap Probably Widened in December on Oil Imports

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/u-s-trade-gap-probably-widened-in-december-on-oil-imports.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  probably
widened in December for the first time in four months as the
cost of imported oil climbed, economists said before a report
today.  The gap grew to $40.5 billion from the $38.3 billion
shortfall in November, according to the median of 77 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. Other figures may show  consumer
confidence  climbed this month.  In addition to higher costs for oil, imports may have also
been boosted by the need to rebuild inventories in December as
American consumers spent at a faster clip in the fourth quarter.
At the same time, manufacturers like  Caterpillar Inc . are seeing
gains in exports as demand picks up from customers in emerging
economies, including China and  Brazil .  “It’s a pricing story on imports, as energy prices went up
quite a bit,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at
UniCredit Group in  New York . “It’s virtually certain that
imports will keep rising in the first half as demand continues
to pick up.”  The Commerce Department’s trade report is due at 8:30 a.m.
New York time. Economists’ forecasts ranged from shortfalls of
$37.4 billion to $43.5 billion.  With orders to American factories climbing as global demand
rebounds, manufacturer shares have strengthened. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Industrial Machinery Index, which includes
companies like Caterpillar and Deere & Co., has jumped 64
percent in the past 12 months, almost three times the 24 percent
gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  American Consumers  American households have contributed more to the recovery
in recent months.  Consumer spending , which accounts for 70
percent of the  U.S. economy , rose at a 4.4 percent annual pace
in the fourth quarter, the biggest gain in four years, according
to Commerce Department figures.  The gain is supplementing improving sales overseas. China,
set to become the world’s second-largest economy this year,
expanded 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier.
India grew 8.9 percent in the third quarter and Brazil, South
America’s largest economy, advanced 6.7 percent.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, posted fourth-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates as sales advanced in  China ,  Australia  and Latin
America. The Peoria, Illinois-based company said 2011 sales will
top $50 billion after coming in at $42.6 billion last year.  Global Recovery  “Sales are improving in every region, and are at or near
records in the developing world,”  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at Caterpillar, said on a Jan. 27
teleconference. “Over the past quarter, we’ve become somewhat
more positive about economic growth in the developed economies
of  North America ,  Europe , and Japan.”  A product of stronger global growth is higher commodity
costs. America’s energy bill may have increased at the end of
the year, boosting the value of imports in the Commerce
Department’s trade report. The price of imported petroleum
climbed 3.9 percent in December from the prior month, and was up
14 percent from a year earlier, according to figures from the
Labor Department.    Oil prices  also partly reflect a weaker dollar, which is
down 8.1 percent from last year’s peak in June against a basket
of currencies of the U.S.’s leading trading partners. The
dollar’s decline also makes American-made goods cheaper for
buyers abroad, boosting exports and helping generate more orders
to manufacturers.  President  Barack Obama , who has set a goal of doubling
American exports by 2014, said last month in his State of the
Union address that the U.S. has made progress.  Obama on Exports  “Already, our exports are up,” Obama said Jan. 25.
“Recently, we signed agreements with  India  and China that will
support more than 250,000 jobs here in the  United States . And
last month, we finalized a trade agreement with  South Korea  that
will support at least 70,000 American jobs.”  At 9:55 a.m., the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
consumer sentiment index for February may have increased as the
economy showed more signs of picking up and stocks climbed. The
preliminary February reading rose to 75 from 74.2 in January,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  