-- U.S. Fear of Islamists Thwarts Egypt Democracy: Amr Hamzawy
-- B y   A m r   H a m z a w y
-- 2011-02-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/u-s-fear-of-islamists-thwart-egypt-s-democracy-commentary-by-amr-hamzawy.html
There is an irrational fear in the
U.S. that Egypt’s move toward democracy will be hijacked by the
Muslim Brotherhood or another group that might prove unfriendly
to American interests. But from the very beginning, the uprising
across  Egypt  has been democratic, not ideological. There is no
real danger that the revolution will be just the opening that
Islamists need to take control.  Events in Egypt have been unfolding at a fast pace, while
the international community has been slow to respond. The scale
of the protests caught the U.S. off guard and officials in
Washington have been struggling to define a consistent policy
ever since. The Obama administration has changed its position so
many times in the last few weeks that it has damaged its
credibility and made it hard for people in and out of Egypt to
understand what the U.S. actually wants.  Now there seems to be a concern that if President  Hosni Mubarak  leaves too soon, chaos will ensue and the Muslim
Brotherhood could emerge as the biggest winner. But Egypt’s
state structure is strong enough to withstand Mubarak’s ouster
and there is no reason to think the protests will turn violent
again.  Western governments too often are preoccupied with
irrelevant issues, notably the supposed Islamist threat. This
isn’t what the protests are about. The Muslim Brotherhood didn’t
mobilize the massive crowds that are now capturing the
imagination of Arab reformers. The demonstrators are largely
made up of the silent majority: people who are demanding
political rights and democracy. This is exactly what the West
needs to support.  Road to Democracy  With this in mind, the international community should be
working to define what a peaceful transition to democracy should
look like in Egypt and push for this to happen. Instead of
fixating on Mubarak or the Islamists, officials in Washington
need to consistently support political change.  And the best road to democracy is already known. I am a
member of the so-called Committee of Wise Men -- a group of
businessmen, legal experts and intellectuals. We recommend a set
of specific changes and have met with young protesters as well
as Vice President  Omar Suleiman  and Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik
in the past week.  Transitional Power  Mubarak -- whether he departs immediately or stays on as an
honorary president as he now plans -- needs to hand power over
to Suleiman as a transitional measure. Parliament, the result of
illegitimate elections at the end of last year, needs to be
dissolved and a constitutional assembly of independent legal
experts should oversee amendments that will reshape Egyptian
politics. The emergency law that extends police powers and
suspends constitutional rights must be terminated. Finally,
parliamentary and presidential elections should be held in six
months.  There is a real fear among Egyptians that the existing
establishment will arrest any movement toward true democracy and
reconsolidate its absolute power. This is what  Washington  needs
to worry about. Mubarak is trying to do just enough to hang on
to power. By dividing the opposition through minor concessions,
the regime is hoping to bide enough time to outlast the
protesters and avoid serious change.  Washington needs to be on democracy’s side. It is an
historic moment in Egypt and the almost three decades of
uninterrupted rule may soon come to an end. The U.S. has a clear
opportunity to help ensure that this is the beginning of Egypt’s
move to democracy -- but it can’t be sidetracked by illogical
concerns about the strength of the Muslim Brotherhood.  (Amr Hamzawy is research director at the Carnegie Middle
East Center in  Beirut . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amr Hamzawy at  ahamzawy@ceip.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  