-- 
U.S. Consulate Staffer Murdered Pakistanis in Shooting, Lahore Police Says

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-02-11T12:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/u-s-consulate-staffer-murdered-pakistanis-in-shooting-lahore-police-says.html
Raymond Davis, the  U.S. Consulate 
worker in Lahore who killed two Pakistanis last month, did not
shoot in self defense, Lahore’s police chief said as a judge
ordered Davis held for 14 more days of investigation.  “It was clear-cut murder,” chief Aslam Tareen said
referring to Davis’ shooting of two armed men he told police
were trying to rob him. Tareen’s assertion may deepen the
diplomatic standoff over the case, which has strained ties
between the countries and contributed to a 2 percent fall in  Pakistan ’s main stock index today.  The U.S government says Davis has diplomatic immunity and
must be released. The U.S. Embassy in Islamabad made no
immediate comment on today’s developments and its acting
spokeswoman failed to answer calls to her office and cell phones.  The Obama administration, which presses Pakistan’s
government and army for greater help in the war against Islamic
militants in the region, has suspended high-level discussions
with Pakistan over Davis’ case, the  Washington  Post reported
this week. The State Department declined to comment on the
report, which cited U.S and Pakistani officials, and has avoided
discussing details of Davis’ case.  “He is a U.S. diplomat,” department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in a Feb. 9  press briefing  in Washington. “He was
assigned to the Embassy in Islamabad. He has immunity. And we
again call for his release.”  Prolonged Detention  Pakistani judge Anik Anwar ordered Davis held for another
14 days to permit further investigation. He also directed
Pakistan’s government to say clearly whether Davis has
diplomatic immunity as the U.S. claims, Pakistan’s GEO
television reported.  The country’s benchmark stock measure, the Karachi Stock
Exchange 100 Index, fell 2 percent to 11,943.34.  “The row between the U.S. and Pakistan made investors
jittery immediately after television channels here started
playing reports that U.S. will sever all ties with us,” said
Adnan Katchi, head of trade at IGI Finex Securities Ltd. “There
was more confusion,” he said, when press reports quoted
Pakistan’s ambassador to the U.S.,  Husain Haqqani , as denying
the story.  Davis is a former Special Forces soldier originally from  Virginia  who spent 10 years in the U.S. Army before leaving in
August 2003, the  Associated Press  reported, citing Defense
Department records. The State Department has not described his
role in Pakistan except to say he was “ a member of the
administrative and technical staff” of the embassy.  10 Gunshots  In the Jan. 27 incident, Davis was driving in a busy
section of Lahore and was approached by two men, at least one of
whom carried a pistol, police have said. “He fired 10
bullets,” Tareen told reporters today. “One of the boys he
killed was running away when Davis shot him. The pistol
recovered from one of the boys had bullets in its magazine, not
in the chamber.”  Pakistan is investigating Davis’ visa status “and why he
was carrying a gun,” Interior Minister Rehman Malik told
legislators on Jan. 28.  Militants have attacked U.S. diplomats at least three times
since March 2006. In August 2008, gunmen in a car fired on Lynne
Tracy, the senior officer of the U.S. Consulate in  Peshawar ,
damaging her armored vehicle.  Supporters of religious parties have organized rallies and
protesters have burned tires and demanded that Davis be hanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  