-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Cheer Mubarak's Departure, Urge Move to Democracy in Egypt

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-11T23:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/u-s-lawmakers-praise-mubarak-s-departure-urge-peaceful-move-to-democracy.html
Members of the  U.S. Congress  cheered  Hosni Mubarak ’s resignation as president of Egypt and called for
a peaceful transition to a secular democracy with free and fair
elections.  After days of critical statements prodding Mubarak to step
aside and threatening to halt U.S. aid if he didn’t, leading
members of Congress said they were focused on ensuring the next
steps in Egypt are peaceful and don’t empower extremists.  “Egypt’s army and transitional leaders must heed the call
to lift the emergency law and clarify a timetable to establish a
proper foundation for credible elections,” said Democratic
Senator  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts , chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee.  Calling Mubarak’s resignation “an extraordinary moment,”
Kerry said in a statement, “The  United States  must help
Egyptians turn this democratic moment into a process that builds
a government responsive to economic needs as well as demands for
freedom.”  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on the
Armed Services Committee, called on the Egyptian military to
protect people’s rights and maintain stability during the
transition of power.  “For the Egyptian people to achieve the legitimate and
enduring democratic change they seek, representatives from
Egypt’s pro-democracy parties and movements must be included in
the transition government,” McCain said in a statement. He said
the U.S. “stands fully ready” to support the process.  Muslim Brotherhood  Even as they described what they called a historic people-
powered transformation under way in Egypt, lawmakers in both
parties said they worried about the future. Some said they were
concerned the Muslim Brotherhood, the main opposition group,
would try to capitalize on Mubarak’s departure to catapult
itself to power and impose a religious agenda.  Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of  Florida , the
Republican chairwoman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, said the
group should be excluded from power.  The U.S. and its allies must “urge the unequivocal
rejection of any involvement by the Muslim Brotherhood and other
extremists who may seek to exploit and hijack these events to
gain power, oppress the Egyptian people and do great harm to
Egypt’s relationship with the United States,  Israel  and other
free nations,” Ros-Lehtinen said in a statement.  ‘Dark Cloud’  Republican Representative Steve Chabot of  Ohio , chairman of
the subcommittee in charge of Middle East policy, called the
Muslim Brotherhood a “dark cloud” hovering over an otherwise
promising moment in Egypt.  In an interview, Chabot said the Obama administration
should do everything possible to “make sure that there’s a
transition to true democracy” that doesn’t allow the Muslim
Brotherhood to take power.  The group’s leaders “mean business. They want sharia law
for Egypt,” Chabot said, using the Arabic term for Islamic law.
If the Muslim Brotherhood wins power in  Egypt , he said, “people
will be under even worse circumstances than they were in the
previous dictatorship.”  Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , a
member of the Armed Services Committee, cautioned against “a
quick, rushed election,” which he said “could end up
empowering the most radical elements in Egyptian society.”  Representative Gary L. Ackerman of New York, the Middle
East panel’s top Democrat, said the U.S. should use its
financial aid to give “maximum assistance” to political
changes in Egypt, as well as to keep “maximum leverage” over
the military to ensure a democratic transition.  ‘Glorious’ Revolution  “I do not believe the people of Egypt have undertaken this
glorious, peaceful revolution in order to substitute a
repressive religious regime and regional instability for the
stifling and brutal Mubarak regime,” Ackerman said in a
statement.  While Egyptians should determine their own future,
Representative Howard Berman of California said, the U.S. should
use its influence “to encourage a process of change that is
orderly and a government whose foreign and security policies
support our interests.” In a statement, Berman, the top
Democrat on the Foreign Affairs panel, said that would include a
government that is “secular in orientation.”  Representative Nita Lowey of  New York , the top Democrat on
the House spending panel that oversees foreign aid, said she is
“concerned” about the Muslim Brotherhood. She said Vice
President  Omar Suleiman  should listen to all groups pushing for
change in Egypt “but be sensitive to those who represent true
secular democracy.”  Military Role  Lawmakers said the Egyptian military, with close ties to
the U.S., has a key role in ensuring peace and stability during
the transition to democracy, and its actions will help determine
how robust future American financial assistance will be.  Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy of  Vermont , who heads the
foreign aid spending panel, called Mubarak’s resignation an
“extraordinary, epochal event.” He said in a statement that
Egyptians still face “formidable” challenges.  “If the army violates the public’s trust, it would also be
a blow to our relations with Egypt and would put at risk our
longstanding assistance,” Leahy said.  Senator Chuck Schumer of New York said the most important
thing is that the changeover to a new government be peaceful.
“So far, the people on the street seem largely interested in
democracy and economic opportunity and not in some kind of
fundamentalism, and that’s a good thing, and I hope it stays
that way,” he told reporters.  ‘Heeded the Voice’  Democrats Schumer and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  addressed the events in Egypt during a conference call
with reporters to discuss the U.S. budget debate.  Reid said he is “pleased that President Mubarak has heard
and heeded the voice of the Egyptian people who’ve called for
change.”  Cautioning against violence during the transition, Reid
said, “It’s crucial that Mubarak’s departure be an orderly one
that leads to democracy in Egypt, including free, fair and open
elections.”  Representative  Ron Paul , a Texas Republican who advocates
ending all foreign aid, said the U.S. gave Egypt “billions and
billions of dollars and all we get is chaos from it.” Speaking
at the Conservative Political Action Conference in  Washington ,
he said, “We need to do a lot less, a lot sooner, not only in
Egypt but around the world.”  Graham said the developments in Egypt highlight the need
for the U.S. to engage with the rest of the world. Decades of
U.S. financial assistance to Egypt “bore at least some measure
of fruit during the recent crisis when the Egyptian military
remained loyal to the people of Egypt -- not its ruler,” Graham
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  