-- 
Mubarak Cedes Power to Egyptian Military as Protests Finish 30-Year Reign

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-12T16:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/mubarak-leaves-presidency-hands-power-to-egypt-s-military-suleiman-says.html
  Hosni Mubarak  ceded power to the
Egyptian military as a popular revolt swept away the leader of
the Arab world’s most populous state, throwing into question the
future course of a key U.S. ally in the Middle East.  After 30 years of autocratic rule by Mubarak, the only
leader most Egyptians have known, the country began a new day
under a military council that promises to lead Egypt through a
democratic transformation. What happens next was left unclear,
including the timing for constitutional reforms and elections.  “We are not going to leave until all our demands are
met,” said Hany Mikael, 26, a clothes producer and one of
thousands of Egyptians who remained in Cairo’s Tahrir Square
today after a night of celebrations. “We are waiting now for
the army’s statement on their next step with a clear timeline on
how they will form the transitional government and how they will
meet the rest of our demands like canceling parliament, removing
the emergency law, and ensuring the independence of the
judiciary.”  A spokesman for the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces
said the ruling body will not be a replacement for a legitimate
government. The council is headed by Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, who has been defense minister. There has been
no immediate mention of a role for Vice President  Omar Suleiman ,
Mubarak’s longtime adviser and head of intelligence.  Military Council  The military council announced today it aimed to see a
democratic, elected government established and that it would
maintain the current cabinet for the time being. The country is
committed to all international treaties signed by previous
governments, an army spokesman said on state television.  A nighttime curfew, which has been in place since Jan. 28,
will be shortened to between midnight and 6 a.m., state
television reported earlier. Security forces have arrested
10,147 out of a total of 23,060 prisoners who escaped across the
nation during the unrest, state-run Nile News reported today,
citing the Interior Ministry.  Yesterday Egyptians celebrated through the night in Cairo
and other cities after an announcement that the 82-year-old
president had resigned, bowing to the demands of protesters who
had occupied the center of the capital for 18 days. In
downtown’s Mubarak subway station, revelers crossed out his
name, replacing it with “Martyrs’ Station.”  ‘Moral Force’  “The people of Egypt have spoken, their voices have been
heard and  Egypt  will never be the same,” U.S. President  Barack Obama  said at the White House after a meeting late yesterday
with his national security team. The “moral force of non-
violence” helped Egyptians bend the “arc of history” to
achieve their goals, he said.  Stocks rose, reversing an early drop, and oil fell to a 10-
week low in New York yesterday following the news from Egypt. An
exchange-traded fund tracking Egyptian equities rallied 5.1
percent and the cost of credit-default swaps on the nation’s
debt fell 16 basis points to 322, according to CMA.  Egypt under Mubarak was a U.S. ally in the Middle East and
one of the main beneficiaries of American aid. Tantawi has
spoken with his U.S. counterpart, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , at least five times since the protests began, according
to the Pentagon.  “America has switched sides,” said Karim Mezran,
professor of international relations at the Johns Hopkins
University campus in Bologna,  Italy . “Obama has made it clear
they won’t stand by dictators.”  Mubarak Leaves  The handover of power was announced by Suleiman in a
statement on state television late yesterday. He said Mubarak
had “instructed the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces to take
over the affairs of the country.” Mubarak left Cairo for the
Egyptian Sinai resort town of  Sharm El-Sheikh , state television
reported earlier.  “We’re thrilled,” said Waleed Rashed, a co-founder of Six
of April Youth, a youth activist group that helped organize the
first protest on Jan. 25. “There are a lot of things still to
be worked out, but we trust the army to supervise the
transitional period. We hope things will be better. If they are
not, we now know the way.”  Mubarak’s resignation opens a new phase in a crisis that
was sparked by the ouster of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14 and is rippling through a region that holds
more than 50 percent of the world’s oil reserves.  Market Reaction  Oil fell after the Egyptian leader stepped down, reducing
concern that crude shipments from the Middle East will be
disrupted. Crude for March delivery declined $1.15 to $85.58 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Nov. 30. Futures fell 3.9 percent this week and
are up 14 percent from a year ago.  Egypt’s economy may need a stimulus package to help create
jobs, Finance Minister Samir Radwan said today.  “There is a need for a stimulus package that is very
closely related to employment,” Radwan said in a telephone
interview from Cairo. The government will run the daily affairs
of the country until further instructions from the military
council, he said.  The stock exchange will open on Feb. 16, Hisham Turk, the
bourse’s communications manager, said in a telephone interview
today. The bourse’s last day of operation was Jan. 27.  Opposition Demands  The army council, at its highest state of alert since the
1973 war with  Israel , is likely to face calls for quick actions
from the thousands of young protesters who have crammed into
Tahrir Square and used Facebook and Twitter to organize
themselves.  Google Inc . executive Wael Ghonim, a figurehead of
the protests, yesterday read out a list of demands that included
abolishing all restrictions on forming political parties and
giving  voting rights  to Egyptians abroad.  Elections may bolster the Muslim Brotherhood, the country’s
main opposition group, and other parties shut out of power. The
Brotherhood is banned from politics in Egypt, and members have
had to run for office as independents in parliamentary
elections.  The Brotherhood said today it supported the army’s role in
the peaceful transfer of power to a civilian government. The
group called for an end to the state of emergency, for
parliament to be dissolved and for “free and fair elections
under judicial supervision,” it said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Military Career  Mubarak, a former air force general who as president was
commander of the largest military in the Arab world, was the
nation’s longest-serving ruler in more than 150 years. His
government was the linchpin of U.S. policy in the  Middle East 
for three decades. He kept peace with Israel, with which Egypt
had formal peace for only two years when he took office,
supported U.S. counterterrorism efforts, backed sanctions on  Iran  over its nuclear program and helped broker Palestinian-
Israeli talks.  Arab governments have given mixed reactions to events in
Egypt.  King Abdullah  of  Saudi Arabia  told Obama in a phone call
on Jan. 29 that Mubarak should be allowed to stay to oversee a
transition of power, the London-based Times reported.  In Jordan, where the king replaced the cabinet after weeks
of demonstrations, the government issued a statement on Petra,
saying it was “following very closely the historic
developments” in Egypt. Hundreds of Jordanians gathered outside
the Egyptian embassy in Amman late yesterday to celebrate,
chanting: “Arab revolt, from  Morocco  to Bahrain.”  Algerian protesters and police clashed in Algiers today
after authorities moved to arrest some of the demonstrators.
Earlier, authorities detained 100 people during a peaceful sit-
in in the capital inspired by pro-democracy protests in Egypt
and  Tunisia , Mustapha Bouchachi, head of the League for the
Defense of Human Rights, said.  “This is evidence that the authorities don’t accept
peaceful demonstrations,” Bouchachi said in an interview at the
protest in Algiers. “2011 will be a year for change. This is
the first attempt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  