-- 
Lufthansa, Turkish Airlines Agreements Probed by EU

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-11T16:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/lufthansa-turkish-airlines-agreements-probed-by-eu-update2-.html
  Deutsche Lufthansa AG ’s ticket-sale
agreement with Turkey’s Turk Hava Yollari AO is being
investigated by the European Commission to determine if it
violates competition rules.  The European Commission’s antitrust unit also opened a
separate investigation into the ticket-sale agreement between  Portugal ’s TAP SGPS SA and Brussels Airlines NV. They are
examining the deals the airlines had to sell seats on the routes
between their respective home countries.  The airlines “should, in principle, be competing with each
other,” the EU said today in a statement. The agreements “may
distort competition, leading to higher prices and less service
quality for customers on routes between  Germany  and Turkey and
between Belgium and Portugal.”  Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa is  Europe ’s second-largest
airline and  Turk Hava Yollari  is the Istanbul-based national
carrier known as Turkish Airlines. Brussels Airlines is
privately-owned, and TAP SGPS, or TAP Portugal, is state-owned.  Tap said in statement that it would cooperate with probe.  “TAP has not been informed that any inquiry is ongoing,”
said Lucia Cavaleiro, a spokeswoman for TAP in Lisbon. “Our
code-share with Brussels Airlines follows the usual model.”    Peter Schneckenleitner , a spokesman for Cologne-based
Lufthansa, confirmed in an e-mail the airline was informed about
the probe today and declined to comment further.  Calls to the other companies for comment weren’t
immediately returned. The commission has contacted the parties
and local antitrust regulators, according to the statement.  Lufthansa aided the commission and escaped being sanctioned
in November when the antitrust body fined 11 carriers 799.4
million euros ($1.08 billion) for coordinating fuel and security
fees. Under EU rules, companies can be fined 10 percent of
annual sales for antitrust violations. The commission typically
opts for a penalty of from 2 percent to 3 percent of sales in
cartel cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 