-- 
Hundreds of Tunisians Fleeing Unrest Arrive on Italian Island of Lampedusa

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-02-11T11:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/hundreds-of-tunisian-immigrants-reach-italian-island-on-boats.html
Hundreds of Tunisians fleeing unrest
in their country are turning up on the Italian island of
Lampedusa, an entry point to  Europe  from  Africa .  Political turmoil in  Tunisia ,  Egypt  and elsewhere in North
Africa “has triggered a mass exodus of people to Italy,”
Interior Minister Roberto Maroni told reporters in  Venice  today.
“There’s the risk of a real humanitarian emergency.”  In the past 24 hours, at least 100 people have landed on
the 20-square-kilometer (7.7 square miles) Mediterranean island
and were put overnight in a hotel, according to Italian Coast
Guard Warrant Officer Massimo Maccheroni. The immigrants
traveled about 110 kilometers (70 miles) on rickety boats.  In the summer, Lampedusa is brimming with tourists while
simultaneously coping with a wave of immigration that occurs in
the hottest months when it’s safer to travel.  In the winter, many of the island’s 5,000 inhabitants move
to Sicily, leaving Lampedusa virtually deserted and ill-equipped
to deal with refugees. A detention center meant to house 100
people but which can hold as many as 400, is currently closed.  “More are coming, it could be a thousand, it could be
more” in the coming weeks, Maccheroni said in a telephone
interview today. “We’re monitoring the situation closely and
doing all we can to deal with the emergency as it unfolds.”    Italy , with a population of 60 million people, has almost 1
million illegal aliens, according to Caritas, a Rome charity.  The number of legally registered foreign residents rose to
4.6 million in 2010 from 4.2 million in 2009, an increase of 7.7
percent, according to Istat, the national statistics institute.  Maroni, a member of the anti-immigration Northern League
party, warned last week of a possible flood of immigrants from
Egypt and Tunisia, expressing concern that terrorists may
“exploit the instability” there and infiltrate their ranks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 