-- 
Vacant Insurance Seats Hinder Stability Council, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-11T21:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/vacant-insurance-seats-hinder-stability-council-lawmakers-say.html
A bipartisan group of senior U.S.
House members urged Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to
fill the seats on the Financial Stability Oversight Council
meant for people with knowledge of the  insurance industry .  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus 
and Representative  Barney Frank , the top Democrat on the panel,
told Geithner they were concerned the council is “proceeding on
major issues affecting the insurance sector without the benefit
of a full complement of insurance expertise,” according to a
letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act established the council, which
includes Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and the
chairmen of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and Commodity and Futures Trading
Commission. It also has two seats for state insurance regulators
and a seat for a presidentially appointed insurance expert.  The council has the authority to make companies under its
jurisdiction raise capital, increase liquidity and sell assets
deemed too concentrated in one segment of the economy.  Insurers have voiced concern the panel is dealing with
criteria for non-bank financial companies it would consider
systemically important without the proper expertise.  David A. Sampson, the president of the Property Casualty
Insurers of Association of America, said in a Jan. 17 letter to
the White House that the group was “extremely concerned” that
the panel is already working on “highly important decisions.”  Major insurers have watched the systemic-risk thresholds
closely. Industry groups have been arguing against the inclusion
of some of their largest members, such as life insurers
including MetLife Inc. and  Prudential Financial Inc . and
property-casualty companies like State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co.,  Allstate Corp . and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Representatives Judy Biggert and Luis Gutierrez, the top
members of the Financial Services subcommittee overseeing the
insurance industry, also signed onto the letter.  “Given the unique nature of the business of insurance, we
believe it is imperative that the insurance-related seats on the
FSOC be filled without further delay,” the lawmakers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  