-- 
Vietnam Devalues Dong by Record 7%, Risks Inflation to Curb Trade Deficit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-11T09:56:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/vietnam-devalues-dong-by-a-record-7-seeking-to-curb-deficit.html
  Vietnam  devalued the dong by about 7
percent, the most since at least 1993, risking faster inflation
to curb the nation’s trade deficit and narrow the gap between
official and black-market exchange rates.  The dong slumped to as weak as 20,893 per dollar, compared
with 19,498 yesterday, and was at 20,875 at 4:45 p.m. in Hanoi.
The  State Bank  of Vietnam fixed the reference rate for the
currency at 20,693 versus 18,932 yesterday, or 8.5 percent
weaker. The trading band for the currency was narrowed to 1
percent on either side of the rate from 3 percent previously.  Vietnam’s fourth devaluation in 15 months takes place with
its inflation rate at the fastest in almost two years, and with
the  International Monetary Fund  describing its foreign-currency
reserves as being “low.” While the whole of  Asia  outside Japan
is struggling to curb inflation, countries such as  China ,  Taiwan 
and  Singapore  have strengthening currencies and rising foreign-
exchange reserves.  “There is still a crisis of confidence out there,” said  Nizam Idris , a strategist at  UBS AG  in Singapore. “There’s
still more pressure for the currency to depreciate some more.”  The “ceiling” beyond which the dong can’t weaken is more
relevant to the market than the daily fixing rate, making the
effective devaluation 6.7 percent to 20,900 per dollar from
19,500 previously, wrote Johanna Chua, the Hong Kong-based head
of Asian economic research at  Citigroup Inc .  Black Market  The currency weakened this afternoon on the black market to
as much as 21,550 per dollar from 21,300 yesterday, based on
figures given by a telephone information service run by Vietnam
Posts & Telecommunications.  “This is an overdue attempt to get the  currency market 
under control,” said Kevin Snowball, chief executive of PXP
Vietnam Asset Management in Ho Chi Minh City. “You can’t just
leave a 10 percent differential between the official and black-
market rates without destroying the credibility of the entire
currency regime.”  The devaluation may ease a drop in foreign-exchange
reserves and calm the market at the risk of boosting imported
inflation, wrote Tai Hui, the Singapore-based head of Southeast
Asian economic research for  Standard Chartered Plc .    Price Stability   “Higher  interest rates  are still needed to maintain price
stability and prevent further dong sell-offs,” Hui wrote in a
research note today. “The credibility of the State Bank of
Vietnam needs improvement given repeated one-off devaluations.’  While the central bank’s so-called base rate has held at 9
percent since November, market interest rates have climbed to as
high as 20 percent, Ho Chi Minh City-based Viet Capital
Securities said last week.  IMF View  The International Monetary Fund, which in December  called 
for a further tightening of monetary policy to “restore orderly
conditions in the foreign-exchange market” and contain
inflation, said today that it welcomed the attempt to narrow the
gap between the official and parallel market exchange rates.  Still, Vietnam also needs “a broader set of policies to
restore macroeconomic stability,” said Benedict Bingham, the
IMF’s senior resident representative in Vietnam. “Monetary
policy will need to focus more decisively on containing
inflation, and fiscal policy will need to be put on a clearer
consolidation path to contain public debt.”  The monetary authority had already devalued the dong in
November 2009 and February and August last year, amid concern
the nation will run short on foreign capital needed to fund a
trade deficit, which reached $1 billion in January, according to
preliminary government figures.  While the official exchange rate of the currency had been
little changed since the August 2010 devaluation, on the black
market the currency weakened from about 19,500.  “We paid 20,500 per dollar in December and 20,800 in
January,” said Alan Young, chief operating officer of
Australian-listed  Vietnam Industrial Investments Ltd ., which
runs steel plants in the northern port city of Haiphong. “You
just can’t buy dollars at the official rate.”  Currency reserves probably fell to about $13.6 billion at
the end of last year, down from $14.1 billion in September and
$23.9 billion in 2008, according to Citigroup Inc.  ‘Very Steep’  The devaluation is “very steep,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk,
senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “It seems
the authorities are trying to support exports and to support
growth, rather than to fight inflation. That’s very surprising
because inflation in Vietnam is a major problem.”  The central bank said the measures will help “manage the
exchange rate more flexibly” and curb the trade deficit.  “We will adjust the  reference rate  more flexibly, more
often now, depending on the market demand, instead of leaving
the rate fixed for a long time,” said central bank Deputy
Governor Nguyen Van Binh.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Vietnam’s sovereign credit
rating in December, citing the risk of a balance-of-payments
crisis and a drop in foreign reserves as inflation accelerates
and the currency weakens. Consumer prices increased 12.17
percent last month from a year earlier, compared with 11.75
percent in December, according to the statistics office.  “One of our top priorities now is to stabilize the macro
economy in order to maintain the pace of growth,” Nguyen Van
Thao, deputy chief administrator of the ruling Vietnamese
 Communist Party’s Central Committee , said on Jan. 19. The
government forecasts the economy will expand by up to 7.5
percent this year, compared with 6.78 percent in 2010.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  and Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in
Hanoi. With reporting by Nicholas Heath in Hanoi Editor: Sandy
Hendry,  James Regan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net  or
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  