-- 
Vietnam Must Tackle Inflation After Dong's Devaluation, IMF, Citigroup Say

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-11T17:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/vietnam-s-record-devaluation-adds-urgency-for-action-on-prices-imf-says.html
  Vietnam ’s devaluation of the dong
yesterday by about 7 percent, the most since at least 1993,
needs to be followed with steps to curb inflation, the  International Monetary Fund  and  Citigroup Inc . said.  The dong slumped to as weak as 20,893 per dollar, compared
with 19,490 on Feb. 10, and closed at 20,875 in Hanoi yesterday.
The  State Bank  of Vietnam fixed the  reference rate  for the
currency at 20,693 versus 18,932 the previous day, or 8.5
percent weaker. The trading band for the currency was narrowed
to 1 percent on either side of the rate from 3 percent
previously.  Vietnam’s fourth devaluation in 15 months to curb the trade
deficit and narrow the gap between official and black-market
exchange rates runs the risk of spurring inflation from almost a
two-year high. The IMF yesterday called for steps to check price
gains, while Citigroup said the central bank should have
increased  interest rates  at the same time.  “Where is the rate hike?,” Johanna Chua, the Hong Kong-
based head of Asian economic research at Citigroup, said in a
note. “The devaluation alone does not solve the fundamental
problems of lack of domestic confidence in the dong.”  The “ceiling” beyond which the dong can’t weaken is more
relevant to the market than the daily fixing rate, making the
effective devaluation 6.7 percent to 20,900 per dollar from
19,500 previously, Citigroup’s Chua wrote.  ‘Orderly Conditions’  The IMF, which in December  called  for a further tightening
of  monetary policy  to “restore orderly conditions in the
foreign-exchange market” and contain inflation, said yesterday
that it welcomed the attempt to narrow the gap between the
official and parallel market exchange rates.  Still, Vietnam also needs “a broader set of policies to
restore macroeconomic stability,” said Benedict Bingham, the
IMF’s senior resident representative in Vietnam. “Monetary
policy will need to focus more decisively on containing
inflation, and fiscal policy will need to be put on a clearer
consolidation path to contain public debt.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut Vietnam’s sovereign credit
rating in December, citing the risk of a balance-of-payments
crisis and a drop in foreign reserves as inflation accelerates
and the currency weakens. Consumer prices increased 12.17
percent last month from a year earlier, compared with 11.75
percent in December, according to the statistics office.  Regional Trend  While the whole of  Asia  outside Japan is struggling to curb
inflation, countries such as  China ,  Taiwan  and  Singapore  have
strengthening currencies and rising foreign-exchange reserves.
Vietnam’s currency reserves probably fell to about $13.6 billion
at the end of last year, down from $14.1 billion in September
and $23.9 billion in 2008, according to Citigroup.  “There is still a crisis of confidence out there,” said  Nizam Idris , a strategist at  UBS AG  in Singapore. “There’s
still more pressure for the currency to depreciate some more.”  The currency weakened yesterday on the black market to as
much as 21,550 per dollar from 21,300 on Feb. 10, based on
figures given by a telephone information service run by Vietnam
Posts & Telecommunications.  “This is an overdue attempt to get the  currency market 
under control,” said Kevin Snowball, chief executive of PXP
Vietnam Asset Management in Ho Chi Minh City. “You can’t just
leave a 10 percent differential between the official and black-
market rates without destroying the credibility of the entire
currency regime.”  Imported Inflation  The devaluation may ease a drop in foreign-exchange
reserves and calm the market at the risk of boosting imported
inflation, wrote Tai Hui, the Singapore-based head of Southeast
Asian economic research for  Standard Chartered Plc .  “Higher interest rates are still needed to maintain  price
stability  and prevent further dong sell-offs,” Hui wrote in a
research note. “The credibility of the State Bank of Vietnam
needs improvement given repeated one-off devaluations.’  While the central bank’s so-called base rate has held at 9
percent since November, market interest rates have climbed to as
high as 20 percent, Ho Chi Minh City-based Viet Capital
Securities said on Feb. 2.  The monetary authority had already devalued the dong in
November 2009 and February and August last year, amid concern
the nation will run short on foreign capital needed to fund a
trade deficit, which reached $1 billion in January, according to
preliminary government figures.  Black Market  While the official exchange rate of the currency had been
little changed since the August 2010 devaluation, on the black
market the currency weakened from about 19,500.  “We paid 20,500 per dollar in December and 20,800 in
January,” said Alan Young, chief operating officer of
Australian-listed  Vietnam Industrial Investments Ltd ., which
runs steel plants in the northern port city of Haiphong. “You
just can’t buy dollars at the official rate.”  The central bank said the measures will help “manage the
exchange rate more flexibly” and curb the trade deficit.  “We will adjust the reference rate more flexibly, more
often now, depending on the market demand, instead of leaving
the rate fixed for a long time,” said central bank Deputy
Governor Nguyen Van Binh.  The devaluation is “very steep,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk,
senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “It seems
the authorities are trying to support exports and to support
growth, rather than to fight inflation. That’s very surprising
because inflation in Vietnam is a major problem.”  The Vietnamese government forecasts the economy will expand
by up to 7.5 percent this year, compared with 6.78 percent in
2010.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City and Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in
Hanoi. With reporting by Nicholas Heath in  Hanoi  and Lilian
Karunungan in Singapore Editor: Cherian Thomas, Arijit Ghosh  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net  or
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  