-- 
Warsh Departure May Reduce Fed’s Insights Into Wall Street

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/warsh-exit-may-reduce-fed-s-insights-into-wall-street-amid-record-easing.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Kevin Warsh ’s departure may reduce the Wall Street intelligence that
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke gathers as he weighs policy options
following record easing, former central bank officials said.  Warsh, 40, resigned yesterday effective around March 31,
opening a second vacancy on the Fed’s Board of Governors.
Bernanke, who relied on Warsh as a close adviser, may depend
more for insights about markets on New York Fed officials
including President William Dudley, said  Vincent Reinhart , a
former Fed monetary-affairs director.  Warsh was the only governor to work on Wall Street and the
only one to question the benefits of the Fed’s plan to buy $600
billion in Treasury securities. Without Warsh’s connections,
Bernanke may face greater odds of erring as he drains an
unprecedented amount reserves from the banking system, said  Stephen Stanley , a former Fed economist.  “Unless they put someone in place who has a similar level
of dialogue, I think that’s something that will probably be
missed,” said Stanley, chief economist at Pierpont Securities
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “To the extent that a lot of this
is probably going to be trial and error anyway, it may just make
the process a little rougher.” That may increase volatility in
the  bond market , Stanley said.  Warsh, a former Morgan Stanley investment banker who was
the youngest-ever Fed governor when he was appointed by then-
President George W. Bush in 2006, submitted his resignation
yesterday to President Barack Obama.  Five-Year Term  Separately, Dudley will probably be reappointed to a five-
year term starting March 1, a person familiar with the matter
said yesterday. He was named  New York  Fed chief in January 2009
to finish the term of Timothy F. Geithner, who became Treasury
Secretary. The board of the regional bank appoints presidents to
five-year terms, subject to approval by the Board of Governors
in Washington.  His departure may give Bernanke a stronger hand to complete
or potentially expand the $600 billion in Treasury purchases
through June. Dudley, by contrast, has been one of the
stimulus’s strongest supporters.  “You lose a forceful internal advocate for ending QE and
trying to renormalize policy quicker,” said Reinhart, referring
to the stimulus program known as quantitative easing.  The move also “deepens the void” in financial-markets
expertise at the Board of Governors after former Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn , a 40-year central bank veteran, left in September,
said Reinhart, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in  Washington .  Second Vacancy  Warsh’s term would have run through January 2018; most Fed
governors don’t serve out their full terms. His resignation
opens a second vacancy on the seven-member Board of Governors
and leaves  Elizabeth Duke , a former community banker, as the
only governor not appointed or reappointed by Obama.  Duke’s term expires in January 2012, and she can stay after
that until a replacement is appointed. Obama’s nomination of
Peter Diamond, a Nobel Prize-winning economist from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is pending in the Senate
again after failing last year.  “Contact with markets, knowing what markets think is very
important for Fed policy,” former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley 
said. “Kevin had very close contact with Wall Street. It would
be nice if they appointed somebody that brought that kind of
connection with  Wall Street  to the board.”  Supervisory Chief  The White House also must designate a Fed governor to be a
second vice chairman in charge of supervision, as required by
last year’s Dodd-Frank Act overhauling financial regulation. It
has two other regulatory vacancies in the chiefs of the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, which oversees  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  “I am honored to have served at a time of great
consequence,” Warsh, who never dissented from a Federal Open
Market Committee decision, said in his resignation letter.
Bernanke said in a statement that Warsh’s “intimate knowledge
of financial markets and institutions proved invaluable during
the recent crisis.”  Warsh is still on good terms with Bernanke and is leaving
because he sees it as the right time with an improving economy
and not because of a policy dispute, said another person
familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity.
He’s likely to return to the private sector.  Adviser on Fannie Mae  After graduating from  Stanford University , Warsh earned a
law degree from  Harvard University  but never practiced, opting
instead to join Morgan Stanley in New York, where he worked in
the mergers and acquisitions department from 1995 to 2002. He
then joined the White House, advising on policies including
Fannie and Freddie, the government-chartered home-finance
companies.  Warsh was an architect of the terms the Treasury dictated
to nine of the biggest U.S. banks in October 2008 in return for
a $125 billion injection of government funds. He played a
central role in negotiating the sale of the ailing Wachovia
Corp., mediating a takeover fight that erupted between  Citigroup
Inc . and Wells Fargo & Co.  In January 2009, Warsh was passed over for the presidency
of the New York Fed in favor of Dudley, a former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . economist and leading advocate of the Fed’s stimulus,
dubbed QE2 by investors for a second round of quantitative
easing.  Fed Operations  Warsh has served as the Fed’s representative to the Group
of 20 and the Board of Governors’ emissary to emerging and
advanced economies in  Asia . He also managed Fed operations and
personnel as the governor assigned to administration.  Warsh staked out an anti-inflation stance on monetary
policy in September 2009, when he published a Wall Street
Journal opinion piece and gave a speech saying the Fed may need
to raise  interest rates  with “greater force” than it has in
the past. In June, he said any decision to expand the $2.3
trillion balance sheet must be subject to “strict scrutiny.”  On Nov. 8, he said in a speech and opinion piece that the
Fed’s Treasury buying “poses nontrivial risks” even after he
voted to support the stimulus. He hasn’t publicly discussed his
views on the purchases since November and backed the policy at
the Fed’s subsequent meetings in December and January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  