-- 
Washington Beats New York as Job Growth Boosts Office Prices

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-02-11T18:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/washington-beats-new-york-city-as-job-growth-boosts-office-prices-by-15-.html
  Washington  office property values
advanced the most last year among six major U.S. markets as
employers added jobs and investor demand boosted prices,
according to  CoStar Group Inc .  Office building prices climbed 15 percent in the U.S.
capital city and 6 percent in New York, the only other city to
show an increase, the Washington-based commercial real estate
data provider said today. Values in Chicago fell the most in the
group, 22 percent, and in  Los Angeles  they dropped 17 percent.
San Francisco prices declined 13 percent, and Atlanta’s slipped
2 percent.  Well-leased properties in Washington and New York are
attracting investors as the economies in those cities recover
from the recession.  New York  employment increased by 41,800 jobs
in 2010, the state’s Department of Labor  said  on Jan. 20. The
Washington metropolitan area gained 57,500 jobs over the same
period,  according  to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The
data are not seasonally adjusted.  “The reason people aren’t as comfortable with a Chicago
and L.A. is because their economies just aren’t doing nearly as
well as, say, D.C.,” said Chris Macke, senior real estate
strategist at CoStar. “It all comes back to perception and
perception driven by the economy, and that’s what drives the
investor demand or amount of dollars chasing the amount of
deals.”  Vacancy Rates  The office vacancy rate in Chicago’s downtown rose to 15.8
percent in the fourth quarter from 14.8 percent a year earlier,
according to data from  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc .’s CBRE
Econometric Advisors. In downtown Los Angeles, the vacancy rate
was 16.7 percent, compared with 14.4 percent a year earlier.  Washington’s fourth-quarter vacancy rate was 9.5 percent,
down from 11 percent a year earlier, and midtown  Manhattan ’s
fell to 7 percent, down from 7.3 percent, CBRE Econometric
Advisors said.  The value of commercial real estate sales in the New York
metropolitan area almost tripled in 2010, to $16.3 billion,
according to New York-based Real Capital Analytics Inc., which
tracks global commercial property transactions. The Washington
area was second-highest in the U.S., with $12 billion in sales
of office, apartment, retail, industrial and hotel properties, a
156 percent jump from 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  