-- 
Weber to Leave Bundesbank in April, Throwing Race for ECB Chief Wide Open

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-02-11T17:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/weber-to-leave-bundesbank-in-april-throwing-race-for-ecb-chief-wide-open.html
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber 
resigned, ending three days of confusion and opening the field
for candidates from Finland to Italy to become the next chief of
the  European Central Bank .  Weber, 53, “expressed the wish to resign” and will leave
office on April 30 with a successor to be named during the next
week, Steffen Seibert, a German government spokesman, said today
after Weber met in Berlin with  Chancellor Angela Merkel . Weber
is leaving for “personal reasons” after deciding to step down a 
year early on Feb. 8 and then being asked by Merkel to postpone 
the announcement, the Bundesbank said.  The loss of the front-runner to replace Jean-Claude Trichet
at the ECB in November leaves leaders balancing whether to
reward policy experience or protect national interest in picking
Europe’s main monetary official. Weber’s exit erodes the
prospect of Merkel ensuring the post goes to a German who might
lift domestic faith in the euro damaged by last year’s bailouts
of imprudent members.  “Merkel now has her work cut out,” said  James Nixon , co-
chief European economist at Societe Generale SA in  London  and a
former ECB forecaster. “The emphasis now will be to find an
immediate replacement at the Bundesbank and then the search is
on for an ECB president. That’s now very murky.”  Other Candidates  Attention shifts from Weber to the qualities of other
candidates who, according to 1991’s  Maastricht Treaty , must be
from the euro area and boast “recognized standing and
professional experience in monetary or banking matters.” Likely
meeting that criteria are central bankers Mario Draghi from
Italy, Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch and Erkki Liikanen of Finland.
German Klaus Regling, head of Europe’s bailout fund, may also do
so even if he lacks monetary policy experience.  No deadline is set for a decision although German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today the matter would only be
addressed after governments decide in March on new steps to end
the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The topic is still
likely to be a source of conversation at next week’s meeting of
finance ministers in Brussels.  Until this week, leaders looking for Trichet’s successor
were weighing up Weber’s seven years at the Bundesbank, two
decades in academia and citizenship of  Europe ’s largest economy
with his tendency to publicly criticize policies favored by the
ECB’s 23-member Governing Council and politicians.  Bond Opposition  Weber’s advocacy of central bank independence and aversion
to inflation led him to object to last year’s bond-buying
program aimed at staunching the debt turmoil and to question the
depth of 2009’s interest rate cuts. In August he told Bloomberg
News “it’s not so important” for a central banker to be a
diplomat.  Whether leaders would have looked through Weber’s attacks
and if he could ultimately have united ECB policy makers became
moot points after an associate of his said on Feb. 9 he planned
to leave the Bundesbank later this year.  Whoever replaces Trichet on the 35th floor of Frankfurt’s
eurotower will become the world’s second most important central
banker after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. They will
also inherit a 17-nation economy of varying growth rates and
inflation likely above the bank’s target of just below 2
percent.  Rate Forecasts  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BNP Paribas SA both said in the
past day they now expect policy makers to raise their benchmark
interest rate from 1 percent this year rather than 2012. The ECB
also intervened to buy Portuguese bonds this week for the first
time in three weeks, according to three people with knowledge of
the transactions, a sign markets remain strained.  This week’s decline in the euro against the dollar suggests
the “FX market is not pleased” by the loss of Weber given his
status as an inflation fighter, said  Lutz Karpowitz , a currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. The ECB’s credibility
may nevertheless be safe given “the assessment of a central
bank should not depend on one person alone,” he said.  Weber’s retreat is a reminder that politics, not economic
know-how, will determine who runs the ECB as was the case in
1998 when leaders brokered a deal to hand the Netherlands’ Wim Duisenberg the presidency in return for him stepping down mid-
term for Trichet, a Frenchman.  Flopped Bids  Weber also becomes the latest favorite to fail to get a key
European job, following flopped bids to run the European
Commission by Belgium’s Jean-Luc Dehaene in 1994 and Guy Verhofstadt in 2004 as well as Tony Blair’s campaign to be the
first European Union president in 2009.  Merkel must now decide whether to propose another German or
seek a kindred spirit elsewhere. Her challenge is to find
someone whose appointment will help persuade a disgruntled
electorate to keep faith with the euro and monetary union after
the country bore the biggest share of  bailing  out wayward  Greece 
and Ireland. About half of Germans would ditch the euro and
return to the deutsche mark, a Dec. 26 YouGov Plc survey showed.  “Germany never said it insisted on a German candidate,”
Schaeuble said today. Frank-Walter Steinmeier, leader of  Germany ’s opposition, told Spiegel Online that Weber’s
resignation is a “disaster” for Merkel and accused her of
cutting the central banker out of debt crisis talks.  Birthplaces matter in euro politics, especially given the
debt crisis which has pummeled the so-called peripheral nations
and required the larger core economies to extend aid. Handing
power over monetary policy to an official from one of the
smaller euro-area members may lead  France  and Germany, the
region’s biggest economies, to fret that their influence is
diminished. A southern European at the helm would leave two
running the ECB with Portuguese Vitor Constancio already vice
president.  Debt Crisis  “When things are behaving normally you could rely on the
ECB governing council to make decisions,” said  Julian Callow ,
chief European economist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “But
the debt crisis means it matters much more to the big countries
what it’s doing and they would want someone with sympathy for
their views.”  The composition of the Executive Board, the six-strong
panel which runs the ECB on a daily basis, may also influence
the debate. Germany, France,  Italy  and Spain have traditionally
held seats on it and the retirement of Trichet leaves a vacancy
for another Frenchman. That may be lost if a candidate from a
small nation takes the top slot whereas an Italian or German
would likely lead to the departure of current board members  Juergen Stark  or Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, paving the way for a
native of France to replace them.  “It’s hard to see that the French risk not being
represented,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group
NV in Brussels and former European Commission official.  Regling’s Pedigree  So far, only Regling, 60, has emerged as a German
alternative to Weber. While lacking a central-banking pedigree,
he helped to establish and now oversees Europe’s 440 billion-
euro ($595 billion)  rescue fund . He previously served in his
country’s finance ministry and ran the European Commission’s
economics department. He co-authored a study last year of
Ireland’s banking crisis.  “I have a great job,” Regling told reporters in Berlin
this week.  Bank of Italy Governor Draghi, 63, is the only declared
candidate and was today endorsed as “excellent” by Finance
Minister Giulio Tremonti. As chairman of the Financial Stability
Board, he is at the core of international efforts to rewrite the
rules of global finance. Alongside being a southern European,
another potential handicap is his three-year stint as a vice
chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., which may open him up to
sniping from leaders who blame investment banks for the credit
crisis.  Mersch  Luxembourg Central Bank Governor Mersch, 61, ranks as a
German-style inflation hawk, with an ability to speak to Germans
and French in their own language and to the financial markets in
theirs, English. A lawyer by training who helped negotiate the
1991 Maastricht Treaty that created the euro, Mersch has sat on
the ECB’s council since its inception.  The appointment of Mersch, who decorates his bank with art
work from around Europe, might force Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker, Europe’s longest-serving government head,
to give up his role as the chairman of the monthly meetings of
euro-area finance ministers.  Erkki Liikanen, 60, has run Finland’s central bank since
2004 and is a candidate with well-established political
relations. After negotiating  Finland ’s 1995 accession to the EU,
he served as European budget and business-promotion
commissioner. He made his mark in Brussels prodding governments
to open their telecommunication markets to competition and for
ensuring new controls on chemicals didn’t put companies such as
BASF AG at a disadvantage to rivals.  Finnish Candidate  As Finland’s finance minister in the late 1980s, he oversaw
the boom of the Nordic economy before growth slumped. The
youngest Finn ever elected to parliament at the age of 21. A
hurdle is that fellow countryman  Olli Rehn  is now EU
commissioner for economic and monetary affairs.  Cyprus’s Finance Minister Charilaos Stavrakis said
yesterday its government could back central bank governor
Athanasios Orphanides, 48. Orphanides is a former Fed economist
who advocated slashing  interest rates  in the recession.  Merkel must also pick a new Bundesbank president. Created
in 1957, the institution had the prime responsibility of
safeguarding the deutsche mark as the bedrock of Germany’s post-
World War II recovery and preventing the runaway inflation that
gripped the nation in the early 1920s. Personnel issues have
proved problematic for it in recent years, with Ernst Welteke
resigning as president in 2004 following a hospitality scandal
and board member Thilo Sarrazin quitting last year after
comments on Jews and Muslims sparked political outrage.  Jens Weidmann  Jens Weidmann, Merkel’s top economic adviser and a former
student of Weber, is a leading candidate to replace Weber, Bild
newspaper said this week, citing unnamed government and central
bank officials. Shifting Stark to the Bundesbank could also be a
solution especially if Merkel still wants a German for the ECB
presidency and other governments object to two on the ECB’s
executive board at one time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  