-- 
Weber Follows `Own Path' Out of Germany's Bundesbank and ECB Chief Search

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-02-11T16:09:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/weber-follows-own-path-out-of-germany-s-bundesbank-and-ecb-chief-search.html
Axel Weber is exiting the Bundesbank
on the same unconventional path he’s treaded throughout seven
years as a central banker.  The 53-year-old native of Kusel, Germany, who once argued
“it’s not so important” to be a diplomat, today met German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin and “expressed the wish to
resign,” said Steffen Seibert, a government spokesman. He will
leave his post on April 30 and a successor will be announced in
the next week.  Having begun the week the perceived favorite to succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  as president of the  European Central Bank ,
Weber today ended three days of confusion triggered by comments
by an unidentified associate that he would quit the Bundesbank.  “It’s a staggering fall from grace for one of Europe’s top
central bankers,” said  James Nixon , co-chief European economist
at Societe Generale SA and a former ECB forecaster.  The events, which left French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  “dumbfounded,” echoed Weber’s unorthodox and outspoken
past. Where Trichet is a consensus-builder, Weber’s public
objections to buying bonds and cutting  interest rates  suggested
he placed the primacy of his own views on beating inflation and
maintaining central bank independence above the need to appease
politicians or fall in line with colleagues.  The decision of the onetime marathon runner ends a policy-
making career that began in 2004 when he was the surprise choice
to replace Ernst Welteke atop the central bank of Europe’s
largest economy following two decades in academia and a time
spent advising the German government on economics.  Constance Graduate  A graduate of the University of Constance, where he sported
shoulder-length hair and supplemented his income in holidays as
a roofer, he ruffled feathers early on in his tenure by seizing
control of the Bundesbank’s economics division.  It was a sign of things to come. He most recently isolated
himself on the ECB’s now 23-member Governing Council with calls
for the bank to stop the bond purchases that are a key plank in  Europe ’s battle against its debt crisis. Having opposed the May
decision within hours of it being taken, he said Oct. 13 there
was “no evidence” the purchases were reducing bond yields.
Trichet dismissed Weber’s view five days later, saying they
didn’t reflect the consensus of the council.  It wasn’t the first time Weber swam against the current.
Even as the economy slumped in 2009 he tried to stop the central
bank from buying covered bonds to ease credit and was unheeded
after he warned against allowing the euro-area’s benchmark
interest rate to fall below 2 percent. It was cut to a record
low of 1 percent that May and held there since.  ECB Protocol  Weber also broke the protocol that the ECB president makes
major announcements first. In November 2009 he landed on
Trichet’s so-called black list by publicly revealing that the
ECB would tighten its lending to banks.  To  Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays
Capital  in London, such actions were at odds with the need for
an ECB president to unite fellow central bankers and to secure
the support of leaders who will pick Trichet’s successor.  “Weber’s past behavior has not been consistent with
someone who wants to keep his nose clean and be the candidate,”
said Callow, a former  Bank of England  official.  Friedrich Thelen, founder of Thelen-Consult, a Berlin-based
business advisory group, said Weber may have wanted Europe’s top
monetary policy role only to fall victim to euro-area politics,
with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  likely wanting Germany to
commit to looser economic policies before he backed its
candidate.  ‘Throwing in the Towel’  “This wasn’t on the cards for Merkel,” Thelen said. Now,
Weber is “throwing in the towel in anger over the promises
Merkel had made to him.”  Merkel now has to decide whether to endorse another
countryman or seek a kindred spirit elsewhere. Her challenge is
to find someone whose appointment would restore faith in the
euro and monetary union within a German electorate irritated by
the bailouts of wayward partners. Greater financial support for
indebted euro-area countries was opposed by 64 percent of German
respondents in a Jan. 28 FG Wahlen poll.  Weber, who is married and has two children of high school
and university age, has been linked with a position at Deutsche
Bank AG with analysts saying he may make a better chairman than
chief executive officer. Newspapers including De Welt have
suggested he may succeed  Josef Ackermann  as CEO of  Germany ’s
largest bank.  Bundesbank Prudence  While he lacked Trichet’s lobbying skills and deft touch
with governments, Weber’s advocacy of low inflation, fiscal
prudence and central bank independence were in keeping with his
status as Bundesbank chief. Created in 1957, the institution had
the prime responsibility of safeguarding the deutsche mark as
the bedrock of Germany’s post-World War II recovery and
preventing the runaway inflation that gripped the nation in the
early 1920s.  Weber defended himself against critics on Oct. 25 by saying
that he always followed “his own path and that has always
served me well.” In an August interview with Bloomberg News he
said “it’s important to be a diplomat for the diplomatic corps,
it’s not so important for a central bank.”  “He has spoken out about things that are of concern to
him,” said Stefan Gerlach, a professor for monetary economics
at  Frankfurt ’s Goethe University. “He’s always been
transparent. He’s just honest.”  Just this week Weber talked about the workload of being a
top central banker. On Feb. 7 he told an audience in Tallinn,
Estonia that the financial crisis meant “working days become
longer and weekends are no longer weekends.” He said “I never
dreamed I would be a policy maker myself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  