-- 
West Ham Moves Closer to Winning Use of Olympic Stadium, Beating Spurs

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-02-11T13:56:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/west-ham-moves-closer-to-winning-use-of-olympic-stadium-beating-spurs.html
English soccer club West Ham United
moved closer to taking over  London ’s Olympic stadium today when
it was voted the preferred bidder by the group organizing the
post-Games use of the facilities.  The Olympic Park Legacy Company recommended the east London
Premier League team and the borough of Newham over a joint bid
by Tottenham Hotspur and AEG, a U.S.-based entertainment
facility operator. They were vying to take over the stadium in
after next year’s summer Games.  “We are confident that this represents the very best
legacy for the stadium,” Margaret Ford, chairwoman of the OPLC,
said at a press conference in London today. “It’s great for
Londoners, it’s very good news for the U.K. taxpayer, it’s also
a really good outcome for sport.”  The recommendation, made unanimously by the OPLC board,
will be subject to approval by London mayor  Boris Johnson  and
the U.K. government. Ministers plan to review the proposal and
report to Parliament “shortly.”  West Ham’s bid will maintain much of the current stadium,
including the running track, so it can continue to host
athletics events. North London-based Tottenham and AEG had
proposed partly razing the site and building a soccer-specific
complex without a permanent running track.  “Today is a momentous day,” Karren Brady, vice-chairman
of West Ham, said in a statement on the club’s website. “We are
proud to have been passed the Olympic torch and fully embrace
the responsibility we have for keeping the flame alive.”  Milestone  The recommendation “marks an important milestone for
the future of the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park and the whole of
the Olympic project,” U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  and
U.K. Communities Secretary Eric Pickles said in a joint e-mailed
statement.  The recommendation is “a victory for athletes, for sport
and, importantly, for the generations of young people who will
see their lives transformed as a result of the London 2012
Olympic Games,” the British Olympic Association said in an e-
mailed statement.  When London won the bid to hold the event in 2005,
organizers promised to retain an athletics track inside the
stadium. Tottenham and AEG had planned to remove the track to
move soccer fans closer to the field. In exchange, they would
have renovated Crystal Palace stadium in south London for track-
and-field competitions.  “We should all expect to see the retention of this track
firmly embedded and legally guaranteed by those entrusted with
this legacy commitment, today and in the future,” Spurs said.
“We shall continue to monitor the bid process over the coming
weeks up until its final determination, whilst reviewing our
position and holding discussions with our advisors.''  Tottenham has plans to build a new stadium next to its
current White Hart Lane facility in north London. It became
interested in the Olympic stadium because it would be able to
build more cheaply.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  