-- 
WestLB Sale Attracts ‘Concrete’ Offers, Bidding to Continue

-- B y   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 
2011-02-11T18:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/westlb-sale-attracts-concrete-offers-bidding-to-continue.html
WestLB AG, the German state-owned
bank bailed out during the financial crisis, attracted
“concrete” offers from potential buyers as it approaches a
deadline to submit a restructuring plan to the European
Commission.  “In the framework of the ongoing sale process for WestLB,
concrete and high-quality offers were submitted today,” the
office of  Friedrich Merz , the lawyer in charge of the disposal,
said in an e-mailed statement distributed by his spokesman. It
didn’t identify the bidders or disclose how many made offers.  WestLB must sell itself by the end of 2011 under conditions
imposed by the European Commission, the European Union’s
executive arm, for approving state aid that the bank received.
Parallel to the sale, WestLB’s owners are drawing up a
restructuring plan for the Dusseldorf-based lender ahead of a
Feb. 15 deadline by the commission. WestLB may be broken up as
part of the new business plan, two people familiar with the
matter said this month.  Once restructuring talks with the commission have been
completed, the sale of WestLB will be continued “swiftly and
target-driven,” according to Merz’s statement. The bidders are
interested in buying the entire state-owned bank, it said.  Apollo Global Management LLC, J.C. Flowers & Co. and  Lone
Star Funds  are bidding to buy WestLB, Dow Jones Newswires
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. A
spokeswoman for Merz in  Frankfurt  declined to identify the
bidders. Merz previously said he was in talks with four parties.  WestLB is owned by the state of North Rhine-Westphalia as
well as the Rhineland and Westphalia-Lippe regional savings bank
associations.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jann Bettinga in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 