-- 
Wheat’s Rally to Fuel Gains in Rice, Zeigler Predicts

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-02-11T05:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/wheat-s-surge-may-fuel-gains-in-rice-prices-irri-s-robert-zeigler-says.html
The price of rice, the staple food
for half the world, may advance as wheat’s rally drives
consumers to seek alternatives, according to Robert Zeigler,
director general of the International Rice Research Institute.  “Rice typically tracks wheat increases,” Zeigler said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television today. “Wheat prices
started to spike in last July, and rice prices followed them
up,” Zeigler said, describing it as a “follow-on effect.”  Wheat climbed to the highest level in more than two years
this week on concern drought in  China  may curb output, boosting
competition for dwindling global supplies. The world’s neediest
people are most affected by food costs, which reached a record
last month, World Bank President Robert Zoellick said yesterday.  “We’re dealing with staple foods here and a price rise in
one should lead to some degree of substitution towards
another,” Michael Creed, an agribusiness economist at National  Australia  Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , said today. “There’s good
reason to be bullish about rice prices.”  China, the world’s biggest consumer of grains, will spend
12.9 billion yuan ($1.96 billion) to bolster farm production and
fight the dry weather, Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday. The
jump in food costs has spurred some nations including  South
Korea  and Bolivia to warn there may be a food crisis. Bolivia
will tap central-bank reserves to boost agricultural production
and stockpile food, Finance Minister Luis Arce said yesterday.  Banned Exports  Wheat on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global benchmark,
touched $8.9325 a bushel on Feb. 9, the highest level since Aug.
25, 2008. The grain has surged 71 percent over the past year
after  Russia  banned exports and floods hurt crops in  Canada  and
Australia. Rough-rice futures, trading today at $16.10 per 100
pounds, have gained 12 percent in the past year.  “If wheat production falls, people will have to substitute
with something in their diet: rice is the easiest,” said
Zeigler, who’s over three decades of experience in agricultural
research. There are no signs of panic buying, he said.  A surge in rice may contribute to faster inflation across  Asia  even as policy makers ramp up  interest rates  to contain
surging consumer prices. The People’s Bank of China raised rates
this week for the third time in four months. Central banks in  India ,  Indonesia  and Thailand have also tightened.  $10 Wheat Call  Blackstone Group LP’s  Byron Wien  is among strategists who
have forecast a surge in farm-commodity prices in 2011. Wien
predicted last month wheat may jump to $10 a bushel this year as
“rising standards of living in the developing world seriously
increase the demand for agricultural commodities.” Michael Lewis, global head of commodities research at Deutsche Bank AG,
said in November that agricultural commodities may extend gains.  About 42 percent of the area planted with wheat in China’s
eight major producing provinces has been hurt by the dry spell,
according to Minister of Agriculture Han Changfu. The drought-
hit central and eastern regions may get some snow or rain in the
next three days, the nation’s weather office said today.  Global wheat harvests may trail demand for a second year,
spurring hoarding,  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at
the Food and Agriculture Organization, said this week. China’s
drought may cut the chance of rebuilding stockpiles, he said.  “There’s no doubt that we’re seeing rising food prices
just as we saw a couple of years ago and it puts stress on the
most vulnerable,” the  World Bank ’s Zoellick said. “People
often in developing countries spend half or three-quarters of
their income in food, so they’ve got little margin.”  Improve Yields  The  International Rice Research Institute , or IRRI, is a
research center in the Philippines that develops crop varieties
and farm techniques to help growers to improve yields and
quality, according to its website.  While the long-term trend for rice price is up, Zeigler
said that he doesn’t expect a dramatic increase. “There’s not
much to suggest that would be the case,” he said. “We don’t
see governments panicking and blocking exports.”  In Bolivia, a portion of the $10 billion in central-bank
reserves should be used to increase loans to food producers and
lower prices, Finance Minister Arce said. “We are looking at a
food crisis that is coming,” Arce said in an interview.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  this week ordered that
a taskforce be set up to study measures to secure food as prices
soared. “There is an increasing likelihood of a food crisis
globally due to  climate change ,” Lee said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  