-- 
Zapatero's `Epiphany' Cuts Chances of Spain Needing Bailout: Euro Credit

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-02-11T08:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-11/zapatero-s-epiphany-cuts-chances-of-spain-needing-bailout-euro-credit.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s moves to overhaul banks while changing
rules on labor, pension and wages may do more to stem the debt
crisis than European plans to reinforce its bailout fund.  Zapatero’s cabinet plans to pass new rules for job seekers
today, two weeks after approving a draft bill to raise the
pension age. By the end of the month it will pass a decree to
bolster lenders’ capital and in March aims to loosen collective-
bargaining rules to make it easier for Spanish firms to compete.    Spain , emerging from almost two years of recession, is
trying to convince investors it can shore up its struggling
savings banks without overburdening state finances and having to
follow Ireland in seeking a European Union bailout. The gap
between Spanish and German borrowing costs is more than 10 times
the average in the first decade of monetary union, even after
easing by a third since Ireland’s rescue in November.  “The working assumption of more and more analysts in  Europe  is that Spain will be able to pull through on its own,”
said  Gilles Moec , co-chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
London “A lot of that has to do with what they’ve been doing;
there’s a lot of market talk about Zapatero’s epiphany.”  Spain’s extra yield compared with  Germany  widened to 204
basis points today from 203 yesterday. That compares with a
euro-era high of 298 basis points on Nov. 30 after Ireland
sought EU help to reorder public finances crippled by the cost
of rescuing its banks.  Union Card  Zapatero, a Socialist who said in 2005 he slept with his
union card by his bed and pledged to keep increasing pensions,
slashed public wages by 5 percent last year, froze pensions,
reduced firing costs and made it easier for companies to opt out
of wage-bargaining deals. After facing down the first general
strike in eight years in September, he followed those measures
with an increase to the  retirement age  even as the social
security system remains in surplus.  The cabinet meets today to discuss policies to help Spain’s
4.6 million unemployed find jobs, as the National Statistics
Institute publishes data that will probably show gross domestic
product contracted for a second full year in 2010.  “Spain has done more impressive policy reforms in recent
months than any other industrialized country I can recall,”  Erik Nielsen , chief European economist at Goldman Sachs
International, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
There’s “no question” Spain’s measures will do more to stem
the sovereign-debt crisis than any steps by European leaders to
retool the European Financial Stability Facility, he said.  EU Summit  Euro-area leaders are due to meet on March 11 for an
extraordinary summit to consider ways to bolster their crisis-
response mechanism after bailouts of Ireland and Greece failed
to stop contagion, fueling concern Portugal and Spain might be
next. A rescue of Spain, an economy almost twice the combined
size of  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland, would push the 440
billion-euro EFSF to its limit.  The March 11 summit will be “transcendent” and leaders will
give a “global” response to the crisis, Zapatero said at a press
conference last night in  Madrid .  Talks on making the EFSF more effective include finding
ways to mobilize the full potential of the fund, now able to
lend only about 250 billion euros due to collateral rules that
underpin its AAA rating. Leaders are also considering ways to
lower interest payments on the funds bailout loans and allow the
EFSF to buy bonds of the region’s most-indebted countries. Signs
of discord last week between EU leaders over how to bolster the
fund undermined a rally in European bond markets and knocked the
euro off a three-month high.  Budget Cuts  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose 2 basis points yesterday to
5.33 percent. The cost of insuring Spanish sovereign debt
increased as credit-default swaps rose 1 basis point to 236.5,
according to CMA prices at 4:30 p.m. yesterday in  London .  The deepest austerity measures in at least three decades
reduced the euro region’s third-largest budget deficit to within
the target of 9.3 percent of gross domestic product last year
from 11 percent in 2009. The Spanish government, which faces a
slump in support amid a backlash against the budget cuts and a
20 percent unemployment rate, has pledged to meet a 6 percent
deficit goal this year.  The Bank of Spain, which has repeatedly urged greater
austerity and legislative overhauls, expressed confidence in the
government’s policies on Feb. 8 as Chief Economist Jose Luis Malo de Molina said it was “more than reasonable” to think
this year’s budget goal will be met. The measures needed to
restore the economy have been “identified,” even if some of
them could have been taken earlier, he said.  Bank Capital  Some of the steps could have been more radical, said
Camille Viros, an economist at the wealth management division of
Barclays Plc in London. The pension bill is “a step in the
right direction, but more still has to be done,” while the
amount of additional funds lenders will need to meet new capital
rules may be twice as much as the government estimates, she
said.  Finance Minister Elena Salgado on Jan. 24 gave banks until
September to meet the higher capital requirements and said the
shortfall would be no more than 20 billion euros, “all or
part” of which will come from private investors. The government
is pushing unlisted savings banks toward stock-market listings
by setting stiffer  capital requirements  for unlisted lenders
that aren’t at least 20 percent owned by private investors and
that depend on wholesale financing. A law outlining the
requirements and new rules on any state bailouts is set to be
approved this month.  U-Turn  Zapatero’s policy U-turn has prompted a slide in his
popular support, polls show. The opposition  People’s Party  would
win 43 percent of the vote if elections were held now, compared
with 28 percent for the Socialists, El Pais reported on Feb. 6.  Regional and local elections are scheduled for May and a
general election is due by March 2012. Zapatero told Parliament
in July he would restore Spain’s economy “whatever it costs and
whatever it costs me.” That price may be his political future;
polls indicate Spaniards expect Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba to replace Zapatero as head of the Socialists’
for the 2012 vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  