-- ‘Hitler’ Hashimoto Comes to Japan Fed Up With Status Quo
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-05-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/-hitler-hashimoto-comes-to-japan-fed-up-with-status-quo.html
Who knew a modern-day  Adolf Hitler 
was running Osaka?  Certainly not the majority of the 2.7 million people in the
western Japanese city. Toru Hashimoto boasts an approval rating
more than twice that of the prime minister. Osakans love their
mayor’s crusade against Tokyo’s dysfunction and absolute power
over the country. It has Japan’s old guard running scared and
comparing Hashimoto to  Europe ’s most notorious genocidal
fascist.  If the world needs anything, it’s a moratorium on Hitler
analogies. As much as one may dislike  Barack Obama  or  George W. Bush , neither bears even the most fleeting resemblance to the
maniacal German leader. Suggestions to the contrary are beyond
ignorance and vandalize history. Yet for Japanese to turn to a
man in this rarefied company speaks volumes about where  Japan 
finds itself in a volatile global environment.  The desire for change reached a fever pitch after last
year’s earthquake and tsunami. Even before the earth shook, the
waters rose and radiation leaked on March 11, 2011, Japanese
sensed Tokyo had lost its way. Many just hadn’t realized how
much. Hence the Tea Party-like dynamic inherent to Hashimoto’s
popularity. His drive for greater accountability, decentralized
decision making and fresh ideas is as well-timed as it is
frightening to the establishment.  Young and Telegenic  The words “a future prime minister” routinely accompany
discussions of Hashimoto’s rapid rise. At 42, he’s young and
telegenic in a nation where the other best-known regional
leader,  Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara, is 79. Hashimoto is
unusually blunt in his criticism of national leaders, and his
vision is at odds with the prevailing wisdom in Tokyo.  Frankly, I find some of Hashimoto’s platform borderline
creepy. His party’s training program for aspiring leaders, the
Restoration Politics Institute, smacks of nationalism. His
inquisition against teachers who refuse to stand and sing when
the national anthem is played -- some worry it celebrates
Japan’s militaristic past -- is right-wing silliness. Giving the
third degree to city workers with tattoos is just weird. Yes,
Japanese traditionally associate body art with members of yakuza
organized-crime groups. But in 2012, is it anyone’s business if
some desk clerk inked  Mickey Mouse  on his back?  Yet at a time when Japanese are grasping for change,
Hashimoto is what passes for a breath of fresh air. Take his
stance against relying on nuclear power, one that enraged the
national government. Hashimoto is doing what any elected leader
should: heeding the will of the people. The large majority of
Japan’s 126 million people no longer trust power companies and
bureaucrats to protect them from another Chernobyl.  All Yoshihiko Noda has done since becoming prime minister
in September is remind voters that the nuclear industry holds
the puppet strings even after the Fukushima disaster. Hashimoto
is fighting for people, not companies, and good for him. This
gives you a sense of how dangerous divergent views are to vested
interests in  Tokyo  -- and why Japan needs more of them.  Hashimoto’s calls for greater accountability and
competition are particularly welcome. His party favors direct
elections for prime minister, which would be a genuine
revolution in Japan. It wants to scrap one of the two chambers
of the Diet to hasten decision making and reduce the gridlock
that stops virtually all change in Japan.  Dark Side  The dark side of this would be a charismatic leader
becoming too powerful -- even dictatorial. That has opponents
calling the movement “Hashism,” a play on fascism. This is a
minor risk in a nation with so many checks and balances embedded
in its postwar system of government. What really worries the
establishment is new ideas that leave its carefully built
fiefdoms out of the loop.  This really is the point. Japan is a prosperous, safe and
politically stable place. Yet it may be a little too stable and,
in turn, change-averse. Public debt is more than twice the size
of Japan’s $5.5 trillion economy, the population is aging
rapidly and its global competitiveness is waning. How is the
government responding? All it seems capable of doing is naming a
new prime minister every nine months and plotting tax increases.  Fitch Ratings  put things well last week when it cut Japan’s
sovereign-debt rating, calling the government’s fiscal strategy
“leisurely.” Well, that description applies to everything from
 energy policy  to raising productivity to boosting the birthrate
to encouraging entrepreneurship to lowering trade barriers to
improving corporate governance to increasing female
participation in the  labor force  to liberalizing immigration.  Love the  Tea Party  or hate it, it challenged the status quo
in  Washington  in unpredictable ways. The same goes for the Arab
Spring, which not only shook the  Middle East  and North Africa,
but also sent waves of fear through the halls of power from
Beijing to Mexico City.  Japan, it has long been said, needs a new generation of
leaders to step forward and engineer a major course correction.
Hashimoto, love him or hate him, personifies it, and the extent
to which he makes the establishment squirm, and play the Hitler
card, suggests this political upstart is on to something.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Osaka  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 David Henry  at   dhenry2@bloomberg.net . 