-- A 'Solopreneur' Makes Sleep Pay
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2012-05-29T20:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/a-solopreneur-makes-sleep-pay.html
     May 29 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- Late one night about 15
years ago, Lee Loree noticed his wife holding a perfectly lucid
conversation in her sleep. That observation started the
then-stock analyst on wondering about sleep patterns, talking to
engineers, and then soliciting money from angel investors to
build a device to improve how we sleep.  The result is the SleepTracker, a watch-like monitor and
alarm that users wear on their wrists to record their sleep
patterns and awaken them at an optimal time within the window
they have chosen. The alarm goes off when the lightest sleep
stage is reached during that window, reducing early morning
grogginess. The monitor also records sleep stages throughout the
night, converting it into data that can be analyzed over time
with tracking software.  Loree, 39, has sold more than 250,000 units in 35 countries
but still runs his $3 million Innovative Sleep Solutions as a
one-person business from his Atlanta home. I spoke to him
recently about the startup process and why he deliberately keeps
his company small; edited excerpts of our conversation follow.  You were working in finance in 1998, with no background as
an inventor or a sleep scientist, when you came up with
SleepTracker. How did you do it?  I started checking books out at the public library. I spent
20 or 30 nights sitting in a closet, watching my wife sleep,
which is pretty creepy when you think about it. I had access to a
lot of smart people through my networks, so I met with them and
eventually found a micro-electrical engineer and a software
programmer to write the code. We built a couple generations of
prototypes, which I financed by withdrawing money from my
retirement accounts. When we had north of $100,000 invested,
people told me I was a fool—and rightly so.  I was still working at a bank at the time, and I ran out of
funds. So I wrote a business plan and did a mini-roadshow,
meeting with angel investors. I went with an angel who had
business experience and could help me navigate the startup. He
turned into a pretty good shepherd. He’s still involved with the
company; we talk quarterly.  You got the product to market in 2005. What was the
reaction?  We sat and stared at our website that first day and we had
38 visitors. We didn’t have any sales. The next day, a tech blog
found us and they threw up a screenshot of our website. Our
business went crazy. It was like a commercial where people are
watching one sale, then another, then five, then 30, and
everybody starts freaking out.  I had conservative projections in my business plan, with
1,000 sales expected in the first year and 5,000 in the second
year. Well, we sold 5,800 pieces in the first nine months and
12,000 the next year. We were cash-flow-positive in the first
month. We scrambled to support various browsers and add an
international component to our shopping cart. The product blew
away all expectations that I ever had.  Your product was an early innovation but now you have
competitors. Does that concern you?  I believe competition is inevitable, so you use it to your
advantage. More people advertising in this space, doing
interviews, doing marketing—it should grow the pie, assuming you
have a product that works and is fairly priced.  A lot of our competitors have gone out and raised
significant amounts of money. They have employees; they have
infrastructure. Meanwhile, we have this quiet little business, we
haven’t had to get additional outside investment, we have built
up a significant war chest, and we don’t even carry a line of
credit. We run the business debt-free and it’s clipping along.  Do you think about growing into a larger organization?  We found a sweet spot: Our business grows 10 to 20 percent
annually, which is real manageable, and we are where we want to
be in terms of managing  cash flow . We have all the
infrastructure: a call center, fulfillment center, manufacturers,
warehouses—but none of them work for me. My main goal with this
company was flexibility with my lifestyle. I wanted to be a dad
and a husband and be there to be a part of things with my family.
If I had the ambition to have a bigger company, we could scale
this business up and do 500,000 pieces a year, I don’t have any
doubt about that.  But using contractors, rather than employees, works for me
because when we’ve fulfilled that obligation, I can turn off that
expense and turn it back on when I need it. They like it also
because it gives them the flexibility to pursue other contracts.
And I don’t have to deal with 401(k)s, or kids being sick and
people being out of the office.  How did you set up distribution?  You can get the product online at places like Amazon and
Costco and in a few very specific brick-and-mortar stores. There
really is not a great channel in the U.S. for these types of
devices. We’ve been in specialty catalogs but we’ve not found
that to be particularly productive. Some of the big box retailers
that used to dedicate a lot of space to CDs and video games have
gotten crushed because people are streaming that stuff now. So
they’re piloting different things in that dead space, but we
struggle to think that’s a good plan for us. No one is going to
Best Buy to pick up a sleep monitor.  In  Europe ,  Mexico , and  Asia , we have a much bigger
footprint. There are limited resources in a small business and
I’ve spent much of my time trying to grow international sales.  About half of your revenues now come from sales overseas.
How do you manage those markets?  We sell to 30 independent distributors, some of whom I found
in our first month of operations and [who] are still with us
today. We get them the product, plus camera-ready art, and I do
media interviews all over the world. Of 30 distributors, 20 of
them I’ve never met face-to-face. Bidding jobs to people,
regardless of where they live or what they look like, has worked
for me from day one in this business and I believe in it.  You are still selling the same basic product you started
with in 2005. Have you got any innovations in the works?  We’re on our fourth or fifth iteration at this point, but
we’re kind of a one-trick pony. I recognize that for the long
term, we want to have multiple legs so we have more stability,
but I’m not sure how to make it a whole lot better. It’s really
hard—when you have a business that makes money—to change your
focus. We are working on some innovations; by the first of the
year we should have a feel for their potential and timelines. But
we’ve done this before and the ideas all peter out. Sometimes
we’ve spent $10,000 to $40,000 before walking away. I have a
proven product, so I try not to monkey too much with it at this
point.