-- Italy Quake Kills 15 People in North of Country
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-05-29T15:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/magnitude-5-8-earthquake-kills-at-least-9-in-northern-italy-1-.html
Italy was struck by a 5.8-magnitude
earthquake that killed at least 15 people in the northern region
of  Emilia Romagna , the second fatal temblor in the country this
month.  The quake, which came after one of a similar magnitude that
killed seven people on May 20, hit the province of Modena at 9
a.m., the  Civil Protection Agency  said on its website. Seven
people are missing and about 200 were injured, Antonio
Catricala, Italy’s Cabinet Undersecretary, told Parliament.  About 8,000 people were evacuated today, bringing the total
to about 14,000 in the two earthquakes this month, Catricala
said. The severest damage was reported near the epicenter
surrounding towns including Cavezzo, Medolla and Mirandola,
Emilia Romagna’s administration said in a  statement .  The quake was felt throughout northern Italy, including the
financial capital Milan, where some buildings and schools were
evacuated, and as far south as Tuscany and Umbria. The Italian
government “will do everything necessary to respond” to the
emergency,” Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said in  Rome . The
Cabinet will review emergency funding at a meeting tomorrow.  “Emilia Romagna won’t be left alone,” said Vasco Errani,
head of the regional government, who was meeting with Monti in
Rome when today’s earthquake struck. June 4 has been declared a
day of mourning for the victims, Catricala said.  Two of today’s victims were in San Felice sul Panaro, where
three towers of the town’s 15th-century castle collapsed in the
May 20 quake, Ansa reported. Two factories in the cities of
Mirandola and Medolla were reduced to rubble, and rescuers are
digging in the area, Ansa said.  Toppled Buildings  Three aftershocks ranging from 4.9 magnitude to 5.3
magnitude hit the area about 1 p.m., according to the Italian
Geophysics and Vulcanology Institute.  Fiat SpA (F) ’s sports-car makers Ferrari SpA, based in Maranello
near Modena, and Maserati SpA suspended operations at their
factories in the region today, Fiat Chairman John Elkann said.
Motorcycle maker Ducati Motor Holding SpA, also based in the
region, said on Twitter that the company shut down business
after the quake.  The May 20 disaster, centered near the town of Finale
Emilia, toppled buildings across the region, including two
factories where four workers were killed. About 6,000 survivors
of that temblor sought relief in tent cities set up by rescue
workers. SkyTG24 broadcast images of people fleeing tents in
Finale Emilia during today’s quake.  The fatalities in the May 20 disaster prompted Monti to
leave a NATO summit in  Chicago  early to return to Italy.
Tonight’s soccer match in Parma between the national teams of
Italy and Luxembourg was canceled after today’s quake, Ansa
said.  Seismic Areas  The damage caused by the two quakes was estimated at about
500 million euros for the agriculture industry in the region,
trade association Coldiretti said. The estimate includes the
destruction of  farm equipment  and buildings and damage to the
country’s prized Parmesan cheese. A 39-kilo wheel of the cheese
aged for 24 months can retail for more than 700 euros.  Some train lines in the impacted areas were suspended to
check the stability of the infrastructure, Ferrovie dello Stato
Italiane SpA said in a statement. Circulation is almost fully
restored, it said in a later statement.  Italy  suffers about 2,000 earthquakes a year with more than
3 million people living in seismic areas, according to the
National Council of Geologists. Almost half of Italy’s territory
is at risk of a quake, with more than 6 million buildings in the
affected seismic areas, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  