-- Taiwan Finance Minister Quits Over Tax Plan in Blow to Ma
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-05-29T10:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/taiwan-finance-minister-resigns-over-capital-gains-tax-dispute.html
Taiwan ’s Finance Minister Christina Liu resigned after disagreeing with legislators from the ruling
party over a proposed capital gains tax, dealing a blow to
President Ma Ying-jeou.  The Kuomintang party caucus yesterday put forward a
proposal for a levy on share trades that links tax rates to the
benchmark Taiex stock index, watering down an earlier plan from
the ministry that sought a flat rate to force wealthier
investors to pay more.  “Under the KMT version, investors reaping massive profits
from stock trades won’t need to pay a gains tax, which differs
greatly from the ministry’s proposal,” Liu said in a  statement 
on the ministry’s website today. “I am resigning, as I can’t
accept the thinking behind the proposal.”  Liu was appointed Finance Minister in January after Ma won
re-election. The resignation of the island’s former economic
planning head nine days into Ma’s second term may signal a
policy gap between the president and ruling party legislators.  “This resignation shows that the president and the Cabinet
haven’t solidified their power within the legislature,” said
Bruce Jacobs, a professor of Asian languages and studies at
 Monash University  in  Melbourne . “If you want to have a
successful government you need to have your legislature onside,
which means Ma could be in trouble over the next few years.”  Tax Choice  The resignation needs the acceptance of Premier Sean Chen,
who heads the Cabinet. Chen, who oversaw the island’s markets
during the 2008 economic crisis, and announced Liu’s appointment
in January, has yet to meet with her, and plans to do so to
discuss the tax, Hu Yu-wei, a Cabinet spokesman, said in a press
conference today.  KMT legislators propose allowing stock investors to choose
between a securities transaction tax with a progressive rate
tied to the benchmark index, and one that imposes a levy on the
gains as part of personal income tax calculation, according to a
draft copy of the plan.  The market-linked proposal applies when the Taiex climbs
above 8,500 points, with the rate rising every 1,000 points and
topping out above 10,500 points.  The Taiex index closed 2.9 percent higher today, the
biggest advance since Dec. 21, 2011.  “Investors are obviously much happier with this proposal,
compared with the previous capital gains tax plan,” said Robyn Hsu, who helps oversee about $6.7 billion as a  fund manager  at
Capital Investment Trust in Taipei.  Wealth Gap  Ma was sworn in for a second four-year term on May 20 after
winning on a pledge to help tackle a wealth gap which the
opposition said widened during his first term. He has built
closer ties with  China  to boost cross-strait trade even as a
faltering global recovery has hurt the export-dependent economy.  Taiwan last week cut its growth forecast for 2012 and said
 gross domestic product  rose 0.39 percent in the three months
through March from a year, the weakest pace since 2009.  The appointments of Chen and Liu were part of a leadership
transition after Ma’s re-election. Liu was chief economist at
Chinatrust Financial Holding Co. before she became minister of
the Council for Economic Planning and Development. She was a
member of the Cabinet tax reform committee between 2008 and 2009.  The resignation comes after approval for Ma fell to 20
percent this month, the lowest since August 2009, a TVBS Poll
Center  survey  showed on May 17.  “The Finance Minister’s latest move won’t affect our plan
for the legislature’s latest tax draft,” Lin Hung-chih,
executive director of the KMT policy committee, said by phone
today. “We will still seek to have the legislature’s Finance
Committee discuss the proposal at a meeting on June 4.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 