-- Akbank Advances as MSCI Increases Index Weight: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-05-29T15:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/akbank-snaps-six-days-of-losses-as-msci-raises-index-weighting.html
Akbank TAS (AKBNK) ,  Turkey ’s second-largest
listed lender in which Citigroup Inc. sold part of its stake
last week, snapped six days of losses after  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  said it
was raising the company’s weight in its Global Standard Indices.  The shares jumped 3.4 percent to 5.50 liras at the close in
Istanbul, their biggest gain in more than two months.  Akbank’s “foreign inclusion factor” on MSCI indexes will
be increased to 0.45 from 0.3 at the close of trading on May 31,
MSCI said in an e-mail today. The decision comes after  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  reduced its 20 percent stake in the lender to 9.9 percent,
according to the e-mail.  “I am looking for outperformance for Akbank now that the
overhang is over,” Isik Okte, chief strategist at Halk Invest,
the Istanbul-based brokerage for state-run bank  Turkiye Halk
Bankasi AS (HALKB) , said in e-mailed comments. “This FIF increase will
help, but overall Akbank’s year-to-date underperformance was
unwarranted given fundamentals. Most of it was due to the Citi
sale overhang.”  Akbank shares have fallen 8.6 percent this year, compared
with a 5 percent gain for the Turkish banking index.  The shares dropped 15 percent in the previous six days of
declines, pushing the stock into oversold territory on some
technical indicators.  The lender’s closing price of 5.32 liras yesterday was
below its  200-day moving average  of 6.53 liras.  The stock’s 14-day  relative strength index  slumped to 16,
with readings below 30 suggesting in technical analysis a
security may rebound. The index rose to 27 today after the
shares bounced.  The “foreign inclusion factor” reflects the percentage of
the total number of shares of a company that are not subject to
strategic shareholdings and or foreign shareholder ownership or
investment limits, MSCI said.  Fund managers often use the MSCI indexes as benchmarks for
allocating their own investments according to different company
and country weightings. Consequently, changes in the indexes
often produce a flow of money in and out of a given stock or
country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  