-- America Movil Won’t Raise Offer for KPN Stake, CFO Says
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-29T20:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/america-movil-won-t-raise-offer-for-kpn-stake-cfo-says.html
Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil  SAB,
which is bidding for a bigger stake in  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , said the
investment will boost profit, helped by the Dutch phone
company’s exposure to  Germany  and the Netherlands.  America Movil has no interest in bidding directly for KPN’s
German E-Plus mobile-phone unit and regards the Dutch company’s
turnaround plan as credible, America Movil Chief Financial
Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said at a meeting in London
yesterday, according to a  Bank of America Merrill Lynch  note to
clients, obtained by Bloomberg News.  The planned KPN deal may increase America Movil’s net
income by 5 percent before synergies, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said, without specifying a time period. KPN is an
attractive investment as it operates in “solid” countries such
as Germany and the Netherlands, which are less affected by the
European debt crisis. Representatives for America Movil and Bank
of America Merrill Lynch declined to comment.  America Movil, based in Mexico City and owned by Slim, the
world’s richest man, this month offered 2.6 billion euros ($3.3
billion) to boost its 4.8 percent stake in the former Dutch
telecommunications monopoly to as much as 28 percent. KPN, based
in The Hague, said the unsolicited 8-euro-per-share cash offer
is too low and hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  to evaluate options.  No Hurry  The tender for 325 million shares will start tomorrow and
conclude June 27, America Movil said today in a  filing . While
the deal is “sufficiently meaningful,” it is not large enough
to affect or distract America Movil from its Latin American
business, the CFO told investors. America Movil will be able to
retain its current  credit rating , Garcia-Moreno is quoted as
saying.  America Movil is in no rush to reach 28 percent and is
happy to accept the stake it gets in the tender, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Steve Hufton, a KPN spokesman,
declined to comment.  KPN shares today declined 0.6 percent to 7.59 euros at the
close, valuing the company at 10.9 billion euros. The stock
hasn’t closed above 8 euros since April 3. Before the offer from
America Movil, KPN fell 30 percent this year, the worst
performance on the Bloomberg  Europe  Telecommunication Services
Index, as the company struggled to maintain profits while
investing in its domestic broadband network. America Movil rose
1.1 percent to 16.97 pesos in Mexico City.  Seeking Bargains  Slim is taking advantage of Europe’s debt crisis to find
bargains, fulfilling a plan to expand beyond his Latin American
phone empire. The KPN offer follows failed attempts in the past
decade to enter  Spain  and  Italy , and America Movil also
considered purchases in the past 18 months in Poland and Serbia.  America Movil, the largest wireless carrier in the
Americas, has in the past collaborated with  AT&T Inc. (T) , which
owns about 9 percent of America Movil and is part of a group
with Slim and his family that controls the company’s voting
shares. It’s a relationship America Movil deems it could repeat
with KPN, according to the note yesterday.  In addition to assets in the Netherlands, Germany and
Spain, KPN also owns the Belgian mobile-phone operator known as
Base. KPN said it has started reviewing the future of the
Belgian unit, which people familiar with the matter have
estimated may fetch about 1.8 billion euros in a sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  