-- American Companies Beating Europe to First Commercial CCS Plant
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-29T09:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/american-companies-beating-europe-to-first-commercial-ccs-plant.html
Companies in the U.S. and Canada are
likely to beat European rivals in building the first large-scale
project trapping carbon dioxide to sequester underground,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) , based in Allentown,
Pennsylvania, and SaskPower International Inc. of Canada are the
closest to building a utility-sized carbon capture and storage
plant, the London-based industry analyst said in a report today.  Carbon capture and storage is one of the most promising
technologies to redirect emissions from burning  fossil fuel . The
 International Energy Agency  estimates 3,400 CCS plants are
needed by 2050 to meet a goal to cut  carbon emissions  in half.  “It has been clear for years that if the world’s
industrial and power generation sectors are not to see a large
part of their asset base rendered obsolete, they need carbon
capture and storage to work,” Bloomberg New Energy Finance
Chief Executive Officer Michael Liebreich said in an e-mailed
statement. “But not one large-scale, end-to-end project has yet
been built, and the technologies still have to prove their cost-
effectiveness.”  The top four sites in the semi-annual ranking of 24
demonstration projects worldwide are in  North America . In fifth
place as Europe’s most advanced is  EON AG (EOAN) ’s plan at the
Maasvlakte coal-fired plant in Rotterdam, Netherlands.  All other European projects including one in northern
England developed by 2Co Energy Ltd. depend on state or European
Union funding, New Energy Finance said. Projects in the ranking
must capture more than 1 million tons of CO2 a year.  ‘Largely Mired’  “European projects are largely mired in the long New
Entrants’ Reserve 300 competition,” Kieron Stopforth, a CCS
analyst at BNEF, said in an e-mail. The New Entrants Reserve is
a European Union contest to fund CCS and renewable technologies.  Air Products & Chemicals, based in Allentown, Pennsylvania,
will capture CO2 from  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s Port Arthur, Texas,
refinery. It will sell the CO2 to  Denbury Resources Inc. (DNR)  for
enhanced oil recovery. The $431 million project is on track to
be the first operating early in 2013, New Energy Finance said.  Second is a $1.25 billion project developed by state-owned
utility SaskPower in Saskatchewan. The Boundary Dam project may
be completed by early 2014, BNEF said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  