-- America Movil Discussed Cooperation With KPN Before Offer
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-05-30T14:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/america-movil-held-talks-with-kpn-in-days-before-share-offer-1-.html
America Movil  SAB executives,
preparing for today’s tender offer to boost the company’s stake
in  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , held talks as recently as last week on
collaboration with managers at the former Dutch phone monopoly.  Top company officials discussed cooperation May 25 on
buying handsets and other hardware and on The Hague-based KPN’s
iBasis international long-distance unit, America Movil said in a
 filing . America Movil’s offer of 8 euros a share to expand its
stake in KPN to as much as 28 percent ends June 27.  The talks indicate KPN Chairman Eelco Blok is considering
an alliance with America Movil even as his company says the
Mexico City-based carrier’s offer is too low. America Movil,
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is planning to spend as
much as 2.6 billion euros ($3.2 billion) on the shares in its
first major  investment  outside of the Americas.  “We have now a very large scale, and KPN is restricted by
a lack of scale,” America Movil Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno told reporters yesterday on a conference call.
“There are a number of areas we’ve already identified,
including procurement, where our scale can have an impact for
the benefit of KPN’s shareholders.”  KPN rose 1.1 percent to 7.67 euros at 4:43 p.m. in
Amsterdam. The stock hasn’t closed above 8 euros since April 3.
America Movil climbed 0.1 percent to 16.99 pesos at 9:58 a.m. in
Mexico City.  Draft Term Sheet  KPN will carefully review the partial offer, the Dutch
company said in a statement today, reiterating that its
management and supervisory boards see the 8 euro-a-share offer
as substantially undervaluing the company.  “KPN will continue to explore all strategic options,” the
company said.  Garcia-Moreno said he doesn’t know whether more meetings
are scheduled between the companies’ executives.  KPN gave America Movil a draft term sheet on May 19 with
suggestions related to the potential 28 percent stake, America
Movil said in the filing. The Mexican company’s stake in KPN as
of May 25 was 4.8 percent.  Executives’ Contacts  America Movil Chief Executive Officer Daniel Hajj contacted
Blok on May 22 to inform him that the Mexican company wouldn’t
accept the term sheet. He reiterated America Movil’s intent to
build a “constructive long-term relationship” with KPN,
according to the filing.  “It’s too early at this stage, when we’re basically trying
to get to know each other, to sign any kind of shareholder
agreement,” Garcia-Moreno said yesterday. He declined to
discuss details of the term sheet, and the filing didn’t
disclose any specific proposals in the document.  Even before America Movil announced the offer on May 7,
executives from both companies were in contact. Hajj and Garcia-
Moreno met with Blok and KPN interim CFO Eric Hageman on April
10 to discuss the European telecommunications industry,
according to the filing. Hajj and Garcia-Moreno indicated in
that meeting they were considering buying a “meaningful” stake
in KPN, America Movil said in the filing.  On May 17, Hajj and Garcia-Moreno met with members of both
companies’ boards to clarify America Movil’s intentions and
discuss ways to cooperate, according to the filing.  “The company should be afforded the space to think more
long-term,” Garcia-Moreno said yesterday. “That’s something we
think we can contribute to their benefit.”  America Movil supports KPN’s  management  and strategy and
doesn’t plan to increase its offer for the shares, he said.
America Movil envisions a partnership with KPN similar to the
one the Mexican company has developed over the past decade with
 AT&T Inc. (T) , which owns 9 percent of America Movil and offers help
with strategy, Garcia-Moreno said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  