-- Manabi Seeks Batista Gains in Bear-Market IPO: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-05-29T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/manabi-seeks-batista-gains-in-bear-market-ipo-corporate-brazil.html
Manabi SA, the first Brazilian iron-
ore company to go public since 2006, is counting on  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan  to spark investor interest in its share
sale after Brazil’s benchmark stock index entered a bear market.  Rio de Janeiro-based Manabi  filed  on May 16 to sell shares
in Sao Paulo and Toronto to help finance $4.12 billion of iron
ore projects in Brazil’s Minas Gerais state. Canada’s third-
biggest pension fund is Manabi’s top investor with a 21 percent
holding, while South Korea’s sovereign wealth fund and
Southeastern Asset Management also have stakes in the company.  Ontario Teachers is seeking to replicate its gains from a
$450 million investment in Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
 OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA ., which swelled in value to
$2.5 billion when the oil producer went public in 2008. Manabi
Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Antunes Carneiro is a former
executive at two Batista-controlled companies and also worked 22
years at  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron ore producer.  “It’s clear that being backed by a big name helps,”
Leonardo Zanfelicio, an analyst at Concordia SA Corretora, said
by telephone from Sao Paulo. “It’s a fund that seems to like
investing in companies that are developing projects.”  Manabi is at least the fifth company in Brazil to file for
an initial public offering since March 13, when Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV) 
index began its 21 percent decline through May 17, entering a
so-called bear market. Louis Dreyfus Holding BV is selling
shares in its Brazilian processor unit LDC Bioenergia SA,
according to a preliminary prospectus. Vix Logistica SA, a
transports and logistics company, is also among companies that
filed to sell shares.  “High Risks”  Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for Ontario Teachers’ in
Toronto, said the company doesn’t comment on its strategy and
referred IPO questions to Manabi. A Manabi official in  Belo
Horizonte  declined to comment during the IPO process.  The Manabi project has “high risks” including the
construction of an extensive pipeline and new port terminal,
Barclays Plc analysts led by Leonardo Correa in  Sao Paulo  said
in a May 21 research note to clients.  Manabi’s plans include building two projects with capacity
to produce 31 million metric tons of iron ore per year and a
port terminal in neighboring Espirito Santo state.  Manabi, which expects to start operations at its mines in
2016, is considering commissioning the construction of a 530
kilometers slurry pipeline to link its Morro do Pilar mine with
the port terminal, from where the iron ore will be shipped to
Asia, the Middle East and Europe, according to the  prospectus .  Anglo American  Companies from Vale to  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  are experiencing
delays in new iron ore projects in Brazil because of permit
delays, cost increases and logistics bottlenecks. Ferrous
Resources Ltd., an iron-ore venture backed by U.S. billionaire
 Philip Falcone , has been looking for a strategic partner to help
finance its projects since at least 2009, having shelved plans
in June 2010 for a $400 million public offering.  “I don’t think this is a great time to bring yet another
iron-ore play to the marketplace,”  Arthur Byrnes , chairman of
Deltec Asset Management LLC, said in a telephone interview from
 New York . “I don’t see why anybody would be rushing.”  Vale (VALE5)  last year delayed the Serra Sul expansion, its biggest
project ever, for two years amid lack of environmental
licensing. Anglo American, based in  London , was ordered by the
authorities to stop construction at its Minas Rio project, the
company’s biggest, six times. The reasons for the stoppages
included protecting the area’s artistic and cultural heritage.  “This project is a good example of the increasing
complexities to bring on new iron ore supply to the market,”
Barclays analysts led by Correa said of the Manabi venture.  Market Volatility  The volatility in international markets makes it harder for
investors to back pre-operational projects, Will Landers, who
manages $7 billion in Latin American equities at New York-based
BlackRock Inc, said in an interview May 22.  “It’s very tough in this market environment because you
are not going to have quarterly catalysts that are going to be
drivers for the stock,” he said. “ Vale  is so cheap now that
why would you get involved with a smaller company?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  