-- Anadarko Claims Act of God in Contract Case After Spill
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-05-29T17:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/anadarko-claims-act-of-god-in-contract-case-after-spill.html
(Corrects identity of lawyer’s client in 10th paragraph.)  Anadarko Petroleum Corp., in what
will be the first case arising from the 2010 Gulf of  Mexico 
spill to go to trial, argues a U.S. ban on deep-water drilling
qualified as an act of God that allowed it to end a rig lease.  Anadarko, in a dispute set for trial today in Houston,
terminated its lease contract for  Noble Corp. (NE) ’s offshore oil rig
in June 2010, after President  Barack Obama ’s May 27 announcement
of a six-month ban on deep-water drilling following the  BP Plc (BP/) 
spill. Anadarko sued Noble, asking the court to rule the
contract was “lawfully terminated” because the moratorium
should be considered an act of God, or “force majeure,” that
prevented use of the Noble Amos Runner rig as of May 28.  Noble, seeking as much as $102 million in damages for lost
lease payments, countersued Anadarko for breach of contract.
Noble contends the moratorium wasn’t a force majeure and
Anadarko could have used the rig for other operations.  “There is a fact issue on whether a force majeure
condition was in effect,” U.S. District Judge Vanessa Gilmore
said May 3 rejecting motions by both sides for judgment without
a trial. “There is also a fact issue as to whether Anadarko had
a just excuse for terminating the contract.”  Gilmore is scheduled to begin hearing both sides today in a
nonjury trial. An Anadarko loss would force it to pay for a rig
it couldn’t use, the company has argued in court papers. An
Anadarko win would enable it to improperly cancel the contract
and shift moratorium losses to Noble, the rig-owner said.  Spill Lawsuits  The April 2010 blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig killed 11 workers and led to millions of
barrels of crude oil leaking into the gulf. The accident
prompted hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP;
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the Deepwater Horizon; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services. Those suits are consolidated in  New
Orleans  before a different federal judge.  BP agreed in March to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries. The
settlement doesn’t cover federal government claims, those of
Gulf Coast states Louisiana and  Alabama , and many private
plaintiffs, including casinos and financial institutions.  The Deepwater Horizon incident also caused federal
regulators to temporarily halt oil and gas drilling in U.S.
waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) so that safety
standards could be evaluated and improved. The moratorium idled
33 rigs, including the Noble Amos Runner.  “This is the only force majeure case that’s come out of
the drilling moratorium that’s going to trial,” Paul Dobrowski,
lead lawyer for Baar, Switzerland-based Noble, said in a phone
interview before the trial.  Earlier Settlement  Dobrowski represented Diamond Offshore Co. in a similar
lawsuit against Anadarko that was settled out of court in May
2011.  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, didn’t respond to
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the trial. Alison
Smith, a lawyer for the company, declined to comment on the
case.  Anadarko based in The Woodlands,  Texas , is the second-
largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market
value, after Apache Corp.  The lack of force majeure claims following the deep-water
drilling ban may indicate that “Noble has the stronger
argument” in this case, said Tom Ajamie, a Houston attorney who
isn’t involved in the case, said in an interview.  Riots, Earthquakes, Hurricanes  “Anadarko could have used the rig in other places,”
Ajamie said. “Force majeure usually means outrageous things --
riots, earthquakes, hurricanes. Here you have a presidential
moratorium that lasted six months.”  Most other  oil companies  didn’t break their deep-water
drilling contracts and negotiated lower day rates to do other
types of work during the moratorium, said Ajamie, a business-law
specialist. Anadarko “could have used the rig. It just would’ve
been more expensive,” he said.  The Noble Amos Runner’s force majeure provision includes
war, certain strikes, quarantines, epidemics, blockades and
rules or regulations imposed by governmental authorities that
would make continuation of operations impossible, Anadarko said
in court papers.  That provision in the contract would require Anadarko to
pay the full rate of $435,000 a day for a maximum of 15
consecutive days during the force majeure condition, after which
no day rate was payable, Anadarko said. Anadarko also claims the
blowout prevention equipment aboard Noble’s rig didn’t meet new
safety rules imposed by regulators after the spill.  Gilmore, in the May 3 order, said the case may hinge in
part on the timing of Anadarko’s actions.  Plugging Well  Regulators ordered Anadarko to stop drilling in deep Gulf
waters on May 28, 2010, and the  oil company  notified Noble the
same day that it was invoking the force majeure provision in its
contract. The Noble Amos Runner continued working for three more
days to wind down the drilling operation and safely plug the
well.  Anadarko’s ability to keep working to plug the well
indicated a force majeure couldn’t have been in effect when the
notice was served, Noble said in court filings.  “Anadarko’s termination under the force majeure provision
was improper, and amounts to anticipatory repudiation of the
contract,” Noble said in a May 21 filing. Anadarko could have
used the rig for other operations, such as injection wells or by
relocating it, Noble said.  Anadarko ‘Premature’  Anadarko was “premature” in invoking the force majeure
clause in the contract, Gilmore said in her May 3 order. A force
majeure caused by government regulations may have been in effect
after May 31, 2010, she said.  Gilmore said Anadarko, even with its premature invoking of
the clause before the 15-day period expired, may be “discharged
from paying damages” to Noble because there is a “fact issue
as to whether performance of either party was possible after May
31, 2010.”  The nonjury trial is expected to last four or five days,
according to a court filing.  The case is  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  v. Noble Drilling
(U.S.) LLC, 4:10-cv-02185, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  