-- Anadarko Settles Rig Dispute With Noble at Start of Trial
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-05-29T19:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/anadarko-settles-rig-dispute-with-noble-at-start-of-trial.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and  Noble (NE) 
Corp. agreed to settle their $102 million legal dispute over the
termination of a drilling rig lease after the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill brought some U.S. offshore drilling to a halt.  The accord was announced to U.S. District Judge Vanessa Gilmore in Houston today as the case was about to go to trial,
according to a docket entry. Settlement documents will be filed
by tomorrow, according to the docket.  Anadarko terminated its lease contract for Noble’s offshore
oil rig in June 2010, after President  Barack Obama ’s May 27
announcement of a six-month ban on deep-water drilling following
the  BP Plc (BP/)  spill. Anadarko sued Noble, asking the court to rule
the contract was “lawfully terminated” because the moratorium
should be considered an act of God, or “force majeure,” that
prevented use of the Noble Amos Runner rig as of May 28.  Noble, seeking as much as $102 million in damages for lost
lease payments, countersued Anadarko for breach of contract.
Noble contended the moratorium wasn’t a force majeure and
Anadarko could have used the rig for other operations.  Paul Dobrowski, an attorney for Baar, Switzerland-based
Noble, declined to comment after the settlement was announced.
Noble spokesman John Breed declined to comment or provide
details of the settlement.  John Christiansen , a spokesman for the Woodlands, Texas-
based Anadarko, declined to comment.  The case is  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  v. Noble Drilling
(U.S.) LLC, 10-cv-02185, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  