-- Manchester Utd. Soccer Team Says It Has 659 Million Fans
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-29T17:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/manchester-united-soccer-team-says-it-has-659-million-followers.html
Manchester United , the record 19-time
English soccer champion, said it now has 659 million followers,
making it the world’s “most popular club.”  The figures are based on a study carried out for the team
last year by market research company Kantar: 54,000 people in 39
countries were asked which team -- or teams -- they followed.  “Our followers have doubled in five years,” United’s
commercial director Richard Arnold told reporters in London
today. “It’s important to the club, not only for commercial
partnerships: It gives us a road map to understand exactly
what’s going on.”  Even after the reported increase in support, the team
managed by  Alex Ferguson  finished trophy-less this year for the
first time since 2005. It was eliminated in the group stage of
the  Champions League  and lost its Premier League crown on the
last day of the season to  Manchester City . The report was
carried out last year when United won the league and reached the
Champions League final where it was beaten by Barcelona, the
second most-popular team according to Kantar’s research.  “It’s one of the huge myths that fans are fickle,” Arnold
said. “Research by Barclays globally showed that 85 percent
never change the team they support. Think of that in terms of
the divorce rate. It changes less often than who you are married
to.”  China Trip  United is traveling to China to play two exhibition matches
this off-season. Arnold said sponsors will be able to gauge the
interest in the team there because of the way the players get
mobbed is akin to the “Beatles effect.”  The survey claimed United has 108 million supporters in
 China , where 150 million people can watch Premier League soccer.
Still, Pierre Justo, Asia director of sport and media for data
company TNS/CSM Media Research, said in an interview that the
English game trails China’s domestic soccer competition and
basketball in terms of viewership.  Arnold said an announcement of the Premier League’s next
television rights contract is “imminent.”  Earlier this month, United said fiscal third-quarter profit
to March 31 fell 8.5 percent on declines in media and matchday
income, even as commercial income grew 15 percent over the year-
earlier period. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
and amortization declined to 20.4 million pounds ($32 million).  United has a jersey sponsorship deal with Aon Corp. worth
80 million pounds, and partnerships with businesses including
delivery company DHL, Malaysian chip brand Mr. Potato and
imaging company Epson. An agreement with a car partner to
replace Audi is expected soon.  Training-Wear Deal  The DHL contract, worth 40 million pounds, is the first of
its kind, where the sponsor of training-wear is different to the
that of the main jersey. Arnold said the sales of the DHL shirt
make it soccer’s fourth-most popular branded soccer jersey.  “The sheer size of our fanbase allows us to carve out
rights that are not relevant to other teams,” he said.  United has yet to decide whether it will extend its
contract with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the U.S. company that manufactures and
sells its jerseys. That contract was signed in 2002 for 13
years. Arnold declined to say whether Nike will be retained,
though he acknowledged the team’s next deal is unlikely to cover
so many years.  “Generally most contracts we sign these days are
shorter,” he said.  The team’s disappointments on the field this season haven’t
affected the amount sponsors pay because United never agrees to
performance-related clauses, Arnold added.  Plans by the U.S.-based Glazer family, the team’s owners,
to float as much as 30 percent of the team in an initial public
offering in  Singapore  remain on hold. The Glazers, who bought
United in 2005, remain unpopular with many fans for using the
club’s income to finance their 790 million-pound acquisition.
United had debt of 423.3 million pounds in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  