-- Andritz Offers $745 Million for Metal-Form Maker Schuler
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-05-29T17:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/andritz-offers-745-million-for-metal-form-maker-schuler.html
Andritz AG (ANDR) , the world’s second-biggest maker of hydro-power turbines, bid to buy  Schuler AG (SCUN) ,
valuing the German maker of metal-forming machines at 594
million euros ($745 million). The stocks rose to records.  The 20 euro-a-share offer is 35 percent more than Schuler’s
average share price in the past three months, Andritz said today
in a statement. Andritz bid for full control after acquiring
38.5 percent of the Goeppingen, Germany-based company from the
Schuler-Voith family, which founded the manufacturer in 1839.  The acquisition would be Graz, Austria-based Andritz’s
biggest takeover to date, surpassing its $230.5 million-euro
purchase in 2006 of a turbine unit from  Siemens AG (SIE) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The manufacturer, which also builds
paper-pulp and steel factories, has been expanding in  Asia ,
 Africa  and  Latin America . It reported record profit and revenue
last year.  “Looking at acquisition multiples, the deal does not look
expensive,” Bernhard Selinger, an analyst Raiffeisen Centrobank
AG in Vienna with a buy rating on Schuler stock, wrote in a note
to clients. “Given the current positioning of Andritz in
metals, the integration of Schuler can be seen as an extension
of the value chain toward new products and new customers.”  Stocks Reach Records  Schuler rose to its highest price since the company’s March 
1999 initial public offering, advancing 27 percent to 20.10 
euros at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. Andritz gained 3.7 
percent to 42 euros in Vienna, the highest since its June 2001 
IPO.  Andritz is paying about 5 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. This month’s biggest manufacturing-industry deal
has been Eaton Corp.’s $11.8 billion takeover of Cooper
Industries Plc, a maker of electric-distribution equipment, at
14 times Ebitda, according to the data.  Schuler’s revenue in the six months through March rose 44
percent to about 580 million euros because of demand from the
 auto industry , the German manufacturer said on May 2. The
company has more than 5,000 employees, Andritz said today.  “The planned acquisition of Schuler is an attractive means
of broadening the existing business activities of Andritz
metals,” the Austrian company said. “Andritz is confident that
Schuler will find favorable opportunities to continue its growth
within the Andritz group.”  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s biggest investment bank,
advised the Schuler-Voith family on the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  