-- Aquino Wins Ouster of Philippine Top Judge Appointed by Arroyo
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-05-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/aquino-wins-ouster-of-philippine-top-judge-appointed-by-arroyo.html
The Philippine Senate ousted the
country’s top judge for illegally concealing his wealth, ending
a four-month impeachment trial and boosting President  Benigno Aquino ’s campaign to clean up the government.  Senators voted 20-3 yesterday to convict Chief Justice
Renato Corona, 63, who was accused of hiding a fortune beyond
the limits of his salary. Corona told the Senate on May 25 he
had $2.4 million in previously undeclared bank accounts. The
chief justice earned 21.6 million pesos ($499,000) in salary and
benefits from 2002 through last year, court budget officer
Araceli Bayuga told the impeachment court in March.  Corona’s ouster will advance Aquino’s anti-corruption
agenda and allow his two-year-old administration to focus on
expanding the economy, increasing state revenue by implementing
reforms and achieving an investment-grade debt rating by the end
of his term in 2016. Aquino has said ousting Corona, whom he
accused of favoring his predecessor  Gloria Arroyo , is a crucial
step in ridding the country of corruption.  “The conviction signals that he has control of both houses
of Congress and if you extrapolate that, then it bodes well when
he needs to pass certain bills,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a
Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The next big
one, and probably more important than Corona in terms of
perception among investors, would be the cases against Arroyo.”  Corona was the former chief of staff of Arroyo, who is
under hospital arrest for alleged election fraud. Arroyo
appointed 12 of the nation’s 15 Supreme Court justices,
including Corona.  Televised Trial  The 23-member Senate court ruled the chief justice broke
the law when he failed to declare accounts that he claimed were
protected by a bank secrecy law. After convicting him of the
charge, the senators decided not to rule on additional
allegations that Corona was unfit for the position and that he
favored Arroyo. The law requires at least 16 votes for a
conviction.  The  House of Representatives  impeached Corona in December,
paving the way for a televised trial in the Senate that has
gripped the nation since mid-January. Hearings were suspended
for about a month. Corona testified last week that aside from
his dollar deposits, he has 80 million pesos ($1.8 million) in
local bank accounts.  ‘Step Forward’  “The verdict is a step forward in terms of restoring
public confidence in our courts,” Aquino’s spokeswoman, Abigail
Valte, told reporters. Aquino has 90 days under the law to
nominate Corona’s replacement, she said.  With Corona’s removal, investors concerned by
“inconsistent and unpredictable” court rulings will take
another look at the country, said Budget Secretary Butch Abad,
who is also Aquino’s political adviser.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday raised the outlook on
the nation’s foreign-currency debt rating, at the second-highest
junk level, to positive from stable, citing improved fiscal
management. Legislation to amend excise taxes on alcohol and
tobacco will boost revenue, Moody’s said.  “Lawmakers can focus again on the legislative agenda,”
Paracuelles said. “The sin-tax bill is important and if
Congress can really pass it this year, then this will be very
good. The potential for credit-rating upgrades will improve.”  The verdict may force other Arroyo appointees in the high
court to rule more fairly on cases against her, said Ramon Casiple, executive director of the Institute for Political and
Electoral Reform in  Manila . “It will have a chilling effect on
Arroyo’s court allies, some of whom may feel there’s a chance
for them to be ousted too,” he said.  ‘Bad Politics’  Corona said he will accept the conviction even as he
reiterated his innocence. “Bad politics prevailed,” he said in
a statement yesterday from Medical City where he has been
confined since May 22. “The accusations against me are
untrue.”  Arroyo appointed Corona to the Supreme Court in 2002 and
promoted him to be the country’s top judge a month before her
term ended in 2010, a move that Aquino said was designed to
shield her from prosecution. Before his trial, Corona vowed to
remain in office and accused Aquino of undermining democracy by
trying to appoint his own judges to the court.  Corona accused Aquino of fabricating evidence and
persecuting him for a  Supreme Court  ruling that handed control
of a sugar estate owned by relatives of the president to a group
of farmers.  “He chose the path of concealment and he has lost his
fitness to remain in office,” Senator Franklin Drilon said
during yesterday’s ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  