-- Marubeni to Buy Gavilon for Access to U.S. Grain Market
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-05-29T15:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/marubeni-climbs-on-speculation-it-s-agreed-to-buy-gavilon.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002)  agreed to buy Gavilon
Group LLC, the third-largest U.S. grain merchandiser, for $3.6
billion in what would be the Japanese company’s biggest deal.  The purchase will double its grain-trading capacity, Tokyo-
based Marubeni said today in a statement. The company will use
cash and loans to fund the deal and take on Gavilon’s $2 billion
of debt, Chief Financial Officer Yukihiko Matsumura told
reporters today in Tokyo.  Buying Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon will allow  Japan ’s
biggest agricultural trader to expand in the world’s largest
producer and exporter of corn and compete with Cargill Inc. and
other top global grain traders. The acquisition also strengthens
Marubeni’s position in supplying food to  Asia , said Daisuke Okada, the company’s managing executive officer.  “Marubeni’s purchase of Gavilon will give it an inroad
into grain purchases in the U.S. and put it on par with the
leader Cargill,” said Justin Tang, a Singapore-based analyst at
Churchill Capital. “The performance of the stock today is
reflective of investors’ positive expectations.”  Marubeni  gained  2.6 percent to 517 yen in Tokyo today,
while the Nikkei 225 benchmark index rose 0.7 percent.  Private Equity  Gavilon traces its roots back to Peavey Co., acquired by
 ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  in 1982. Gavilon took its current form when
ConAgra sold its trading and merchandising operations in 2008 to
a group including Ospraie Management LLC, the commodities hedge-
fund firm founded by  Dwight Anderson , for $2.75 billion
including debt.  Orascom Construction Industries,  Egypt ’s biggest publicly
traded builder, said today in a  statement on its website  that
one of its unit agreed to sell its 16.8 percent stake in Gavilon
to Marubeni for $604.8 million.  In addition to selling grains, Gavilon’s businesses include
fertilizer distribution and energy trading. It has about 2,000
employees in 300 locations on six continents, it said in a March
7 statement.  There have been 515 purchases valued at $51.3 billion this
year in the agriculture and food industries, with Japanese
companies the third most acquisitive after those in Switzerland
and the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Japan’s
companies didn’t feature in the top five for last year’s $133
billion worth of deals, the data show.  Biggest Foreign Takeover  The Gavilon acquisition, which Marubeni said is due to be
completed in September, would be the biggest takeover abroad by
a Japanese company in a year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Companies including  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ,  Bunge
Ltd. (BG) , Mitsui & Co. and Mitsubishi Corp. had also shown interest
in Gavilon, people familiar with the matter said May 8.  Marubeni’s 25 million metric tons of grains trading
capacity will rise to 55 million tons with the Gavilon deal and
also add gas and oil trading volumes, the Japanese trader said.  “As part of a larger trading organization, Gavilon will be
well-positioned to more efficiently connect supply with growing
global demand,” Greg Heckman, chief executive officer of
Gavilon, said today in a separate statement.  Glencore, which in March agreed to buy Canada’s  Viterra
Inc. (VT)  for C$6.1 billion ($6 billion), expects Asia to drive
annual growth of as much as 3.5 percent in global grain and
oilseed demand.  Mitsubishi (8058)  Chief Executive Officer Ken Kobayashi
said April 18 that growth in food demand in line with expanding
populations and incomes in Asia will make it one of the key
businesses for Japan’s biggest commodity supplier.  Net Debt  Marubeni had  net debt  of $23.1 billion as of March 31,
equivalent to 2.08 times its equity, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Marubeni CEO Teruo Asada today reiterated the
company’s target to reduce its debt-to-equity ratio to 1.8
times.  Marubeni could sell some of its infrastructure and
machinery assets to help buy Gavilon while preserving current
debt levels, according to JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. If
Marubeni buys Gavilon without selling new shares or selling
assets, its ratio of debt to equity may rise to 2.3 times, which
is “manageable,” JPMorgan analyst Akira Kishimoto said in an
interview earlier this month.  “This will be a very large portion of their annual
capex,” Polina Diyachkina, an analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd.
in  Tokyo , said of Marubeni’s purchase. “We should be concerned
how they’re going to finance it.”  Buying Gavilon, which has a lower  credit rating  than
Marubeni, would “weaken the balance between Marubeni’s risk
volume and capital,”  Standard & Poor’s  rating company said May
9. S&P rates Marubeni BBB, the second-lowest investment grade,
with a stable outlook. Gavilon has a non-investment grade BB
rating with a stable outlook.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and law firm  Jones Day  advised Gavilon on
the transaction and Marubeni hired Nomura Holdings Inc. Gavilon
hired Morgan Stanley to explore strategic alternatives, a person
familiar with the matter said Jan. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  