-- Asean Backing Junk Debt Lures Prudential: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o ,   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-05-30T07:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/asean-backing-junk-rated-debt-lures-prudential-southeast-asia.html
Southeast Asia ’s first plan to back
corporate bonds will lure pension funds seeking higher yields
from investment-grade debt, according to Prudential Plc and
PineBridge Investments LLC.  The AA+ rated Credit Guarantee & Investment Facility,
formed by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations along with
 Japan , China and South Korea, began operations this month and
will help sell two or three notes by Sept. 30, Chief Executive
Officer Kiyoshi Nishimura said. That may include junk-rated debt
to help attract new issuers, he said. PineBridge Investments’
Taiwan unit said it will consider buying such securities.  Investors are shifting funds from markets offering near-
zero  interest rates  in Europe and the U.S. into higher-yielding
bonds, adding $21 billion to emerging-market debt holdings in
2012, according to U.S.-based EPFR Global.  East Asia ’s local-
currency corporate bond market grew 17 percent in the quarter
ended December to a record $1.9 trillion, according to the Asian
Development Bank, which helped set up the guarantee program.  “Any form of agency-guaranteed debt is a good thing as we
are generally more cautious on corporate risks,” said Boon Peng Ooi, the Singapore-based chief investment officer of fixed
income who oversees $16 billion at Prudential’s Eastspring
Investments  Singapore  Ltd. “The more people you attract, the
more buzz and talking you create and you can build the market.”  Hunt for Yields  The yield appeal of regional debt will add to the allure of
the notes, according to Nishimura. The average return on South
Korean, Malaysian and Philippine bonds was 1.73 percent this
year, according to Bloomberg calculations based on debt indexes
tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc. That compares with 1.3 percent for
U.S. Treasuries and Japanese government debt, according to an
index compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  With  Asia ’s elderly population poised to double within four
decades, more money is being plowed into preserving wealth,
boosting demand for the region’s bonds and driving borrowing
costs lower. The number of Asians 60 or older will exceed 1.25
billion, or 24 percent of the population in 2050 from 10 percent
in 2011, according to data compiled by the  United Nations .  The average yield on Asian debt markets monitored by HSBC
fell to 3.92 percent yesterday from 5.9 percent at the end of
2001. Local-currency bond issuance from East Asian companies
jumped 44 percent to $211 billion in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, according to the ADB. The bank classifies
emerging-market East Asia as  China ,  Hong Kong ,  Indonesia , South
Korea, Malaysia, the  Philippines , Singapore, Thailand and
Vietnam.  High-Quality Investments  “These bonds will give you opportunities to invest in
local-currency bonds that will offer yields that are higher than
those in the developed markets while the credit risk is low,”
Nishimura said in an interview while visiting Bangkok on May 22.
“We are bringing in a very unique product for global investors.
We would expect quite strong demand.”  Unlike Japan Bank for International Cooperation, which
provides a partial guarantee on some yen-denominated debt sold
by foreign governments and companies, the Asean program will pay
both principal and coupon if an issuer defaults. Issuers
applying to be covered must be based in Asean or Japan,  South
Korea  and China.  While they may be rated junk by international rating
companies, they must possess at least an investment-grade rating
from a local firm. Local companies such as Malaysia’s RAM Ltd.
may assign a higher rating to a domestic firm because they
assume a lower probability of sovereign default.  Junk Appeal  Standard & Poor’s  assigned the program, known as CGIF, a
long-term foreign-currency rating of AA+ last week, its second-
best. That means notes guaranteed by the organization will enjoy
its rating. Moody’s Investors Service rates the Philippines Ba2,
two levels below investment grade, while Thailand is rated Baa1,
the third-lowest investment grade. Vietnam is rated junk at B1.
Moody’s raised the Philippines’ sovereign rating outlook to
positive yesterday.  “Asean companies aren’t that well known and it’s difficult
for them to attract international bond buyers,” said Albert Ma,
a  fund manager  at PineBridge Investments Management Taiwan Ltd.
that oversees NT$5.3 billion ($178 million). “With ADB’s
backing, these companies will enjoy better credit ratings, and I
don’t think investors will have to sacrifice too much yield for
less credit risk.”  PineBridge is interested in bonds of companies in the
consumer industry, he said.  “Institutional investors like mutual funds and insurance
companies are looking for high-quality investment opportunities
in the corporate bond sector,” Nishimura said. “Our main aim
is to bring in more new issuers to the market.”  Falling Yields  The  average  five-year yield for AAA-rated Malaysian ringgit
corporate bonds has dropped 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, this year to 3.87 percent on May 21, according to Bank
Negara Malaysia’s index. The rate on the 7 percent peso note of
Petron Corp., the Philippines’ largest oil company, has dropped
31 basis points in 2012 to 7.09 percent today.  Currencies of the five biggest Southeast Asian nations
dropped this quarter on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.
Indonesia’s rupiah dropped by the most at 4.6 percent, followed
by the Malaysian ringgit’s 3.3 percent decline, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors’ risk appetite has been deteriorating and it’s
harder for them to buy emerging-market bonds, especially the
local-currency debt as the currencies have been depreciating,”
said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .  Faster Growth  The five major Southeast Asian nations will grow 5.4
percent this year, compared with 3.7 percent for Latin America
and 1.9 percent in central and Eastern Europe, the  International
Monetary Fund  said last month.  Thailand’s recovery from the worst floods in almost 70
years in 2011 is contributing to the region’s growth, according
to Bert Hofman, the  World Bank ’s chief economist for the East
Asia and Pacific region. Domestic demand is holding up “quite
nicely,” Hofman said on May 23.  “Being involved in Asian corporate bonds in  emerging
markets  is a slight mitigation to the risk in Europe because the
exposure to Europe is not extreme,” Hong Kong-based Michael
Wilson, head of Asia Pacific client portfolio management in
global fixed income at JPMorgan Asset Management, said in an
interview in Singapore today. “Longer term, there is a market
view that emerging-market currencies are still undervalued and
Asian currencies are still undervalued.”  High Quality Backstop  The cost of insuring Asian corporate and sovereign bonds
from default has fallen from a more-than-two-year high in
October 2011. The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-
grade borrowers outside Japan dropped 85 basis points to 192.5
as of yesterday in  New York , according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  “When you have a guarantee by a high-quality institution,
your liquidity should be enhanced,” Daniel Janis, a global
fixed-income portfolio manager who oversees about $11 billion at
Manulife Asset Management in  Boston , said in an interview on May
9. “That should make your ability to buy and sell easier
because you have the backstop of a high-quality issuer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  