-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Greece Optimism; Oil Erases Advance
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-29T20:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/asian-stocks-euro-slip-on-europe-debt-concern-gold-declines.html
U.S. stocks rose, adding to last
week’s rally, amid speculation Greece will stay in the euro
after polls showed voters supporting politicians who back the
nation’s bailout. Commodities erased earlier gains while
Treasuries were little changed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.1 percent at 4 p.m.
in  New York , adding to last week’s 1.7 percent gain. The  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.8 percent and the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index jumped 1.4 percent. The Dollar Index, a gauge of
the currency against six major peers, was little changed even as
the euro weakened 0.3 percent to an almost two-year low of
$1.2504. Ten-year Treasury yields increased less than one basis
point to 1.75 percent, erasing earlier declines. The S&P GSCI
Index of commodities lost 0.5 percent.  U.S. equities gained after Greece’s New Democracy party
placed first in all six opinion polls published on May 26 as
campaigning continued for the general election on June 17. U.S.
markets were closed yesterday for the Memorial Day holiday. Home
values in 20 U.S. cities fell in the 12 months ended March at
the slowest pace in more than a year, a report showed today,
while the Conference Board’s gauge of  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly dropped.  “There’s also a bit of relief that we won’t have any
imminent kicking-out or defaulting of  Greece ,” Brad Sorensen,
director of market and sector analysis at San Francisco-based
Charles Schwab Corp., said in a phone interview. His firm has
$1.83 trillion in client assets. “We’re definitely seeing signs
of stabilization on the housing front. The economy is looking
decent. Relatively speaking, the U.S. is a good place to be.”  ‘Old Way’  Stocks also rose amid speculation  China  will do more to
stimulate its economy. The nation has no plans to introduce
measures on the scale deployed during the global financial
crisis, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  “The Chinese government’s intention is very clear: It will
not roll out another massive stimulus plan to seek high economic
growth,” Xinhua said today in the seventh paragraph of a
Chinese-language article on economic policy, without attributing
the information. “The current efforts for stabilizing growth
will not repeat the old way of three years ago.”  The  S&P 500  increased for the  fifth time in six trading
sessions . The index on May 25 capped its first  weekly  rally
since April, jumping 1.7 percent, as investors were lured by the
cheapest valuations since November.  Rebound After Slump  Equities rebounded after a three-week, 7.7 percent decline
pushed the S&P 500’s  price-to-earnings   ratio  to 13.1 on May 18,
below the average of 16.4 since 1954, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The benchmark gauge started today’s session down
5.7 percent in May, heading for its biggest monthly retreat
since September, amid concern global economic growth is slowing
and Greece may leave the euro area.  Indexes of commodity, technology and financial companies
led gains among all of the 10  main industries  in the S&P 500
today, rising at least 1.4 percent. Caterpillar Inc., Alcoa Inc.
and Bank of America Corp. rose more than 2.8 percent for the
biggest gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .   Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares fell to a new low, extending losses
from the worst-performing large initial public offering during
the past decade to more than 20 percent. The stock fell 9.6
percent to $28.84. Facebook options trading began today, with
volume for puts exceeding calls by 1.2-to-1, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. More than 202,000 puts giving the right to sell
traded. June $30 puts were the most-active contracts, with
volume approaching 24,000.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values fell 2.6
percent from a year earlier after a 3.5 percent drop in
February, the group reported today in New York. The decline
matched the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The Conference Board’s  consumer confidence index  decreased
to 64.9 this month from 68.7. Economists forecast an increase to
69.6, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  European Shares  Three stocks rose for every one that fell in the Stoxx 600.
CGGVeritas, the world’s largest seismic surveyor of oilfields,
and  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the biggest steelmaker, rose more than 4
percent as analysts upgraded the shares. Greggs Plc, a U.K.
baker, jumped 8.1 percent as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  reversed a plan to add value-added tax to some snacks.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  led a decline in Spanish stocks, sliding 16
percent. Spain backtracked on a plan to use government debt
instead of cash to bail out Bankia, as Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy  struggles to shore up the nation’s lenders without
overburdening public finances.  Bankia Bailout  An Economy Ministry spokesman said yesterday that the
government was considering using an injection of treasury debt
instead of cash to recapitalize BFA-Bankia, as laid out in
legislation approved in February. Spanish bond yields rose and
investors criticized the idea, which the spokesman, speaking
anonymously under ministry policy, said today had become a
“marginal” option for the 19 billion-euro ($24 billion)
rescue.  Spain’s 10-year yield decreased three basis points to 6.45
percent today after surging 17 points yesterday. The nation’s
two-year yield increased 16 basis points to 4.63 percent today,
rising for the third straight day. Spain’s sovereign credit
rating today was cut by Egan-Jones Ratings Co. to B from BB- on
the country’s deteriorating economic outlook.  Volatility on Japanese bonds was the highest in developed
markets today, according to measures of 10-year debt, the two-
and 10-year yield spread and credit-default swaps. The yield on
the 10-year security dropped 3 basis points to 0.85 percent.  ‘Ultimate Arbiter’  The euro weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, losing 0.9
percent versus the Mexican peso and 0.7 percent against the
South African rand.  Stephen Roach , a professor at  Yale
University  and former non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley
in  Asia , said euro-area authorities will do all they can to
prevent a breakup of the 17-nation currency bloc.  “While you could make the case that Greece should leave
because it gets its currency flexibility back, the ultimate
arbiter will be political considerations,” Roach said in an
interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” today. “On that basis, Greece will stay in and
European leaders will do everything in their power to keep the
monetary union intact.”  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities decreased 0.5 percent,
reversing a gain of as much as 0.9 percent. Crude in New York
slipped 10 cents to $90.76 a barrel after climbing as much as
1.5 percent. Natural gas fell 5.4 percent, bringing its decline
since May 23 to more than 11 percent, on forecasts for cooler
weather that would curb demand for fuel at  power plants .  Emerging-market stocks gained for a fourth day.  The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies listed in  Hong
Kong  climbed 2.2 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex jumped 2.9 percent and
South Korea’s Kospi Index added 1.4 percent. Russia’s Micex
Index advanced 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  