-- Asia Currencies Decline, Led by Rupiah, as Spain Concern Mounts
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-05-29T08:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/asia-currencies-decline-led-by-rupiah-as-spain-concern-mounts.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
 Indonesia ’s rupiah, as concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen
reduced appetite for emerging-market assets.  All of the 10 most-traded currencies in Asia excluding the
yen are headed for monthly declines as exchange data show
international investors pulled $7.7 billion from South Korean,
Taiwanese and Indonesian stocks during the period. Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  called for a show of force from European
authorities yesterday as his government sought ways to avoid
tapping markets to fund the bailout of the nation’s third-
biggest lender.  “With growing concern about Europe’s situation, we are
seeing risk-off sentiment again, and investors don’t want to put
money into  emerging markets ,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher
at the Japan Center for Economic Research in  Tokyo . “We will
continue to see a weaker bias for Asian currencies.”  The rupiah declined 0.9 percent to 9,566 per dollar as of
3:25 p.m. in Jakarta, reaching a 30-month low, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. India’s rupee dropped 0.6 percent to
55.5350 and Thailand’s baht declined 0.2 percent 31.68.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index traded near this
year’s low after the extra yield investors demand to hold
Spain’s 10-year bonds over German notes soared to the highest
level since 1995.  Indonesia Intervention  The rupiah was set for a fourth monthly loss after
government and exchange data showed global funds  cut  holdings of
sovereign notes by 3.9 trillion rupiah ($413 million) and shares
by $676 million.  Bank Indonesia  continues to enter the foreign-exchange
market and use its “ammunition” carefully, Deputy Governor
Hartadi Sarwono said on May 16.  “Issues in Greece as well as Spain put the rupiah under
pressure, and it is routine for importers to hold the dollar
near the end of the month,” said Apressyanti Senthaury, a
Jakarta-based analyst in the treasury division at PT Bank Negara
Indonesia. “Bank Indonesia has committed to maintaining
monetary stability, which includes guiding the rupiah.”  China ’s  yuan  dropped for a second day on concern Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen the slowdown in the world’s second-
largest economy. The currency weakened 0.05 percent to 6.3482
per dollar. The decline in Chinese exports caused by weak
European demand may affect whether Moody’s Investors Service
raises the nation’s sovereign debt rating,  Tom Byrne , a senior
vice president at the company in Singapore, said yesterday.  “China is quite worried about  Europe , which is its largest
market,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB. “The central bank is increasingly
focused on protecting export competitiveness. China is prepared
to let its currency weaken against the dollar.”  Philippine Rating Outlook  The Philippine peso strengthened the most since December
2011, reversing earlier loses, after its sovereign rating
outlook was raised by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the
country’s improving debt levels.  The outlook on the long-term foreign-currency Ba2 rating is
now positive from stable, Moody’s said in a statement today. The
Philippines is rated two levels below investment grade.  “The Philippine government is on the right track and we
have seen strength in investment,” said Tetsuo Yoshikoshi, a
senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in  Singapore .  Elsewhere, South Korea’s won advanced 0.9 percent to
1,174.82 per dollar from May 25 after onshore financial markets
were closed yesterday for a public holiday. Malaysia’s ringgit
fell 0.1 percent to 3.1475. Taiwan’s dollar was little changed
at NT$29.645 and Vietnam’s dong was at 20,863, compared with
20,862 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 