-- Asia Currencies Decline, Led by Ringgit, as Spain Concern Mounts
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-05-29T03:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/asia-currencies-decline-led-by-ringgit-as-spain-concern-mounts.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit, as concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen
reduced appetite for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  All of the 10 most-traded currencies in  Asia  excluding the
yen are headed for monthly declines as exchange data show
international investors pulled $7.7 billion from South Korean,
Taiwanese and Indonesian stocks during the period. Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  called for a show of force from European
authorities yesterday as his government sought ways to avoid
tapping markets to fund the bailout of the nation’s third-
biggest lender.  “With growing concern about Europe’s situation, we are
seeing risk-off sentiment again, and investors don’t want to put
money into  emerging markets ,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher
at the Japan Center for Economic Research in Tokyo. “We will
continue to see a weaker bias for Asian currencies.”  The ringgit dropped 0.6 percent to 3.1614 per dollar as of
10:53 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Indonesia’s rupiah lost 0.5 percent to 9,526, while
the Philippine peso and Thailand’s baht declined 0.3 percent to
43.655 and 31.69, respectively.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index traded near this
year’s low after the extra yield investors seek to hold Spain’s
10-year bonds over German notes soared to the highest level
since 1995.  Malaysian Investment Plans  The ringgit dropped the most in almost a week even after
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak announced yesterday a $6.5
billion private-investment plan, aimed at bolstering the economy
as the European crisis threatens to slow growth.  “The concern is fixed on Spain,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh ,
a currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Singapore.
“The ringgit is a currency that is going to continue to be at
the whim of global risk appetite.”  The Philippine peso fell toward a four-month ahead of a
government report on May 31 that economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predict will show gross domestic product increased 4.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the most in 12
months.  “The peso is mostly being driven by global sentiment,”
said Goh Puay Yeong, a Singapore-based foreign-exchange
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Growth is still pretty
decent there. The macroeconomic outlook is still stable.”  Chinese Exports  China’s  yuan  dropped for a second day on concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis will worsen the slowdown in the world’s second-
largest economy. The currency weakened 0.05 percent to 6.3479
per dollar. The decline in Chinese exports caused by weak
European demand may affect whether Moody’s Investors Service
raises the nation’s sovereign debt rating,  Tom Byrne , a senior
vice president at the company in Singapore, said yesterday.  “China is quite worried about Europe, which is its largest
market,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB. “The central bank is increasingly
focused on protecting export competitiveness. China is prepared
to let its currency weaken against the dollar.”  Elsewhere, South Korea’s won advanced 0.5 percent to
1,179.15 per dollar from May 25 after onshore financial markets
were closed yesterday for a public holiday.  Taiwan ’s dollar
strengthened 0.1 percent to NT$29.615 and Vietnam’s dong was
little changed at 20,860.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 