-- Massachusetts Is the Hole in Romney’s Resume
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-05-29T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/massachusetts-is-the-hole-in-romney-s-resume.html
What’s the matter with Massachusetts
that would make  Mitt Romney  want to pretend he’d never been its
governor?  Yes, it presents some image problems for the conservative
candidate Romney now wants to be. The last time a Massachusetts
governor ran for president, it did  not go well . Still, it’s what
Romney has. Had he not been (to use his preferred term) “CEO” of
the  15th-most populous  state in the country, Romney would have a
weak claim on the Oval Office.  Imagine if  Harry Truman  had run as a haberdasher, or  Jimmy Carter  as a peanut farmer. The only successful candidate to run
as a businessman -- it was all he had -- was Herbert Hoover.
Look where that got us. The last candidate to run with a pointer
and a whiteboard was  Ross Perot . Enough said.  Resume inflation can get you fired, but resume deflation is
downright un-American. It goes against human nature to overlook
one’s own accomplishments. Romney remains a man of mystery next
to the president. Barack Obama’s no Joe Biden, but he has become
known to us in some fundamental ways after four years being
beamed into our living rooms.  In one way, Romney is appealingly modest. We distrust
people who blow themselves up bigger than they are. No one likes
mayors who brag about they pulled all-nighters in snowstorms or
senators who detail how they agonized over votes on defense
appropriations. Neither should we entirely trust a politician
who shrink-wraps his experience. Don’t run for president if
you’re not ready to discuss every line of your resume.  Not Modesty  Romney’s tack, however, is not modesty. Reticence this
great makes people wonder what he is hiding. To himself and to
the world, he’s a businessman, nothing more, defined by his
years leading Bain Capital LLC. He willingly ignores whole pages
of his CV.  Sooner or later, Romney is going to have to present himself
whole -- and that includes the parts he would rather airbrush
out of his past. This means coming to terms with his most
valuable experience as a presidential candidate: being governor
of  Massachusetts .  Romney will have to take the good with the bad. Yes, he
closed a $1.2 billion budget gap -- but he did so by cutting
spending (largely on education) and raising revenue ( largely
from  the middle class). He also raised the state’s debt by more
than 16 percent and created fewer jobs than all but three
states.  We haven’t even gotten into social issues, where his
current positions represent not so much a flip-flop as a belly
flop. During his 1994 campaign against Ted Kennedy for U.S.
Senate, Romney pledged to be  more gay than Kennedy . Running for
governor eight years later, Romney favored abortion rights and
gay rights.  The one miracle Romney could claim for himself, he dare not
mention. Largely due to the  health-care-reform law  passed while
he was governor, Massachusetts has the third lowest infant
mortality, the very lowest child and teen mortality, and the
second lowest teen birth rate in the country. It has the second
highest rate of access to health care for children.  A more agile politician could claim that he got  the current 
“Massachusetts Miracle” started. The state now ranks fifth in
 job creation , with a relatively low  6.3 percent  unemployment
rate. It is first in the U.S. in reading for fourth-graders and
eighth-graders, and fifth in the world (ahead of  Singapore !).
It’s the sixth most hospitable location for business. Its rates
of divorce and suicide are among the nation’s lowest.  Joining the Swells  But Romney chooses to pretend the state fell off into the
Atlantic to join the swells in  Martha’s Vineyard  in an island
democracy. While shunning the Bay State, Romney flew off to Sin
City -- on the very day he clinched the nomination with a win in
the Texas primary -- to hang with a vulgar self-proclaimed real
estate and gambling mogul who still harbors doubts about Obama’s
citizenship.  Donald Trump , whom Romney calls “ good people ,” is the
constant of Romney’s campaign. Looming large on Romney’s website
is Trump, finger pointing, saying “I Want You, Dine With The
Donald & Mitt.” There is  a sweepstakes  to win a trip on “the
Trump vehicle,” a stay at Trump International Hotel & Tower in
 Manhattan , and dinner with the odd couple.  What a party -- in both senses. For Republicans,
apparently, it’s better to be seen with a businessman George Will calls a “ bloviating ignoramus ” than with a public official
who might remind people that you were once one yourself. Better
not to admit to having once required an individual mandate than
to explain how it can help provide millions of people with
health care. Better not to have actually balanced a budget if it
took raising taxes to do so.  The rule is pretty simple: The less public service you’ve
engaged in, the more qualified you are.  In  U.S. Senate  races so far this year, the establishment
Republican in  Nebraska  lost to the Sarah Palin candidate in the
Republican primary. In the Indiana race, conservative Treasurer
 Richard Mourdock  beat Senator Dick Lugar. In the Texas campaign,
the candidate of the Republican establishment, Lieutenant
Governor David Dewhurst, looks like he will be forced into a
runoff by  Tea Party  backed candidate Ted Cruz. Ever been a
moderate? Be afraid. Be very afraid.  Two months ago, Romney adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom   promised
that  his candidate would be etching a new sketch of himself for
the general election. Four years ago -- and even today -- one of
the great conservative complaints against Obama was that he
wasn’t properly “vetted” by the news media. Yet it is Romney --
also a candidate in 2008 -- who remains, more than most
presidential candidates, an unknown quantity.  He is better known for having a car elevator and once
transporting his dog atop his car than for a governing
philosophy. Tip O’Neill or Barry Goldwater he is not. He seems
to bolt and unbolt pieces of his belief system as necessary.  It looks as if Romney believes he can get to the White
House without reconciling the varied and contradictory phases of
his political life. Other politicians have changed their views
once taking office, of course.  Bill Clinton  triangulated with a
Republican Congress and reformed welfare.  George W. Bush  became
a nation-builder and big spender.  The issue is not whether Romney as president will
contradict the positions of Romney as candidate. Of that we can
be confident. But Romney is a man with no fixed positions from
which to deviate. It’s harder to accuse someone of intellectual
hypocrisy when you don’t know where he stood in the first place.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  high-skills immigrants 
and  cutting a deal with Iran ;  Edward Glaeser  on  what the latest
housing numbers tell us ; Clive Crook on  an EU debt plan ;  Peter
Orszag  on the  problem with spending caps ; William Pesek on
 Osaka’s problematic mayor ; Luigi Zingales on  capitalism and
populism ; John O’Brennan on  Ireland’s fiscal referendum .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 