-- Tata Motors Profit Beats Estimates on Demand for Evoque
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-05-30T02:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/tata-motors-profit-beats-estimates-on-demand-for-evoque.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s biggest
automaker, may fall in Mumbai trading after its main Jaguar Land
Rover unit posted earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  Jaguar’s fourth-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 605.4 million pounds ($945
million), missing estimates at Deutsche Bank AG and  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)   Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  cut its investment rating
on the stock to the equivalent of a hold and Tata Motors
American depositary receipts fell to a four-month low.  The results from the maker of the Range Rover Evoque chip
away at the optimism that’s helped Tata Motors become the  third-
best performer  this year among the world’s biggest automakers.
Jaguar Chief Executive Officer Ralf Speth is counting on demand
from  China  and  Russia  to help offset the economic slump across
 Europe .  “We see significant downside risks to our earnings
estimates” because of Jaguar, Kapil Singh, a Mumbai-based
analyst with Nomura, wrote in a report. “We expect the stock to
react negatively on these results.”  Tata Motors, which reported earnings yesterday, said it
booked a deferred-tax-asset gain of about 217 million pounds
last quarter at the British luxury carmaker to reflect the
improved business performance and outlook at Jaguar. That helped
the unit’s fourth-quarter profit more than double to 695.9
million pounds. Stripping out the gains, profit would have been
422 million pounds, missing Nomura’s estimate by about 16
percent, Singh wrote.  Jaguar-Driven Profit  Still, the Jaguar unit pushed earnings at the parent to a
record.  Net income  at Tata Motors more than doubled to 62.3
billion rupees ($1.1 billion) in the three months ended March 31
beating the 38.2 billion-rupee median of 40 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Motors fell 0.3 percent to 275.75 rupees in Mumbai
yesterday, before the announcement. Before today, shares had
climbed 54 percent this year, trailing only Russia’s OAO Sollers
and China’s  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  on the  Bloomberg
Global Automobile/Vehicle OEM Manufacturing (BRAUTOCV)  index.  Tata Motors, which plans to invest 2 billion pounds ($3.1
billion) in Jaguar Land Rover this year, benefited from selling
more of its luxury vehicles, according to Mahantesh Sabarad, an
analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd.  “We see strong volume growth going forward, especially
from  emerging markets  such as  Brazil ,  South Africa  and India,”
said Sabarad. “However, the sentiment in Europe remains a
concern.”  Adding U.K. Jobs  The unit is planning to boost output after global March
sales surged 51 percent from a year earlier. The company said
March 13 it would add 1,000 jobs and move to three-shift, 24-
hour production at its Halewood plant in England to meet demand
for models such as the Range Rover Evoque.  The Evoque SUV, which Tata Motors introduced last year, has
a waiting list of about three months, Chirag Shah and Siddhartha Bera, analysts at  Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. (EMKAY)  wrote in
a note dated April 23.  Jaguar Land Rover in April posted its biggest month-on-
month decline in sales since Tata Motors started reporting data
in November 2009 amid slackening demand in China and as the
company also battles stalling demand in Europe. Sales of the
automaker in Europe may slow, according to a May 16 report by
Hitesh Goel, an analyst at Kotak Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  ‘Nobody Knows’  “Nobody knows how deep, how long or whether anything will
happen in Europe,” Speth said at a news conference in Mumbai
yesterday. “We still see very strong demand for our vehicles in
continental Europe.”  Tata Motors in March announced it’ll form a joint venture
with China’s Chery Automobile Co. to build luxury cars for the
world’s largest auto market. The venture, to be based in the
eastern city of Changshu in Jiangsu province, will have a
production capacity of 130,000 vehicles annually, according to a
statement posted on China’s Ministry of Environmental
Protection’s website.  Jaguar will unveil the F-type sports car in September that
will go on sale as early as next April to boost sales. The
automaker will introduce a station wagon version, also known as
an estate model, for the XF this year.  Jaguar Land Rover sales rose 29 percent to 314,433 vehicles
in the 12 months ended March 31, the company said in a statement
last month. Deliveries of Land Rover SUVs accounted for more
than 80 percent of total output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in  Mumbai  at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  