-- Atlantic Broadband Cable Firm’s Owners Said to Seek Sale
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/atlantic-broadband-said-to-seek-sale-could-fetch-1-4-billion.html
Atlantic Broadband Inc., a cable
company owned by  Abry Partners  and  Oak Hill Capital Partners , is
exploring a sale, according to two people with knowledge of the
situation.  The private-equity firms received first-round bids for
Atlantic last week, according to the people, who declined to be
named because discussions are private. The deal, which is being
managed by Credit Suisse Group AG, could be worth about $1.4
billion, one of the people said.  Atlantic, a provider of Internet, television and telephone
service, is the 14th-largest U.S. cable operator, according to
the company’s website. Smaller cable systems, such as Knology
Inc. and Insight Communications Co., have sold themselves in the
past 12 months as rising programming costs crimp margins.  Patrick Bratton, chief financial officer of Quincy,
Massachusetts-based Atlantic Broadband, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment.  Atlantic operates cable systems in four main areas around
Western Pennsylvania,  Miami Beach , Maryland and South Carolina.
Atlantic was formed in 2003 after it purchased cable systems
from St. Louis-based Charter Communications Inc., the fourth-
largest U.S. cable system.  Possible buyers may include other private-equity firms,
said one of the people. Abry Partners, based in Boston, also
owns cable providers RCN Cable and Grande Communications
Networks LLC.  Slowing Growth  Cable companies face rising expenses and a shrinking pool
of video subscribers, putting pressure on the industry to
consolidate. The 10 largest cable providers lost 1.62 million
video customers in 2011 and 1.78 million the year before,
according to  Leichtman Research Group  in Durham,  New Hampshire .  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , No. 1 in the industry, reported its 20th
consecutive quarterly decline in video subscribers this month.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  agreed to pay about $3 billion in
cash for Insight in August. Closely held WideOpenWest LLC,
meanwhile, announced plans to buy Knology for about $750 million
last month.  WaveDivision Holdings LLC, which serves more than 325,000
residential and business customers in  Washington , Oregon and
California, also is exploring a sale, a person familiar with the
matter said earlier this year. That deal may value the company
at about $1 billion, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  