-- Mauritius Feels Euro-Area Crisis Winds as Trade Deficit Swells
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-05-29T10:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/mauritius-feels-euro-area-crisis-winds-as-trade-deficit-swells.html
Mauritius’s trade deficit widened
during the first quarter as the financial crisis in  Europe 
curbed demand for Mauritian goods.  The  trade gap  for the three months through March rose 12
percent to 18.7 billion rupees ($631 million) compared with a
year earlier, Port Louis-based Statistics Mauritius said in a
 statement  today on its website. Exports increased 2.6 percent to
18.2 billion rupees and imports rose 7.3 percent to 36.9 billion
rupees. Orders from  France , the U.K., Spain and Italy declined
7.2 percent to 7.7 billion rupees.  Mauritius, an Indian Ocean island nation that sells 60.7
percent of its exports to Europe, underscores the global impact
of the euro-area crisis. With the rupee gaining against the
euro, exports become less competitive, and the impact ripples
through to domestic consumption. Statistics Mauritius forecast
imports of 165 billion rupees this year, down from an initial
outlook of 172 billion rupees.  The data “doesn’t look good,” Renganaden Padayachy, an
economist at the country’s Chamber of Commerce and Industry,
said in a telephone interview today. “We need to regain
competitiveness for our exports.”  The rupee weakened 1.5 percent in the first quarter
against the euro, which makes up about 41 percent of the
country’s foreign-currency income, according to the Bank of
Mauritius.  “Our rupee is still overvalued,” Padayachy said. “The
cut in the benchmark  interest rate  hasn’t had the required
impact on the rupee.” Mauritius’s central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate by 0.5 percent to 4.9 percent on March
19.  South Africa  is the island nation’s largest regional
trading partner, with exports to Africa’s largest economy rising
33 percent to 1.43 billion rupees. Mauritius, with a population
of about 1.3 million, is a net buyer of fuels and food, with
India the largest supplier at 25 percent of the total, the data
agency said.  Maritius does have “some resilience through
diversification,” Padayachy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  