-- Australian New-Home Sales Surge 6.9% in April, Most in Two Years
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/australian-new-home-sales-surge-6-9-in-april-most-in-two-years.html
Australian sales of newly built homes
surged in April by the most in more than two years as buyers
anticipated the central bank would lower borrowing costs, a
private report showed.  Sales rose 6.9 percent in April to 5,816 from a month
earlier, when they dropped 9.4 percent to a record low, the
Canberra-based Housing Industry Association said, citing a
survey of the nation’s 100 largest builders. Detached house
sales advanced 6.4 percent, while apartments surged by 10.3
percent, it said.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens 
unexpectedly cut the benchmark interest rate May 1 by half a
percentage point to 3.75 percent, the deepest reduction in three
years. Stevens reduced the overnight cash rate target by a
quarter point each in November and December to buttress the
housing market, encourage hiring and boost  consumer confidence .  “Even with this latest improvement, the aggregate volume
of both new home sales and local government building approvals
imply that in the absence of a rapid and sustained recovery,
national new-home building is heading to a recessionary level in
2012,”  Harley Dale , HIA chief economist, said in a statement.
“Further interest rate cuts are required and the Reserve Bank
should just get on with the job.”  Australian  house prices  declined in the three months
through March in the longest losing streak in at least a decade.  An index measuring prices for established houses in eight
major cities dropped 1.1 percent last quarter from the previous
three months, when it fell a revised 0.7 percent, the Australian
Bureau of Statistics said in a May 1 report. House and apartment
prices slumped 4.5 percent in the eight cities in April from a
year earlier, according to real estate researchers RP Data and
Rismark International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Murray at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net  