-- Azul’s Neeleman Says Trip Acquisition Equals 4 Years of Growth
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-05-29T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/azul-s-neeleman-says-trip-acquisition-equals-4-years-of-growth.html
Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras SA is
getting the equivalent of four years’ worth of growth by
acquiring Trip Linhas Aereas, said  David Neeleman , Azul’s
founder who will be the combined company’s biggest shareholder.  Azul and Trip announced yesterday an agreement to
consolidate operations into Azul Trip SA, a holding company
that’s the third-biggest Brazilian airline by market share. Azul
shareholders will have two thirds of the new venture and Trip
shareholders will own the remainder in the all-stock
transaction. Neeleman owns about 90 percent of Azul’s shares.
The companies didn’t disclose financial terms.  The synergies created by the operation, which the companies
called a merger, will cause growth to accelerate, Neeleman, who
was born in  Brazil  and also founded JetBlue Airways Corp., said
in an interview yesterday in Sao Paulo. “It’s a leap of four
years of growth for us. This year we expect about 4.2 billion
reais ($2.12 billion) in revenue as a single company.”  Brazil’s airline industry is being reshaped as  Tam SA (TAMM4) , the
country’s biggest carrier by market share, is bought by Chile’s
Lan Airlines SA. The deal will create the world’s largest
airline by market value.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
Brazil’s second-biggest carrier, is cutting employees and
flights to return to profitability as it struggles with high
fuel prices and a weaker real that makes servicing debt
denominated in U.S. dollars more expensive.  Separate Operations  Azul and Trip will retain their brands pending approval by
Brazil’s antitrust and civil aviation regulators, known as Cade
and Anac, Trip Chief Executive Officer Jose Mario Caprioli told
reporters yesterday in Sao Paulo. If the deal is approved, the
company will consider dropping one of the brands, according to
Caprioli and Neeleman.  Within their present networks, Azul and Trip compete in
about 15 percent of the 96 cities they serve, according to
Neeleman. The airlines often operate different routes in these
cities “so the actual overlapping is even lower than that,”
Neeleman said.  After the acquisition, Azul Trip would operate 316 routes
with 837 daily flights, according to the companies’ statement
yesterday. Both airlines have fleets comprised of regional jets
manufactured by  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  and turboprops made by ATR Aircraft.
Combined, the two carriers have 14.2 percent of Brazil’s
domestic market, according to Anac.  “During the last few years, it became more and more
obvious that a partnership between both companies would be the
way to go, since both business models were so similar,”
Caprioli said.  SkyWest, Tam  Closely-held Trip bought its stake in the new airline using
all of its own shares.  SkyWest Inc. (SKYW) , which held a 20 percent
stake in Trip, was bought out by Trip’s controlling shareholders
a couple of weeks ago, Caprioli said without specifying a date.  An earlier deal that would have allowed Tam to acquire a 31
percent stake in Trip will probably be canceled, Caprioli said.
Neeleman said Tam’s option to buy the Trip stake expired in
December, just before Azul and Trip began negotiating.  Neeleman founded Azul in May 2008 and the airline’s first
flight was seven months later. It was the first Brazilian
carrier to fly Embraer’s E-Jets. Trip was created in 1998 by the
Caprioli and Chieppe families, both owners of bus-transport
companies. Both airlines are based in Campinas, Brazil.  Embraer shares rose the most in more than a month
yesterday, increasing 3.1 percent to 14.7 reais in  Sao Paulo 
trading, while the Bovespa benchmark index advanced 1.4 percent.
The acquisition could boost Embraer’s sales, said  Pedro Galdi ,
an analyst at SLW Corretora brokerage in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo yesterday.  Neeleman said the combined company currently has enough
aircraft orders to support expansion until 2015. Azul Trip will
end 2012 with a fleet of 120 airplanes, he said.  IPO  Neeleman and Caprioli said it isn’t a favorable moment for
an initial public offering. Neeleman said the company plans to
eventually go public and when it does so, he expects its market
valuation to be higher than Gol’s market capitalization of 2.45
billion reais. Gol is Brazil’s second-biggest airline by this
measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  