-- Bankia Depositors Buying Bonds Leave Spain on Bailout Hook
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-05-29T11:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/bankia-tapping-depositors-for-bonds-leaves-spain-on-bailout-hook.html
Spain’s hands are tied with the
rescue of  Bankia (BKIA)  because alternatives to injecting cash or
government debt, such as forcing bond investors to bear the
cost, risk hurting ordinary depositors.  Bankia is among Spanish lenders that sold 22.4 billion
euros ($28.2 billion) of preferred stock to individual investors
through retail branches, according to data compiled by  CNMV , the
financial markets supervisor. In a so-called bail in, these
investors would be wiped out before holders of more senior
bonds, which tend to be banks and institutions.  When Ireland eased the burden on taxpayers of bailing out
its banks by making bondholders take losses three years ago the
move was politically palatable because it was lenders and fund
managers taking most of the pain. This isn’t feasible for  Spain 
and the government is instead considering recapitalizing Bankia
group by injecting cash or government debt.  “The sale of preferred stock to depositors means that
almost the only option for the government now is injecting
capital,” said Arturo Bris, a professor of finance at IMD
business school in Laussanne,  Switzerland . “A writedown of
preferred shares placed with depositors would cause a social
problem. It’s not really a feasible alternative.”  A spokeswoman for the Spanish economy ministry had no
immediate comment. A Bankia spokesman, who declined to be
identified, wouldn’t comment.  Spreading Pain  The government nationalized Bankia on May 9, leading the
lender with the biggest Spanish asset base to request 19 billion
euros of state backing to clean up bad loans to borrowers such
as property developers. That’s on top of the 4.5 billion euros
of Bankia preference shares the government has already bought.
Spain’s also considering guaranteeing joint regional bond issues
with  tax revenue , three people familiar with the plans said.  The burden all this puts on Spain pushed the extra yield
that investors demand to hold the nation’s 10-year notes instead
of benchmark German bunds to a record 5.16 percentage points.
Bankia lost 12.5 percent of its value today, bringing its
decline this month to 54 percent.  A taxpayer-funded bailout of Bankia would foist losses on a
wider portion of society than making individual bondholders,
many of them depositors, lose money.  Junior Impairments  Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, the holding company of
publicly traded Bankia, has 8.7 billion euros of junior
subordinated bonds and preferred stock outstanding that can be
swapped into equity, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It also
has 3.75 billion euros of senior subordinated debt and 24
billion euros of senior bonds, which typically can’t be touched
until more junior notes have been impaired.  Caja Madrid , the largest of the seven troubled savings
banks that were restructured into Bankia, alone issued 3 billion
euros of preference shares bought by investors including
depositors in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Fernando Herrero, the secretary general of ADICAE, a
Madrid-based association of clients of financial institutions,
estimated that about 1 million Spanish households bought banks’
preferred shares, some of which have been converted to common
equity or subordinated convertible bonds.  ‘Original Sin’  “The instruments were marketed as very liquid and as safe
as a deposit,” said Herrero, who described issuing the risky
securities to individual investors as an “original sin.”  Bankia Chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri said May 26 that
the lender is working on a “solution” to the problem of the
preferred shares that may be ready before a shareholder meeting
scheduled for June 29.  Spain’s preferred option for recapitalizing Bankia group is
to raise funds for the lender in debt markets, a government
spokesman said today. Handing it  government bonds , which an
official said yesterday was under consideration, is now a
“marginal” option, said the spokesman, who declined to be
named. Such debt could be used by Bankia as collateral for a
loan from the  European Central Bank .  “I’m not sure that the ECB’s northern European membership
will be very happy about the central bank taking on that credit
risk,” said Paul Smillie, a credit analyst at  Threadneedle
Asset Management Ltd . in  London , which oversees about $43
billion of fixed-income assets. “I’m not sure how workable the
idea is.”  Buyback Leftovers  About 4.5 billion euros of preferred shares issued to
Spain’s bank rescue fund, known as FROB, and due to be converted
into equity are included in BFA’s so-called Tier 1 capital.
There are also small portions of more than 20 junior
subordinated notes, some left outstanding after buybacks, taking
Bankia’s total junior subordinated debt to 8.7 billion euros,
Bloomberg data show.  That leaves Spanish taxpayers on the hook for Bankia’s
recapitalization, said Threadneedle’s Smillie.  “Either Spain pays or there’s some sort of funding from
the center, from  Europe ,” he said. “You’ve got to pay for it
somehow and if the private capital isn’t there the government
has to step in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in  Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  