-- BankAtlantic, Levan Must Face SEC’s Fraud Claims, Judge Says
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-05-29T23:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/bankatlantic-levan-must-face-sec-s-fraud-claims-judge-says-1-.html
BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. (BBX)  and its
chief executive officer lost a bid to dismiss a Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging they misled investors about
the extent of the losses the bank was facing because of a
troubled loan portfolio.  U.S. District Judge Robert Scola in Miami ruled today that
the SEC can proceed with allegations of disclosure fraud and
misrepresentations or omissions in earning statements and
investor conference calls. He dismissed parts of two of seven
counts in the lawsuit against the bank and CEO Alan Levan, while
giving the agency permission to amend its complaint.  “Viewed as a whole, these allegations go beyond severe
recklessness and touch upon intent to deceive,” the judge wrote
in reference to one count that survived his review. “The court
finds that the SEC’s allegations sufficiently raise a plausible
inference that Bancorp and Levan made misrepresentations and
omissions of material fact by the alleged failure to reclassify
and write down certain loans‘‘ in the portfolio.  The SEC said in its January complaint that BankAtlantic and
Levan made misleading statements in public filings and earnings
calls to hide losses on the  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based
bank’s commercial and residential land holdings and improperly
recorded loans they were trying to sell from the portfolio in
late 2007.  According to the agency, Levan knew that a large portion of
the portfolio, which consisted mainly of loans on land intended
for development into single-family housing and condominiums, was
worsening in early 2007 as borrowers struggled to make payments.
In the first two quarters of 2007, BankAtlantic made only
general warnings about risks related to  Florida ’s real estate
market and failed to disclose the downward trend already
occurring in its portfolio, the SEC said.  Third Quarter  The bank acknowledged the problem in the third quarter of
2007 by announcing a large loss, which caused the bank’s stock
to plunge 37 percent, the SEC said.  ‘‘BankAtlantic and Levan used accounting gimmicks to
conceal from investors the losses in a critical loan
portfolio,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a
statement when the case was filed.  Eugene Stearns, an attorney for BankAtlantic and Levan,
didn’t immediately respond to e-mail and phone messages seeking
comment on today’s ruling after regular business hours.  During a hearing last month, Stearns argued that the suit
should be dismissed because the bank disclosed in filings and on
analyst conference calls that it was holding loans that would be
affected by a real estate downturn.  ‘Rain on Saturday’  “We have a securities claim brought against a
meteorologist for saying it’s going to rain on Saturday, when it
rained on Saturday,” Stearns said.  He pointed to disclosures in the bank’s first and second
quarter earnings statement in 2007 and to transcripts of the
earnings conference calls during that period.  “What investors were told was, ‘The market is terrible and
we don’t know where it’s going to go,’” Stearns said.  An SEC spokesman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment after regular business hours on today’s ruling.  A victory in a 2010  jury trial  by shareholders who made a
similar complaint was later reversed by a federal judge in
Miami.  The case is SEC v. BankAtlantic BanCorp Inc., 12-cv-60082,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  