-- Bank of Spain Governor Ordonez Denounces Critics as He Quits
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-30T11:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/bank-of-spain-governor-to-leave-role-one-month-early.html
Bank of  Spain  Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez denounced a “campaign” against him as he
quit before his term expired and sparred with the government
over the costs of a bank rescue and the feasibility of budget
targets.  The mounting tension between the nation’s top banking
regulator and elected officials helped send borrowing costs to a
euro-era record amid speculation a bailout was needed.  “There has been a campaign against the prestige of the
Bank of Spain,” Ordonez told reporters in Madrid today. He
declined to answer questions from lawmakers in the Senate on the
handling of the financial crisis, a day after saying he would
leave his job a month before his term ends.  The governor, who has overseen banks since being appointed
by the previous Socialist government in 2006, has faced
criticism since the May 9 nationalization of Bankia group,
Spain’s third-biggest lender. Borrowing costs compared with
 Germany ’s rose to the most in the euro’s lifetime today,
prompting Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to call on European
authorities to support public debt and bolster liquidity.  The risk premium of 538 basis points compared with 10-year
German bunds puts the government in an “extremely delicate”
situation, Ordonez said. Confidence, which has deteriorated amid
the “handling of the last banking crisis,” is Spain’s biggest
problem, he told the Senate’s budget committee.  Bankia Bailout  Ordonez declined to take questions on the banking industry,
saying he would support and follow the People’s Party
government. He has asked to appear in Parliament to explain his
management of the crisis, and the ruling PP, which has a
majority in the assembly voted instead for him to appear before
a closed-door committee.  The governor said it still wasn’t clear how much public
money BFA- Bankia (BKIA)  will need, even after the lender asked for 19
billion euros ($24 billion) on May 25. He also said it wasn’t
clear how the government would do it and whether it would affect
the deficit.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos has repeatedly said public
support for banks won’t affect the deficit. He said today the
government’s FROB bailout fund will issue debt in the markets to
rescue BFA-Bankia, as it has done in other cases. He denied a
report in the Financial Times that the ECB had rejected a plan
to use Treasury bonds, which can be used as collateral at the
central bank, instead of cash, to shore up the lender. The
 European Central Bank  also denied the report.  Opposition Criticism  Criticism of Ordonez came from the People’s Party
government, opposition parties and the bank’s inspectors. Jaime Garcia-Legaz, the deputy minister for trade, said two days ago
that Ordonez was responsible for what had happened at Bankia,
while Josep Duran i Lleida, the parliamentary leader of the
Catalan CiU party, said on May 11 that Ordonez hadn’t “paid
attention to banking supervision.”  Bank of Spain inspectors called for Ordonez’s resignation
in a letter to Rajoy dated May 16 that was seen by Bloomberg
News. The nationalization of Bankia days after the Bank of Spain
approved its proposals to meet new banking rules was the last in
a series of events that put into question the central bank’s
credibility as never before, the inspectors wrote.  Bank Sidelined  As the crisis deepened, the government took a more
prominent role, reducing the Bank of Spain’s involvement. As
part of its second attempt in three months to restore confidence
in the banking system,de Guindos named consulting firms  Oliver
Wyman  and  Roland Berger  this month to carry out a valuation of
banks’ books. That will be followed by a more detailed audit of
lenders by three companies.  That decision undermined the central bank’s sovereignty,
CiU economy spokesman Josep Sanchez Llibre told de Guindos at a
parliamentary committee on May 23.  Ordonez, born in 1945, decided to leave early to enable his
successor to take over in time to handle the government’s latest
plan to clean up the banking industry, the Bank of Spain said in
its statement. Lenders must submit their plans by June 11
showing how they comply with new requirements, it said.  Spain’s Cabinet named Luis Maria Linde, a former director
general of the Bank of Spain, to the central bank’s board on May
25, in a move that may put him in line to succeed Ordonez.  Linde, 67, first joined the Bank of Spain in 1983. He was
director general of international affairs and in 2001 led the
country risk division. He was named  executive director  for Spain
at the Interamerican Development Bank in 2005 and was an adviser
to the Bank of Spain’s international affairs department from
2009 to 2011, the government said on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  