-- BBB Borrowing Cost for Local Debt Nearing 2008 Low: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-05-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/bbb-borrowing-cost-for-local-debt-nearing-2008-low-muni-credit.html
Borrowing costs for municipalities
rated BBB are approaching the cheapest levels since 2008 as cash
floods into the riskiest investment-grade local-government debt.  The  yield penalty  over top-grade bonds on local debt rated
BBB fell to 1.28 percentage points this month, the smallest
since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gap is set to
shrink another 0.5 percentage point, said Mark Paris at Invesco
Ltd. and Duane McAllister at BMO Asset Management U.S. That
would drive it to levels last seen in July 2008, two months
before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy as the
financial crisis deepened.  Investor appetite for BBB debt from issuers such as
Pittsburgh and  Puerto Rico  has been whetted as localities are
defaulting at half the pace of the past two years while demand
is rising for high-yield municipal bonds. Muni yields close to
four-decade lows are enticing investors to take more risk.  “The default pace is down, and there’s a tremendous bid
for high-yield right now because there’s less fear of taking on
risk,” John Hallacy, head of municipal research at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in New York, said in an interview.  Buoyed in part by a rebounding U.S. economy, localities’
fiscal health is improving. Twenty-eight issuers have defaulted
this year, compared with an average of 62 for the same period
the past two years, according to Municipal Market Advisors.
That’s helped high-yield muni funds add about $1 billion in the
past five weeks, the most since July, Lipper US Fund Flows data
show.  High-Yield Dearth  Lower-rated municipals are benefiting from a flight to
Treasuries and other fixed-income assets amid concern that
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is widening. The buying is
helping keep state and city interest rates close to the lowest
since the 1960s, even after yields rose the past two weeks.  Twenty-year general obligations yield 3.81 percent,
compared with an average of 5.87 percent since 1961, according
to a Bond Buyer  index .  Investors looking to boost returns with high-yield munis,
those with speculative ratings, are also finding less available.
Issuers rated below investment grade have sold about $190
million this year, about a 10th of the five-year average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  As a result, investors such as Invesco’s Paris, who
oversees $6.6 billion in high-yield munis in  New York , are
moving up to BBB. Yield spreads on the debt may compress by a
half-percentage point in the next three months, he said.  ‘Pretty Wide’ Spread  “We’ve been aggressively buying BBBs in the last year-and-
a-half because the spread has been pretty wide,” he said.
“Spreads have come in significantly this year, but we’re still
adding BBB paper because of where supply and demand are.”  Investors have pushed down yields on issuers such as
Pittsburgh, with a BBB Standard & Poor’s rating. The extra yield
on 10-year Pittsburgh bonds relative to top-grade debt fell to
about 0.98 percentage point last week, the lowest since it was
issued in January, according to Bloomberg data.  Puerto Rico Public Buildings Authority, with a grade in the
BBB tier, may get a boost as it plans to sell $500 million of
refunding debt as soon as next week, Bloomberg data show.  “High-yield players have money and normally would want to
buy a BB credit, but they just aren’t out there,” said
McAllister, who helps manage about $3 billion of munis in
 Milwaukee . At the same time, “high-grade people are stepping
down in  credit quality , which creates this convergence in BBB,”
setting the debt up to rally 0.50 percentage point, he said.  The yield spread on BBBs remains wider than its historical
average, giving it room to narrow, Paris said. The gap over AAAs
has averaged 0.75 percentage point  since 1992 , Bloomberg data
show. It peaked at 3.57 percentage points in February 2009, four
months before the end of the recession.  Municipal debt rated BBB has returned 6.3 percent this
year, beating the 2.4 percent gain for AAAs and the 3.9 percent
increase for the entire $3.7 trillion municipal market,
according to Bank of America data.  Following are pending sales:  The TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE & TUNNEL AUTHORITY plans to sell $225
million in revenue bonds as soon as tomorrow, according to an
offering document. The proceeds will finance capital projects.
Moody’s Investors Service on May 23 downgraded the agency one
level to Aa3, fourth-highest. The debt will be sold
competitively. (Added May 29)  LOS ANGELES COUNTY is set to issue $1.1 billion of tax- and
revenue-anticipation notes that will mature in one year,
according to sale documents. Proceeds will help pay expenditures
in the fiscal year that begins July 1. (Updated May 29)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  