-- MBIA Lawyer Finishes Opening Statement in New York Trial
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-29T21:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/mbia-lawyer-finishes-opening-statement-in-new-york-trial-1-.html
A lawyer for  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  finished his
opening statement in a trial over the bond insurer’s 2009
restructuring after two days, saying the transaction was
properly approved by New York state regulators.  The restructuring protected all policyholders, including
the banks opposed to it, and they can’t prove that the approval
was “arbitrary and capricious” and based on a flawed analysis
by a single department employee,  Marc Kasowitz , the MBIA
attorney, said in New York  Supreme Court  in Manhattan.  “The department vigorously and throughly analyzed the
proposal,” Kasowitz said today. “This was not a situation of
the department blindly accepting the work that MBIA had done.”  Justice Barbara Kapnick of state Supreme Court is hearing a
nonjury trial on claims by  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  that the February 2009 approval of MBIA’s proposal
by then-Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  was based on inaccurate and
incomplete information and should be annulled.  More than a dozen financial institutions sued Armonk, New
York-based MBIA and the state insurance department in 2009 over
the restructuring. Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , and Paris-based Societe Generale are the only banks
left in the litigation after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Morgan
Stanley, UBS AG and other banks dropped out.  Asset Transfer  The summation from Kasowitz, an attorney with Kasowitz
Benson Torres & Friedman LLP, followed arguments from the banks
and the state. The banks claim the restructuring exposed them to
losses as policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out
of an MBIA unit that insured risky mortgage debt into a new
division that guaranteed municipal bonds.  David Holgado, a lawyer in state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office, last week asked Kapnick to dismiss the
banks’ challenge, saying the approval was rational and based on
an “extraordinary” analysis by the former Insurance Department
official, Jack Buchmiller.  Kasowitz said today that Buchmiller’s work was
“comprehensive, exhaustive, and intensive” and based on a
“deep dive” analysis of investments insured by MBIA, including
commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities.  “Mr. Buchmiller took a rational, realistic and clear eyed
view to the work that was done,” Kasowitz said. “He wasn’t
closing his eyes to anything.”  Proceedings in the case are scheduled to resume on May 31,
when Robert Giuffra, a lawyer with Sullivan & Cromwell LLP who
is representing the banks, is set to respond to the
presentations given by attorneys for the state and MBIA. The
trial is scheduled to last two to four weeks.  The case is ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009,  New York 
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  