-- BofA Whistle-Blower Receives $14.5 Million, Lawyer Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-29T22:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/bofa-whistle-blower-receives-14-5-million-lawyer-says.html
A former Countrywide Financial Corp.
manager whose fraud suit contributed to the mortgage industry’s
$25 billion  settlement  with federal and state regulators
received about $14.5 million for his efforts, his lawyers said.  Kyle Lagow, an appraisal manager for Countrywide from 2004
to 2008, claimed the company inflated the value of homes to
support bigger loans, according to a statement today from
Seattle-based law firm Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP.
Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  bought
Countrywide in 2008 as mortgage  defaults  soared.  The complaint is among at least six whistle-blower lawsuits
regulators included in the industry’s settlement of mortgage
practices in February. Lagow sued the bank, the second-largest
in the U.S. by assets, under the  False Claims Act , charging that
the company defrauded the U.S.  “The scheme both directly and indirectly cost the United
States government billions of dollars and played an important
role in the wave of foreclosures that fueled the financial
meltdown of 2008,” Steve Berman, Lagow’s attorney, said in the
statement.  The information that Lagow provided helped prompt a $1
billion settlement of  Federal Housing Administration  claims Bank
of America announced earlier this year. The sum was included in
the nationwide settlement.  Rick Simon , a Bank of America
spokesman, declined to comment on the award.  Inflated Appraisals  Lagow filed his whistle-blower complaint under seal in
2009, accusing Countrywide of violations of the U.S. False
Claims Act. He said in the complaint filed in federal court
that, since at least 2003, Countrywide inflated home appraisals
to increase the value of loans it sold on the secondary mortgage
market.  The inflated appraisals caused “numerous” false claims
for payment made to the government for FHA-insured loans that
went into default, according to the complaint.  Lagow worked as an appraiser at LandSafe Inc., a unit of
Countrywide, in Plano, Texas, from June 2004 to November 2008,
according to the complaint.  Employees of other banks have reaped millions of dollars in
whistle-blower lawsuits tied to mortgages. Sherry Hunt, a
quality-control manager at New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
collected $31 million as part of a $158.3 million settlement of
FHA claims that the lender improperly declared loans fit for
federal insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net 
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  