-- Brazil Funds Vinci, GP Said to Be in Talks to Buy Celpa
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-05-29T17:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/brazil-funds-vinci-gp-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-celpa.html
Brazilian private-equity funds Vinci
Partners Investimentos Ltda. and  GP Investments Ltd. (GPIX)  are in
talks to purchase bankrupt utility  Centrais Eletricas do Para
SA , according to two people familiar with the negotiations.  The funds plan to merge Belem-based Celpa, as the company
is known, with  Cia. Energetica do Maranhao , a Brazilian utility
based in Sao Luis, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Vinci Partners,
founded by Gilberto Sayao and other former Banco BTG Pactual SA
executives, owns 65.2 percent of Cemar through its Equatorial
Energia SA energy fund, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Celpa, which distributes electricity to 7.4 million people
in 143 municipalities in northern  Brazil , filed for bankruptcy
on Feb. 28 amid growing debt and more than four years without a
rate increase. The government isn’t planning to take control of
Celpa to help investors and would only step in to ensure power
distribution if that became necessary, Energy Minister Edison Lobao said March 13.  About 66 percent of Celpa is owned by  Rede Energia SA (REDE4) ,
while the state-controlled  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) ,
known as Eletrobras, holds about 35 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Eletrobras also owns a stake of about 33.5
percent in Cemar.  Bonds Gain  Defaulted bonds sold by Celpa climbed 7.5 cents to 38.5
cents on the dollar in  New York , according to Trace, the bond
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Officials at Vinci Partners,  GP Investments (GPIV11) , Celpa and
Cemar declined to comment, asking not to be named in keeping
with company policies.  Celpa will seek to raise 850 million reais ($429 million)
through a bond sale and loans as part of a plan to recover from
bankruptcy, the company said earlier this month. The plan
includes selling 650 million reais of 2027 local bonds
convertible into shares to yield 15 percent and loans of 200
million reais.  The main creditors of Celpa’s 2.3 billion reais of debt
include  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  Banco do Brasil SA ,  Bank of America
Corp. ,  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , according
to Celpa regulatory filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  