-- Brazil Futures Yields Fall Before Policy Meeting
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-05-29T14:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/brazil-futures-yields-fall-before-policy-meeting-correct-.html
(Corrects date in second-to-last paragraph.)  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts dropped for a third day on speculation the
 European debt crisis  will prompt policy makers to make deeper
cuts to the benchmark rate at the two-day monetary policy
meeting beginning today.  Traders are anticipating central bank President Alexandre
Tombini will reduce the 9 percent target rate by 50 basis
points, or 0.50 percentage point, and to as low as 8 percent by
the end of August, according to rate futures yields.  “The deterioration abroad could give a more dovish tone to
the Copom meeting”  Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Sao
Paulo-based Gradual Investimentos, said in a telephone
interview, referring to the monetary policy committee. Financial
turmoil abroad is provoking a “strong deceleration” in the
Brazilian economy, said Perfeito, who expects Tombini to reduce
the Selic rate by 75 basis points this week.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2014 fell 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 8.39 percent at 11:27
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real depreciated 0.7 percent to 1.9944
per  U.S. dollar  after touching 2.1062 on May 23, the weakest
level since May 2009.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is concerned  Spain ’s crisis may
undermine investment in the Latin American country and will
discuss the matter in a meeting with King Juan Carlos next week,
Valor Economico reported, citing an unidentified government
official. An official at the Ministry of Foreign Relations in
Brasilia didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Real’s Decline  Brazil ’s real was the worst performer among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, snapping four days of gains
that came as the central bank auctioned currency swaps last week
to curb the currency’s decline. The real has lost 4.3 percent
this month, after weakening by the same amount in April.  Concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening overshadowed
speculation the central bank will auction more swaps to limit
the real’s losses, Perfeito said.  “If there were a brutal deterioration in the external
environment, the real could go to 2.3 per dollar,” he said.  The swap sales are a reversal from last month’s
policy of stepped-up dollar purchases aimed at weakening the
real to help exporters. Policy makers bought $7.2 billion in the
 spot market  in April, the most since purchases of $8.4 billion
in March 2011.  Target Rate  The central bank has lowered Brazil’s  target lending rate 
by 3.5 percentage points since Aug. 31 to 9 percent, the biggest
reduction among the world’s 25 largest economies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Latin America ’s largest economy probably expanded 1.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to
the median forecast of 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
down from 1.4 percent growth in the last three months of 2011.  Analysts expect industrial production was unchanged in
April from the prior month following a 0.5 percent contraction
in the prior month, according to the median estimate of 40
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the May 31 report.  “We are facing an escalation of the international
crisis,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in
Brasilia last week. “This demands that we redouble our efforts
to maintain economic growth at a reasonable rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  