-- Broadbent Says Inflation Threat Justified BOE Stimulus Halt
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-29T07:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/broadbent-says-u-k-inflation-threat-justified-boe-stimulus-halt.html
Bank of England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said the central bank’s decision not to increase
stimulus this month was justified by the outlook for inflation,
which may cool less quickly than previously forecast.  “We still anticipate a decline” in inflation, “but it
looks to be taking slightly longer than we had first thought it
would,” Broadbent said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Linda Yueh  in London. “My answer to the questions
as to why policy didn’t change in May: the forecast didn’t
warrant it.”  The Bank of England stopped expanding stimulus this month
and Broadbent said that loosening policy again “remains a
possibility” if needed to counteract threats from the euro-area
debt crisis. While the economy may shrink for a  third straight
quarter  because of the extra public holiday for the Queen’s
Jubilee next month, he said policy makers will be focusing on
the “underlying” picture of the economy.  The impact of the Jubilee and the Olympics on the
“appropriate monetary policy is more or less zero,” he said.
“These are things that shift measured output, but won’t change
to any degree our understanding of what underlying inflation
pressure is in the economy and what response we may make.”  The complication for the Monetary Policy Committee will be
in deciding “what the underlying picture is,” according to
Broadbent, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist who
joined the central bank a year ago.  Euro-Area Threat  Bonds fell, with the yield on the  10-year gilt  rising 2
basis points to 1.783 percent as of 8:28 a.m. in London. The
pound gained 0.2 percent against the dollar to $1.5707.  In a speech late yesterday, Broadbent said the central bank
will respond if the worst euro-area risks are realized, while
acknowledging there is a limit to what it can do. He also said
that the “most important policy decisions affecting the U.K.
are being taken in other parts of the continent.”  “Were the still unlikely worst-case risks in the euro area
actually to be realized, then our own monetary policy would
again play its part in mitigating the impact,” he said. “While
they are both necessary and effective, these domestic
interventions have their limits.”  The MPC held its target for so-called  quantitative easing
 at 325 billion pounds ($510 billion) on May 10 after expanding
it in October and February. It also kept its  benchmark interest
rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent. While U.K. inflation slowed to
3 percent in April from 3.5 percent in March, that’s still above
the central bank’s 2 percent target.  ‘Less Predictable’  “As far as more QE goes, that possibility is certainly
there,” Broadbent said in the interview. On its potential
impact, he said, “I don’t think there’s any reason to suspect
that QE is either ineffective or less effective than on the
first round of asset purchases.”  While the economy is on a “less predictable path,” and
that makes judging the appropriate response more difficult, “I
don’t think it means policy itself is less effective,” he said.  Asked whether the MPC should cut its key rate further,
Broadbent said policy makers have discussed the possibility, but
decided against it as there is a risk of some negative effects.  “There are many banks whose assets income depends directly
on the rate of interest we set, so if you lower that, one thing
you may do is reduce margins,” he said. “So it’s not clear all
the effects are beneficial. So that’s why the MPC has thought
about this and decided against it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  