-- Bubka’s Advice Spurs Azarenka to Top Spot in Women’s Tennis
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-29T16:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/bubka-s-advice-spurs-azarenka-s-rise-to-no-1-in-women-s-tennis.html
When spending time in Dubai last
year, Australian Open tennis champion  Victoria Azarenka  picked
the brain of a man who knows all about breaking records.  Azarenka, 22, sat down with Olympic gold medal-winning pole
vaulter Sergei Bubka, the father of her boyfriend, a Ukrainian
tennis player of the same name. The six-time world champion
answered her questions and settled her mind.  “I said to her that she is ready; in 2012 you will be No.
1,” the former athlete, who is president of Ukraine’s National
Olympic Committee, said in an interview.  He was right. Azarenka, who fought back to win her opening
match at the French Open yesterday against Alberta Brianti of
 Italy , took her first Grand Slam title in January in  Australia .
She beat former Wimbledon champion  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  in
the final and climbed to the No. 1 ranking on the WTA Tour.  After Melbourne, the Belarussian kept on winning. Her run
of 26 straight victories to start the season was halted at the
end of March with a quarterfinal defeat to  France ’s Marion Bartoli in Miami. The streak, which also included titles in
Sydney, Doha and  Indian Wells , was the best start since Martina Hingis opened 1997 on a 37-0 run.  “I don’t know anybody whom you can get better advice
from,” Azarenka said of her meeting with Bubka in an interview
at the Rome Masters shortly before  Roland Garros . “I had quite
a lot of discussions with him. He’s such an incredible person
and athlete. I am really lucky to have that opportunity.”  Spain ’s  Rafael Nadal  started his quest to become the only
man to win the French Open seven times with a 6-2, 6-2, 6-1 win
against  Simone Bolelli  of Italy today. Former Wimbledon champion
Maria Sharapova of Russia beat Romania’s Alexandra Candantu 6-0,
6-0.  Upset Avoided  Azarenka struggled yesterday on the clay courts of Roland
Garros, coming within two games of becoming the first female top
seed to lose in the opening round at the tournament.  Azarenka’s best Grand Slam performance before the
Australian Open was a semifinals spot at Wimbledon last year,
where she lost to eventual champion Petra Kvitova of the  Czech
Republic . Previously, she lost quarterfinals at the 2009 and
2011 French Opens, 2009 Wimbledon and the 2010 Australian Open.  She thought about quitting the sport after losing in the
first round of an event in Doha in February 2011. At Wimbledon,
Azarenka told reporters that her grandmother had talked her out
of it, pointing out that life as a tennis player was a lot
better than trying to hold down three jobs at the same time.  Bubka, 48, said he’s seen Azarenka change mentally.  “She started to know herself much better and understand
how to cope with stress, with pressure in different
circumstances, in different conditions,” he said.  Bubka’s Domination  Bubka dominated pole vaulting after winning his first world
title at the age of 19. He was the first man to clear six
meters, and improved his own world record 35 times. The Olympic
champion of the 1988 Seoul Games when he competed for the  Soviet
Union , his world mark of 6.14 meters set in 1994 still stands.  After retiring as an athlete, he became a sports
administrator, joining the  International Olympic Committee . He’s
also a member of the organizing committee for soccer’s  European
Championship , which starts June 8 in Ukraine and Poland.  Azarenka’s maturity is starting to show. She was able to
overcome 60 unforced errors in her opening match in Paris.  “Bad days happen,” Azarenka told reporters yesterday. “I
managed to go through those 60 mistakes and still win.”  Eighteen months ago, the result would have been different,
she said.  “Before maybe I would have just given up and gone home,”
Azarenka said. “I was kind of thinking there was a flight
straight to Minsk around 3 p.m. tomorrow so I could catch that,
but I didn’t want to leave too soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  