-- Budget Blame Game Overlooks 77% of Debt Growth: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-05-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/budget-blame-game-overlooks-77-of-debt-growth-bgov-barometer.html
Election-year finger-pointing over
who’s to blame for the explosion of the  U.S. debt  leaves out the
biggest culprits: The aging of the Baby Boom generation and the
sluggish recovery from the deepest recession since the 1930s.  The BGOV Barometer shows that 77 percent of the growth in
 federal budget  deficits over the past three years can be traced
to a recession-driven drop in  tax revenue , coupled with spending
increases required by law to assist the poor and elderly.
Another 11 percent is the result of increased outlays for the
Pentagon and veterans’ services.  The breakdown illustrates how little of the deficit is
affected by annual spending decisions by Congress and the
administration. Social Security and the recession’s effect on
tax collections and safety-net programs added more red ink
during the last three years than all other government programs
combined.  The deficit is returning to the political center stage, in
a brewing election-year fight about tax increases and $1.2
trillion of spending cuts that will automatically take effect in
January. The  Congressional Budget Office  said last week that
would pose the risk of a new recession, unless Congress and the
White House can agree on alternatives.  Reduction Argument  Republicans are calling for spending reductions and
opposing tax increases. Reprising his stance from the 2011
showdown over the government’s borrowing limit, House Speaker
 John Boehner  last week said he wants cuts and budgetary
“reforms” at least equal to the amount of the next debt-
ceiling increase -- a step that’s likely to be needed by early
next year. President  Barack Obama  and Democrats say tax
increases on wealthy Americans should be part of any deficit-
trimming plan.  While politicians in Washington sound alarms about the
deficit, bond trading shows investors continue to be attracted
by the safety of  U.S. government debt .  Yields on the government’s benchmark  10-year notes  ended
last week at 1.74 percent, near the record-low 1.67 percent
reached on Sept. 23. Confidence in U.S. debt rose even after an
Aug. 5 decision by  Standard & Poor’s  to downgrade the
government’s debt rating from the top AAA level. The cost of
insuring U.S. government debt against default is lower than that
for other countries that retain their AAA rating, including
 Germany  and the U.K., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In fiscal 2008, which ended five weeks before the last
presidential election, the budget shortfall was $459 billion.
Compared with that figure, combined deficits for fiscal 2009,
2010 and 2011 added an extra $2.6 trillion to the nation’s debt,
according to Office of Management and Budget data.  Deficit Growth  About $1 trillion of that  deficit  growth came from falling
tax receipts. A like amount resulted from ballooning costs for
Social Security and Medicare, as  Baby Boomers  began to reach
 retirement age , and from recession-related increases in spending
on Medicaid, unemployment compensation and nutrition programs,
such as food stamps.  Outlays for  defense  and veterans’ programs surpassed 2008
levels by a three-year total of $289 billion.  The deficit was $459 billion for the fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30, 2008, according to the budget office. It jumped to
$1.4 trillion in fiscal 2009 and about $1.3 trillion in both
2010 and 2011.  The CBO releases estimates of how changes in the  U.S.
economy  affect federal spending and income -- recognizing, for
example, that job losses during a recession inevitably leave
fewer workers paying income taxes and more people eligible for
 unemployment benefits  and  food stamps .  Revenue Declines  During the past three fiscal years, $910 billion of the
drop in federal revenue can be traced to the economic downturn,
according to the CBO.  Altogether,  individual  income tax collections in 2009, 2010
and 2011 fell by about $530 billion from 2008’s level, according
to OMB data. Corporate income tax payments dropped by more than
$400 billion, and social insurance taxes declined by about $125
billion.  In other areas affected by the broader health of the U.S.
economy, federal unemployment aid rose by $267 billion over
three years, spending on the Medicaid health insurance plan for
the poor grew by $194 billion and nutrition assistance program
costs increased by $95 billion.  Across the rest of the government, all non-defense
discretionary spending, including infrastructure improvements
and other projects in the stimulus legislation, rose by a
combined $320 billion over three years.  Older Americans  The CBO estimated that about $180 billion of spending-
related deficit increases from 2009 to 2011 was directly tied to
the health of the economy. The growing population of older
Americans played a bigger role in rising outlays.  The oldest members of the Baby Boom generation, those born
in 1946, became eligible for Social Security retirement benefits
in 2008 and qualified for the Medicare health insurance program
in 2011.  Compared with 2008, Social Security outlays increased by a
combined $269 billion over three years. The number of people
getting retirement benefits has grown 11 percent, to 39 million
this month from 35 million at the end of fiscal 2008. Unlike
most of the budget, Social Security is funded with a dedicated
 payroll tax  and has a trust fund surplus big enough to cover
projected retirement benefits through 2035.  The cost of Medicare, which also is funded through a
payroll tax, rose by $195 billion over the three years.
Medicare’s trustees project that its hospital insurance trust
fund will be solvent until 2024.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  