-- Bund Yield Falls to Record on Debt Crisis; Spanish Notes Slide
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-05-29T15:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/bund-yield-falls-to-record-on-safety-demand-spanish-notes-drop.html
German 10-year bund yields dropped to
a record low as speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening
underpinned demand for the region’s safest securities.  Bunds headed for their biggest monthly gain this year and
Spanish notes slid after a Spanish government spokesman said the
country may need to issue more bonds to rescue the Bankia group.
German  government securities  were also boosted as Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said the  European Central Bank 
wasn’t considering resuming bond purchases to stem rising
borrowing costs in the euro area.  The drop in German yields “shows how sensitive risk
markets are to negative news on the Spanish banking sector,”
said  Nick Stamenkovic , a strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd., a broker for banks. “Continued uncertainty over
the extent of the Spanish bank problem will drive investors into
safe havens, pushing 10-year bund yields to new lows.”  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield was little changed at 1.37
percent at 4:14 p.m. in London after falling to an all-time low
1.345 percent. The price of the 1.75 percent bond maturing in
July 2022 was at 103.58. German 10-year futures climbed to an
all-time high, with the contract expiring in June rising as much
as 0.2 percent to 144.58.  German bonds due in more than a year returned 2.2 percent
so far this month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
That’s the most since they gained 3.1 percent in December.  Bankia Option  Spain  considers using treasury bonds instead of cash to
recapitalize Bankia has become an option, according to an
economy ministry spokesman, who asked not to be identified by
name in line with policy.  The government nationalized Bankia on May 9, leading the
lender with the biggest Spanish asset base to request 19 billion
euros of state backing to clean up bad loans. That’s in addition
of the 4.5 billion euros of Bankia preference shares the
government has already bought.  Spain’s notes fell for a third day. The  two-year yield 
climbed 15 basis points to 4.62 percent, after rising to 4.69
percent, the highest since Dec. 12. The five-year yield gained
nine basis points to 5.83 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of their German counterparts narrowed by five
basis points to 507 basis points after reaching 516 basis
points, the widest since the euro’s introduction in 1999.  ‘Not a Matter’  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  last week called on
the ECB to buy his government’s bonds, after yields on the debt
approached the level that pushed Ireland,  Greece  and  Portugal  to
request international bailouts.  “This for the time being is not a matter of discussion,”
Nowotny told reporters in Belgrade today, when asked if bond
purchases are something the ECB is contemplating.  While the ECB has bought 212 billion euros of government
debt since May 2010, it halted the program this year after
injecting more than 1 trillion euros into the financial system
through three-year loans.  ICAP Plc, the biggest broker of trades between dealers, is
expecting clearinghouse LCH.Clearnet Ltd. to impose a margin
increase on  repurchase agreements  secured against Spanish
 government bonds  “at any moment.”  “We run the very real risk of a self-reinforcing blow to
the financing abilities of both the Spanish financial sector and
the sovereign itself,” ICAP London-based economist  Don Smith 
wrote in a note to clients. “Prime Minister Rajoy’s claims
yesterday that the country’s banks don’t need a bailout would
then look very shaky indeed.”  German Inflation  Bunds also gained as a government report showed Germany’s
inflation rate dropped to the lowest since January 2011, helping
preserve the value of the fixed payments from debt.  German  inflation , calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, slowed to an annual rate of 2.1 percent in May
from 2.2 percent in April, the Federal Statistics Office said.
Prices fell 0.3 percent from the previous month.  Italian bonds declined as the nation sold 8.5 billion euros
of six-month bills. The securities were sold at an average yield
of 2.104 percent, up from 1.772 percent at the previous auction
of similar-maturity debt on April 26. Investors bid for 1.61
times the amount allotted, down from 1.71 times last month.  The Italian  10-year yield  rose one basis point to 5.75
percent after reaching 5.79 percent, the highest since May 22.  Switzerland  sold 689 million francs ($719 million) of
three-month bills at a yield of minus 0.62 percent. That
compares with a rate of minus 0.20 percent at a previous auction
of similar-dated securities on May 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in  London  at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  