-- California Workers Get Pay Bump Even as Brown Seeks Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-05-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/california-workers-get-pay-bump-even-as-brown-seeks-cuts.html
As California Governor  Jerry Brown 
seeks a temporary 5 percent pay cut from public employees to
fill the largest state deficit in the U.S., many of those same
workers are poised for raises next year.  Labor contracts covering 140,000 workers grant increases of
about 3 percent to top earners beginning in July 2013, according
to the Personnel Administration Department. About 34,000
employees became eligible this year as the raises began to be
incorporated.  Brown, facing a $15.7 billion deficit through June 2013, is
seeking savings in a state where unionized public employees are
paid more than government workers in other states, and civil-
service protections hamper dismissals. The 74-year-old Democrat
wants to save $400 million by shortening the work week by two
hours. That will require approval from unions representing
182,000 of the state’s 214,000 workers.  “This just highlights the fact that government works
really well for public-employee unions, but really does not work
for anybody else,” said  Aaron McLear , the former spokesman for
Brown’s predecessor, Republican  Arnold Schwarzenegger , who
clashed with labor leaders over costs. “I get that they are
under contract, but the idea that labor unions get to negotiate
their cuts is stunning.”  During collective bargaining in 2010, Schwarzenegger agreed
to raises of 2 percent to 5 percent for workers at the top of
the pay scale. In return, union members contributed more toward
their pension and retirement benefits, and gave up some paid
holidays.  Unpaid Furloughs  The agreement came after Schwarzenegger and lawmakers had
forced workers to take unpaid days off each month for two years,
cutting pay by about 14 percent.  The contracts cover all unionized workers, from janitors to
highway patrol officers. While Schwarzenegger signed many of the
deals, Brown came to the same terms with prison guards in 2011.  Not every state worker can get the July pay increase, only
those at the top of the pay scale for at least 12 months, with
satisfactory evaluations. While there’s no estimate of how many
that will be, it typically takes five years to reach top scale,
according to Lynelle Jolley, a spokeswoman for the Personnel
Administration.  Leaders of Service Employees International Union Local
1000, which represents the largest number of state employees at
95,000, are willing to talk about pay cuts or an alternative,
according to a letter addressed to members earlier this month.  ‘Staying Engaged’  “We could have said ‘no,’ and demanded that the governor
honor our contract,” said the letter, signed by nine bargaining
unit leaders. “By staying engaged, we minimize the potential
for a huge number of layoffs and even deeper cuts in vital
services.”  California, with the world’s ninth-biggest economy, lost
more than 1 million jobs in the recession that started in 2007,
reducing the most populous U.S. state’s revenue by 24 percent.
Even with savings from program reductions, that left a deficit
of $9.2 billion, the governor said in January.  Brown is pushing a ballot measure asking voters to
temporarily raise the statewide  sales tax  to 7.5 percent from
7.25 percent, and boost rates on income taxes starting at
$250,000.  Brown’s proposed budget includes a mechanism that would
automatically trigger more than $6 billion in additional
reductions, mostly from schools, if voters reject the tax
increase.  Even if those cuts occur, state workers would still get
their pay increase.  New Cuts  On May 14, the governor was forced to propose a new round
of spending rollbacks after acknowledging the revenue projection
he built into his January budget was off by more than $4
billion. To fill the gap, he wants to cut more than $3 billion
from medical care for the poor, welfare, in-home services for
the disabled, and childcare subsidies.  The governor also said he’d seek to reduce employee costs 5
percent by having them work 9.5 hours on four days instead of 8
hours in five days. His proposal would cut $840 million from
payroll costs, with $400 million of that coming in the deficit-
ridden general fund.  The average Golden State worker receives about $1 more for
every $4 earned by a Texas employee, according to U.S. Commerce
Department data. Per-capita income for all employees in
 California , public and private, was $42,578 last year, the
department said. State workers, on average, made $58,340 in
total pay, according to data from the controller’s office.  Limited Options  Brown’s options are limited. If unions balk at his
proposal, he could fire state workers, though civil-service
rules would require a dozen months or more to see any savings.  He could furlough workers as Schwarzenegger did, but that
could end up costing more in future years, as workers in
agencies that can’t shut down, such as prisons and the highway
patrol, accumulate vacation and unpaid leave.  “The state employees particularly have come forward with
some very imaginative ideas,” the governor told reporters in
 Sacramento  when he unveiled his revised budget. “They’ve been
willing to step up to the plate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  