-- Canada Takeovers, EU Bank Rescue, Russian Banks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-29T12:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/canada-takeovers-eu-bank-rescue-russian-banks-compliance.html
The Canadian government is moving
ahead with plans to increase the threshold for foreign takeover
reviews, Industry Minister Christian Paradis said.  The federal reviews will only be done when the target
companies have an enterprise value of at least C$1 billion ($972
million), and the new system will be phased in using three steps
over the next four years. That’s up from businesses with an
asset value of C$330 million currently.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is seeking to assure foreign
companies the country is open to investment amid criticism the
system is unpredictable. Harper in 2010 rejected a hostile
takeover bid for  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc. by  BHP
Billiton Ltd (BHP)  in 2010.  While Harper pledged to raise the threshold during an
election campaign in 2008, and formally announced his plans in a
January 2009 budget, final regulations have yet to be introduced
to implement the changes.  The threshold immediately will increase to an enterprise
value of C$600 million following a 30-day public consultation
and the final publication of the regulations, according to the
May 25 statement. That threshold will increase to C$800 million
in two years, and to C$1 billion in four years.  The government will also change the way it appraises
companies, using enterprise value instead of asset value, it
said. In addition, it will also begin offering formal mediation
procedures to resolve disputes over whether a company has
undertaken commitments made during a purchase in the review
process, Paradis said in the statement.  Compliance Policy  U.K. FSA Tells Banks to Clearly Post Deposit Guaranty Terms  U.K. banks will have to display posters and stickers in
their branches and on websites explaining to customers how their
deposits are covered by government guarantees, the financial
regulator said May 27.  Starting Aug. 31, banks must clearly explain to customers
that deposits of as much as 85,000 pounds ($133,000) are covered
by the guarantee, the  Financial Services Authority  said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Customers using a U.K. branch of a
foreign bank must be informed their deposits aren’t covered by
Britain’s Financial Services Compensation Scheme and explain
which nation will protect their money, the FSA said.  The European sovereign-credit crisis has shaken confidence
in the currency union’s banking system.  India Market Regulator to Arbitrate Some Cases in Place of Fines  India’s market regulator will arbitrate cases involving
 insider trading  and so-called front running instead of settling
them with fines.  The rule will come into effect immediately and will
consider all new and pending applications, the  Securities &
Exchange Board of India  said in a statement on its website.  In 2010, SEBI had banned a dealer at HDFC Asset Management
Co. for front running, where a trader executes an order on his
own account taking advantage of prior knowledge of a transaction
expected to influence the price of a security. The incident led
to estimated losses of 23.8 million rupees ($428,404) at the
country’s second-biggest money manager.  Chinese Regulator to Help Private Companies to Raise Capital  The China Securities Regulatory Commission will modify
rules to help privately owned companies to raise capital, part
of government efforts to aid smaller businesses struggling for
funds.  The regulator will support sales of bonds and public shares
by private companies, and encourage them to list overseas, the
CSRC said in a  statement  on its website May 24. The government
will also speed up the establishment of an over-the-counter
market and encourage private investment in securities and
futures brokerages, it said.  China ’s efforts last year to cool inflation and rein in
 home prices  with lending curbs and higher  interest rates  reduced
the availability of financing for smaller businesses, prompting
bankruptcies and suicides in the city of Wenzhou. The government
said last week it will let small and medium-sized companies sell
bonds through private placements starting in June.  The nation is encouraging companies to raise more money
through stock and bond sales to reduce their dependency on bank
loans and increase the transparency of their finances.  CSRC Chairman  Guo Shuqing  has been an advocate of expanding
China’s corporate debt market.  Unsecured Creditors Face Losses in EU Plan for Failing Banks  The European Union will seek to give regulators the power
to impose writedowns on senior unsecured creditors at failing
banks as part of measures to prevent taxpayers from footing the
bill for saving crisis-hit lenders.  The writedown powers would apply to senior unsecured debt
and derivatives, while some other claims, including secured debt
and deposits that are protected by government guarantee
programs, would be shielded from the losses, according to draft
plans obtained by Bloomberg News. Regulators would have the so-
called bail-in powers from the start of 2018.  EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  had
delayed proposing the law, which was originally scheduled to be
released in September 2011, because of market turbulence. The
plans, scheduled to be published on June 6, will have to be
agreed on by finance ministers from the EU’s 27 member states
and members of the European Parliament before they become law.  The bail-in powers must be in place across the EU by the
start of 2018, the commission’s draft proposal said. As well as
writing down claims, national regulators would also have the
power to convert them into equity, according to the draft rules.  Under the plans, banks with “systemic relevance” would be
required to issue a minimum amount of capital instruments,
subordinated debt and other claims that could be written down in
a crisis.  This minimum amount should be equivalent to 10 percent of a
bank’s non-equity liabilities, the document says.  Stefaan De Rynck, Barnier’s spokesman, declined to
immediately comment on the document.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Putin Cutting Capital Rules in Russia May Hurt Bank Bonds  Just as global regulators push banks to fortify their
balance sheets, President Vladimir Putin’s government is stoking
investor concern by easing rules on capital for Russia’s
lenders.  A Ministry of Finance draft law seeks to cut the minimum
capital that banks must have to take customer deposits which may
hurt bank bonds, said Moody’s Investors Service on May 21. The
yield on dollar debt due 2020 from VTB Group, Russia’s second-
biggest bank, is 262 basis points above similar maturity debt
with the same Moody’s credit rating from Banco do Brasil. On May
1, it was 241 wider, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Katrin Robeck, an analyst at Moody’s in Moscow, said in a
May 23 phone interview that it is “the opposite” of what
regulators are doing elsewhere.  The proposed cut in the minimum capital adequacy ratio, a
measure of capital relative to risk, to 10 percent from 11
percent may encourage banks to lend more, boosting the economy.
Basel III, named after the Swiss city which houses the  Bank for
International Settlements , would tighten controls on bank
capital following the global financial crisis while in Russia
the authorities are seeking to relax  capital requirements .  For more, click here.  Kuwait Market Regulator Sets June 30 for Investment Law  Kuwait’s Capital Markets Authority said investment funds
have until the end of June to comply with a law regarding
ownership of securities.  The CMA “gives notice to all licensed persons of the need
to settle funds investing in securities before June 30,” it
said in an e-mailed statement May 24.  The capital markets law, which places restrictions on
investment funds, stipulates that funds may not own more than 10
percent of a publicly traded company, or invest more than 10
percent of the fund in one company.  Sweden FSA Monitoring Bank Access to Dollars as Crisis Deepens  Sweden’s financial watchdog is monitoring banks’ access to
dollars on concern Europe’s worsening debt crisis may interrupt
the flow of funds from the U.S., said Uldis Cerps, a director at
the financial regulator and a member of the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision.  Following the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding
Inc., Swedish banks needed a $30 billion cash injection from the
central bank to stay afloat. As a result, regulators in the
largest Nordic economy spent much of last year urging banks to
reduce their reliance on short-term dollar funding. Since then,
Sweden’s banks have built up their capital buffers and are
meeting minimum liquidity requirements, Cerps said.  Concern that dollar funding into Europe may again become
scarce has risen as the debt crisis shows no sign of abating.
With speculation mounting that the euro area may splinter,
investors are trying to gauge how badly banks will suffer.  Europe’s lenders are also girding for a spate of ratings
downgrades from Moody’s Investors Service, which in February
placed 114 banks in the region on review.  For more, click here.  Dynamic Decision’s Alberto Micalizzi Fined $4.7 Million in U.K.  Alberto Micalizzi, the founder of collapsed hedge fund
Dynamic Decisions Capital Management Ltd., was fined 3 million
pounds ($4.7 million) for misleading investors and the U.K.
financial regulator.  Micalizzi “lied to investors about the true position of
the fund” in 2008, when it suffered losses of more than $390
million, and artificially inflated its value via debt contracts
that weren’t “legitimate” financial instruments, the U.K.
 Financial Services Authority  said in an e-mailed statement.
Micalizzi will challenge the fine at a tribunal, the FSA said.  A message for Micalizzi’s lawyer in Italy wasn’t
immediately returned.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Is Probed in Second Insider-Trading Case  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) , Japan’s fourth-biggest
bank by market value, said it’s being investigated for possible
insider trading, the second such probe in two months.  “We are fully cooperating” with the Japanese  Securities
and Exchange Surveillance Commission  on the case, Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust said in a statement in Tokyo yesterday, adding that
it apologizes to customers and stakeholders.  The SESC will seek to fine a fund management arm of
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust for insider trading relating to a public
share offering of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in 2010, Reuters
reported May 26, citing people with knowledge of the matter. The
securities regulator believes an employee of  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) , an underwriter of the Mizuho sale, told the  fund manager 
about the offering before it was made public, Reuters said.  Keiko Sugai, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Nomura, declined
to comment on the report. A spokesman for the SESC wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  Courts  Ex-Olympus CEO Woodford Settles Unfair-Firing Lawsuit in London  Michael Woodford , the former  Olympus Corp. (7733)  chief executive
officer and president who was fired after trying to uncover
suspected fraud, settled a London lawsuit against the company.  Woodford sued Olympus at an employment tribunal for
discrimination and unfair dismissal under whistle-blowing rules
and was said to be seeking $60 million, according to a person
familiar with the claim.  Woodford, who spoke outside the hearing room today, said he
and the company need to move on.  The Japanese camera maker had about $4 billion wiped off
its market value after dismissing Woodford on Oct. 14 when he
questioned inflated fees paid to the company’s advisers. Olympus
has since admitted to hiding losses and a 13-year cover-up.  The agreement needs to be approved by the Olympus board
next month, Woodford’s lawyer Thomas Linden said.  “We are in a negotiation with Woodford for settlement,”
said Osamu Kobayashi, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Olympus, and
declined to comment further.  While the terms of Woodford’s agreement weren’t revealed,
it may include a 10 million-pound ($15.7 million) payment to
Woodford, the Financial Times reported earlier today.  If reports of a 10 million-pound payout are correct, it
would represent the largest ever sum recovered in a U.K.
whistle-blowing claim, said employment lawyer Jo Keddie, who
isn’t involved in the case.  Ex-Blue Index Senior Trader Not Guilty of U.K. Insider Charges  A former senior trader at Blue Index Ltd., Christopher
Hossain, was found not guilty of insider trading after the
brokerage’s founder and his wife pleaded guilty to the charges
before the trial began.  A friend of the founder, Adam Buck, was also acquitted in
the case after a five-week trial at a London criminal court. The
FSA had alleged at the trial that the two men made at least
185,000 pounds ($290,000) combined trading on tips they received
from the fund’s founder  James Sanders .  Sanders, who pleaded guilty, traded on tips that Kronos
Inc., aQuantive Inc. and Getty Images Inc. were the targets of
takeover offers, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said.
Blue Index co-owner James Swallow also pleaded guilty before
trial.      The information originated from Arnold McClellan,
the head of the mergers and acquisitions advisory group at the
accounting and consulting firm Deloitte LLP’s San Francisco
office. McClellan’s wife, Annabel, is the sister of Sanders’s
wife, Miranda. Sanders and his wife made 1.5 million pounds from
trading on the tips, the FSA said.  Total profits generated by the defendants were about 1.9
million pounds, while profits made by Blue Index clients were
approximately 10.2 million pounds, the FSA said in a statement.
The three who pleaded guilty will be sentenced on June 19.  Annabel McClellan, who lives in San Francisco, was
sentenced in the U.S. last year to 11 months in prison for
obstructing a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Unsecured Creditors Face Losses in EU’s Plan for Failing Banks  The European Union will seek to give regulators the power
to impose writedowns on senior unsecured creditors at failing
banks as part of measures to prevent taxpayers from footing the
bill for saving crisis-hit lenders.  The writedown powers would apply to senior unsecured debt
and derivatives, while some other claims, including secured debt
and deposits that are protected by government guarantee
programs, would be shielded from the losses, according to draft
plans obtained by Bloomberg News. Regulators would have the so-
called bail-in powers from the start of 2018.  The cost of bank funding may increase as investors take on
board the plans “but this is a natural process of getting
taxpayers off the hook,”  John Vickers , the chairman of the
U.K.’s  Independent Commission on Banking , said in a speech in
Brussels May 25. “It’s not sinister that funding costs go up if
it’s for that reason.”  The plans, scheduled to be published on June 6, will have
to be agreed on by finance ministers from the EU’s 27 member
states and members of the European Parliament before they become
law.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Vatican Bank Chief Forced Out After Money-Laundering Scandal  The Vatican bank, whose reputation took a blow over an
investigation into  money laundering , has fired Chairman Ettore
Gotti Tedeschi after a tenure stained by a financial scandal.  In a vote of no-confidence, the board of directors
unanimously agreed to remove Tedeschi, a  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
banker who took the job in 2009, from his post for failing “to
carry out various duties of primary importance,” according to a
statement May 24 by Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi.  Tedeschi said he was “torn” between wanting to explain
the truth and not upsetting Pope Benedict XVI, according to an
interview with Italian news agency Ansa May 25. “My love for
the Pope prevails even over defending my reputation, which has
been cowardly questioned,” he was cited as saying.  The bank, which is formally called the Institute for the
Works of Religion, said it’s now hunting for a replacement who
can “restore” relations with the financial community.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 