-- Canada’s Dollar Heads for Monthly Loss on Europe Wagers
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-05-29T21:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/canada-dollar-falls-as-economy-decline-trims-rate-view.html
Canada ’s dollar headed for the
biggest monthly loss since September against its U.S.
counterpart as speculation Europe’s debt crisis will worsen
damped appetite for risk.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fluctuated today after confidence
among consumers in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner,
unexpectedly declined in May to the lowest in four months.
Commodities fell.  “Commodity-centric currencies like the Canadian dollar
will remain under pressure unless you have some sort of sign
that Europe is getting its act together and growth will have a
chance to stabilize,” said  Adrian Miller , director of global
markets strategy at GMP Securities LLC in  New York .  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0221 at
5 p.m. in Toronto, poised for a monthly loss of 3.4 percent. It
gained 0.3 percent earlier to C$1.0207, the strongest level
since May 23, and weakened as much as 0.3 percent. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.84 U.S. cents.  The loonie gained 0.3 percent over the past week against
nine developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar strengthened 0.5 percent, and
the yen climbed 1.1 percent, on refuge demand amid the European
debt crisis. The euro fell 1.1 percent.  ‘Dark Clouds’  “We still prefer to be long the U.S. dollar with all the
dark clouds gathering in  Europe ,” said Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto, who
recommended buying the U.S. currency at C$1.0180 to C$1.0200.
“We’re probably not out of the woods yet with the European
risk.” Long positions are bets that a currency will strengthen.  Canada’s dollar briefly erased losses after the Conference
Board’s U.S. confidence  index (CRY)  rose to 64.9 from a revised 68.7
in April, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a reading of 69.6.  July futures for crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, gained
as much as 1.5 percent to $92.21 a barrel in New York and lost
0.7 percent before trading little changed at $90.87. They
touched $89.28 on May 23, the lowest level in more than six
months. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials 
declined 0.8 percent. Raw materials including oil account for
about half of Canada’s export revenue.  Bet Against Loonie  Investors should bet Canada’s dollar will slide to its
weakest level since October as commodities drop below 3 1/2 year
support levels, according to Bank of America Corp.  The CRB Index fell below 295 on May 8, a 42-month trend
line, and reached 279.5 today, the lowest level since September
2010. It may decline to 265 and 257, according to  MacNeil Curry ,
head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical strategy
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. Brent crude oil
also has dropped below its 3 1/2 year support level, and copper
is approaching support, Curry wrote today in a client note.
Support is an area on a chart where buy orders may be clustered.  Curry’s firm entered a Canadian-dollar bet at C$1.0053 per
 U.S. dollar  on May 15, with a target of it weakening to
C$1.0528, he wrote. It last closed weaker than that on Oct. 3.
The firm will exit the trade if the Canadian currency
strengthens to 99.50 cents.  Canadian  government bonds  fell, erasing early gains. Two-
year note yields increased eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 1.16 percent, and 10-year yields rose three
basis points to 1.87 percent.  Lowest Since 1989  Thirty-year bond yields increased two basis points to 2.39
percent. They touched 2.343 percent on May 25, the lowest level
in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1989. Canadian
government bonds dated 25 years or longer have returned 4.4
percent this month, compared with 0.9 percent for the global
sovereign-bond market, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  The threat of a spreading  European debt crisis  and falling
commodity prices are driving investors to the safety of Canada’s
longer-term bonds and may prolong the rally in 30-year bonds.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
dropped to a five-month low on May 23 on signs  China ’s economic
boom is stalling as lenders struggle to meet loan targets. A
decline in China, the world’s biggest consumer of industrial
metals, would sap demand for Canadian exports.  “Given some of the hurdles that lie ahead for financial
markets in the next few weeks, I don’t think it’s obvious that
we’ve hit bottom in yields,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief
economist with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “There’s so much
event risk, especially around  Greece .”  A political impasse in Greece, where voters rejected
austerity measures May 6, has fueled bets the country may leave
the euro, and concern about  Spain ’s ability to recapitalize
troubled banks is adding to speculation on the currency union’s
future. A deepening crisis in Europe risks damaging the world
economy, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a report May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  