-- Cap-and-Punt Is the Wrong Way to Cut Future Deficits
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-05-29T23:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/cap-and-punt-is-the-wrong-way-to-cut-future-deficits.html
Bracing for more economic shocks from
 Europe , the U.S. urgently needs a barbell fiscal policy. That
is, more immediate stimulus and more deficit reduction that is
designed to take effect over time.  Unfortunately, policy makers are failing on both sides,
mostly ignoring the need for additional stimulus while also
becoming enthralled with the wrong kind of future deficit
reduction.  As I pointed out in  last week’s column , history shows we
are capable of setting deficit reduction for the future and
sticking to it -- as long as the delayed measures are specific
and gradual. But it is also possible to set up future budget
cuts that have little chance of actually happening and therefore
lack credibility.  A good illustration of how to do future  deficit reduction 
the wrong way is the Sustainable Growth Rate formula for
Medicare, which was enacted in 1997 to constrain payments to
doctors. The SGR places a broad cap on payments without
addressing any of the reasons those payments are increasing. If
the cap is exceeded, payments are supposed to be simply cut
across the board.  It’s much easier to slap a cap on spending than to get into
the weeds of making policy changes to constrain that spending.
It generally doesn’t work, though. Not surprisingly, Congress
has repeatedly waived the SGR cap by legislating “doc fixes,”
temporary patches that cancel the scheduled payment reductions.
Although these interventions have not fully restored physician
payments to what they would have been, the SGR has had much less
effect than if it had been fully implemented.  Cap and Punt  This same cap-and-punt approach is at the heart of several
bills that the House Budget Committee is addressing this week.
Two of these, the Spending Control Act and the Balancing Our
Obligations for the Long Term Act, would impose a cap on  total
government spending  as a share of gross domestic product, plus a
number of other caps on specific areas of spending. These are
meant to be enforced through automatic across-the-board spending
cuts (with some specific areas exempted).  Like the SGR, the acts under consideration by the House
Budget Committee avoid the hard work of making specific policy
changes. And the  spending reductions  they envision are so
implausibly large, the automatic cuts will inevitably be waived
when the time comes.  The Balancing Our Obligations for the Long Term Act, for
its part, would limit federal spending to 20 percent of GDP in
2030, 2040 and 2050. The  Congressional Budget Office ’s
alternative fiscal scenario projects  spending in 2040  to amount
to 37 percent of GDP. Anyone think we can simply waive our hands
and get from 37 percent to 20 percent?  While it’s true that the Republican budget plan put forth
earlier this year by Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan  would
theoretically get us below this 20 percent of GDP threshold by
2040, it would do so only by taking the cap-and-punt approach to
a  new level . The heart of the Ryan plan is to put caps on key
types of federal spending and just hope for the best.  Medicare and Medicaid  Look, for example, at how Ryan would trim the cost of
Medicare and Medicaid, which are the primary drivers of our
long-term deficits. He would change Medicare into a premium-
support program, in which the federal government would make
fixed payments to each beneficiary. Looks good on paper for the
government ledger, but the Congressional Budget Office has
estimated that this plan would lead to massive increases in
total health-care spending because  personal costs would go up 
much more than government costs would go down. (The overall
increase occurs because the reductions in health spending from
increased cost sharing are modest and because, under the Ryan
plan, administrative costs are higher and negotiating leverage
with hospitals is less.)  As for Medicaid, Ryan would turn it into a block-grant
program. That would cap the federal government’s spending, but
state governments would have to pick up the slack.  Neither approach is likely to be sustainable unless policy
makers also make specific adjustments in the health-care payment
system to constrain costs.  Ryan would adopt the same approach for revenue. He would
cut tax rates dramatically while promising that revenue would be
maintained at 19 percent of GDP by scaling back on tax breaks.
But he doesn’t identify which tax exemptions he would eliminate.  The whole Ryan budget is thus effectively a super-SGR, with
simplistic caps but no specific measures that could make those
caps plausible.  The fiscal cliff the nation will reach at the end of this
year -- as tax cuts expire, broad spending reductions come due
and we again come up against the debt limit -- provides an
opportunity for both parties to do better. The coming debate
should focus on substantial expansion of stimulus, via  automatic
stabilizers , with specific and credible, but delayed, deficit
reduction.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  high-skills immigrants 
and  cutting a deal with Iran ;  Edward Glaeser  on  what the latest
housing numbers tell us ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Romney’s public-
sector experience ; Clive Crook on  an EU debt plan ; William Pesek
on  Osaka’s problematic mayor ;  Luigi Zingales  on  capitalism and
populism ; John O’Brennan on  Ireland’s fiscal referendum .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  