-- Chevron May Use Solar in Oilfield Shared by Kuwait, Saudi
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-05-29T14:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/chevron-may-use-solar-in-oilfield-shared-by-kuwait-saudi-arabia.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is considering using
solar energy to produce the steam needed to pump heavy crude
from an oilfield straddling Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.  Chevron may start a pilot solar plant at the end of 2013,
Hashim al-Rifaai, chairman and managing director of Kuwait Gulf
Oil Co., told reporters in  Abu Dhabi  today. Energy from the sun
would heat water to create steam, which would then be injected
underground to make the heavy oil liquid enough to flow, al-
Rifaai said.  Solar power would be used in conjunction with burning
natural gas for the so-called steam-flood development at the
Wafra field in the Neutral Zone, which Saudi Arabia and Kuwait
share. Kuwait Gulf is responsible for managing Kuwait’s share,
while Chevron operates  Saudi Arabia ’s interest.  Chevron is assessing the use of solar energy as it seeks to
free up much-needed natural gas. Kuwait buys the fuel in liquid
form at international prices while Saudi Arabia burns crude in
its power stations because they don’t have sufficient local
supply of gas to generate electricity.  A final  investment decision  for steam injection in the
Wafra field will be made next year, with the aim of producing as
much as 600,000 barrels a day of heavy oil from 2017. Saudi
Arabia, the largest member in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, says it’s pumping more than 10 million
barrels of oil, the highest in more than three decades. Kuwait’s
output was 2.7 million barrels last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Every barrel of oil would need about 5 barrels of steam,
according to Yasser Dib, regional vice president at  BrightSource
Energy Inc. (BRSE)  The solar-thermal technology company supplied the
plant, which Chevron has been using since October to extract
crude at its Coalinga field in southern  California . The system
uses mirrors to focus sunlight on a boiler to produce steam.  The neutral zone is producing 220,000 barrels a day onshore
and 320,000 barrels offshore, al-Rifaai said. While the offshore
target is 350,000 barrels, onshore output is dropping.
Developing the heavy oil would help maintain total output and
the crude would be exported to  Asia , upgraded or used in a
planned refinery in Kuwait, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  