-- Chinese Citizen Pleads Guilty to Stealing U.S. Software
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-29T20:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/chinese-citizen-pleads-guilty-to-stealing-treasury-software.html
Bo Zhang , a Chinese citizen who
worked for a contractor at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York,
pleaded guilty to stealing U.S. Treasury Department software
used to track federal collections and payments.  Zhang, who is also known as “Bryan Zhang,” pleaded guilty
today to one count of theft of government property and one count
of immigration fraud in a hearing before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Michael Dolinger in Manhattan federal court, the U.S. Attorney’s
office said. He is scheduled for sentencing on Oct. 1.  Zhang, a computer programmer assigned to work on source
code at the New York Fed, copied the software in July, the U.S.
said in a criminal information dated May 16. Zhang also lied to
immigration authorities in support of other peoples’
applications to obtain visas to work in the U.S., the government
charged.  The software system stolen by Zhang relates to the
“tracking of the billions of dollars that are electronically
transferred every day in the U.S.’s general ledger,”
prosecutors said.  Zhang is a Chinese citizen, a person with knowledge of the
matter, who didn’t want to be identified because the information
wasn’t public, said in January. He has been in the U.S. on a
work visa since 2000, said another person familiar with the
matter who also didn’t want to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Zhang worked previously at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp. , the person said.  Sentencing Guidelines  In an April 12 plea agreement released today by
prosecutors, the parties agreed that federal sentencing
guidelines, which aren’t binding, call for Zhang to get from 12
to 18 months in prison plus a fine of $3,000 to $30,000. His
guilty pleas make it “very likely” he’ll be deported,
according to the plea agreement.  The Government-Wide Accounting and Reporting Program is a
software system that provides federal agencies with an account
statement, similar to a customer’s bank statement, of federal
agencies’ account balances with the Treasury. It also covers
appropriation and non-expenditure activity, payments, deposits
and intra-governmental actions that affect the account balances
within the Treasury.  FBI Questioning  In August, a colleague of Zhang’s told supervisors at the
 New York  Fed that Zhang had claimed to have lost an external
hard drive containing the GWA code, according to court filings.  After being questioned by  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agents in August, Zhang admitted he stole the proprietary
software code belonging to the Treasury in July, according to
the criminal complaint.  Zhang told FBI agents that he copied the code onto the hard
drive of a computer in his office at the Federal Reserve and
then copied it to an external hard drive. He later removed that
drive from government offices without authorization and copied
its contents onto a home computer and his personal laptop, the
U.S. said.  Zhang told the FBI that he knew it was wrong to take the
GWA source code, according to court filings.  “He asserted that he took it for private use and in order
to ensure that it was available to him in the event that he lost
his job” with the New York Fed, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Zhang, 12-mag-00108, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 