-- China Has No Plan for Large Stimulus to Counter Slowdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-30T03:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/china-has-no-intention-for-large-scale-stimulus-xinhua-reports.html
China  has no plan to introduce
stimulus measures to support growth on the scale unleashed
during the depths of the global credit crisis in 2008, according
to the nation’s state-run Xinhua News Agency.  “The Chinese government’s intention is very clear: It will
not roll out another massive stimulus plan to seek high economic
growth,” Xinhua said yesterday in the seventh paragraph of an
article on economic policy, without attributing the information.
“Current efforts for stabilizing growth will not repeat the old
way of three years ago.” In 2008, policy makers unveiled a
fiscal stimulus of 4 trillion yuan ($586 billion at the time).  China stocks fell as the report damped speculation of
government policy action spurred by Premier Wen Jiabao’s call
last week for a greater focus on growth. Stimulus restraint may
reflect concern that the record  lending boom  that helped the
nation weather a contraction in trade in 2008-2009 raised risks
of a bad-loan crisis.  “They have to strike a delicate balance between doing
something to stabilize growth and not overshooting,” said Shen Jianguang, Hong Kong-based chief Asia economist for Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., who previously worked for the
 International Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank .  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index dropped 2.3 percent
as of 10:46 a.m. in Hong Kong, the biggest drop in two weeks.
China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.2 percent,
following a 1.9 percent gain since Wen’s call for growth was
published May 20.  Yesterday’s Xinhua article made no mention of central bank
tools including  interest rates  and the reserve-requirement ratio,
previously used to bolster growth. It carried the byline of two
reporters and wasn’t labeled as opinion or commentary.  ‘Not Sustainable’  Pumping in government money to achieve growth targets is
“not sustainable” and China will instead focus on encouraging
private investments in railways, infrastructure, energy,
telecommunications, health care and education, the story said.  Wen repeated his call for stabilizing growth and reiterated
that the economy faces increasing downward pressure, according
to remarks published today by the Hunan Daily, citing a speech
the premier gave on May 25 in the southern province.  The National Development and Reform Commission may be
accelerating construction approvals as part of China’s response,
with the planning agency last week saying that Baosteel Group
Corp. and Wuhan Iron & Steel Group won permission to build 134
billion  yuan  ($21 billion) of new factories. The NDRC had
delayed approving the two steel projects in 2009, citing
industry overcapacity.  Production Slowing  China’s tilt toward supporting expansion followed data
showing trade below forecasts in April and industrial  production 
rising the least since 2009.  Europe ’s debt crisis and austerity
measures are threatening exports.  Agencies including the  finance ministry , agriculture
ministry and the securities regulator will introduce their own
measures to stabilize growth, Xinhua said.  Economists at Credit Suisse Group AG and  Standard Chartered 
Plc said May 28 that stimulus will probably be smaller than the
2008 package. Alongside the fiscal measures, China during the
credit crisis lowered interest rates, halted appreciation in the
yuan against the dollar and oversaw a record credit boom of more
than 17.5 trillion yuan in 2009-10.  Credit Suisse said spending on investment this time around
will probably range from 1 trillion yuan to 2 trillion yuan.
Standard Chartered said China is starting a “mini-me” version
of the prior stimulus.  ‘Measured’ Stimulus  “The State Council is introducing a measured but still
significant set of stimulus measures, which should begin to
affect growth in August-September,” Standard Chartered
economists led by  Stephen Green  in  Hong Kong  wrote in a note to
clients this week. Concern that a surge in credit would lead to
faster inflation and higher property prices will be reflected in
“a much more controlled pace of bank lending,” they wrote.  Bank of China Ltd. sees slower loan growth in 2012 than
last year and has no plans to relax its lending policy,
President Li Lihui said today at a shareholders meeting in
Beijing.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, Australian retail
sales unexpectedly fell 0.2 percent in April from the prior
month after a revised 1.1 percent advance in March, a report
showed today. New Zealand home-building approvals fell 7.2
percent to 1,385 in April from a month earlier after a revised
19.6 percent gain in March.  Euro Area Sentiment  In the euro area, an index of executive and consumer
sentiment probably fell for a second month to 91.9 in May from
92.8 in April, a Bloomberg News survey showed ahead of a report
due later today.  Sweden’s economy may have expanded 0.2 percent in the first
quarter from the fourth quarter, when it contracted 1.1 percent,
a Bloomberg survey showed.  Pending sales of existing homes in the U.S. were probably
unchanged in April from March, when they climbed 4.1 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 42 economists. The  Mortgage
Bankers Association ’s weekly index of mortgage applications for
the period ended May 25 is also due today.  China’s economy  is forecast to expand 8.2 percent this year,
based on the median estimate of analysts surveyed this month by
Bloomberg News. That would be the least since 1999.  “The authorities won’t give the impression that they are
repeating what they did with the massive stimulus in global
financial crisis,” Mizuho’s Shen said. The government’s tone
“may also partly reflect their genuine concerns about not
committing the same mistakes as in the 4 trillion yuan
stimulus,” he said.  Speeding up Approvals  The nation has sped up the approval process for major
projects, Xinhua said May 28. The country will also encourage
greater private investment in banks, according to guidelines
released by the China Banking Regulatory Commission in a
statement posted on its website May 26.  The  People’s Bank of China  on May 12 lowered banks’ reserve
ratios by 50 basis points, the third cut in six months.  “Unlike in 2008 when the Chinese government rushed to
spend, the new stimulus package will be small and modest,” said
Zhang Xinfa, an economist with China Galaxy Securities Co. in
Beijing. Bank lending will play a smaller role in the new round
of investment, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  