-- Citigroup Kills Panel Overseeing Toxic-Asset Division
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-05-29T15:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/citigroup-kills-panel-overseeing-toxic-asset-division.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the biggest  U.S. bank 
to have regulators reject its capital plan this year, dismantled
a board committee created during the credit crisis to police the
disposal of toxic and unwanted assets.  About $200 billion of such assets remained when directors
broke up the Citi Holdings oversight panel last month under new
Chairman  Michael O’Neill .  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for New
York-based Citigroup, confirmed the move.  Assets in Citi Holdings have shrunk from about $600 billion
since Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  created the unit in
2009 after the bank almost collapsed. The division, with losses
of $19 billion since inception, still holds Spanish and Greek
loans, overdue U.S. mortgages, bonds worth a  fraction of face
value  and a consumer lender that Pandit has yet to sell.  “To remove the focus now on bad assets of any sort is
simply a risky decision,” said Gerald Hanweck, a former Federal
Reserve economist who’s now a finance professor at George Mason
University in Fairfax, Virginia. “The board would want to have
more focused monitoring on these kinds of assets, not be happy
that you got rid of $400 billion of them.”  Scrutiny of how Wall Street directors oversee risk
intensified this month after New York-based  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank by assets, reported a $2 billion loss
tied to the trading of illiquid credit derivatives. None of the
directors on JPMorgan’s risk committee had worked at a bank or
as a financial risk manager.  ‘Economically Rational’  The Citi Holdings committee members had two roles,
according to its charter: monitor Pandit’s strategy to dispose
of assets and meet with executives to check on the unit’s “risk
exposures.”  O’Neill, 65, a former CEO of Bank of Hawaii Corp., led the
panel until he succeeded Richard Parsons, 64, as chairman of the
parent company in April. The committee also included Rockefeller
Foundation President Judith Rodin, 67, ex- Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Vice
Chairman Robert Joss, 70, and Timothy Collins, 55, CEO of New
York-based buyout firm Ripplewood Holdings LLC, Citigroup’s
proxy statement shows.  Directors now will oversee  Citi Holdings  through the risk-
management and finance committee, which monitors risk control
for the bank, Bell said. Anthony Santomero, 65, a former
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and a
Citigroup director since 2009, is chairman of that four-member
panel. Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender, had
$1.94 trillion in  assets  as of March 31 and has operations in
more than 100 countries.  Loss Widens  The loss at Citi Holdings widened to $1.03 billion in the
first quarter from $1.02 billion a year earlier. Moshe Orenbuch,
a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst, estimates the unit’s 2012
losses will climb 10 percent from last year to $4.64 billion.
Annual profit at the parent company may increase 9.9 percent to
$12.2 billion, according to the  average estimate  of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Pandit, 55, has sold private-equity stakes, auto loans,
mortgage portfolios, Student Loan Corp., life insurer Primerica
Inc. and other unwanted finance firms, including a hedge-fund
business, since creating Citi Holdings. The unit’s assets fell
28 percent to $225 billion last year, and directors considered
the decline in their decision on executive compensation for
2011, the proxy statement shows.  Assets Sold  Citigroup has sold more than 60 subsidiaries since 2008 and
reduced assets in Citi Holdings to 11 percent of the balance
sheet as of March 31, Bell said. “The vast majority of
remaining assets represent non-operating businesses and we will
continue to manage and reduce these assets in an economically
rational manner,” she said.  Analysts including  Todd Hagerman  at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. said the decision to disband the committee isn’t alarming
because the unit is smaller now.  “Holdings will likely be less than 10 percent of assets
near-term and has become much more manageable,” said Hagerman,
a former Fed bank examiner who has a “buy” rating on Citigroup
shares. U.S. regulators, who oversaw the company’s $45 billion
taxpayer bailout, probably approved the move, he said.  Spokesmen for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency declined to comment.  Consumer Debts  Citi Holdings still  contains  about $114 billion of U.S.
mortgages and personal loans, almost equal to the total assets
of Cincinnati-based  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) , Ohio’s biggest lender.
The rate of delinquencies on those loans is about seven times
higher than for Citigroup’s U.S. retail bank, which includes
commercial loans, according to a first-quarter  financial
supplement .  Citigroup has loaned  $7.3 billion  mainly to retail
customers and small businesses in some of  Europe ’s most indebted
nations. The “vast majority” of these loans are in Citi
Holdings and made to customers in  Greece , Portugal and Spain,
the bank said. Those loans may have contributed to the Fed’s
rejection of the lender’s capital plan in March, preventing
Pandit from boosting the  dividend  or repurchasing shares, said
Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales Partners LLC.  Another part of Citi Holdings contains about $1 billion in
alternative investments and the firm’s 49 percent stake in
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney, the world’s biggest brokerage. New
York-based Morgan Stanley owns the rest of the firm, which has
more than 17,000 advisers and $1.74 trillion in client assets as
of March 31, and can buy it outright over the next two years.  ‘Black-Box Risk’  There’s also a Special Asset Pool in Citi Holdings that
contains about $36 billion of some of the bank’s most toxic
investments. That’s more than the amount controlled by Brevan
Howard Asset Management LLP, the world’s fourth-biggest hedge
fund, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The pool includes
subprime mortgage-backed securities the firm values at 10 cents
on the dollar, as well as corporate bonds, loans, leases and
letters of credit.  “Citigroup, and Citi Holdings in particular, has an
element of black-box risk that a company like Coca-Cola doesn’t
have,” said  Whitney Tilson , founder of hedge fund T2 Partners
LLC, which  owns shares  in the lender. At $209 billion, it’s
“still a good-sized portfolio.”  Investor concerns that Citi Holdings will weigh on profit
have hurt the bank’s shares, Tilson said. The stock has tumbled
44 percent since the end of 2010 to close last week at $26.47 in
New York, the second-worst performance in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of
24 U.S. lenders. This view is faulty, according to Tilson, who
said Citigroup is worth about $50 a share.  Asset Sales  Pandit’s ability to sell assets also will slow from the
past three years, the bank said in February. Citi Holdings
contains about $39 billion of home-equity loans, and there’s no
market for such debts after they sour, according to the company.
Nor is he the only CEO looking to unload investments --  Bank of
America Corp. ’s  Brian T. Moynihan  sold more than $33 billion in
assets last year, while banks in  France , the U.K., Ireland,
 Germany  and Spain have announced plans to shrink by about
775 billion euros ($972 billion).  Citigroup halted talks to sell consumer-finance lender
CitiFinancial, also known as OneMain Financial, a person
familiar with the matter said in January. Pandit said in October
that he no longer wanted to sell a store-branded credit-card
business and removed those assets from Citi Holdings.  “Investors are increasingly frustrated with the seemingly
slow pace of run-off in legacy mortgage assets and the inability
or unwillingness to more aggressively pursue an alternative way
to significantly reduce outstandings,” said Sterne Agee’s
Hagerman.  Dismantling the committee could make it easier for Pandit
to get more aggressive in divesting what’s left in Citi
Holdings, according to Peabody of Portales Partners. This could
include selling some of the assets in a “less than economic
fashion,” he said.  “Now it can be liquidated in whatever fashion they want,”
Peabody said. “When you dismantle a committee like that, then
all those checks and balances are done away with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 