-- Clemens Prosecutors Rest Perjury Case Against Ex-Pitcher
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/clemens-prosecutors-rest-perjury-case-against-ex-pitcher.html
U.S. prosecutors completed their
perjury case against  Roger Clemens  after calling 24 witnesses
over six weeks in an effort to convince jurors that the baseball
star took banned drugs and lied about it to Congress.  The government, which rested yesterday in federal court in
 Washington , didn’t say whether it plans to put on a rebuttal
before submitting the case to the jury for a verdict.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  denied a request for an
acquittal by  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, even as he
dismissed two of the 15 false statements that make up an
obstruction of Congress charge. Clemens’s defense case may last
seven to eight days, Hardin said.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of performance-enhancing drugs including
steroids and human growth hormone.  The ex- New York  Yankees pitcher faces as long as 21 months
in prison if convicted. He denies having used the drugs.  In his opening statement, Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven
Durham said the trial would be about the “web of lies” Clemens
concocted to hide the fact that he used performance-enhancing
drugs to recover from injury as he aged. He said there were 15
false or misleading statements that Clemens made to Congress in
2008 -- some involved drug use denials, others had to do with
frequency of vitamin B12 injections and whether he attended a
pool party at a teammate’s Florida home in 1998.  Trust in McNamee  Much of the government’s case depends upon whether jurors
believe the testimony of  Brian McNamee , Clemens’s former
trainer.  McNamee, who spent six days testifying, told jurors that he
gave the ballplayer injections of steroids and HGH during the
1998, 2000 and 2001 baseball seasons while both men worked for
the  Toronto Blue Jays  and the Yankees.  The prosecution’s evidence includes the needle and cotton
with Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for steroids. The
material came from McNamee, who said he saved needles, gauze and
vials from one of the injections in 2001. He told jurors he kept
some of the items in a Miller Lite beer can that he took from
the recycling bin in Clemens’s apartment.  One Eyewitness  With just one eyewitness, the government has sought to
build its case on the testimony of investigators, forensic
analysts and former trainers to bolster the credibility of
McNamee or rebut what Clemens told Congress in February 2008.  Eugene Monahan, who was the Yankees athletic trainer from
1973 until last year, disputed Clemens’s account to Congress
that syringes containing B12 were lined up in the locker room
after games or that players received such injections through
their clothing.  Brian Cashman , the Yankees general manager, gave
similar testimony.  Clemens’s defense team has attacked the credibility or the
recollection of the government’s witnesses and called into
question the testing of physical evidence linking Clemens to
steroids. The tactic may have worked with jurors, who submitted
more than 30 questions through Walton for the government’s DNA
expert that echoed several points made by the defense in its
cross examination.  Rules on Limits  The government’s case was made more difficult by court
rulings limiting what prosecutors could ask key witnesses, such
as McNamee and Clemens’s former teammate  Andy Pettitte . There,
prosecutors were not initially allowed to name other Major
League Baseball players who received HGH or steroids from
McNamee.  Prosecutors have appeared especially cautious not to repeat
the errors that led to last year’s mistrial, which Walton
declared after the government showed juror’s evidence that had
been ruled inadmissible.  Some of those rulings were later overturned due to
credibility attacks from Clemens’s defense team, which has
sought to brand McNamee as a liar who manipulated the evidence
he gave to the government.  Under questioning from Hardin, McNamee said that some of
the medical waste he preserved from an injection he gave Clemens
in 2001 was mixed with needles used on other baseball players.  Alcohol Abuse  Hardin’s attack on McNamee included accusations of alcohol
abuse and engaging in a fraudulent scheme to obtain diet pills.
Hardin also got McNamee to admit to the jury that he manipulated
a dead-on-arrival scene while he was a New York City police
officer.  After McNamee’s cross examination, Walton allowed the
government to call two additional witnesses, including former
baseball player David Segui, to back McNamee’s story that he’d
saved needles used by players for drug injections.  “He said he had kept the darts to get his life back,”
Segui told jurors.  Clemens’s defense team used these additional witnesses to
put testimony before the jury that McNamee was upset that
Clemens wasn’t paying him enough money. McNamee testified that
Clemens paid him about $5,000 a month to train him.  The government’s only other witness directly tying Clemens
to performance-enhancing drugs was Pettitte, the former All-Star
pitcher currently playing for the Yankees after a one-season
retirement. Pettitte, 39, testified Clemens told him, while the
two were working out in either 1999 or 2000, that he’d used HGH.  50 Percent Chance  Clemens testified under oath to Congress that he told
Pettitte his wife Debbie used HGH. Under questioning by Michael Attanasio, another lawyer for Clemens, Pettitte agreed there was
a 50 percent chance he misunderstood Clemens.  The 50 percent line led the defense to ask that Pettitte’s
testimony be thrown out as unreliable. Yesterday, Hardin asked
Walton to throw out one of the allegedly misleading statements
tied to the Pettitte conversation. Walton denied the requests,
saying it was for jurors to decide on the truthfulness of the
witness.  Prosecutors have also had to contend with the schedule of
Walton, who has delayed or postponed trial days due to teaching
assignments or other matters.  The trial, which began April 23, has lost three jurors,
leaving a single alternate. Two jurors were dismissed for
sleeping.  Hardin began the defense case by calling two men who knew
Clemens when he played baseball in high school in  Texas . Both
said Clemens was known for his workouts.  “Have you known any professional athlete in your life that
worked as hard as Roger Clemens?” Hardin asked Michael Capel, a
former Major League Baseball pitcher who is a general manager of
a car dealership in Houston.  “No sir,” he answered.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 