-- Colombia Peso Bond Yields Hold at One-Week Low on Growth Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-05-29T18:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/colombia-peso-bond-yields-hold-at-one-week-low-on-growth-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso bond yields held at a
one-week low after the central bank maintained its growth
forecast yesterday while refraining from increasing borrowing
costs.  “Local fundamentals remain strong,” said Pedro Ospina, a
fixed-income analyst in Bogota at Interbolsa SA, the country’s
biggest brokerage. “Tax revenue is high, inflation is under
control and the central bank hasn’t changed its growth
forecast.”  The yield on the country’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 was little changed today at 7.14 percent,
according to the central bank. That’s the lowest on a closing
basis since May 22.  Colombia’s central bank voted unanimously yesterday to keep
the overnight lending rate at a three-year high of 5.25 percent,
matching the forecast of all 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
While citing European debt turmoil in the decision to hold rates
steady, policy makers maintained a forecast for growth of about
5 percent this year after the economy expanded 5.9 percent in
2011.  Banco de la Republica will probably leave borrowing costs
unchanged through the remainder of the year, according to
Ospina. It has raised the target rate nine times since February
2011 from a record low 3 percent.  Colombia’s peso rose, following gains in global stocks,
amid data showing stabilization in the U.S. housing market and
after Greek opinion polls eased concern the country will leave
the euro.  The currency gained for a fourth straight day, appreciating
0.7 percent to 1,814.70 per  U.S. dollar . It has jumped 6.8
percent this year, the best performance among all currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “Markets are in a wait-and-see mode regarding  Europe ,”
said Julian Marquez, an analyst at Interbolsa. “Today the mood
is more positive” pushing gains in the peso, he said.  Increased dollar flows into Colombia, as companies buy
pesos before a June 25 tax deadline,  are also helping drive
gains in the local currency, Marquez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  