-- Congress Unwilling to Address Disability Plan’s Shortfall
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-05-29T16:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/congress-unwilling-to-address-disability-plan-s-shortfall.html
A U.S. government entitlement program
is headed for insolvency in four years, and it’s not the one
members of Congress are talking about most.  The Social Security disability program’s trust fund is
projected to run out of cash far sooner than the better-known
Social Security retirement plan or Medicare. That will trigger a
21 percent cut in benefits to 11 million Americans -- disabled
people, their spouses and children -- many of whom rely on the
program to stay out of poverty.  “It’s really striking how rapidly this is growing, how big
it’s become and how D.C. is just afraid of it,” said  Mark Duggan , a  University of Pennsylvania  economist and adviser to
the Social Security Administration.  Part of the reason for the burgeoning costs is that the 77
million  baby boomers  projected to swamp federal retirement plans
will reach the disability program first. That’s because almost
all boomers are at least 50 years old, the age at which someone
is most likely to become disabled.  The growing costs are also a result of the economy, because
when people can’t find work and run through their jobless
benefits, many turn to disability for assistance.  “They’re desperate,” said Ken Nibali, a retired associate
commissioner of the program. “Some who are marginal and
struggling to have a low-paying job now literally have no
options.” So, he said, “they figure, ‘I do have trouble
working and I’m going to apply and see if I’m eligible.’”  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, said he has
tried to interest fellow lawmakers in the issue, so far without
much luck.  ‘Going Bankrupt’  “Nobody wants to touch things where they can be
criticized,” Coburn said, adding, “the fund is going
bankrupt” and “then what are we going to do?”  Applications to the disability program have risen more than
30 percent since 2007 -- the last recession started in December
of that year -- and the number of Americans receiving disability
benefits is up 23 percent.  More Americans receive disability benefits than 20 years
ago though people are less likely to have physically demanding
jobs, health care has improved and the Americans With
Disabilities Act bans discrimination against the handicapped.  “The weird thing is disability enrollment is going up like
crazy” when “we should be able to help keep people in the
workforce,” Duggan said.  Two Programs  Social Security is comprised of two separate programs: the
 retirement plan  supporting 40 million senior citizens and 6
million survivors, and the disability insurance program created
during the Dwight Eisenhower administration to prevent sick and
injured workers from becoming destitute.  The disability program currently pays benefits averaging
$1,111 a month, with the money coming from the Social Security
payroll tax taken out of workers’ paychecks.  The program cost $132 billion last year, more than the
combined annual budgets of the departments of Agriculture,
 Homeland Security , Commerce, Labor, Interior and Justice.  That doesn’t include an additional $80 billion spent
because disability beneficiaries become eligible for Medicare,
regardless of their age, after a two-year waiting period.  The disability program, which has been spending more than
it receives in revenue for four consecutive years, is projected
to exhaust its  trust fund  in 2016, according to a Social
Security trustees report released last month. By comparison, the
separate trust fund financing senior citizens’ Social Security
benefits is projected to run out in 2035 while Medicare’s
primary fund will be exhausted in 2024.  $600 Billion  The retirement portion of Social Security costs $600
billion a year, while Medicare costs $560 billion annually.  Once the disability program runs through its reserve,
incoming payroll-tax revenue will cover only 79 percent of
benefits, according to the trustees. Because the plan is barred
from running a deficit, aid would have to be cut to match
revenue.  Duggan said the disability plan has been running on
autopilot for decades and lawmakers could find savings to help
avoid the scheduled cuts. While federally financed, the program
is administered by the states and disability rates among them
vary widely.  West Virginia  topped the list in 2010, with 9
percent of residents between ages 18 and 64 receiving aid. Utah
and  Alaska  had the lowest rates at 2.8 percent.  Subjective Conditions  People whose benefit applications are rejected can appeal
to administrative law judges, and statistics show some judges
are far more likely to approve benefits than others. One reason
is that the program, which once focused largely on people who
suffered from strokes, cancer and heart attacks, increasingly
supports those with depression, back pain, chronic fatigue
syndrome and other comparatively subjective conditions.  “They’re very, very hard to evaluate,” said Nicole Maestas, director of the RAND Center for Disability Research.
“Reasonable people differ about what constitutes a
disability.”  Statistics show that once people enter the program they are
unlikely to leave, with fewer than 1 percent rejoining the
workforce. Many worked “menial” jobs that didn’t offer health
insurance and the program gives them an opportunity to join
Medicare long before they might otherwise qualify, Nibali said.  “Many want to be on the disability rolls not necessarily
for the cash income but for the medical coverage,” he said.
“That’s a real plus for them.”  Review Backlog  The agency faces a backlog of 1.4 million reviews it’s
supposed to periodically conduct to ensure beneficiaries are
entitled to stay on the rolls. The agency has said it doesn’t
have the money to do the reviews.  Lawmakers haven’t made major cuts in the program since
President  Ronald Reagan ’s administration, and Congress reversed
those changes after a public outcry.  Amid concerns about increasing disability rolls and
wasteful spending, the agency in 1981 began stricter screening
of beneficiaries. It halted aid to hundreds of thousands.  Lawmakers were besieged with constituents’ complaints of
unfairly being cut off. Some people lost their homes or killed
themselves after being dropped.  “Government Gets Tough on the Disabled,” the Miami Herald
said on its front page on Jan. 16, 1983. “Vietnam-Era Hero
Falls Victim to Cuts in Social Security,” the Washington Post
reported in a May 27, 1983, article about a Medal of Honor
winner who was dropped from the disability rolls. The veteran’s
benefits were later reinstated by a judge who considered the
case on appeal.  Suicide Threats  In 1983, the  Social Security Administration  developed
guidelines for handling beneficiaries who threatened suicide if
their aid was cut, the  New York  Times reported at the time.  Congress reversed the cuts in 1984 and expanded benefits
beyond what had been previously offered.  Both parties are steering clear of the issue. Neither
President  Barack Obama  nor U.S.  House Republicans  in their
proposed budgets has addressed the disability program’s
shortfall.  “We’re not trying to fix every problem in America with
this one document,” said House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican. “We’re trying to prevent a debt
crisis and this is not a driver of our debt.”  “The administration believes that disability insurance is
a vital lifeline for millions of Americans,”  Kenneth Baer , a
spokesman for the White House budget office, said in an e-mail.
“The president remains willing to work with Congress on a
bipartisan basis to strengthen Social Security and protect the
millions of beneficiaries.”  Screening Beneficiaries  He added that lawmakers didn’t fully fund the
administration’s request for more money to screen beneficiaries.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , whose
committee sets Social Security policy, said the program’s
finances are less dire than they may appear. Congress can funnel
revenue from elsewhere in the government to cover the program’s
shortfall, he said.  That’s what happened the last time the disability program
faced insolvency. Congress voted in 1994 to increase the share
of the Social Security payroll tax that supports disabled
workers, which shored up disability payments at the expense of
the retirees’ program.  Baucus said lawmakers won’t consider broader changes any
time soon. First, they must sort out what to do about George W.
Bush-era income tax cuts scheduled to expire at the end of this
year, automatic spending reductions that begin taking effect in
January and overhauling the  tax code , he said.  “One thing at a time,” said Baucus, a Montana Democrat.
“There are other things that are more imminent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net  