-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Fell in May to Four-Month Low
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-29T20:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-fell-in-may-to-four-month-low.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly fell in May to the lowest level in four months as
optimism about employment prospects faded.  The Conference Board’s  index  decreased to 64.9 this month
from a revised 68.7 in April, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today.  Home prices  in 20 cities
dropped in the 12 months ended in March at the slowest pace in
more than a year, according to another report.  The share of Americans expecting fewer job opportunities in
the next six months climbed to the highest level since November,
raising the risk that consumers will limit spending. A 30-cent
decline in  gasoline prices  since early April failed to brighten
spirits, showing that more progress is needed in the job market.  “Gasoline prices aren’t doing the trick,” said  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , whose forecast was closest. “We are
making progress when it comes to the labor market, but clearly
this is another sign that it’s still very slow going.”  Stocks gained after Greek opinion polls eased concern the
country will leave the euro. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 1.1 percent to 1,332.42 at the close in  New York . Crude
oil for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
settled at $90.76 a barrel, down 10 cents.  Home prices in 20 U.S. cities fell 2.6 percent in the 12
months ended in March, the smallest decrease since December
2010, according to an S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values.  Mortgage Rates  Homebuilders are reporting their most-improved spring
selling season in seven years, propelled in part by record-low
 mortgage rates . At the same time, the market faces challenges as
mortgage credit is difficult to obtain and slow wage growth is
keeping some would-be buyers on the sidelines.  “We’ve turned the corner,” said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida , who correctly projected the drop in home prices. “This
was always going to be a very gradual process. No one expected a
real sharp housing recovery.”  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a confidence reading of 69.6. Estimates ranged
from 62 to 74.1 in the survey of 70 economists. The measure
averaged 53.7 during the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009.  The decline in the Conference Board’s measure is in line
with readings from the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which
dropped for four consecutive weeks after reaching a four-year
high in mid-April. Both gauges are at odds with the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s measure, which climbed this
month to the highest level since October 2007.  Stocks and Gas  “Typically, the Michigan index is more sensitive to things
like stock prices and gasoline prices, whereas the  consumer
confidence  index tends to be highly correlated with the labor
market,” Moody’s Analytics’ Smith said.  The Conference Board’s measure of  present conditions 
decreased to 45.9, the weakest reading since January, from 51.2
a month earlier. The gauge of  expectations  for the next six
months fell to 77.6 from 80.4.  “Taken together, the retreat in the present situation
index and softening in consumer expectations suggest that the
pace of economic growth in the months ahead may moderate,”  Lynn Franco , director of economic indicators at the Conference Board,
said in a statement.  The share of consumers who said jobs are currently
plentiful decreased to 7.9 percent from 8.4 percent. Those who
said jobs are hard to get climbed to 41 percent from 38.1
percent.  Fewer Jobs  The percent of respondents expecting fewer jobs in the next
six months increased to 21, a six-month high. The proportion
projecting their incomes will rise over the next six months
advanced to 15.2 percent from 13.9 percent. Even with the gain,
income expectations are down from the end of 2011.  While plans to buy autos and appliances in the next six
months increased, they’re down from late last year.  Employers have increased payrolls by 1.18 million workers
over the past six months, and the jobless rate dropped to 8.1
percent in April, compared with 8.9 percent in October. Still,
employment growth has slowed in the last three months.  “The U.S. environment remains challenging, marked by
still-low consumer confidence” and “changing consumer
behavior,” Christopher Scott O’Hara, executive vice president
at H.J. Heinz Co., the maker of the namesake condiments and Ore-
Ida potato snacks, said on a May 24 conference call with
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  