-- Dewey & LeBoeuf Files for Bankruptcy, Fails to Save Firm
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r ,   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-29T22:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/dewey-leboeuf-files-for-bankruptcy-fails-to-save-firm.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the law firm
that advised Los Angeles Dodgers LLC on restructuring, filed for
bankruptcy after its chairman was ousted and almost all partners
quit as creditors began suing for unpaid bills.  Dewey, based in New York, listed debt of $245 million and
assets of $193 million in a Chapter 11 filing yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  The firm, which had more than 1,300 attorneys in 12
countries after the 2007 merger of  Dewey Ballantine  LLP and
LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & McRae LLP, now has 150 employees in the
U.S. to wind it down, Jonathan A. Mitchell, the firm’s
restructuring officer, said in court papers. Dewey will be
liquidated, he said.  Dewey & LeBoeuf “was formed at the onset of one of the
worst economic downturns in U.S. history,” wrote Mitchell, who
works for the restructuring adviser  Zolfo Cooper Management LLC .
“These negative economic conditions, combined with the firm’s
rapid growth and partnership compensation arrangements, created
a situation where the  cash flow  was insufficient to cover
capital expenses and full compensation expectations.”  Dewey hired  Togut, Segal & Segal LLP  as bankruptcy counsel.
It is closing offices in  Hong Kong , Beijing, Sao Paulo, London,
Paris, Madrid, Frankfurt and Johannesburg. All U.S. offices have
been closed or are closing. The firm is recovering equipment and
artwork and securing client records, according to the filing.  Failed Merger  Dewey’s  plan to save part of its business through a merger
was dealt “a body blow” when the  Manhattan  District Attorney
said he was probing possible wrongdoing at the firm, Dewey’s
bankruptcy lawyer Al Togut told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn at a court hearing today. Dewey has no reason to believe
that money was stolen, Togut said.  Dewey, which has been collecting bills to pay lenders, had
about $13.4 million of cash in its bank accounts on May 25,
according to a U.S. budget published in a court filing. Cash
could rise by June 25 to $30.3 million as more clients of the
law firm pay their bills, according to the filing.  Expenses in coming weeks will include $375,000 for rent on
the 10th floor of Dewey’s Manhattan headquarters including
storage space; $340,000 per week of restructuring costs for
lenders and $58,000 a week for a so-called dissolution
committee, according to Dewey’s budget.  Dewey has accounts receivable and work in progress in the
U.S. valued at $255 million, according to filings. The firm has
historically collected about 95 percent of its accounts
receivable and converted 84 percent of work-in-progress to
accounts receivable, it said.  Collection Rates  “It is unlikely the debtor will attain historical
collection rates on its accounts receivable,” according to the
filing. “The Chapter 11 process will enable the debtor to
maximize collections on its accounts receivable in the most
effective and expeditious manner as possible.”  Dewey owes secured banks and bondholders $225 million, with
an additional $50 million owed to secured property lessors and
$40 million in accounts payable, pension and deferred
compensation claims and claims by employees for accrued paid
time off, it said.  The  law firm  said it consolidated its bank debt on April
16, issuing $150 million of notes. From Jan. 1 to March 30,
about 20 percent of the firm’s equity partners resigned or left,
it said. As of last week, at least 250 of Dewey’s 304 partners
had found new jobs.  “These partner departures led to a continuing cycle of
decreased potential revenues, which itself caused further
partner attrition,” Mitchell said.  District Attorney Probe  On or about April 27, the office of the chairman advised
the partnership it had learned that the office of Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. was investigating allegations
of wrongdoing by  Steven Davis , Dewey’s former sole chairman, the
firm said. People who approached the district attorney didn’t
identify themselves or provide the firm with any evidence, it
said. Davis was removed from all leadership roles on April 29.  The firm’s creditors include bank lenders owed at least $75
million and bondholders owed $150 million. Other creditors range
from partners who got pay guarantees worth about $100 million to
the firm’s janitors, who have sued for about $300,000 in unpaid
bills.  To save money, Dewey plans to hold a series of so-called
omnibus hearings where creditors and other parties can make
requests to the judge, according to filings. No dates have been
set for those hearings.  In a series of amendments to its agreements with banks and
bondholders staring in April, Dewey pledged more and more assets
and potential claims to secured lenders, according to the
filings.  First Claims  Those lenders now have first claim on everything from daily
cash receipts, promissory notes, expense compensation -- whether
billed or not -- and insurance payments, to equipment, equity in
affiliates, trademarks and legal claims from any effort to
recover payments to former partners, the filings show.  Unsecured creditors might try to take back the extra
collateral that went to banks and bondholders, saying they
received so-called preferential payments ahead of other
creditors that aren’t allowed by law, said Chip Bowles, a
bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in
Louisville,  Kentucky .  “If a secured creditor gets additional security and
doesn’t give anything in return, that constitutes a preference
payment,” he said. “Generally it’s 90 days before a
bankruptcy.”  Banks could argue they gave Dewey valuable advantages in
exchange for the collateral, including continued use of their
cash and forgiveness of Dewey for defaulting on its loan
covenants, he said.  What’s ‘Value’  “It comes down to an argument about what constitutes
value,” he said.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , agent for secured bank lenders, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on Bowles’s remarks about
collateral.  Dewey’s U.K. affiliate is guarantor to its parent’s
obligations under the bank line and bond issue, having pledged
current and future assets to the lenders, filings show.  In the U.K. yesterday, BDO LLP business restructuring
partners Mark Shaw and Shay Bannon were appointed administrators
over the unit that operates Dewey’s London and Paris offices,
BDO said in a statement.  Separately in the continuing exodus, Dewey’s South African
team of lawyers joined the rival law firm Baker & Mackenzie,
which today announced the opening of a new Johannesburg office.  Like Chicago Fire  “The Dewey debacle has all the orderly progression of the
Great Chicago Fire,” said Ed Reeser, a former managing partner
for the Los Angeles office of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP,
who’s now a consultant. Including a bankruptcy, he said, “I
wouldn’t be surprised if the wind-down took a minimum of six to
seven years. It could take 10.”  Dewey & LeBoeuf was the result of a merger between Dewey
Ballantine, a firm dating from 1909 whose most famous partner
was two-time Republican presidential candidate Thomas E. Dewey,
and LeBoeuf Lamb Greene & MacRae. Created to enter the club of
powerhouse international law firms, Dewey collapsed amid a
culture characterized by a lack of disclosure and controls where
an inner circle of partners reaped most of the rewards.  “The combination of outsized debt and widely spread pay
guarantees divorced from performance put the firm in a situation
with almost zero margin for error,” said Bruce MacEwen, a
lawyer and law-firm consultant at Adam Smith Esq. LLC in  New
York . “Markets have a habit of punishing firms in that
posture.”  Biggest to Fail  Dewey, which at the time of the merger had revenue of more
than $900 million, is the biggest U.S. law firm to fail, Reeser
said. Other firms that have collapsed, including Brobeck,
Phleger & Harrison LLP in 2003 and Heller Ehrman LLP in 2008,
are still unwinding their debts and obligations, Reeser said.  More than 50 former Dewey partners have hired lawyer Mark Zauderer of Flemming Zulack Williamson Zauderer LLP to protect
their interests, he said. He’ll do such things as sue former
managers or defend his clients from lawsuits to claw back pay
they received, according to a person familiar with his hiring.  Dewey’s bondholders are mainly insurance companies,
including London-based  Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s U.S. subsidiary, which owned
$35 million in Dewey bonds at the end of last year, said Aviva
spokesman Kevin Waetke.  Aviva’s holding bonds was the biggest on a list of
insurance companies disclosing the investment in the U.S.,
according to SNL Financial LC, which provides data to financial
companies. Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. owned about
$20 million of Dewey bonds, SNL said. Hartford has since sold
its bonds, said Thomas Hambrick, a spokesman for Hartford.  Bond Prices  Dewey’s privately placed bonds, which trade sparsely, were
quoted at 45 cents to 55 cents on the dollar earlier this month,
according to a May 3 report by CRT Capital Group LLC, which buys
and sells distressed debt, including Dewey’s.  Some of Dewey’s former partners were the beneficiaries of
pay guarantees that totaled about $100 million a year for about
100 partners, including as much as $6 million a year for a
select few, said people familiar with Dewey’s finances. Those
guarantees are now worth no more than 8 cents on the dollar, if
anything.  For example, Dewey’s executive director, Stephen DiCarmine,
had a deal putting his salary and bonus at $2 million a year,
said a person who wasn’t authorized to comment on these matters
and didn’t want to be identified.  Effect of Liquidation  In a liquidation, partners with guaranteed pay become
unsecured creditors, ranking equal to, or below trade creditors,
said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor at  Seton Hall
University  in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  Vendor claims against Dewey, also known as trade paper, are
being quoted at 5 cents to 8 cents on the dollar, said  Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT. That
category includes a unit of ABM Industries, which provided
janitorial services at Dewey’s offices at 1301 Avenue of the
Americas in New York, and sued the firm for about $300,000 in
unpaid bills, according to a complaint filed in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan.  The firm laid off 533 nonunion workers at its Manhattan
building on May 15, according to a notice on the New York State
Department of Labor website. A lawsuit filed earlier by Vittoria
Conn, a former document specialist, claims Dewey fired workers
without giving them adequate notice required by federal and
state laws. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. sued the firm on
May 14 to take over pension plans covering 1,776 lawyers and
staff.  Partner Suits  In a bankruptcy, Dewey partners could be sued for pay taken
when the firm was already insolvent, or for taking work begun at
Dewey to other firms, lawyers said.  Defections at Dewey reached about 50 in early April,
topping 120 in May. The five-man chairman’s office, announced on
March 26, featured the heads of the firm’s most profitable
groups, including  Martin Bienenstock , Rich Shutran,  Jeffrey Kessler  and Charles Landgraf. All those four quit. The fifth
member, Steven Davis, was ousted on April 29.  Kessler went to Winston & Strawn LLP with about 20 other
Dewey litigation partners; Shutran, head of the corporate group,
took four partners to O’Melveny & Myers LLP; Proskauer Rose LLP
took Bienenstock, who ran the restructuring group, with five
colleagues; and Landgraf, known as a Washington lobbyist, joined
Arnold & Porter LLP.  Dewey was doomed as soon as partners, its main assets,
started walking out of the doors this year, said Chip Bowles, a
bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in
Louisville, Kentucky.  “When a law firm fails, it’s like a dam bursting,” Bowles
said. “It starts with a trickle of partners leaving, and what’s
coming in isn’t enough to cover expenses, and the trickle speeds
up,” he said. Soon, “the leaders start leaving and it bursts
and floods.”  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 