-- Dylan, Glenn, Peres Among Obama Medal of Freedom Picks
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-05-29T21:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/dylan-glenn-peres-among-obama-medal-of-freedom-picks.html
Music icon  Bob Dylan , wearing
sunglasses, and  Madeleine Albright , the first woman to serve as
U.S. secretary of state, were among 13 people honored today as
President  Barack Obama  awarded the Medal of Freedom.  “What sets these men and women apart is the incredible
impact they have had on so many people, not in short blinding
bursts but steadily over the course of a lifetime,” Obama said
during a ceremony at the White House. He said that “so many of
these people are my heroes individually.”  The medal is the nation’s highest civilian honor. It is
presented to people for “especially meritorious contributions
to the security or national interests of the U.S., to world
peace or to cultural or other significant public or private
endeavors.”  Israeli President  Shimon Peres , who will receive his award
at a separate event Obama is hosting next month at the White
House, was among the honorees. Obama said Peres “has done more
for the cause of peace in the  Middle East  than just about
anybody alive.”  Obama also honored former astronaut and Ohio Senator John Glenn, former Supreme Court Justice  John Paul Stevens , the third
longest-serving justice in history, and John Doar, a lawyer who
played key roles in the civil rights era and Watergate
investigation.  Morrison and Dylan  From the arts, Obama included novelist Toni Morrison, the
first African-American woman to win the  Nobel Prize  for
literature in 1993, and Dylan, who has written more than 600
songs.  The president also honored epidemiologist William Foege,
who helped lead the 1970s effort to eliminate smallpox;
farmworker organizer Dolores Huerta, who helped found the group
that became the United Farmworkers of America, and  Pat Summitt ,
the former University of Tennessee women’s basketball coach and
Alzheimer’s patient advocate.  Awards were given posthumously to Jan Karski, the Polish
officer who provided the world some of the first accounts of the
Holocaust, Girl Scouts founder Juliette Gordon Low and Gordon
Hirabayashi, who protested Japanese-American internment during
World War II.  Obama recalled “my world opening up” listening to Dylan
while in college, while reading Morrison’s book “Song of
Solomon” in his youth helped him figure out how to write and
“also how to be, and how to think.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  