-- Eastman Chemical Sells $2.4 Billion Bonds to Buy Solutia
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-29T22:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/eastman-chemical-sells-2-4-billion-bonds-to-buy-solutia.html
Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN)  sold $2.4
billion of debt in three parts to fund its acquisition of
Solutia Inc.  The company issued $1 billion of 2.4 percent five-year
notes that yielded 170 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its $900
million of 3.6 percent, 10-year securities yielded 195 basis
points more than benchmarks, and its $500 million of 4.8
percent, 30-year debentures had a 200 basis-point spread, the
data show.  The fibers and plastics firm said in a regulatory filing
today that it will use proceeds from the sale for its
acquisition of Solutia, which it agreed in January to buy for
about $4.7 billion, including assumed debt. Eastman sold bonds
after United Technologies Corp. raised $9.8 billion of debt last
week in the biggest U.S. deal since 2009. Yields on investment-
grade securities at 3.48 percent are within 15 basis points of
the lowest level reached on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Master Index.  “It’s been widely known for some time that they were
issuing this debt,” Cynthia Werneth, an analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s  said in a telephone interview. “Getting it buttoned down
is a favorable thing for them.”  The biggest U.S. producer of chemicals from coal got a $1.2
billion, five-year  term loan  in February to fund a part of the
Solutia purchase, according to a May 10 regulatory filing. “The
acquisition improves the business as they are buying a stable,
high-margin company,” Werneth said.  The Kingsport, Tennessee-based company is rated two levels
above speculative grade at Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and
an equivalent BBB by S&P. Eastman had the capacity to add debt
to facilitate the deal, according to Werneth. “Prior to the
acquisition they were financially strong for their rating,” she
said.  The debt sale was managed by Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to today’s regulatory
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  