-- Heat May Be Concentrated in Central U.S. Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-29T13:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/heat-may-be-concentrated-in-central-u-s-next-week.html
The central U.S. has a greater chance
for above-normal temperatures next week than the Northeast.  Temperatures between the  Rocky Mountains  and the
Mississippi River are expected to be 5 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit
(2.8 to 4.4 Celsius) above normal from June 3 to June 7, while
the Northeast remains seasonal, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Rogers said he isn’t certain that the computer forecast
models for the week are accurate.  “These is concern this morning that they may be either
missing or underestimating brief heat pushes to the East Coast
at times,” he said. “But either way, the middle third of the
nation has a much higher likelihood of seeing stronger and more
durable hotter-than-normal weather than the East Coast.”  High temperatures in the U.S. Northeast can increase
electricity demand as people in the large cities there turn to
air conditioning to cool off. The low price of natural gas has
meant more utilities are using that fuel to produce power.  On May 25, natural gas futures on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange capped the biggest weekly decline since March on
forecasts of moderating temperatures that light reduce power-
plant demand. The slide continued today.  Rogers predicted heat will continue to grip the central
U.S. June 8 to June 12, with temperatures mostly 3 to 5 degrees
above normal.  The normal average temperature in New York for today is 67
degrees, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. It’s 61 in  Boston , 69 in  Washington , 74 in Atlanta, 79
in Houston, 77 in Dallas, 58 in Seattle and 67 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  