-- Nowotny Says ECB Not Discussing Reviving Bond Purchases
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-29T10:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/ecb-s-nowotny-says-reviving-bond-purchases-not-being-discussed.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said the bank isn’t considering
restarting its bond-purchase program to stem rising borrowing
costs for governments in the euro area.  “This for the time being is not a matter of discussion,”
Nowotny told reporters in Belgrade today, when asked if bond
purchases are something the ECB is contemplating. “The ECB has
done a number of measures that were very helpful and efficient
for the economy. We are now in a situation where we have to see
how these measures have worked in the economy, especially in
long-term operations.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  last week called on
the ECB to buy his government’s bonds, after yields on the debt
approached the level that pushed Ireland,  Greece  and  Portugal  to
request international bailouts. While the ECB has bought 212
billion euros ($266 billion) of government debt since May 2010,
it halted the program this year after injecting more than 1
trillion euros into the financial system through long-term
loans.  Nowotny also said that the “prime objective” is to keep
Greece in the euro area, adding that this is “something that
doesn’t only depend on the side of the European authorities, but
also on the decisions of Greek people and their government.”  Asked whether the ECB is preparing an exit plan, he said
that “it’s a good rule for a central bank to be prepared for
everything, but that doesn’t mean it has to talk about it.”  Spain ’s government bonds declined today after a spokesman
for the economy ministry said the nation’s preferred option for
raising funds to recapitalize Bankia group is via debt markets.  The yield on five-year securities climbed eight basis
points to 5.82 percent at 11:04 a.m. London time. The 10-year
rate climbed three basis points to 6.51 percent.  Nowotny said that “rescuing banks is the responsibility of
national governments” and “the role of the ECB is in the field
of liquidity, not solvency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  