-- EDF Seeks U.S. Gas Assets as Prices May Rise From 10-Year Low
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-05-29T14:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/edf-seeks-u-s-gas-assets-as-prices-may-rise-from-10-year-low.html
Electricite de France SA’s trading
unit is looking at a “long list” of natural gas production
assets in the U.S. as prices rebound from a 10-year low.  “In the U.S., opportunities are incredible right now,”
Steven Lewis, global head of gas at EDF Trading in  London , said
in a May 25 interview. “U.S. energy and gas markets are very
exciting.”  Gas prices  will almost double to about $5 per million
British thermal units as the lower 48 states begin to ship
liquefied natural gas to Europe and  Asia , making some currently
unprofitable operations more attractive, he said. “Marginal-
production” areas may be in the Hainesville Shale straddling
 Louisiana  and  Texas , he said.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-largest U.S. gas
producer, plans to sell $14 billion of assets after prices for
the fuel dropped to a 10-year low and it lost a third of its
market value this year. Month-ahead gas dropped to $1.902 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  on April 19 and was at $2.51 today.  There are companies that believe their assets are
undervalued and are reluctant to sell, Lewis said.  “Some of these producers have cash-flow issues, so they
might not have any choice,” he said.  EDF Trading is also trying to buy into U.S. LNG export
terminals, of which just one has been approved by the government
so far.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  was granted federal permission to
export from a $10 billion plant in Louisiana from 2015. Sempra
Energy, Mitsubishi Corp. and Mitsui & Co. Ltd. are seeking
permits to ship gas from Hackberry, Louisiana, upon completion
of a $6 billion investment in 2016.  LNG Export Terminals  Freeport LNG in partnership with Macquarie Group Ltd.,
 Australia ’s largest investment bank, is planning to start an
export terminal in 2017 and Dominion Resources Inc., a Richmond,
Virginia-based power producer, plans to have an export facility
operating by 2017.  “In the U.S. we’re looking at every liquefaction
opportunity in the market,” Lewis said. “We’ve had memorandums
of understanding with almost all of them, as well as Indian and
Asian utilities. Quantities are getting booked contingent upon
permits being granted.”  EDF Trading started two years ago managing global assets
for its parent, including energy production and so-called
midstream businesses that include the movement and storage of
oil and gas. It took over the commercial operations of EDF’s
gas-fired power stations in September and has a remit to grow
its portfolio through acquisitions, Lewis said.  Massachusetts Power Plant  The company bought a controlling stake in a central
Austrian biodiesel plant on April 16. It acquired an 82-megawatt
natural gas-fired power plant in Lowell,  Massachusetts , last
July.  Earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortization
was 673 million euros ($843 million) in 2011, up from 628
million euros in 2010, the company said in February.  EDF appointed Lewis as the global head of gas at EDF
Trading in November 2010. He left Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank, a partnership between Credit Agricole SA and
EDF Trading, to rejoin EDF Trading, the company said at the
time. He was formerly head of trading at EDF Trading between
2001 and 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  