-- Egypt Reserve-Ratio Cut Not Enough to Satisfy Needs: Arab Credit
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-30T10:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/egypt-reserve-ratio-cut-not-enough-to-satisfy-needs-arab-credit.html
Egypt ’s move to cut banks’ reserve
requirements is unlikely to be enough to meet the nation’s
local-currency needs as a divisive presidential vote deters
foreign investors, HSBC Holdings Plc and BNP Paribas Egypt said.  The central bank will lower the ratio of funds banks must
set aside against deposits by 2 percentage points to 10 percent
starting June 26. That frees up 9.2 billion Egyptian pounds
($1.5 billion), according to the average estimate from Beltone
Financial, BNP Paribas Egypt and  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. (HRHO)  Egypt
will offer 9 billion pounds of debt over the next week alone,
part of its 150 billion-pound quarterly fundraising target.  Treasury-bill yields are near records and are almost three
times higher than Lebanon’s and four times higher than
 Portugal ’s on the one-year maturities. The one-year yield soared
531 basis points, or 5.31 percentage points, since last year’s
uprising began to 15.9 percent last week, as foreigners fled and
left the onus on local banks to supply the state with funds.  Borrowing costs are rising due to “external account
pressure, lack of foreign currency coming to the system, heavy
borrowing by the government and lack of deposit growth to match
that,” Liz Martins, Dubai-based senior economist at HSBC Middle
East said by phone on May 27. “It’s all contributing to
diminished liquidity in the system and the cut in the reserves
ratio is not big enough to outweigh all of those pressures.”  Political Tension  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar-denominated bonds
maturing in April 2020 has risen 26 basis points this quarter to
6.81 percent today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
outpaced a two basis-point gain in average  Middle East  sovereign
debt to 4.68 percent yesterday, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq
Dubai Middle East Conventional Sovereign Average Yield.  Egypt’s first presidential election since a popular
uprising ousted  Hosni Mubarak  more than a year ago has so far
failed to reassure investors about a return to stability in the
country of about 80 million. Protesters have already called for
mass rallies after official results confirmed the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi and Ahmed Shafik, the last prime
minister under Mubarak, were the two candidates that advanced to
the runoff next month.  “Both choices could increase political tensions, and in
any case, the role of the new president or any other political
institution has not been defined,” Said Hirsh, London-based
economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in response to e-
mailed questions yesterday.  ‘Out of Options’  The reserve-ratio change, which follows a similar cut in
March that took the rate to 12 percent in its first reduction in
13 years, is the latest effort by the central bank to shore up
cash among lenders.  The regulator also increased sales of  repurchase agreements 
to give government-security holders access to funds for a week
at 9.75 percent. It sold a record 34 billion pounds of the
contracts yesterday, bringing this quarter’s total to 188.5
billion pounds, triple the amount from the year-earlier period.  “The bank is definitely running out of options,” Hirsh
said. “Apart from changing reserve ratios, the fact is that it
only has  interest rates , repo facilities and outright money
printing left. With politics and the economy where they are,
their impacts will be limited and short-lived.”  Budget Deficit  The country has boosted debt sales as it seeks to finance a
 budget deficit  that will exceed 9 percent of economic output for
a second fiscal year, making it the highest in the Middle East
according to International Monetary Fund forecasts. It plans to
fund about three-quarters of that gap from sales of treasury
bills and bonds, Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said this
month.  Foreign reserves tumbled almost 60 percent from before the
uprising, while investors from abroad slashed their holdings of
treasury bills by 97 percent to 1.6 billion pounds in February
from the end of 2010, central bank data show.  Bank funds have also been strained by the central bank’s
determination to defend the local currency against bets that it
will weaken due to prolonged political turmoil, Hirsh said.
Trading in non-deliverable pound forwards shows investors expect
the currency to drop to 7.475 a dollar in 12 months, reflecting
a 19 percent depreciation.  The pound, subject to a managed float, has lost 3.8 percent
since the start of anti-government protests in January 2011 to
6.0470 a dollar at 12:49 p.m. in Cairo today. That compares with
declines of more than 14 percent in the currencies of  Turkey ,
 South Africa  and  India .  Banks ‘Fragile’  “From the central bank’s perspective, they should keep the
pound stable and focus on inflation, which has been coming down
with weaker economic activity,” Turker Hamzaoglu, an economist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London , said by phone
yesterday. “Government yields should come back only with some
confidence on the economic program and some foreign interest
after the elections.”  Inflation in urban areas slowed to 8.8 percent in April
from 9 percent a month earlier.  Without foreign investors in Egyptian assets, the central
bank’s efforts to boost local banks’ funding may not bring down
the government’s near-record yields. Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30
Index (EGX30)  posted its biggest three-day decline since March after the
election, falling 5.8 percent through yesterday. Foreign
investors were net sellers in the market, according to Khaled
Nagah, trading manager at Cairo-based Mega Investments
Securities. The gauge was up 0.5 percent today.  The reserve-ratio reduction won’t have “a prolonged
effect, unless there is a fundamental change on the political
and economic fronts,” Amr El Sherif, assistant derivatives
dealer at BNP Paribas Egypt, said in a May 28 research note.
“In the long run, we see higher systemic risk and a more
fragile banking sector as a consequence of the move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  