-- ELA Funds to Euro-Area Banks Probably Jumped, ECB Data Show
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-29T17:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/ela-funding-of-euro-area-banks-probably-jumped-ecb-data-show.html
Emergency liquidity assistance to
troubled banks in the euro area probably jumped last week after
the  European Central Bank  moved some Greek institutions off its
centralized refinancing operations.  In the  financial statement  of the euro system for the week
ending May 25 published by the Frankfurt-based ECB today,
“other claims on euro-area  credit institutions  denominated in
euro” rose 34.1 billion euros ($42.8 billion) to 246.6 billion
euros. The ECB says ELA is recorded under this item, though it
contains more than just ELA and the bank has declined to break
down the data.  Under ELA, the 17 national central banks in the euro area
are able to provide emergency liquidity to banks that can’t put
up collateral acceptable to the ECB for refinancing operations.
The risk of the lending is then borne by the central bank in
question, ensuring any losses stay within the country concerned
and aren’t shared across all euro members. On May 17, the ECB
confirmed it had moved some Greek banks onto the ELA program of
 Greece ’s central bank until they are recapitalized.  “Via ELA, the ECB is putting pressure on policy makers to
recapitalize banks,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at
Standard Chartered bank in  London . “Although Greece’s ELA
program has grabbed the headlines recently, ELA funding could
spread to other euro-area countries should economic headwinds
increase, confidence deteriorate or if banking-sector
recapitalization efforts were seen as too slow.”  Euro Drops  The euro fell to its lowest level against the dollar since
July 2010 as investor concern about Spain’s ability to
recapitalize banks increased. The euro traded 0.5 percent lower
at $1.2480 at 7:10 p.m. in Frankfurt. Egan-Jones Ratings Co.
reduced its  credit rating  for  Spain  to B from Bb-.  The ECB’s move to put some Greek banks on ELA funding may
be the cause of a drop in its outstanding longer-term
refinancing operations, or loans of longer than one week.  LTRO loans of 21.4 billion euros were “repaid before
maturity,” the ECB said in today’s statement, reducing the
total outstanding amount to 1.061 trillion euros. The ECB lent
euro-area banks about 1 trillion euros in two three-year LTROs
in December and February.  ELA loans require the assent of the ECB’s 23-member
Governing Council and carry a penalty interest rate, though the
terms are never made public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  