-- Help U.S. Economy With Visas for the Best and Brightest
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-29T23:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/help-u-s-economy-with-visas-for-best-and-brightest.html
To see the results of self-defeating
U.S. immigration policies, you need only open your browser to
 www.canadavisa.com . There, you’ll see a shrewd neighbor fishing
for talent at U.S. expense.  At the top of the website, in large print, is the question:
“Currently on an H1B Visa or otherwise working or studying in
the  United States ?” There is nothing subtle about the appeal.
Canada is seeking skilled foreigners who’ve grown frustrated
with the U.S. visa gantlet, which can take a decade for the
lucky few who manage even to begin it.  Plans to loosen U.S. restrictions on high-skilled
immigrants have been kicking -- and getting kicked -- around
 Washington  for years. The latest comes from a  bipartisan group 
of senators, who last week introduced legislation to ease the
logjam on visas. The Startup Act 2.0 would create a new visa for
immigrants who graduate from U.S. universities with a master’s
degree or doctorate in science, technology, engineering or math
fields. It would also create an entrepreneur’s visa to enable
immigrants with capital to start businesses and create jobs in
the U.S.  These are not new ideas. The  House of Representatives 
 overwhelmingly passed  a bill to expand high-skills visas last
fall. That promptly fell prey to  politics  in the Senate.  Economic Necessity  A combination of economic necessity and demographic change
makes immigration reform -- even limited progress like the
Startup Act 2.0 -- more crucial than ever. The growth rate of
the U.S. labor force is declining. Fewer young workers are
entering the labor market as older ones retire, a combination
that exerts a drag on economic growth. This has been compounded
by the 2008 financial crisis and the  job losses  that ensued.
From 2007 to 2011, the rate of new business creation slowed by
23 percent. Even before the recession, trouble was apparent;
from 2000 to 2007,  job creation  in the U.S. was weaker than for
any decade since the 1930s.  If jobs aren’t being created, why does the U.S. need more
immigrants? A  survey  by the McKinsey Global Institute found
almost two-thirds of companies say they have “positions for
which they often cannot find qualified applicants, with
management, scientists and computer engineers topping the list.”
A Kauffman Foundation  report  found that in 2011 immigrants were
more than twice as likely to start businesses as native-born
Americans. A Duke University  study  found that immigrants helped
start more than a quarter of the technology and engineering
companies established in the U.S. from 1995 to 2005.  A smarter, more open immigration policy can do much to
create jobs and boost growth. The U.S. annually issues just
65,000 H-1B visas for highly skilled immigrants, with 20,000
more going to foreign professionals who graduate from a U.S.
university with a master’s or doctoral degree. Yet in 2011, more
than 150,000 students from  China  alone were studying in the U.S.
Roughly 40 percent of international students receive U.S.-based
grants or scholarships. In effect, the U.S. invests heavily in
the education of foreigners -- most of whom are enrolled in the
science-related fields that fuel high-wage employment -- and
then prohibits them from pursuing job opportunities, allowing
other nations to reap the benefits.  Reap they do. According to a  report  by the Partnership for
a New American Economy and the Partnership for  New York City ,
 Singapore ’s foreign-born population has quadrupled in the past
two decades, to more than a third of its total population. Many
of the newcomers are highly-skilled.  Australia  issues 15,000
fewer employment-based green cards to foreigners than the U.S.
does -- though the U.S. has 14 times its population.  Labor Crossing Borders  Labor, like capital, is increasingly flowing across
borders. Even  Germany  has loosened historically restrictive
immigration policies in response to labor shortages in
technology and math-related fields. In contrast, the U.S.
remains too burdened by anti-immigrant politics to welcome the
many highly educated, skilled workers who would contribute to
the  U.S. economy  if only they could.  The U.S. no longer ranks first among nations in the
percentage of its population with post-secondary education; it
is 16th. It needs more of the foreign-born workers who have
proved central to the creation of companies and jobs.  Comprehensive immigration reform is on hold. The Dream Act,
which would create a path to citizenship for young illegal
immigrants who serve in the armed forces or attend college, is
blocked. Because of backing from business lobbies, the Startup
Act 2.0 has a window of possibility in this Congress. Senate and
House leaders should put immigration politics aside and push it
through.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  cutting a deal with
Iran ;  Edward Glaeser  on  what the latest housing numbers tell us ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  Romney’s public-sector experience ; Clive
Crook on  an EU debt plan ;  Peter Orszag  on the  problem with
spending caps ; William Pesek on  Osaka’s problematic mayor ;  Luigi
Zingales  on  capitalism and populism ; John O’Brennan on  Ireland’s
fiscal referendum .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 