-- Emerging Stocks Jump Most in Two Months as China Boosts Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-05-29T22:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/emerging-stocks-rise-most-in-2-months-on-china-stimulus-taiwan.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in two months as speculation  China  may take more steps to boost
economic growth increased demand for riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 1.4 percent to 921.71
at the close in New York, the biggest gain since March 13. The
gauge rose for a fourth day for the longest winning streak this
month, as OAO Severstal surged 7.3 percent to lift  Russia ’s
Micex Index the most since Feb. 24.  Brazil ’s benchmark Bovespa
fell, snapping a two-day advance.  China’s finance ministry said the promotion of energy
efficient flat-panel televisions and energy-saving air
conditioning is projected to stimulate consumption of more than
135 billion  yuan  ($21.3 billion), according to a statement from
the ministry yesterday.  Consumer confidence  in the world’s
biggest economy unexpectedly decreased in May to a four-month
low while U.S. home prices in the 12 months through March fell
at the slowest pace in more than a year.  “China’s stimulus is a supporting factor for commodity
producers in the  emerging markets ,”  Nick Chamie , head of global
foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a
telephone interview from Toronto today. “These announcements
are getting the market excited.”  The MSCI gauge of 21 developing nations, up 0.6 percent
this year, trades at 9.9 times estimated earnings, compared with
11.8 for the MSCI World Index of advanced nations, which has
added 1.6 percent in 2012.  Greece Pressure  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values fell 2.6
percent from a year earlier after a 3.5 percent drop in
February, data showed today in  New York . The decline matched the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  A confidence index among U.S. consumers decreased to 64.9
from a revised 68.7 in the prior month, figures from the New
York-based Conference Board showed today.  As European leaders pressure  Greece  to meet bailout terms
before elections next month, concern is growing that Spanish
lenders will need more financial support to weather the crisis.  Brazil’s Bovespa declined 1 percent as  PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes  slid 11 percent in Sao Paulo,
the most since November 2008.  Russia’s benchmark gauge jumped 2.8 percent, the most in
three months. OAO Severstal, the nation’s second-largest steel
producer, posted the biggest advance in the index after jumping
the most since Oct. 24.  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, added 3.6
percent, the most since Feb. 24, on plans to list more than $1
billion of its existing shares in  Hong Kong .  Hong Kong Listing  The company may hire China International Capital Corp. and
 Renaissance Capital  for a Hong Kong listing within a year,
Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Leonid Fedun  told reporters in
Hong Kong today. The oil producer may later gain access to the
 Shanghai Stock Exchange (510230) , subject to permission from the Chinese
government, he said.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , Turkey’s second-largest listed lender, snapped
six days of losses in Istanbul, advancing 3.4 percent after MSCI
said it was increasing the company’s weighting in its Global
Standard Indices to 0.45 from 0.3.  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  added 1.7 percent in Warsaw and the  BUX
Index (BUX)  rose 0.5 percent in Hungary.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong climbed 2.2 percent.  Skyworth Digital
Holdings (751) , a maker of televisions, surged 11 percent.  Asian Stocks  Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE)  Index rose the most in five months after the
official Central News Agency reported the ruling Kuomintang
party is drafting rules which may allow investors to pay less
tax on stock market gains.  The Taiex jumped 2.9 percent, the most among Asian
benchmark indexes, and the biggest advance since Dec. 21.  Hon
Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  climbed 4.8 percent.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 1.4 percent to the
highest close since May 14 after Moody’s Investors Service
raised the nation’s sovereign rating outlook to positive from
stable, citing the country’s improving debt levels. The nation’s
long-term foreign-currency Ba2 rating is two levels below
investment grade.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 406, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  