-- Mercedes Cuts Truck Production in Brazil as Vehicle Demand Falls
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-05-30T09:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/mercedes-laying-off-1-500-workers-in-brazil-as-sales-fall-1-.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz,  Brazil ’s
second-biggest truck and bus manufacturer by market share, will
take 1,500 workers off assembly lines in Brazil for five months
to lower production as demand drops.  The employees from the German automaker’s factory in Sao
Bernardo do Campo will receive additional training during the
period, the Stuttgart-based company said today. Daimler employs
about 14,000 workers in Brazil, where it controls 25.5 percent
of the truck and bus market, according to data from the
country’s dealer association, known as Fenabrave.  Declines in truck and bus sales “created the need to
reduce production,” Mercedes said in an e-mailed statement.  Truck and bus sales fell 28 percent in the first two weeks
of May from a year earlier, according to Fenabrave. Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last week announced stimulus
measures to help boost vehicle purchases. Mercedes and  Volvo AB (VOLVB) 
planned to halt production temporarily to cope with dropping
sales, according to a report in O Estado de S. Paulo.  Truck makers were facing “difficulties” in selling
vehicles and more credit was needed, Cledorvino Belini,
president of Brazilian association of vehicle manufacturers,
said after a May 14 meeting with Mantega. Truck supply stood at
about 50 days worth of sales, a level he said was “worrisome.”  The 1,500 workers will keep their permanent contracts
during the training assignments and will continue to be paid,
Uta Leitner, a spokesman for the automaker in Stuttgart said
today by phone. The company hopes the workers can return to the
production lines in the course of the year, she said.  The Sao Bernardo do Campo plant manufactures Mercedes
trucks and buses as well as engines, axles and transmissions for
sale in  Latin America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  