-- Merkel Ally Rebuffs Rajoy Call for Direct Aid for Spain’s Banks
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-29T13:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/merkel-ally-rebuffs-rajoy-call-for-direct-aid-for-spain-s-banks.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s plea to euro-area partners to let struggling banks tap
the permanent bailout fund directly won’t get German support,
said a parliamentary ally of Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Any request for aid for banks must be made by sovereign
states, said  Norbert Barthle , the Christian Democrats’ budget
spokesman in parliament, citing the need for governments to act
as guarantors for help. Rajoy said yesterday that banks should
be able to request direct help from the European Stability
Mechanism, the permanent euro-area bailout fund that’s slated to
be in operation in July.  “Direct help for banks is out of the question, that won’t
fly,” Barthle said in a telephone interview today. “There has
to be the intermediary of sovereign government. It’s all about
liability and the German position is clear.” The temporary
rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, has
provisions for helping banks through the medium of host
governments, Barthle said.  Rajoy is struggling to shore up  Spain ’s banks amid efforts
to cut spending and a surge in the cost of selling bonds. Spain
today backtracked on a plan to use government debt instead of
cash in a 19 billion-euro ($24 billion) bailout of BFA-Bankia.  The situation for Spanish banks is “very worrying,”
Barthle said from his electoral district in the southwestern
state of Baden-Wuerttemberg. “It may not take much more
pressure on the country for it to require external help.” While
Rajoy will probably continue to avoid having to seek a bailout,
“the EFSF is there and envisages help for banks indirectly.”  Merkel seeks parliamentary approval in June for setting up
the ESM.  Germany  will put up the biggest share of the fund’s
guarantees and so-called paid-in cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  