-- EU’s Barnier Seeks ‘Banking Union’ to Manage Crisis-Hit Lenders
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-05-29T14:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/eu-s-barnier-seeks-banking-union-to-manage-crisis-hit-lenders.html
The European Union should seek to
create a “banking union” in which lenders face tough, common
rules allowing them to be wound down without recourse to
taxpayer bailouts, the bloc’s top financial services regulator
said.  The EU should be prepared to bolster regulations adopted
since the crisis that was unleashed after the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,  Michel Barnier , the European
commissioner for financial services, said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Paris.  “We must go further, and create at the level of the
European Union this banking union, with a certain number of
tools or reforms, some of which are already on the table,”
Barnier said.  The European Commission is scheduled to present plans on
June 6 that would empower regulators to force writedowns on
unsecured creditors at failing lenders. The measures also
include imposing a levy on lenders to finance the stabilization
of crisis-hit banks, and requiring nations to lend to a
government that doesn’t have the reserves to tackle a banking
crisis.  Barnier’s proposals would apply across the EU’s 27 member
states, and must be agreed on by governments and by the European
Parliament before they can enter into force.  EU leaders last week asked European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  to examine further options for bolstering
financial integration in the 17-nation euro area, including the
establishment of a cross-border deposit insurance program.  ‘Euro zone’  “At least the member states of the euro zone must be
linked together” in the banking union, Barnier said. “But I’ll
work so that all 27 member states are in it.”  One area where more EU ambition is “probably” needed
concerns the powers given to the European Banking Authority,
Barnier said.  The commissioner also warned against a Greek exit from the
euro area, saying it would increase the debt-laden country’s
woes.  “If  Greece  was to be all alone that would be much more
difficult, much more serious, much more burdensome,” Barnier
said. “It’s better for the Greek people to face these
difficulties in a framework of European discipline and
solidarity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  