-- EU Won’t Treat Irish as Greeks If They Vote ’No’
-- B y   J o h n   O ’ B r e n n a n
-- 2012-05-29T23:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/eu-won-t-treat-irish-as-greeks-if-they-vote-no-.html
The eyes of the world are on
elections in  Greece  next month that could determine whether it
defaults and triggers contagion throughout the euro area. By
contrast, Ireland’s referendum tomorrow on whether to ratify
Europe’s new fiscal treaty is passing almost unnoticed.  That’s odd, because although Ireland can’t veto the pact --
its full name is the  Treaty  on Stability, Coordination and
Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union -- the government
is warning voters that the very same thing could happen here as
in Greece.  As in Greece, austerity in Ireland has been imposed by a
coalition government of established centrist parties, Fine Gael
and Labour. And as in Greece, the government is warning that
unless voters cast their ballots the right way, the country
could be cut off from access to funding provided by the European
Stability Mechanism. That would certainly trigger an Irish
default.  Why, supporters of a “Yes” vote ask, would the rest of
the euro area go on bailing out a member that has rejected the
rules of the currency union? And if, as most economists believe,
Ireland will need a second bailout, the fiscal treaty’s preamble
is explicit: It states that “the granting of assistance in the
framework of new programs under the European Stability Mechanism
will be conditional, as of 1 March, 2013, on the ratification of
this  Treaty .”  Greek Picnic  Default would be catastrophic for Ireland and for  Europe .
In fact, it would make a Greek default look like a picnic.
German banks, in particular, are heavily exposed to Irish
sovereign debt, carrying about 150 billion euros ($187 billion)
worth on their books. That dwarfs their remaining exposure to
Greece, and the problem isn’t confined to the euro area: U.K.
banks hold about 180 billion euros of Irish debt.  Yet there are good reasons why markets aren’t tumbling on
the risk of an Irish “No” vote, while proving hypersensitive
to the election in Greece. The first is precisely that Irish
debt is threaded through the European banking system to such an
extent that even the possibility of an Irish default could do
untold damage to market confidence in the euro. As a result,
it’s highly unlikely that the euro-area governments, or the
 European Central Bank , would punish Ireland for rejecting the
treaty by cutting off its lifeline. Doing so would amount to
collective suicide.  A second reason is that Ireland isn’t Greece. The contrast
between the ways in which the two countries have handled the
financial crisis could hardly be greater. Ireland was among the
first to be hit and to bail out its banks. It has been a poster
child for austerity ever since, dutifully imposing every piece
of fiscal tightening that the EU and the  International Monetary
Fund  tied to its 85 billion-euro  bailout .  If the EU’s star pupil were then to be consigned to the
disaster zone of default, in response to an exercise in
democracy such as a referendum, how could other debt-ridden
states be convinced of the value of implementing austerity
policies? And what would remain of EU solidarity, the glue that
holds together the 27-nation bloc of giants like  Germany  and
minnows like Ireland in a system based on consensus?  The stakes for Ireland are nevertheless large and help to
explain the fervor with which the two sides are arguing over the
possibility of default. The government also says ratifying the
fiscal treaty would ensure stability and economic recovery,
while rejecting it would do the country enormous reputational
damage in Brussels and the U.S. That could jeopardize Ireland’s
export-based recovery, which is dependent on foreign direct
investment from U.S. multinationals.  ‘Austerity Treaty’  On the “No” side, two left-wing parties --  Sinn Fein  and
the United Left Alliance -- have labeled the new set of fiscal
rules the “ EU Austerity Treaty .” They say adhering to it would
entrench the EU’s control over Irish budgetary policy and lead
to a dystopian future defined by higher taxes and lower social
spending.  The case against the government’s stability argument is
simple: If fiscal retrenchment is the only path to follow, why
has this not produced a change in the fundamentals of the Irish
economy after years of budgetary purgatory? After all, Ireland
was much faster to react to the crisis than any other euro-area
country, in both raising taxes and cutting spending.  Yet Irish borrowing rates remain higher than those of Italy
and  Spain , let alone in the core euro-area countries. Far from
austerity encouraging a return to growth, Ireland is now in its
fifth year of fiscal retrenchment. There will be virtually no
growth in 2012, and the credit squeeze is just as evident as it
was in 2009 or 2010.  The precarious position of Irish public finances means that
regardless of the outcome of tomorrow’s vote, the Irish people
will continue to suffer harsh budget cuts to education, health
care and pensions. EU demands to move swiftly to a balanced
budget position by 2015 mean that another four or five years of
crippling cuts and zero growth may well turn the 2010s into a
Japanese-style lost decade for Ireland.  Although the opinion polls have demonstrated a consistent
lead for the “Yes” campaign of eight to 10 percentage points,
the large number of undecided voters leaves the outcome still in
doubt. Irish voters rejected EU treaties on two of the four last
occasions they were given the chance, despite often strong
opinion-poll leads in favor of ratification during the
campaigns.  Enda Kenny, Ireland’s prime minister, and his colleagues
are hoping the electorate won’t turn the vote into a referendum
on four years of austerity. If they do, then there’s no hope for
approval. An Irish “No” would add to the growing standoff over
the EU’s austerity policies, generated by the strong protest
vote in Greek elections earlier this month and by French
President  Francois Hollande ’s efforts to shift the policy’s
focus toward growth. Even the possibility of default arising
from a “No” vote tomorrow would ensure that the Irish question
quickly becomes a European one.  (John O’Brennan lectures in European politics and society
at the  National University  of Ireland Maynooth, and is director
of the Centre for the Study of Wider Europe. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  high-skills immigrants 
and  cutting a deal with Iran ;  Edward Glaeser  on  what the latest
housing numbers tell us ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Romney’s public-
sector experience ; Clive Crook on  an EU debt plan ;  Peter Orszag 
on the  problem with spending caps ; William Pesek on  Osaka’s
problematic mayor ;  Luigi Zingales  on  capitalism and populism .  To contact the writer of this article:
John O’Brennan at  john.obrennan@nuim.ie .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 