-- Euro Declines Versus Dollar as Spain Bank Concern Damps Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-29T21:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/euro-declines-versus-dollar-as-spain-bank-concern-damps-demand.html
The euro fell to the lowest level
since July 2010 against the dollar as investor concern about
 Spain ’s ability to recapitalize troubled banks increased,
boosting bets the union’s debt crisis is worsening.  The 17-nation currency dropped below $1.25 for the second
time this month after Egan-Jones Ratings Co. reduced its credit
rating for Spain to B from Bb-. The euro fell against most of
its major counterparts as Spanish officials debated how to fund
a bailout of the Bankia group. The yen gained against the
majority of its most-traded peers amid increased demand for
haven assets. Sweden’s krona and the Norwegian krone weakened.  “It’s all about what happens with Spain and their banks,
and what could be the scenario in terms of how much money they
ask for,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York. “But there’s still that Greek shadow.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2503 at 5 p.m. New York
time after touching $1.2461, the lowest since July 1, 2010. It
has lost 5.6 percent in May, the most since September. The euro
declined 0.3 percent to 99.39 yen and reached 98.94 yen, falling
below 99 for the first time since Jan. 23. It has dropped 6
percent this month. The yen was little changed at 79.49 per
dollar.  The yen remained higher against most of its counterparts
after  Bank of Japan (8301)  Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said the
domestic economy is in better shape than expected and new easing
may not be needed to meet the central bank’s inflation target,
the Nikkei newspaper reported, citing an interview.  ‘Steady Decline’  The euro’s move below $1.25 triggered further losses in the
euro as technical-support levels were taken out.  “Since we broke $1.30, we have not seen any significant
bounces so that short sellers have at no point been squeezed,”
said Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research at Societe
Generale SA in  London . “Hence, while speculative positions are
reported to be huge and the consensus is very bearish indeed,
the euro’s steady decline continues.”  Short euro positions, or bets the currency will fall
against the dollar, reached a record high in the week ended May
22, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.
Futures traders increased their speculative euro short positions
to 195,361 contracts, compared with 173,869 the prior week.  Sweden’s krona was the worst performer among the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, losing 0.5 percent to 7.1990
per dollar. Norway’s krone dropped 0.2 percent to 6.0199.  Spain backtracked on a plan to use government debt instead
of cash to bailout BFA-Bankia, the nation’s third-largest
lender, as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to shore up
the nation’s lenders without overburdening public finances.  ‘Degree of Uncertainty’  An Economy Ministry spokesman said yesterday that the
government was considering using an injection of Treasury debt
instead of cash to recapitalize Bankia, as laid out in
legislation approved in February. Spanish bond yields rose and
investors criticized the idea, which the spokesman, speaking
anonymously under ministry policy, said today had become a
“marginal” option for the 19 billion-euro ($24 billion)
rescue.  “We’re waiting to see what the ECB involvement is within
recent talk of a Spanish bank bailout,” said Brian Kim, a
currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “Any of the euro movements we’re seeing now
are not necessarily too much of a breakout, given the degree of
uncertainty that’s overhanging.”  Spain, Germany  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German notes soared to 5.16
percentage points today, the most since 1995, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Standard & Poor’s cut Spain’s  credit rating  on April 26 to
BBB+ from A, saying there is an increasing likelihood the
government will need to provide further fiscal support to the
banking sector.  “Because Spain has a big share in the euro region’s
economy, a further widening of the Spain-Germany yield spread
will have a substantial negative impact over markets,” said
 Tohru Sasaki , head of Japan rates and foreign-exchange research
in  Tokyo  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The selloff of Spain’s bonds
is generating risk-off sentiment,” supporting the dollar.  The pound approached a three-and-a-half-year high against
the euro amid the monetary union turmoil. It strengthened as
much as 0.2 percent to 79.82 pence per euro after reaching 79.51
pence on May 16, the strongest level since November 2008.
Sterling has appreciated 5 percent this year.  Canadian Bears  Investors should bet the Canadian dollar will slide to its
weakest level since October as commodities drop below 3 1/2-year
support levels, according to Bank of America Corp.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
fell below 295 on May 8, a 42-month trend line, and reached
280.34 today, the lowest level since September 2010. It may
decline to 265 and 257, according to  MacNeil Curry , head of
foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical strategy at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  New York . Raw materials account for
half of  Canada ’s export revenue.  Curry’s firm entered a Canadian-dollar bet at C$1.0053 per
 U.S. dollar  on May 15, with a target of it weakening to
C$1.0528, he wrote to clients today. It last closed weaker than
that on Oct. 3. The firm will exit the trade if the Canadian
currency, known as the loonie for the image of the aquatic bird
on the C$1 coin, gains to 99.50 cents. The loonie gained 0.2
percent to C$1.0221.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  