-- Euro Bonds With Strings Are Europe’s Best Way Forward
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-05-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/euro-bonds-with-strings-are-europe-s-best-way-forward.html
Whether  Greece  keeps the euro or
abandons it, the European Union must strengthen its defenses
against a wider attack on its monetary system, and soon.  This will inevitably require steps toward fiscal union. Yet
popular support for deeper political integration in the EU,
never high to begin with, is lower than it has been for years.
How can you have closer fiscal union without closer political
union?  At the simplest level, you can’t. This contradiction is a
brute fact that the EU’s leaders can’t just wish away. The most
they can do is blunt its force by choosing the right form of
limited fiscal union -- one that protects national sovereignty
and national interests as much as possible.  Forget full fiscal union. This crisis has already stretched
European  solidarity , such as it was, to the breaking point.
There’s no support for creating a federal structure of the U.S.
kind, with a centrally managed budget and automatic fiscal
transfers from rich to poor regions. To stride in that direction
when  Europe ’s citizens are so plainly opposed would be madness.  In some respects, the EU should move in the opposite
direction. In the medium term, Europe needs to drop its blithe
commitment to “ever closer union” and adopt a more
discriminating approach. It needs as much union as required to
make the single currency viable, and no more. Until further
notice, the watchword should be, “union where necessary,
national sovereignty where possible” -- and the formula to
resolve the financial crisis should be aligned with that agenda.  How, exactly? Let’s stipulate that the euro is worth
saving. Creating it in the first place was a mistake, but one
that can’t be undone except at colossal cost -- as Greece’s exit
may be about to prove. What are the minimum fiscal and financial
requirements for making the single currency work?  The crucial thing about the euro area is that its members
are now deeply financially integrated, with good and bad
consequences. A single  capital market  widens financial
opportunities for companies and households, but it also makes
countries more financially fragile. It removes interest rates as
a tool of national policy, leaving fiscal policy as the only way
to lean against the ups and downs of the business cycle. Yet it
also makes fiscal policy harder to use at times of crisis --
because if things go wrong, a country with no currency of its
own can’t print money to meet its obligations, and is therefore
at risk of insolvency.  A Quicker Union  Worse, this added fragility is contagious. A crisis of
confidence in one part of so integrated a system directly
affects the others. The deeper the integration, the bigger this
so-called externality.  So, first things first. The euro area is a single financial
system and needs a single financial regulator, a single plan for
bank-deposit insurance, and a single process for resolving
distressed financial firms. The EU institutions needed to
discharge these functions exist but only in embryonic form. They
must be quickly grown to maturity. A well-built currency union
must be a true financial union.  The fiscal policy part is more subtle. Lacking control of
 interest rates , governments need effective fiscal policy more
than they did before the euro existed, not less. Their ability
to borrow in recessions needs to be preserved and improved --
but not so much that they are empowered to  overborrow , get into
trouble and force their euro-area partners to pick up the bill.
The fiscal pact adopted in response to the crisis, which  France 
and others now seek to modify, is directed at stopping
overborrowing. It comes close to abolishing fiscal policy as a
stabilization tool. It’s so unbalanced in favor of discipline
over empowerment that it’s unworkable and lacks all credibility.  The remedy is jointly guaranteed euro bonds -- but with
strings attached. Joint guarantees are necessary to attack the
problem of fragility. Without them, a crisis of confidence in
one country can become unmanageable and drag down others. But
strings are needed too, or governments will lack the incentive
to keep their borrowing under control.  I like proposals along lines  suggested  by John Muellbauer,
Paul De Grauwe and others. Issue jointly guaranteed euro bonds -
- but set a limit on the amount that any country can sell. De
Grauwe  proposes  a limit of 60 percent of gross domestic product.
Once a country has issued euro bonds in that amount, any further
borrowing must be in the form of its own nonguaranteed bonds.
Especially for small at-risk economies, the yield on those
riskier bonds would be higher. This creates an incentive for
governments to keep their borrowing under control over the
course of the economic cycle.  No More Lectures  Germany  and other creditworthy countries would still object
that this system involves their paying a subsidy to Greece,
Spain,  Portugal  and  Italy . The cost of borrowing for the
distressed economies would fall -- but the cost of borrowing for
Germany and others would rise. To mitigate this problem, charge
variable annual fees for participating in the guaranteed  bond
issue  so that the least-creditworthy countries paid more.
Jointly guaranteed euro bonds would have one yield in the
capital market, but after the fees were collected and
distributed, Spain would pay more than that and Germany less.  These conditional euro bonds would cut average borrowing
costs by making the euro system less fragile. That’s important,
because it would allow a win-win outcome in which (after fees)
Germany would pay no more to borrow and  Spain  would pay less.  To lessen fears that this would be political union by
stealth, responsibility for issuing the bonds and assessing fees
could be given to a technocratic fiscal council. The fees
formula could be based on objective measures of
creditworthiness. Germany would have no need to lecture Spain on
the importance of frugality. And it would be for Spain to decide
how and when to improve its creditworthiness, knowing that, as
it does, its borrowing costs would fall.  I grant you this model doesn’t resolve the fiscal-political
dilemma. Nothing can. Europe needs a measure of fiscal union,
and this entails some degree of further political union whether
citizens want it or not. But conditional euro bonds can deliver
the necessary fiscal pooling with the minimum surrender of
national sovereignty. They’re the best available option.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  high-skills immigrants 
and  cutting a deal with Iran ;  Edward Glaeser  on  what the latest
housing numbers tell us ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Romney’s public-
sector experience ;  Peter Orszag  on the  problem with spending
caps ; William Pesek on  Osaka’s problematic mayor ;  Luigi Zingales 
on  capitalism and populism ; John O’Brennan on  Ireland’s fiscal
referendum .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 