-- Euro Declines Against Major Peers on Spain Bank Bailout Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-05-29T15:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/euro-poised-for-monthly-drop-as-bankia-ecb-optimism-damped.html
The euro fell against most of its
major counterparts as a debate in  Spain  about how to fund a
recapitalization of the Bankia group increased concern the
monetary union’s sovereign-debt crisis was deepening.  The 17-nation currency traded against the dollar at almost
the lowest since July 2010 as German 10-year bund yields dropped
to a record after European Central Bank Governing Council member
Ewald Nowotny said a revival of bond purchases by the central
bank isn’t being discussed. Mexico’s peso and  South Africa ’s
rand rose the most among the major currencies as oil and stock
futures advanced. The yen erased losses as confidence among U.S.
consumers fell in May to the lowest level in four months.  “We’re waiting to see what the ECB involvement is within
recent talk of a Spanish bank bailout,” said Brian Kim, a
currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “Any of the euro movements we’re seeing now
are not necessarily too much of a breakout given the degree of
uncertainty that’s overhanging.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.2527 at 11:29 a.m. New York
time after touching $1.2496 on May 25, the lowest since July 6,
2010. It has lost 5.4 percent in May, the most since September.
The euro declined 0.1 percent to 99.59 yen and has dropped 5.8
percent this month. The yen was little changed at 79.48 per
dollar.  The rand rose 0.4 percent to 8.3135 per dollar and the peso
gained 0.3 percent to 13.9071. Oil,  Mexico ’s largest export,
added 1.1 percent to $91.88 a barrel. Futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.1 percent.  Spanish Lenders  The Conference Board’s confidence index decreased to 64.9
from a revised 68.7 in the prior month, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed today. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
reading of 69.6.  Spain backtracked on a plan to use government debt instead
of cash to bailout BFA-Bankia, the nation’s third-largest
lender, as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to shore up
the nation’s lenders without overburdening public finances.  An economy ministry spokesman said yesterday the government
was considering using an injection of treasury debt instead of
cash to recapitalize the lender, as laid out in legislation
approved in February. The spokesman said today had become a
“marginal” option for the 19 billion-euro ($24 billion)
bailout. As Spain’s market access narrows, it depends
increasingly on domestic lenders, which in turn are getting cash
from the ECB.  ‘Bullets Flying’  “There are bullets flying from every angle and confidence
is incredibly low, and that looks set to remain the case,” said
Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research in  London  for
Societe Generale SA. “Spain’s problems immediately replaced
 Greece . It’s just a matter of time before we head down to
$1.20” per euro.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German notes soared to 5.16
percentage points today, the most since 1995, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Standard & Poor’s cut Spain’s credit rating on April 26 to
BBB+ from A, saying there is an increasing likelihood the
government will need to provide further fiscal support to the
banking sector.  “Because Spain has a big share in the euro region’s
economy, a further widening of the Spain-Germany yield spread
will have a substantial negative impact over markets,” said
 Tohru Sasaki , head of Japan rates and foreign-exchange research
in  Tokyo  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The sell-off of Spain’s bonds
is generating risk-off sentiment,” supporting the dollar.  Euro Confidence  Consumer confidence  in the euro area was at minus 19.3 in
May, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the final
reading is released tomorrow. The  unemployment rate  climbed to
11 percent in April, the highest in data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 1990, economist forecasts in a separate survey
showed before the June 1 report.  The euro rose yesterday after polls showed Greece’s pro-
bailout parties gaining ground, damping speculation the nation
will exit the currency bloc.  The pound approached a three-and-a-half-year high against
the euro amid the monetary union turmoil. It strengthened as
much as 0.1 percent to 79.87 pence per euro after reaching 79.51
pence on May 16, the strongest level since November 2008.
Sterling has appreciated 4.1 percent this year.  Pound, Yen  The British currency has not fared as well against the yen
this month, having weakened 3.8 percent, the largest monthly
loss since Augusts 2010. The pound may extend its decline if it
breaks through its 200-day moving average, according to
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. The moving average stood at
124.20, providing the currency with support, said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher at the Tokyo-based firm.  The next support for the pound is 123.48, the 61.8 percent
retracement of the Jan. 13 low from the March 21 high, Kawabata
said, citing a Fibonacci chart. If Sterling breaks that level,
it may fall toward 122.77, matching a high in December, he said.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a new high or low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  