-- Ex-Boxing Champion Williams Paralyzed Below Waist From Crash
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-29T17:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/ex-boxing-champion-williams-paralyzed-below-waist-from-crash.html
Paul “The Punisher” Williams, a
two-time welterweight boxing world champion, is paralyzed from
the waist down after a motorcycle accident in which his spinal
cord was 90 percent severed.  Williams, 30, will have surgery today to stabilize the
upper half of his spine and doctors said he probably won’t walk
again, according to Dan Goossen, his promoter.  “This man has got a bigger fight ahead of him than he ever
had in the ring,” Goossen said in a telephone interview. “He’s
handling it the way he did when he prepared for fights inside
the ring -- determination and the positive mental aspect that
he’s going to overcome everything.”  The accident occurred two days ago outside Atlanta, where
Williams was to attend the wedding of one of his two brothers.  Williams moved to avoid a car drifting into his lane
driving the same direction and then had to swerve across the
roadway to miss hitting another car head on, George Peterson,
his trainer and manager, said in an interview with
 boxingscene.com .  Williams, who was wearing a protective helmet, went down an
embankment on the motorcycle, flew into the air and landed on
his back. His spinal cord was 90 percent severed, leaving him
without movement from the waist down, Peterson told the website.  “He’s in good spirits and a positive mindset,” said
Goossen, who has promoted Williams’s fights for seven years.
“What that reflects to me is exactly the type of person he was
preparing for fights and leading into fights; he always had a
smile on his face, always happy, always respectful.”  The 6-foot-1 Williams had a 41-2 record with 27 knockouts
and won the welterweight title for the first time in July 2007
by beating Antonio Margarito. Williams lost to Carlos Quintana
in his first title defense in February 2008 and then regained
the belt four months later by stopping Quintana in the first
round.  In his most recent fight, Williams scored a 12-round
unanimous decision over Nobuhiro Ishida in a super welterweight
bout. Last week, Williams was signed to a Sept. 17 fight against
junior middleweight champion Saul Alvarez in  Las Vegas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  