-- Ex-BP Engineer Mix’s Travel Restrictions Eased by Judge
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-29T23:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/ex-bp-engineer-mix-s-travel-restrictions-eased-by-judge-1-.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged with
destroying evidence sought in a federal probe of the 2010 Gulf
of Mexico  oil spill  won permission to travel within the U.S.
until his case comes to trial.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Daniel Knowles in New Orleans today
rejected federal prosecutors’ arguments in court filings that
 Kurt Mix,  facing obstruction of justice charges for allegedly
deleting text messages about the spill, should be prohibited
from traveling outside  Texas ,  Louisiana ,  Massachusetts  and New
York without the judge’s permission.  “You will be permitted to travel in the continental
U.S.,” Knowles told the ex-BP employee at a hearing today. Mix
must notify court officials if he’s traveling outside the
original four-state area, the judge added.  Mix, who worked on internal BP efforts to estimate the
amount of oil leaking from the well, was arrested last month in
the first criminal case arising from the spill. The  Justice
Department , which began investigating the incident in June 2010,
said in April it was continuing to consider whether to file more
criminal charges over the spill. The charges against Mix will
probably be followed by others, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said last month.  Scott Dean , a U.S.-based spokesman for BP, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on Knowles’s ruling in
connection with Mix’s bail conditions.  A U.S. grand jury had been investigating the spill
estimates,  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Special Agent Barbara
O’Donnell said in a sworn statement filed April 23 in the Mix
case.  Deletions Scrutinized  “Mix deleted numerous electronic records relating to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster response, including records
concerning the amount of oil potentially flowing from the well,
after being repeatedly informed of his obligation to maintain
such records,” O’Donnell said in the statement.  Mix deleted the e-mails in October 2010 after receiving
multiple notices from London-based BP in the weeks after the
spill, “which stated on the cover, in bold and underlined type,
that instant messages and  text messages  needed to be
preserved,” the U.S. said in Mix’s May 2 indictment.  Mix brought the deletions to the attention of the
government, his attorney, Joan McPhee, told Knowles at her
client’s arraignment May 3.  “Mr. Mix saved thousands of e-mails and hundreds of text
messages,” she said. The information saved includes flow rate
data, work on the efforts to contain the spill, and his personal
log notes, she added.  Under Knowles’s modification of Mix’s bail provisions, the
former engineer won’t have to file a motion with the judge when
he wants to travel outside the original four-state area.  Expensive System  Knowles said Mix’s defense attorneys made a “very
legitimate point” by noting the former engineer was forced to
pay his lawyers to file papers every time he wanted to travel
outside of Texas, Louisiana, Massachusetts and  New York .  Mix lives outside Houston and must travel to Louisiana to
attend court hearings. He sometimes has to travel to
Massachusetts and New York to meet with his lawyers, according
to court filings.  “There is no credible evidence that Kurt Mix presents a
risk of flight,” McPhee told the magistrate during the hearing  Derek Cohen, a prosecutor, told Knowles that government
officials remain concerned that Mix might fail to show up for
trial.Mix failed to disclose that he explored relocating to
 Canada  a month after the government sought to interview him
about the deleted text messages, Cohen said.  The case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-0017, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New
Orleans at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  