-- Ex-Olympus CEO Woodford Settles Unfair-Firing Lawsuit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-29T10:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/ex-olympus-ceo-woodford-settles-unfair-firing-lawsuit.html
Michael Woodford , the former  Olympus
Corp. (7733)  chief executive officer and president who was fired after
trying to uncover suspected fraud, settled a London lawsuit
against the company.  Woodford sued Olympus at an employment tribunal for
discrimination and unfair dismissal under whistle-blowing rules
and was said to be seeking $60 million, according to a person
familiar with the claim.  “The company needs to move on,” Woodford said outside the
hearing room today. “There is a new board. I need to move on.”  The Japanese camera maker had about $4 billion wiped off
its market value after dismissing Woodford on Oct. 14 when he
questioned inflated fees paid to the company’s advisers. Olympus
has since admitted to hiding losses and a 13-year cover-up. It
is facing shareholder lawsuits and a criminal investigation in
which three of its former executives were arrested and indicted
by Japanese prosecutors.  The agreement needs to be approved by the Olympus board
next month, Woodford’s lawyer Thomas Linden said.  “We are in a negotiation with Woodford for settlement,”
said Osamu Kobayashi, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Olympus, and
declined to comment further.  While the terms of Woodford’s agreement weren’t revealed,
it may include a 10 million-pound ($15.7 million) payment to
Woodford, the Financial Times reported earlier today.  If reports of a 10 million-pound payout are correct, it
would represent the largest ever sum recovered in a U.K.
whistle-blowing claim, said employment lawyer Jo Keddie, who
isn’t involved in the case.  “The adverse attention which this case would have
attracted clearly has had an impact on the amount of
compensation that may have been paid to him,” Keddie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  