-- Egypt’s Mursi Pledges to Protect Rights of Women, Christians
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-29T14:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/fire-at-egypt-candidate-s-hq-was-political-attack-aide-says.html
The Muslim Brotherhood’s candidate
for  Egypt ’s presidency sought to ease concerns about an Islamist
stranglehold on power by vowing to protect the rights of the
country’s Christians and women.  Mohamed Mursi told reporters in Cairo today that he
wouldn’t force women to wear the Islamic veil, and said he would
choose deputies from outside the Brotherhood. “The presidency,
when I’m president of Egypt, will never be an individual named
the president who says and does everything alone,” he said.  Mursi will compete against Ahmed Shafik, who served as
prime minister in the last days of  Hosni Mubarak ’s rule, in a
runoff vote starting June 16 to decide Egypt’s first president
since Mubarak’s overthrow last year after a mass uprising. Their
emergence as the top two candidates has left Egyptians with a
choice between a secularist with ties to the old regime and a
movement that has pledged to impose Islamic law.  Polarization over the contest has helped push the  benchmark
stock index  down 5.8 percent since the first-round vote ended,
on the prospect of renewed unrest.  The outcome “could prolong the political uncertainty that
has gripped the country since the revolution, which will
increase the near-term risk of a currency crisis,” London-based
 Capital Economics  said in an e-mailed report.  ‘Revolution’s Sacrifices’  Many Egyptians have expressed dissatisfaction with the
choice on offer in the election’s second round.  All the “revolution’s sacrifices” weren’t made so that
“Egyptians would choose between the rule of the Brotherhood or
the return of the old regime,” the Free Egyptians party, co-
founded by Christian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , said in a
statement, according to the state-run Middle East  News Agency .  Mursi heads the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party,
which already controls almost half of the seats in parliament.
He won 25 percent of the first-round vote, to Shafik’s 24
percent.  Mursi said today that Egypt should be governed by a broad
coalition and the prime minister shouldn’t necessarily come from
the Brotherhood’s party. He vowed to ensure “all rights” for
Egypt’s Christians, who make up about 10 percent of the
population, and said he would include them among his officials
at the presidency, “even a deputy, if possible.”  Old Regime  While Mursi’s campaign has stoked worries among many
secularists and Christians, Shafik’s ascension to the runoff has
angered young activists who led last year’s uprising Mubarak.
They have tagged the former air force officer as a “feloul,”
or remnant, of the old regime.  Thousands gathered yesterday in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  to
protest his advance to the second round, while a mob torched his
campaign headquarters. Some activist groups have called for
further demonstrations in Tahrir on June 1 against Shafik, and
urged that a law stripping some Mubarak-era officials of their
political rights be applied to him, the state-run Al-Ahram
newspaper said today.  The election commission, which announced official results
yesterday, rejected appeals against the outcome and said any
irregularities it found were not enough to change it.  Shafik’s legal adviser, Shawki el-Sayed, said the candidate
was undaunted by the burning of his headquarters. Authorities
arrested eight people in connection with the fire, the  Interior
Ministry  said.  ‘Repression and Despotism’  “It will emerge, 100 percent, that this was a political
attack aimed at distancing him from the race,” el-Sayed said in
a phone interview. “It increases his strength and
determination, and reaffirms that he is walking down the
righteous path against those trying to monopolize power.”  Mursi’s campaign dismissed allegations that his followers
were involved.  Egyptians must “avoid malicious rumors” aimed at
“dragging the country back into the darkness, repression and
despotism of the corrupt former regime,” his office said in a
statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  