-- Fisker’s Luxury Plug-in Car Revenue Exceeds $100 Million
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-05-29T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/fisker-s-luxury-plug-in-car-revenue-exceeds-100-million.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., a maker of
luxury plug-in cars working to overcome battery problems, said
its rechargeable Karma sedans generated revenue of more than
$100 million in the first four months of this year.  The closely held company has delivered 1,000 Karmas, priced
from $103,000, in the U.S. and  Europe  since December, Fisker
said in a statement today. The Karma is able to travel 50 miles
(80 kilometers) on  lithium-ion batteries  before a gasoline
engine propels it.  “We are encouraged by solid demand for the Karma,” Tom LaSorda, Fisker’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “Pending completion of investment sourcing, we are
poised to press ahead with further market expansion and
development of our higher volume model, the Fisker Atlantic.”  The company founded by designer Henrik Fisker has had to
solve problems with its battery pack and work to regain access
to a low-cost federal loan to build its second model, Atlantic,
at an idled plant in Wilmington,  Delaware . Anaheim, California-
based Fisker’s access to the funds, awarded in 2009, was cut off
last year after it fell behind on delivering the Karma.  Fisker was approved for $529 million in Energy Department
loans to develop technology for the Karma and revamp a closed
factory in Wilmington, used by the former General Motors Corp.
Fisker had drawn down about $193 million when it said in
February access to the funds had been suspended.  Batteries, Clamp  The company will replace defective battery packs supplied
by  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  that caused a Karma to shut down during
tests by Consumer Reports magazine, Fisker said in March. That
came after a company recall in December to fix a battery clamp.  Fisker, intending to become profitable selling cars powered
by lithium-ion batteries and gasoline, said it continues to
raise funds from private investors. The amount has reached more
than $1 billion, including $174 million raised this year, Fisker
said today.  The company didn’t provide details of an investigation of a
garage fire in  Sugar Land ,  Texas , reported this month involving
a Karma. Investigators were sent to assess the cause of the fire
at a home that Fisker learned of May 3, the U.S. National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration said May 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  