-- Fitschen and Jain Revive Deutsche Bank Co-CEO Tradition
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-05-29T22:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/fitschen-and-jain-revive-deutsche-bank-co-ceo-tradition.html
When Juergen Fitschen and Anshu Jain
take over as co-chief executive officers of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
this week they’ll be reviving a tradition of dual leadership at
Europe’s largest bank that ran from the 1960s to the 1980s.  The 63-year-old Fitschen, a Deutsche Bank veteran steeped
in corporate banking, has served as head of  Germany  since 2005,
while Jain, a native of  India  14 years his junior, led an
expansion of the investment bank from offices in  London .  Deutsche Bank is pairing them to bridge its roles as a
trading colossus that vies with Wall Street firms like  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and a Frankfurt-based lender to German
companies. The duo will have to face rising  capital requirements 
and Europe’s escalating sovereign debt crisis, while seeking to
avoid a power struggle that could derail the bank’s strategy,
said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA. Deutsche
Bank’s three previous periods of co-leadership coincided with
higher profits and gains for shareholders.  “The bank tends to have dual leadership during times when
Deutsche Bank needs to be led to calmer waters,” said Markus
Rudolf, a professor of banking and finance and associate dean at
the WHU Otto Beisheim School of Management in Vallendar, Germany.
“Times may be so uncertain that it can benefit from two
perspectives -- international  investment banking  and the
domestic business -- and emerge stronger.”  Dangerous Conclusion  Fitschen and Jain will assume leadership after the annual
meeting in  Frankfurt  tomorrow, replacing Josef Ackermann, who
grew into one of  Europe ’s most influential bankers during a 10-
year tenure as CEO. Deutsche Bank passed France’s BNP Paribas SA
last year to become Europe’s largest bank, with assets
equivalent to more than 80 percent of the German economy. The
company is changing leaders just as concern that Greece will
exit the euro is sending tremors through Europe’s financial
system. The euro fell yesterday to the lowest against the dollar
since July 2010.  Fitschen said last week it is “dangerous” to conclude
that Greece will leave the common currency. “We should not talk
so much about the exit, but we should talk more about how we can
make sure that this event comes to an end and we focus all our
attention, all our interest on how to maintain Greece as a
member of the  euro zone ,” he told U.S. and German business and
political representatives at a conference in Berlin hosted by
the American Chamber of Commerce.  Fitschen’s relationships with German companies and
politicians may have helped him gain the support of the
supervisory board as the candidate to join Jain as co-CEO,
rather than contenders such as Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger,
consumer-banking head  Rainer Neske  and finance chief Stefan Krause.  Giving Advice  Fitschen’s ties to firms such as Kuehne & Nagel
International AG, where he joined the board in 2008, made him a
logical partner for Jain, an investment banker with limited
knowledge of German. Fitschen advised the world’s biggest
freight-forwarding company for several years after he met
Hamburg-born billionaire Klaus-Michael Kuehne about a decade ago.  “Fitschen gave us a lot of support and his advice was
always highly appreciated,” Kuehne, 74, the company’s honorary
chairman and majority owner, said in an e-mail. Kuehne & Nagel,
founded more than 120 years ago in the German port city of
Bremen, is now based in Schindellegi, Switzerland.  Deutsche Bank counseled Kuehne & Nagel on the  purchase  of
ACR Logistics in 2005, which more than doubled its contract
logistics business, and managed the sale of SembCorp Logistics
Ltd.’s stake in the shipping company in 2004, ending a four-year
alliance.  Time in Asia  Fitschen, who has a fraternal twin brother, was raised at
his parents’ inn in Hollenbeck, a village 34 miles (55
kilometers) from Hamburg, in northern Germany.  The longest-serving employee on Deutsche Bank’s  management
board , he began his 37-year banking career with Citigroup Inc.
in Hamburg in 1975, before joining the German lender in 1987 and
moving to  Asia . He held positions in Thailand,  Tokyo  and
Singapore, where he was executive director at the regional head
office in 1993. His time abroad gave him knowledge of foreign
markets and experience working with the companies that power
Germany’s export-driven economy.  He returned to Germany in 1997 as a member of the
divisional board for corporates and institutions and held posts
in global transaction banking and relationship management. In
2005, he was named CEO of Germany and began to oversee country
heads across the world.  Repairing Relations  He sits on the supervisory boards of German retailer  Metro
AG (MEO)  and glassmaker Schott AG, and is also a board member at the
Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations, which
represents German companies with interests in Russia and eastern
Europe. German executives on the board include Johannes Teyssen,
the CEO of utility EON AG, as well as Harald Schwager, a board
member at BASF SE, according to the group’s website.  Fitschen helped rehabilitate Deutsche Bank’s reputation in
Germany after corporate clients felt “neglected” by its
international expansion and focus on investment banking in the
1990s, said Horst Loechel, a professor of economics at the
Frankfurt School of Finance & Management.  Jain, born in Jaipur in Rajasthan state and educated in
India and the U.S., helped lead the investment-banking  expansion 
after joining in 1995 from Merrill Lynch & Co. He was picked to
run the combined debt and equity sales and trading unit in 2004
and named sole head of the investment bank in June of 2010,
assuming responsibilities for the corporate finance and
transaction banking units from Michael Cohrs, who retired.  Period of Transition  The corporate and investment bank under Jain accounted for
56 percent of revenue last year, 73 percent in 2010 and 67
percent in 2009, the year he joined Deutsche Bank’s management
board. Still, the division caused a  record loss  in 2008 after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and led to
Deutsche Bank missing its full-year targets in 2011.  Naming Fitschen alongside Jain may address concern that the
center of power at Deutsche Bank had shifted too much toward
investment banking and London from commercial and consumer
lending in Frankfurt. That said, Jain may ultimately get the top
job alone, said  Jon Peace , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
London. Deutsche Bank extended Jain’s contract by five years and
Fitschen’s by three years in July.  “If Jain can do well and grow into the role and show that
he can be the politician, I wouldn’t be surprised if you can see
quite an amicable retirement for Fitschen, and Jain becoming
sole CEO,” said Peace.  Mittelstand Clients  Jain made his influence felt in a boardroom shakeup in
March, said Mediobanca’s Wheeler. The company named three
investment bankers to the management board and pushed out two
executives considered close to Ackermann, risk chief Banziger
and Chief Operating Officer Hermann-Josef Lamberti. It will also
expand the group executive committee to 18 members from 12 next
month, adding bankers with whom Jain has worked closely.  Still, as Europe’s debt-crisis curbs trading, Deutsche
Bank’s business with the small and medium-sized companies known
as Germany’s Mittelstand may grow in importance. Net revenue in
Germany, before setting aside money for losses on loans, jumped
79 percent to 12.6 billion euros in 2011 from 7.04 billion euros
in 2005, when Fitschen took charge in the country.  Deutsche Bank has about 930,000 customers in Germany’s
Mittelstand, the typically family-owned firms with fewer than
500 staff that employ more than 60 percent of German workers and
contribute roughly half of the country’s GDP.  ‘Radically Changing’  Higher capital requirements are also making some
investment-banking businesses less profitable. Banks worldwide
will be required to hold common equity of at least 7 percent of
risk-weighted assets by 2019 when new rules from the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision take full effect. Firms deemed
systemically important, such as Deutsche Bank, will need more.  “The financial services industry is radically changing
because of regulation and Fitschen is the right person along
with his partner to take Deutsche Bank to the next phase,” said
Fred Irwin, an executive at Citigroup in Germany who has known
him for 28 years, since their days together at the  U.S. bank .  Fitschen and Jain declined to be interviewed for this story,
said spokesman  Ronald Weichert  in Frankfurt.  Ackermann’s succession didn’t go smoothly. The bank decided
in 2009 to extend his term for three years after the supervisory
board failed to agree on a replacement. The 64-year-old CEO
later sought to become chairman of the supervisory board, a move
that would have run counter to German corporate governance rules,
before changing his mind. The Swiss native has since decided to
become chairman of  Zurich Insurance Group AG. (ZURN)   Increasing Profits  Ackermann led Deutsche Bank through the financial crisis of
2008 without direct government aid. The share price  declined  58
percent during his decade in charge, compared with a 68 percent
 drop  in the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
over the same period.  Deutsche Bank had co-CEOs three times in the 1960s, 1970s
and 1980s. Profit on average doubled during the three periods of
dual leadership as Deutsche Bank’s size by assets grew by two-
thirds on average, according to company reports.  The first duo was from April 1967 to the end of 1969 with
Karl Klasen and Franz Heinrich Ulrich. Shares more than doubled
from the beginning of 1967 to the end of 1969 as they tackled
fallout from Germany’s first recession since World War II, which
began in 1966.  Klasen, a northern German like Fitschen whose roots were in
shipping, held the post for less than three years before
becoming the president of Germany’s Bundesbank, according to
biographies on the website of the Historical Association of
Deutsche Bank.  Prisoner of War  Ulrich, who was severely wounded as a soldier under the
Nazi regime and interned in a British prisoner of war camp,
stayed on as sole CEO until 1976, helping to found the company’s
DWS mutual fund unit and open the first foreign post-World War
II branch in London.  The second and longest-serving duo was Wilfried Guth and F.
Wilhelm Christians, who co-led the bank from May 1976 to May
1985. The stock gained 176 percent from the beginning of 1976 to
the end of 1985. Guth, also a POW who later studied at the
London School of Economics, represented the tight-knit corporate
landscape dubbed Germany Inc. with supervisory board roles at
Daimler-Benz AG, Siemens AG and Allianz. During his tenure he
received advice from his uncle, German Economy Minister and
Chancellor Ludwig Erhard.  Herrhausen Murdered  Christians, a trained lawyer and art fan, was known as a
“foreign minister” of Deutsche Bank, promoting East-West
relations and helping realize the first German-Soviet natural
gas pipeline business. He also promoted Mittelstand companies
listing on the stock exchange to boost capital and the
acceptance of stocks as investments.  Christians stayed on as CEO for three years as part of the
third duo with his new co-head Alfred Herrhausen between May
1985 and May 1988. The shares rose 47 percent between the start
of 1985 and end of 1988.  Herrhausen, who served three years with Christians before
serving as sole head for another year, helped build Deutsche
Bank’s international business in the Americas, Australia and
 South Africa  and eagerly took “political positions,” including
advising the government on reforming Germany’s financial system
as well as debt relief for third-world countries.  ‘Recipe for Conflict’  He was killed in November 1989 when a road-side bomb placed
on a bike penetrated his armored car. The murder was never
solved.  Not everyone is optimistic about the new co-CEO arrangement.
A power struggle between Fitschen and Jain could compromise
Deutsche Bank’s ability to formulate an effective strategy, said
Wheeler at Mediobanca, who has a sell rating on Deutsche Bank.  “It might work in the short-term but it is a recipe for
conflict, especially in finance,” said Wheeler. “It is very
difficult, particularly in investment banking because it is a
business that is all about having strong views. Without that it
is difficult making a living in the business. That means
compromise is sometimes quite difficult.”  Beginning tomorrow, Deutsche Bank investors will be
watching to see whether the co-heads can work together. Until
now, their rivalry has been limited to sports.  Fitschen joked last month that he challenged Jain to a
best-of-five competition in soccer, table tennis, golf, cricket
and handball. The catch being that the German believes he can
best Jain, a cricket fan and avid golfer, at three of the five
sports.  “People that underestimate him would be making a
mistake,” said Citigroup’s Irwin, who also heads the American
Chamber of Commerce in Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  