-- FIX Publishes European Standards for Reporting Trading
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-05-29T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/fix-publishes-european-standards-for-reporting-trading.html
FIX Protocol Ltd.,  the London-based
organization that owns the global messaging format for financial
trading, published a set of European guidelines on how banks
should report their equity trades.  Brokers and banks should tag their trades using FIX’s
standards so fund managers can tell on which exchange or
alternative trading system the order has been executed, FIX said
in a statement today. The protocol would also enable them to see
whether the transaction occurred in a so-called dark pool, where
prices aren’t publicly disseminated, or a lit market.  The guidelines follow requests from fund managers seeking
transparency on where and how their trades were executed as
market structure and trading practices grow more complex,
according to FIX. Since the Markets in Financial Instrument
Directive legislation was introduced in 2007 to spur
competition, volume has spread across alternative venues such as
Bats Chi-X  Europe  that vie with  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ,
Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   “The quality of venue information from the brokers has
been very patchy and inconsistent,” Chris Sims, co-chair of the
EMEA Business Practices Subcommittee at FIX, said in an
interview. “The standards work kicked off in the U.S. We have a
common global standard and it’s a nice straightforward read now.
It was a painful process before.”  Trade Flags  The guidelines should also flag whether a trade was agency,
on behalf of a customer, or principal, on behalf of a bank’s own
account, and whether it was executed passively, by posting
liquidity, or aggressively, by taking liquidity, Sims said.
Under the Mifid rules, markets and brokers are permitted to
report transactions to any exchange, venue or third party, or
publish it on their own website. The European Union is now
reviewing the legislation.  “We welcome all industry initiatives designed to provide
the buy side with greater transparency over how and where their
orders were executed,” Guy Sears, a director at the Investment
Management Association, said in an e-mailed statement. “As the
equity markets become ever more complex, algorithmic trading
strategies are increasingly used by brokers in the quest for
best execution. Buy-side firms need to understand how their
liquidity interacts in the markets.”  Piecemeal data also complicate attempts to benchmark the
performance of traders executing orders for pension and mutual
funds, analysts including Simmy Grewal with Boston-based Aite
Group LLC in  London , have said.  The lack of a common source of data has frustrated issuers
who may not know where their shares are trading. It has also led
to double- and triple-counting of volume in some segments as
primary markets such as the LSE lost their role as a funnel for
information, according to Grewal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  