-- Three of Six German States Say Inflation Rates Eased in May
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-29T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/german-state-of-hesse-says-inflation-rate-held-steady-in-may.html
Inflation eased in three German
states in May.  Inflation slowed in Brandenburg, Saxony and North Rhine-
Westphalia, was unchanged in Hesse and Baden-Wuerttemberg and
quickened in Bavaria, reports from the states’ statistics
offices showed. Consumer prices in all six states fell from a
month earlier.  Economists forecast that  German inflation , calculated using
a harmonized European Union method, will remain at 2.2 percent
this month, the median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey  shows. The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will
release that report, based on data from the six states, later
today.  Inflation pressures are abating after oil prices dropped
and as speculation about a Greek exit from  Europe ’s monetary
union curbs confidence among companies and households, damping
the economic outlook. At the same time, German unemployment at a
two-decade low and rising wages are bolstering  consumer
spending .  “Energy prices have decreased, also on a year-on-year
basis, which explains why German inflation might not increase in
the short term,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro
Bank NV in Amsterdam. Still, “ core inflation  will go up” due
to the relatively robust economy and tight labor market, she
said.  Oil Prices  The price of oil has dropped almost 14 percent this month
and is now 11 percent lower than it was a year ago. In Hesse,
household energy costs were up 5.6 percent in the year and down
0.4 percent in the month. Fuel was 3.8 percent cheaper than in
April. In North Rhine-Westphalia, the price of butter dropped 9
percent in the month and 22 percent in the year.  While  Germany ’s economy expanded a better-than-forecast 0.5
percent in the first quarter, helping to keep the euro area as a
whole out of recession, reports last week showed German business
confidence fell in May and manufacturing contracted at the
fastest pace in almost three years.  Concern about  Greece ’s future in the euro region mounted
after elections this month failed to produce a government and
saw support grow for parties opposed to austerity measures. A
second ballot will be held on June 17.  The  European Central Bank , which will present new inflation
forecasts in June, currently expects the euro-area rate to drop
below its 2 percent limit early next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  