-- Global Bond Sales Behind 2011’s Pace in Crisis
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-05-29T16:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/global-bond-sales-behind-2011-s-pace-in-crisis.html
Company bond offerings worldwide have
fallen behind the pace set in 2011 after a record first quarter
fizzled out amid  Europe ’s escalating debt crisis and a U.S.
slowdown.  Sales of $1.63 trillion this year compare with the $1.73
trillion for the same period of 2011, even after Hartford,
Connecticut-based  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  last week issued the
most bonds in the U.S. since 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. As recently as the end of April, offerings were ahead
of last year.  Volatility measures surged this month as an inconclusive
first round of elections in Greece deepened concern the nation
will exit the euro, destabilizing the global banking system and
punishing riskier assets such as equities and corporate debt.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development left
its 2012 growth forecast for the 34-member group at 1.6 percent
as the euro crisis worsens.  “The drivers of this new-issue bust are asset managers,”
said Timothy Cox, executive director of debt capital markets at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “Investors are
demanding new-issue concessions which is putting treasurers off,
because there’s uncertainty about what’s going on in the global
economy.”  Default Risk  The Markit CDX  North America  Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, has climbed 22 basis
points this month to 116.8 basis points as of 11:54 a.m. in New
York, poised for the biggest jump since increasing by 30 in
September, Bloomberg data show. European benchmark gauges
reached a five-month high last week.  “If you have volatile conditions, one important hindrance
to issuance comes on the investor side,” said Chiraag Somaia, a
London-based credit strategist for Credit Suisse Group AG. “In
the current environment, you can envisage a scenario where cash
bond spreads widen further.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Danone SA, the world’s largest
yogurt maker, plans to issue 10-year bonds in its first dollar-
denominated offering in more than eight years. The sale from the
provider of Danone yogurt and Evian water will be of benchmark
size, typically at least $500 million, with proceeds going
toward general corporate purposes, according to a person
familiar with the offering. Paris-based Danone last offered debt
in the U.S. in February 2004, selling $30 million of 2.08
percent two-year bonds, Bloomberg data show.  European iTraxx  Bonds of  United Technologies  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
53 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:55 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings declined 0.2 basis
point to 169.8 basis points as of 4:54 p.m. in  London . The index
reached 182.7 on May 18, the highest level since Dec. 19.  The Markit CDX North America and iTraxx Europe indexes
typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates and fall as
it improves. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Defensive Stance’  Bond offerings from the U.S. to Europe and  Asia  this month
of $242.1 billion compare with $430.6 billion in all of May
2011, Bloomberg data show.  Sales in the first four months of the year of $1.38
trillion were up from $1.33 trillion in the same period of 2011,
building on the quarterly record of $1.18 trillion set in the
first three months of 2012.  Issuance is slowing even as global yields -- at 3.43
percent on May 25 -- hover just above this year’s low of 3.29
percent set May 8, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate index.  The extra yield investors demand to hold corporate bonds
rather than Treasuries expanded 23 basis points this month to
230 basis points, from this year’s low of 194 on March 20.  “Events of the past week reinforced our current defensive
stance on the credit markets,” Barclays Plc analysts Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff in New York wrote in a May 25 research
note.  Greek Elections  Greece  is headed for a second round of elections in June as
investors consider the possibility of the country leaving the
17-nation single currency. The region’s leaders failed to agree
on joint euro-area bonds to spur the economy in a meeting in
Brussels last week.  In the U.S., companies placed fewer orders for computers,
machinery and other capital equipment in April for a second
month. Bookings for non-military goods excluding aircraft fell
1.9 percent after dropping 2.2 percent in March, the first back-
to-back decline in a year, the Commerce Department said May 24.  Investors pulled $3.05 billion from junk-bond funds
globally in the week ended May 23, the most since August,
according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. U.S.
funds recorded the most outflows, with $1.97 billion leaving
portfolios that buy speculative-grade debt. Investment-grade
funds had inflows of $4.89 billion.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or the
 VIX (VIX) , an estimate of future stock-market volatility, reached
21.76 at the end of last week, after touching this year’s high
of 25.14 on May 18. The index is up from 17.15 on April 30. The
index was at 22.05 as of 11:57 a.m. in New York.  “It has increased in the last month and that means
investors demand a higher  risk premium ,” said Jerry Cudzil,
head of U.S. credit trading at TCW Group Inc., which oversees
$128 billion in assets.  United Technologies  United Technologies, the maker of Sikorsky helicopters and
Pratt & Whitney engines, raised $9.8 billion on May 24 as it
sold its first bonds in more than two years in the largest U.S.
dollar-denominated sale since Pfizer Inc. raised $13.5 billion
in March 2009. The yields it paid were higher than where its
existing notes were trading.  Investment-grade companies that issued $16.2 billion of
debentures last week paid an average 21 basis points more in
relative yields than investors accepted for their outstanding
bonds with similar maturities, according to Barclays data.  “We know that the calendar is there, and issuers have to
come to market,” Cudzil said. Some companies “have decided to
postpone their deal until volatility subsides,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  