-- Google Chromebook Gets Faster Speeds, Intuitive Software
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-29T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/google-chromebook-gets-faster-speeds-intuitive-software.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is upgrading Chromebook
laptops with faster speeds and a new user interface that’s more
reminiscent of traditional personal computers as the company
steps up its efforts to take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Microsoft Corp.  The laptops made by Samsung Electronics Co. will let users
navigate Web-based applications more easily by providing tools
for accessing Gmail or other software outside the browser, said
Sundar Pichai, a senior vice president at Mountain View,
California-based Google. The devices, which use faster Intel
Corp. chips, are about three times as quick as the first
generation of Chromebooks, he said.  “It’s a journey for us, but we’re committed to it for the
long run,” Pichai said. “It’s a big jump forward.”  Google, already competing in the market for smartphones
with its Android software, is trying to woo consumers and
businesses with Web-centric laptops while challenging  Microsoft (MSFT) 
and Apple. Google announced Chrome OS software in 2009 and
manufacturers that include  Acer Inc. (2353)  began offering the
computers last June.  The latest Chromebooks include a bar across the bottom of
the screen that lets users access Web applications, similar to
what’s available on Mac or Windows machines. Meanwhile, in the
next several weeks, Google’s document service will be available
for editing even when users aren’t connected to the Internet.  Other improvements include built-in features for viewing
Microsoft Office software, such as Word and Excel files. Users
will also be able to easily access remote Windows computers,
Pichai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  