-- Greek Euro Exit Aftershocks Risk Reaching China
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-05-29T16:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/greek-exit-aftershocks-risk-reaching-china.html
Greece, responsible for  0.4 percent 
of the world economy, now poses a threat to international
prosperity as investors raise bets its days using the euro are
numbered.  A Greek departure from the currency would inflict
“collateral damage,” says Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Richard Clarida , a view echoed by economists from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase & Co. At worst, it
could spur sovereign defaults in Europe as well as bank runs,
credit crunches and recessions that may spark more euro exits.  Global trade and financial ties mean the pain wouldn’t be
confined to the euro area. JPMorgan Chase estimates a 1
percentage point slump in the euro countries’ economy drags down
growth elsewhere by 0.7 percentage point. Exporting nations from
the U.K. to China would suffer and commodity producer Russia
would face falling  oil prices . While the U.S. may fare better,
even it would feel echoes similar to the financial infection
following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “An awful lot depends on what is done to limit the
contagion within  Europe ,” Barry Eichengreen, a professor at the
University of California, Berkeley, and author of a 2006 history
of the European economy, said in a telephone interview. “If too
little is done then, to use a financial term, all hell breaks
loose. I can imagine things playing out that way.”  Base Case?  Citigroup Inc. economists, who earlier forecast departure
chances at as much as 75 percent, now are assuming as a “base
case” that Greece will leave on Jan. 1, 2013. BofA Merrill
Lynch strategists estimate the euro-region’s  gross domestic
product  would contract at least 4 percent in the recession that
follows, similar to the decline after Lehman’s 2008 collapse.  The euro would slide through $1.20 and Europe’s Stoxx 600
Banks Index would tumble below 110 points, from 123 yesterday,
according to BofA Merrill Lynch’s May 17 report.  Other crisis-torn countries, such as Portugal and Spain,
would incur higher borrowing costs. In Germany, perceived by
investors as a safe haven because of its stronger economy and
lower  debt , 10-year bund yields could fall to 1 percent, the
report said. If policy makers act decisively then bank stocks
and bonds in the so-called periphery could rally and exporters
could eventually benefit as the region stabilizes, it said.  Strategists at Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report
today that while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  would fall to
1,200 on a Greek exit, it could then jump by 20 percent if
officials were aggressive in providing liquidity and protecting
banks.  ‘Disaster’ for Some  “If you let Greece go you would be sending the message
that being a member of the euro zone is not necessarily
permanent, which could be a disaster for some countries,” said
 Laurence Boone , chief European economist at BofA Merrill Lynch
in London. Her primary scenario is that Greece remains within
the euro because of the high cost of the alternative.  The creditworthiness of governments and banks in Italy and
Spain, the euro area’s third and fourth-largest economies, would
be thrown into fresh doubt as traders shun their sovereign bonds
and pore over their financial institutions’ balance sheets, said
Yiannis Koutelidakis, an economist at Fathom Financial
Consulting in London.  Investors are signaling increased concern. The euro has
dropped about 5 percent in the past month against the dollar,
while the cost of insuring Spanish government and financial debt
reached a record this month. Germany, by contrast, last week
sold 5 billion euros ($6.3 billion) of two-year notes with a
zero-percent coupon for the first time.  Trade Impact  Beyond the euro area, major trading partners such as the
U.K., Switzerland and nearby emerging economies including
Romania’s could be hurt as demand slows. Their currencies
probably would rise against the euro, making exports less
competitive.  China ’s biggest investment bank says that nation
could see its weakest growth in more than two decades.  Even if the dollar surges, the U.S. may be more insulated
given signs of a rebound in its domestic economy -- at 8.1
percent in April, the  jobless rate  is down from a peak of 10
percent in October 2009 -- and the fact that just 13 percent of
its exports head to the euro area. Capital flooding into a
perceived safe haven may also hold down  interest rates .  Still, BofA Merrill Lynch estimates U.S. bond and stock
markets each account for a third of global capitalization,
leaving them prone to a European shock. Greek elections helped
wipe almost $3 trillion from worldwide equities this month.  ‘Greater Urgency’  If the  U.S. economy  is pulled down it may complicate
President Barack Obama’s re-election bid, said Eichengreen.
Obama said May 21 that what happens in Greece has an impact in
the U.S. and called for “greater urgency” from European
leaders.  “The election will turn on the economy and the economy is
significantly affected by Europe,” Eichengreen said. “The
longer it remains unresolved and the more volatility it creates
the worse it is for Obama.”  A splintering of the 13-year-old currency bloc might not
come to pass even if Greece next month elects parties
campaigning to reject the terms of the bailouts needed to pay
its bills, said  Jacob Kirkegaard , a fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington.  Cut Off  Such an event would probably cut the nation off from
outside aid, tipping Greece’s economy and financial system into
such chaos that the new government would fall within weeks, he
predicted. Credit Suisse analysts say a majority of Greeks back
staying in the euro, the costs of leaving for the country and
the rest of the euro region would be considerable and the single
currency is a political project.  “I will attach less than a 5 percent probability for an
actual Greek exit,” said Kirkegaard.  Continued membership may still cause headaches for the
world economy as Greece suffers political paralysis, a fifth
year of recession, the need to repay what it owes and the burden
of austerity goals. “Our best guess is they’re not leaving yet
and that this will be a story that will be discussed repeatedly
for more than another year,” said Jim O’Neill, chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management in London.  Still, some companies are bracing themselves. Jan du Plessis, chairman of London-based  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s
third-biggest mining company, said May 10 that any exit by
Greece “would destabilize the European economy to a significant
extent.” With sales to Europe accounting for 12 percent of
revenue last year, the region is “one of the many reasons why
our posture has to be cautious,” he told reporters in Brisbane.  Quarantine Pressure  If Greece does depart, the pressure would be on central
bankers and governments to quarantine it, said Lucrezia Reichlin, the  European Central Bank ’s former chief economist,
now a professor at London Business School. Governments would
quickly need to recapitalize weak banks and guarantee deposits
as the ECB provided emergency aid, she said in an interview.  Global central banks may also help out by pumping dollars
around the world and pursuing easier policies where they can,
said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Englewood, Colorado-
based forecasters IHS Inc. The  International Monetary Fund  has
already won pledges of new resources to help fight crises.  The cost of Greece exiting the euro would probably exceed
the 1 trillion euros previously estimated by the Institute of
International Finance, Managing Director  Charles Dallara  said in
a May 25 interview. That bill includes direct projected losses
from Greece’s  debt  and the need to protect Portugal, Ireland,
Spain and Italy, as well as money for reinforcing banks.  Beyond Europe  The channels of trade, confidence and finance would spread
the impact beyond Europe, according to Joseph Lupton, an
economist at JPMorgan Chase in  New York .  Euro-area imports account for 5 percent of global GDP,
Lupton estimates, so a 15 percent decline would drag down the
world economy by 0.5 percentage point.  Euro-area nation economies would be first to feel the
reverberations if Greece quits, given that about half their
exports go to each other. Already, data last week showed
declines in German business confidence as well as European
manufacturing and services output.  Mark Cliffe, the London-based global head of financial
markets research at ING Bank NV, calculates a Greek departure
would leave output in the rest of the euro region about 2
percentage points lower than otherwise, with Spain and Italy
suffering the most. A complete breakup of the euro would provoke
a cumulative GDP loss of more than 12 percentage points over two
years, he estimates.  Contagion Risk  Financial contagion is another damaging route, said
Fathom’s Koutelidakis. Investors could dump the bonds of cash-
strapped economies and pull money out of banks, tightening
credit.  Greece defaulting would raise the odds of Portugal
following, in turn setting off a domino chain that could leave a
total euro breakup “very much on the cards,” he said: “It is
foolhardy to assume a Greek exodus would be manageable.”  Greece’s exit could also spur bank runs and capital flight
in Europe’s peripheral countries as investors flee corporate
bankruptcies or try to escape redenomination of their accounts.
European banks alone hold $1.2 trillion of debt issued by Spain,
Portugal, Italy and Ireland, according to the Bank for
International Settlements in Basel.  Another financial threat, says Lupton at JPMorgan Chase, is
European banks pulling back some of the 5 trillion euros they
have overseas.  ‘Firing Line’  Beyond the euro area, Bulgaria and Romania are “first in
the firing line,” according to  Neil Shearing , chief  emerging
markets  economist at  Capital Economics  Ltd. in London. Romanian
exports worth 3.5 percent of GDP head to Greece and Greek banks
have a large presence in both nations. Hungary and the Czech
Republic each send shipments equivalent to more than 40 percent
of their GDP to the wider euro area.  Eastern European banks are also dependent on euro-country
parents for funding. Short-term credit lines are equivalent to
over 10 percent of GDP in Hungary, Croatia and Bulgaria.  Oil-producer Russia could suffer: Capital Economics
estimates Brent crude would fall to $95 a barrel as global
growth declined. OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender,
estimates Russia’s economy would contract 2.1 percent and banks
may lose $95 billion in capital in a worst-case scenario, while
the Center for Strategic Studies in Moscow says President
Vladimir Putin would risk increased political instability.  Threat to China  Greece quitting the euro could reduce China’s expansion to
6.4 percent this year, from 9.2 percent last year, if
international growth is dragged down by half as much as during
the 2008-2009 financial crisis and policy makers don’t offset
the pain, economists at China International Capital Corp. said
in a report last week.  Chinese exports, 19 percent of which go to the European
Union, slowed unexpectedly in April. They may fall 3.9 percent
this year if Greece leaves, compared with a 10 percent gain
without an exit, CICC projected.  A euro-region crisis would also mean a “renewed, deep
recession would be highly likely in  Hong Kong , Singapore,
Malaysia, Taiwan and Korea,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde ,
Singapore-based director of Asian economics at Credit Suisse,
said in a report today.  Such economies are key to the global supply chain and often
rely on trade for growth. Prior-Wandesforde calculated that
exports to the euro zone account for more than 5 percent of
total GDP in Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and
Taiwan. More than six percent of total domestic bank lending in
Singapore, Hong Kong, India and the Philippines was from the
euro area last year, he said.  Housing Market  As for the U.S., the hit to its  economy  from turmoil in
Europe may be 0.5 percentage point at the very most, said
Behravesh at IHS. In a sign that economy is on firmer footing,
data last week suggested the  housing market  is stabilizing.  Financial ties have diminished as the Greek travails have
lasted.  Fitch Ratings  says estimates U.S. money market funds
have about 15 percent of their assets there.  For Clarida, a former U.S. Treasury official and now a
global strategic adviser at Pimco, Greece leaving the euro may
be too much of a risk for Europe to take. In an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu, he said a
common view in mid-2008 was that a Lehman failure could be
managed.  “We saw how that turned out,” Clarida said. “The one
thing markets hate is making it up as you go along, and that’s
what we’d have with a Greek exit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  