-- Greek Exit From Euro Seen Exposing Deposit-Guaranty Flaws
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-05-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/greek-exit-from-euro-seen-exposing-deposit-guaranty-flaws.html
The threat of  Greece  exiting the euro
is exposing flaws in how banks and governments protect European
depositors’ cash in the event of a run.  National deposit-insurance programs, strengthened by the
European Union in 2009 to guarantee at least 100,000 euros
($125,000), leave savers at risk of losses if a country leaves
the euro and its currency is redenominated. The funds in some
nations also have been depleted after they were used to help
bail out struggling lenders, leading policy makers to consider
implementing an EU-wide protection plan.  “These schemes were not designed to deal with a complete
meltdown of a banking system,” said Andrew Campbell, professor
of international banking and finance law at the University of
Leeds in the U.K. and an adviser to the  International
Association of Deposit Insurers . “If there’s a systemic
failure, there needs to be some form of intervention.”  With European officials openly discussing a Greek exit from
the euro for the first time, savers in  Spain ,  Italy  and  Portugal 
may start to withdraw cash on concern that those countries will
follow Greece and their funds will be devalued with a switch to
a successor currency. None of those nations has the firepower to
handle simultaneous runs on multiple banks.  Pulling Deposits  Households and businesses pulled 34 billion euros from
Greek banks in the 12 months ended in March, 17 percent of the
country’s total, according to the ECB.  Deposits at banks in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and
Spain fell by 80.6 billion euros, or 3.2 percent from the end of
2010 through the end of March, ECB data show. German and French
banks increased deposits by 217.4 billion euros, or 6.3 percent,
in the same period. Bank-deposit data for April will be released
starting this week.  “Contagion fears might compel individuals in Portugal,
Ireland, Italy and Spain to withdraw bank deposits due to
concerns over solvency, redenomination, or otherwise,”  UBS AG (UBSN) 
Chief Investment Officer  Alexander Friedman  said in a May letter
to client advisers. “This could spark a major banking collapse,
requiring truly unprecedented action from the ECB.”  Even after boosting capital and building up liquidity
buffers of more than 1 trillion euros over the past two years,
lenders may be unable to survive a system-wide bank run without
political intervention, either in the form of a pan-European
deposit guarantee or an expanded bank-bailout facility, Jernej Omahen, an analyst at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in London, said
in a May 22 report to clients.  “An EU-wide deposit-guarantee fund may prove to be the
most important tool to preserve financial-market stability if
Greece were to leave the euro area,” said Tobias Blattner, an
economist at Daiwa Capital Markets in  London .  Hollande, Monti  European leaders discussed regionalizing deposit guarantees
as part of talks on reigniting growth in the euro area, EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said after a summit in Brussels on
May 24. French President  Francois Hollande  said after the
meeting that he and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  backed
the plan. European Central Bank Executive Board member Peter Praet called for a similar scheme on May 25 as part of a
financial union with one authority responsible for supervision
and resolution of cross-border banks.  Policy makers also may consider cutting  interest rates ,
buying more bonds through the EU’s Securities Market Program and
starting a third longer-term financing operation to stem
concerns that the currency may break up, Stefan Nedialkov, a
London-based analyst at Citigroup Inc. wrote in a May 17 note.  Argentine Crisis  Savers pulled 27 percent of deposits from  Argentina ’s banks
between 2000 and 2003 during a currency crisis, Nedialkov wrote.
If Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain follow a similar pattern,
about 340 billion euros could be withdrawn, he estimated.  Companies have already started to remove cash from southern
 Europe  as soon as they earn it. Many already are sweeping funds
daily out of banks in those countries and depositing it
overnight with firms in the U.K. and northern Europe, according
to David Manson, head of liquidity management at Barclays Plc in
London, who advises company treasurers.  “There is a spectrum of perceived risk, which starts with
Greece on one end and  Germany  and the U.K. on the other,”
Manson said. “Portugal, Italy and Spain are all somewhere in
the middle of that spectrum. This trend of sweeping deposits
north has been exacerbated by the current crisis.”  Redenomination Risk  EU policy makers last overhauled rules on deposit-guarantee
plans in 2009 after a global banking crisis exposed
discrepancies in the level of protection offered in different
countries. They raised the minimum amount insured to 100,000
euros a person from 20,000 euros. National governments were also
told to ensure that their programs were pre-funded with
contributions from lenders rather than topped up after a bank
collapses. The way lenders are charged for the funds and how
much they have to pay varies from nation to nation.  No provision was made for the possibility that a country
would leave the euro, said two people involved in establishing
the rules who declined to be identified because the talks were
private. That provides little assurance to depositors concerned
that their savings in euros may be redenominated as well as that
banks may fail.  “For a pan-euro deposit-guarantee scheme to ‘firewall’
deposits in Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain following a
potential Greek exit, it needs to explicitly cover
redenomination risk as well,” Ronit Ghose, a Citigroup analyst
based in London, wrote in a May 25 report. That would cost more
than 150 billion euros, he estimated.  ‘Longer-Term Project’  The European Commission said in a July 2010 report that a
pan-European deposit guarantee would be cheaper and more
effective than individual national facilities, though legal
issues made it a “longer-term project” to be reviewed by 2014.  The EU currently is weighing plans to force national
governments to ensure that a minimum amount of money is
immediately available to stabilize a bank in the event of a run.
Under the proposals, to be published by the commission June 6,
funds would be raised through annual contributions by banks.
Lenders could be tapped for further financing in an emergency,
then national central banks, before governments would be obliged
to lend to each other as a last resort.  Member states  could merge these requirements with existing
national arrangements to guarantee  bank deposits , and would also
be required to pool financial resources when a cross-border bank
is on the point of failure, according to a draft of the plans
obtained by Bloomberg News on May 25.  Depleted Funds  In the meantime, concern is rising that existing national
funds may struggle to honor their guarantees should the crisis
worsen and sovereign borrowing costs remain elevated. Yields on
10-year Italian  government bonds  have jumped 1.09 percentage
points to 5.77 percent from a March 9 low for the year. Their
Spanish equivalents have increased 1.45 percentage points to
6.45 percent over the same period.  “Guarantees are still provided locally, by governments and
agencies that have credit risk, reducing the value of the
insurance,” Jonathan Glionna, a London-based analyst at
Barclays, wrote in a May 22 note to clients.  Spain has dipped into its guarantee fund, which stood at
6.6 billion euros in October, to cover loan losses for buyers of
failed banks. It used the facility to inject 5.25 billion euros
into Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo when it agreed to sell it
to Banco Sabadell SA in December. The deposit-guarantee program
will also reimburse the bank-rescue fund for the 953 million
euros it paid for a stake in Unnim Banc, which was sold to  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)  The country had 931.2 billion
euros of deposits at the end of March, according to ECB data.  Politically Difficult  Italy’s deposit-insurance program is still unfunded, with
banks pledging to contribute if and when necessary. Silvia
Lazzarino De Lorenzo, a spokeswoman for Roberto Moretti,
chairman of the Interbank Deposit Protection Fund, declined to
comment. The country had 1.1 trillion euros of deposits at the
end of March, ECB data show.  Portugal has a deposit fund of 1.4 billion euros collected
from banks through annual contributions, according to Barclays.
The country’s total deposits stood at 164.7 billion euros at the
end of March, according to the central bank.  One option for an EU-wide insurance plan would involve
Europe’s largest banks contributing 107 billion euros, or 1.5
percent of eligible deposits, to a fund over 10 years, according
to proposals by Dirk Schoenmaker and  Daniel Gros  of the Centre
for European Policy Studies, a Brussels-based research group.  Implementing such a program wouldn’t be difficult
technically because it would be only a matter of harmonizing
existing standards, said Simon Gleeson, a financial-services
lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP in London.  “The real difficulty is that domestic consumers in
countries like Germany will be forced to pony up for the
failures of foreign banks,” Gleeson said. “That makes it
politically very difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  