-- Greek Opinion Poll Shows Majority Want Revised Terms
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-05-30T10:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/greek-opinion-poll-shows-majority-want-revised-terms.html
Most Greeks want to see the terms of
an international financial rescue revised even as they
acknowledge that failing to abide by them may lead to the
country exiting the  euro , an opinion poll showed.  Seventy-seven percent of the 1,600 Greeks surveyed by GPO
SA said the terms of the bailout should be revised. More than
half, or 52.4 percent, said they should stay in the euro if they
were forced to accept the current austerity measures tied to the
bailout, while 44.5 percent said they shouldn’t. Eighty-one
percent said they wanted to remain in the single currency. The
survey was broadcast on Athens-based Mega TV today.  The findings suggest the June 17 election may still cast
doubt on  Greece ’s place in the 17-nation euro area. While the
New Democracy party, which supported the international rescue of
the country earlier in the year in return for austerity
measures, placed ahead of anti-bailout party Syriza, the
difference between the two parties remained within the margin of
error.  New Democracy  had 23.4 percent support compared with 22.1
percent for Syriza, according to the survey. The error margin
was 2.6 percentage points. Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras
advocates unilaterally canceling the austerity measures demanded
for the bailout, with an agenda of renegotiating the rescue
terms.  Political Instability  The cuts required for 240 billion euros ($300 billion) of
aid have driven the country into the worst recession since World
War II. Polls since the inconclusive May 6 vote have shown
Syriza challenging the New Democracy party for first place. Both
parties would need to team up with others to form a government,
with the prospect of more political instability fueling concern
the country could run out of money as soon as early July and
leave the euro.  Stocks (MXAP)  dropped today, the euro weakened to a two-year low
and  Spain ’s default risk rose to a record as the country
struggled to recapitalize its banks. Italian bonds stayed lower
after a debt sale, while oil headed for its biggest monthly
decline in almost four years. The Athens benchmark general index
fell 2.4 percent at 12:40 p.m. in Athens to 515.41.  International inspectors won’t visit Greece for a review
that allows funds to be paid until a government is formed.
Pasok, which also supported the bailout in an interim government
with New Democracy, had 13.5 percent support, the poll showed.  U.S. Support  Lael Brainard, the U.S. Treasury undersecretary for
international affairs, said after a visit to  Athens  that the
U.S. recognizes the sacrifices the Greek people are making.  “The Greek people have been undertaking important reforms
to restore competitiveness and a sustainable fiscal position,”
Brainard said, according to a transcript of her comments e-
mailed today from the U.S. embassy in Athens. “We stand with
the people of Greece as they stand by their commitments to
continue the path of reform.”  Brainard met in Athens yesterday with Socialist Pasok
leader  Evangelos Venizelos , New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras
and caretaker Finance Minister Giorgios Zanias, on the first leg
of a European tour that will include visits to Paris,  Madrid ,
 Frankfurt  and Berlin.  The GPO poll showed Greeks divided on whether they would
leave the euro area, with 48 percent saying there was a low
possibility compared with 45 percent saying the possibility was
high.  A third of those surveyed said New Democracy was ready to
take over government of the country, compared with 16 percent
who said Syriza was. Fifty-seven percent said they believed New
Democracy would win the elections.  Exit Costs  Greece’s exit from the euro currency would lead to an
immediate and significant drop in  living standards  for Greeks,
 National Bank of Greece SA , the country’s biggest bank, said in
a report published yesterday.  Per-capita income would drop by at least 55 percent in euro
terms as a new currency would depreciate by about 65 percent,
according to the report, e-mailed from the bank.  The recession would deepen by about 22 percent at stable
prices, adding to the 14 percent recorded in the 2009 to 2011
period, National Bank said. Unemployment would jump to 34
percent and inflation rise to above 30 percent, pushed up by the
higher cost of imported goods, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  