-- Goldman’s Blankfein to Testify at Gupta Trial, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/gupta-tries-to-sow-doubt-at-trial-about-folgers-sale-leak.html
Lloyd Blankfein ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s chief executive officer, will testify at the insider-
trading trial of the bank’s former director  Rajat Gupta , a
prosecutor said.  With jurors briefly out of the courtroom yesterday,
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff in Manhattan that prosecutors would call Blankfein as
their next-to-last witness before wrapping up about June 6.
Brodsky didn’t say what Blankfein would testify about.  Blankfein testified at last year’s trial of Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, to whom Gupta is accused of
leaking inside information. Rajaratnam was convicted and
sentenced to 11 years in prison. Gupta denies wrongdoing.  At Rajaratnam’s trial, Blankfein said Gupta violated
Goldman Sachs’s confidentiality policies by allegedly telling
Rajaratnam about the firm’s strategic plans.  “We don’t want information about our company to get
outside before the time is appropriate,” Blankfein testified on
March 23, 2011.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on Blankfein as a witness in Gupta’s trial.  Defense attorney  Gary Naftalis  identified likely defense
witnesses, listing Gupta family members and Gupta’s personal
assistant. Naftalis also said he planned on reading deposition
testimony from  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) ’s reinsurance chief,  Ajit Jain , a close friend of Gupta’s. Naftalis said he didn’t know
yet whether Gupta will testify on his own behalf.  Berkshire Deal  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is on
trial for leaking tips about Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) , where he was also a director. One of the alleged tips
involved a Berkshire Hathaway investment in Goldman Sachs.
Prosecutors say Gupta tipped Rajaratnam after learning about the
deal in a Goldman Sachs board meeting at 3:55 p.m. on Sept. 23,
2008.  Rajaratnam and Gupta are the biggest figures caught in a
nationwide insider-trading probe. Gupta, who has pleaded not
guilty, is charged with conspiracy and securities fraud, which
carries a maximum 20-year prison sentence.  Much of the afternoon yesterday was devoted to testimony
from another Goldman Sachs executive, Stephen Pierce, who in
2008 was head of  equity capital markets  for the Americas and put
together the secondary stock offering that followed the
Berkshire investment. He is now global head of equity capital
markets.  ‘Janitorial Closet’  Pierce told jurors that he was at a  New York  Yankees game
on Sept. 21, 2008, two days before Berkshire invested, when he
fielded an urgent call from his boss,  David Solomon . Seeking
privacy at the ballpark, he said he took the call “in a
janitorial closet.”  Pierce said he rushed to his office and began mapping
strategy with an associate for raising $10 billion. Seeking to
maintain confidentiality, the group gave the capital-raising
project a code name, Pierce said.  “It was Project Lotus,” he testified.  At around 11:30 a.m. on Sept. 23, 2008, Pierce said he was
told the “extremely confidential” news about the Berkshire
investment. With Buffett on board, Pierce’s job was now to put
together a secondary offering worth at least $2.5 billion, he
said.  “To have  Warren Buffett  agree to put $5 billion in Goldman
Sachs was a vote of confidence,” he said.  ‘Wall-Cross Process’  News of Berkshire’s investment and the stock offering
wouldn’t be made public for about six hours. To find investors,
Pierce said he used a “wall-cross process:” Goldman Sachs’s
sales heads were allowed to brief clients, mostly mutual funds,
about the confidential deal so long as the sales chiefs and
clients agreed not to trade on the news before it became public.  “There was quite a bit of interest” in the offering,
Pierce said. “Ultimately, we’d set out to raise $2.5 billion
and the demand was in excess of $20 billion.”  Through their questioning, prosecutors and the defense
highlighted different aspects of Pierce’s testimony. Because
Goldman Sachs didn’t contact clients until 4:45 p.m., which was
about 50 minutes after Galleon began buying Goldman Sachs
shares, prosecutors sought to bolster their claim that Gupta was
Rajaratnam’s source, and not a Goldman Sachs client.  In his cross-examination of Pierce, defense attorney  David
Frankel  emphasized that at least five people were copied on e-
mails about how the firm planned to handle the secondary
offering, hours before Gupta knew of it. The defense has said
Rajaratnam’s source was another Goldman Sachs employee.  ‘Pays Off’  Pierce, for one, sent an e-mail to his wife and to his
lawyer at 5:08 p.m., before the deal was public. “Watch the
tape, hard work pays off,” Pierce wrote in an e-mail Frankel
showed jurors.  Frankel asked if this was before the start of the secondary
offering.  “This was before the public announcement,” Pierce
replied.  The deal became public at 5:49 p.m. Minutes later, Pierce’s
lawyer wrote to him, “I am psyched for u stud. Well done, well
done.”  Before Pierce testified, a government witness told jurors
that Gupta joined a Galleon executive on a marketing trip to the
 Middle East  and was going to be named by Rajaratnam to be
chairman of a Galleon investment fund. Prosecutors offered the
evidence to illustrate the close business relationship between
the two men and to provide a motive for Gupta’s alleged leaks.  ‘Startling Investment’  “He was going to be helping Galleon meet prospective
investors,” Ayad Alhadi, a former Galleon marketing executive,
said of a two-day trip he and Gupta took to the  United Arab
Emirates  beginning on March 31, 2008. Before that trip, Alhadi
said he sent an e-mail to a banker in  Switzerland  calling Gupta
“a friend and adviser to Galleon.”  Alhadi also told jurors about a meeting in Rajaratnam’s
office on March 28, 2008, where the Galleon co-founder said
Gupta, who was present, “would be the new chairman of Galleon
International” and responsible for investments outside the U.S.  “I think I congratulated him,” Alhadi said. Gupta may not
have been officially named chairman of the fund, Alhadi said.  Alhadi testified that after the trip, one of the sovereign
wealth funds he and Gupta met with on their Middle East trip
agreed to invest $25 million in a Galleon fund and pledged to
invest another $50 million four days after meeting them again at
Galleon’s office in New York. Alhadi described this development
in an e-mail to his superiors as “a startling investment.”  Among defense witnesses named by Naftalis were Rick Schutte, Galleon’s former U.S. president; Richard Feachem,
former executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis & Malaria; and Gregory Orman, Gupta’s financial
adviser.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  