-- Miami Hedge Fund Misled Clients About Managers’ Stake, SEC Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-29T17:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/miami-hedge-fund-misled-clients-about-managers-stake-sec-says.html
A Miami-based hedge fund and two of
its executives agreed to pay almost $3 million to resolve U.S.
regulatory claims that they deceived investors about their own
stake in the fund and failed to disclose conflicts of interest.  Quantek Asset Management LLC falsely represented that it
had “skin in the game” along with investors in a $1 billion
Latin America-focused hedge fund from 2006 to 2008, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said today in an
administrative order. Quantek, which made the claims in due
diligence questionnaires and so-called side-letter agreements,
also didn’t properly disclose loans to one of the executives and
its former parent company,  Bulltick Capital Markets Holdings LP ,
the SEC said.  The SEC formed a specialized enforcement unit in 2010 to
root out investor abuses by  hedge funds , focusing in part on
whether investment advisers were using a lack of regulatory
oversight to conceal conflicts of interest, performance and
preferential treatment for certain clients. Under the Dodd-Frank
financial regulatory law, thousands of investment firms were
required to register with the SEC this year, making them subject
to regular inspections.  “Private fund investors are entitled to the unvarnished
truth about material information,”  Bruce Karpati , co-chief of
the SEC unit, said in a statement. “Quantek’s investors
deserved better than the misleading information they received in
marketing materials, side letters, and other fund documents.”  Side letters are agreements that some hedge-fund advisers
use to give certain investors privileges that other clients
don’t receive.  Barred From Industry  Javier Guerra, 41, who was the lead principal of Quantek,
also agreed to a five year bar from the securities industry, the
SEC said. Ralph Patino, 46, Quantek’s former director of
operations and head of compliance, consented to a one-year bar.
The agency also sanctioned Bulltick, which agreed to a pay a
$300,000 penalty.  Guerra said in a statement that he resigned in October 2011
after helping return about $260 million to investors from the
fund, which was forced to liquidate amid global financial market
turmoil.  “Prior to the financial crisis my part in the stewardship
of the fund helped it generate significant returns to
investors,” Guerra said. “When global markets plummeted, the
overwhelming majority of investors supported our liquidation
plan.”  Stanley Wakshlag, Patino’s attorney, said in an e-mail “We
are pleased to have resolved this matter and to have put it
behind us.”  Bulltick, which separated from Quantek in 2009, said in a
statement that the SEC didn’t allege any securities law
violations by any of its current personnel.  “The settlement with the SEC that is announced today
concludes the investigation as to Bulltick,” the company said
in the statement. “Bulltick cooperated fully with the SEC at
all times during the course of this investigation.”  Guerra, Patino, Quantek and Bulltick resolved the SEC’s
claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  