-- Miami Dolphins Will Be Focus of HBO Reality Show ‘Hard Knocks’
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-29T18:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/miami-dolphins-will-be-focus-of-hbo-reality-show-hard-knocks-.html
The  Miami Dolphins  agreed to
participate in the HBO Sports reality television show “Hard
Knocks” for the program’s seventh season in August.  The program will chronicle the Dolphins’ training camp and
preseason, also focusing on coach Joe Philbin’s rookie year in
the job, HBO Sports said in a statement.  “This marks the first time that the series has featured a
first-year head coach and we are extremely grateful to both
Coach Philbin and the entire organization for agreeing to
participate,” Ken Hershman, president of HBO Sports, said in
the statement.  The series debuted in 2001 with the Baltimore Ravens and
featured the  New York Jets  in 2010, the last time it was aired.
HBO skipped the show last year as the  National Football League 
and its players union worked out a new collective bargaining
agreement. Other teams involved in the series have been the
Dallas Cowboys (2002, 2008), Kansas City Chiefs (2007) and
Cincinnati Bengals (2009).  The Jets’ appearance two years ago drew criticism over
profanity used by coach  Rex Ryan  and other team members. New
York, which traded for popular quarterback  Tim Tebow  in March,
was approached by HBO about appearing again, the  Associated
Press  said this month, citing an anonymous person familiar with
the decision. The team declined because it wanted the players
not to be distracted while installing a new offensive system as
the Jets try to come back from an 8-8 season in which they lost
their last three games and missed the playoffs for the first
time under Ryan.  The  Atlanta Falcons  also turned down the chance to be
featured, AP said.  Celebrity Owners  Dolphins owner Stephen Ross has worked to infuse the
franchise into the entertainment world since taking a
controlling stake in the team in 2009. Singers Marc Anthony and
Gloria Estefan are part-owners, and singer Jimmy Buffett is a
business partner.  Miami went 6-10 last year and hasn’t made the playoffs
since the 2008 season. This year marks the 40th anniversary of
the Dolphins’ undefeated season capped by a Super Bowl title,
the only time that has been accomplished in NFL history.  “All the decisions that have been made this offseason have
had one guiding principle -- will it help our players and
organization reach its full potential?” Philbin said in a
statement. “This one is no different.”  “Hard Knocks” premieres Aug. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 