-- Iceland Property Bubble Grows With Currency Controls: Mortgages
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-05-30T12:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/iceland-property-bubble-grows-with-currency-controls-mortgages.html
Iceland’s crisis-management policies
are creating the island’s next property bubble less than four
years after its banking meltdown threw the economy into its
worst recession.  Prices for new homes touched a record last quarter, having
surged 40.1 percent since the final three months of 2010,
according to estimates by the National Registry of Iceland in
Reykjavik. Average  house prices  have risen 11.3 percent since
the market bottomed at the end of 2009, according to central
bank data at the end of the first quarter.  Currency controls imposed in 2008 and designed to protect
the island of 320,000 from a mass capital exodus are now
channeling funds into a market that is showing symptoms of
overheating and driving home-loan debt higher. Close to $8
billion in kronur are held by offshore investors unable to get
their money out of the country, according to Arion Bank hf
economist Thorbjorn Sveinsson. As the government signals
restrictions will remain until at least 2015, funds are flowing
into one of the few longer-term investment options: real estate.  “If the development continues without interference, this
will lead to a property bubble within the next two years,”
 Asgeir Jonsson , an economist at Reykjavik-based asset manager
Gamma, said in an interview. “There’s a greater risk of an
asset bubble being created in an economy that is closed off
behind capital controls.”  Outgrowing Europe  Iceland, whose 2008 banking default on $85 billion pushed
the economy into a recession that lasted through the first half
of 2010, is now outgrowing  Europe  and the U.S. Its gross
domestic product will expand 3 percent this year and 3.9 percent
in 2013, according to Arion. The economy of the 17 countries
sharing the euro will contract 0.3 percent in 2012 before
growing 1 percent in 2013, the European Commission said on May
11.  Much of Iceland’s recovery has rested with its
“unorthodox”  crisis management , according to  Fitch Ratings ,
which restored the island’s investment grade credit status in
February.  Iceland’s rebound is now being driven by household
spending, a team of Arion economists led by Sveinsson said in a
May 21 note. The central bank has raised borrowing costs four
times since August, bringing the benchmark  lending rate  to 5.5
percent. The bank signaled this month more tightening is needed
to cool the economy as inflation hovers well above its 2.5
percent target. Consumer prices grew an annual 6.4 percent in
April, Statistics Iceland said April 27.  Inflation Accelerates  Faster  inflation  is adding to risks in the housing market
as most mortgages are linked to the  consumer price index ,
meaning debt burdens swell as inflation accelerates. Household
debt grew to 270 percent of disposable incomes in 2010,
according to the latest figures available from the central bank.
That compares with 217 percent a year before the banks collapsed
and about 50 percent in the 1980s, according to the bank.  The island’s 1 trillion-krona ($7.6 billion) mortgage-bond
market is twice the size of its government debt, according to
estimates by Gamma. Bonds sold by Iceland’s Housing Financing
Fund make up 68 percent of the nation’s “liquid government
guaranteed  debt market ,” Gamma economist Valdimar Armann said
by phone. The yield on the benchmark 2044 HFF bond has slumped
about 80 basis points to 2.4 percent since the end of last year.  Many foreign investors bypass the mortgage bond market and
buy properties directly, Jonsson at Gamma said.  “Last year, investors finally realized that the  capital
controls  aren’t going anywhere any time soon,” Jonsson said.
“That has led to a change in investors perspective, and they’re
now moving in greater numbers into longer assets and snapping up
properties.”  Apartment Costs  An average apartment cost about 28 million kronur in May,
the National Registry of Iceland estimates. That compares with
12.4 million kronur in 2001. The average Icelandic household
earned about 4.4 million kronur in 2011, according to Statistics
Iceland.  “The exorbitant prices in the housing market, so early
after the collapse of the Icelandic economy, are quite
shocking,” said Finnur Eiriksson, a computer scientist living
in Reykjavik. “I’ve decided to stay in the rental market for
some time to come. For anyone that has been shopping around, the
drop in property prices after 2008 hasn’t been significant
enough.”  Iceland stunned the world with the scale of its 2008
banking meltdown, which sent the krona tumbling as much as 80
percent against the euro offshore in 2008.  Its rapid resurrection subsequently won accolades from
economists including Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman, who praised an
approach he termed “bankrupting yourself to recovery,” in an
opinion piece published in the  New York  Times in November 2010.  React to Bubble  Now, “the million-dollar question is whether the
authorities should do something to react to the bubble,” Olafur Isleifsson, an economics professor at Reykjavik University, said
in an interview. “For some time now it’s been expected that the
1 trillion kronur that’s locked in the market behind capital
controls would eventually find its way into the  property
market .”  Credit-default swaps protecting against losses on Icelandic
debt touched a four-month high this month, as investors signal
they’re growing wary of the risks lurking in the economy.  The cost to protect $10 million of the debt from losses for
five years rose to $292,515 annually, as of May 29, from
$199,570 last June, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  The difference in default swap rates between Iceland and
 Germany  widened to more than 210 basis points last week, the
widest spread in a month.  Increased Deficits  “It’s extremely important to reduce the government’s
reliance on borrowed funds, since increased deficits push up
domestic  interest rates  and thereby make investment plans of
private parties uncertain,” Finance Minister Oddny G. Hardardottir, said in a speech in parliament yesterday. Failure
to do so may lead to an increase in the country’s cost of
financing and pressure on the currency, she said.  The response from policy makers to the risk of a bubble is
likely to be to require banks to curb lending, according to
Jonsson at Gamma. That approach would still hurt homeowners, he
said.  “They could do that by forcing the banks to demand higher
equity from individual buyers, which would cool down the
market,” he said. “At the same time, the private individuals
would be the ones that would suffer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  