-- Lille’s Eden Hazard Says He’s Chosen to Join Chelsea Next Season
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-29T03:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/lille-s-eden-hazard-says-he-s-chosen-to-join-chelsea-next-season.html
Lille forward Eden Hazard, the two-
time player of the year in French soccer’s elite Ligue 1, said
that he’s joining European champion Chelsea.  “I’m signing for the  Champions League  winner,” Hazard, a
21-year-old Belgian international, said on his  Twitter account 
late yesterday.  Chelsea will pay Lille about 40 million euros ($50.1
million) for Hazard, who is set to sign a five-year contract
worth 9 million pounds ($14.1 million) a year, the Daily
Telegraph reported, without saying where it got the information.  Hazard, who scored 17 goals and had 15 assists for Lille in
37 league games last season, said earlier yesterday that he had
“made up my mind” about which club to join. He’d also been
linked with a move to  Manchester City  or  Manchester United  in
U.K. media reports and had previously said he would sign for one
of the Manchester clubs, without specifying which.  Hazard would become the fourth Belgian on Chelsea’s roster,
joining striker Romelu Lukaku, winger Kevin De Bruyne and
goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois.  Chelsea, owned by Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich ,
finished 25 points behind champion Manchester City in England’s
Premier League last season, though won the F.A. Cup and
Champions League.  Since winning its first European Cup title by beating
Bayern Munich in a penalty shootout on May 19, the London club
has released striker Didier Drogba, defender  Jose Bosingwa  and
forward Salomon Kalou, who all started the final.  Abramovich is yet to appoint a permanent manager to replace
Andre Villas-Boas, who was fired in March. Roberto Di Matteo was
named as interim manager for the final 11 weeks of the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  