-- Impact Services Sold Unit to Kurion Before Bankruptcy
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-29T15:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/impact-services-in-bankruptcy-sells-nuclear-unit-to-kurion.html
Impact Services Inc., the bankrupt
nuclear waste processor storing 1 million pounds of scrap
radioactive material at its Oak Ridge, Tennessee, facility, sold
a unit that stabilizes nuclear debris and soils to Kurion Inc.  Kurion, based in  Irvine ,  California , said in a statement
today that it bought the GeoMelt business May 16, a week before
Impact’s Chapter 7 filing for liquidation in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware . Impact listed less than
$10 million in assets and as much as $50 million in debt in
court papers.  With the purchase, Kurion gains access to vitrification --
the process of converting material into glass and “the ‘gold
standard’ by international regulators for waste stabilization
and isolation prior to disposal,” according to the statement.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Shannon ordered a status
conference for tomorrow and a meeting of Impact creditors is
scheduled for June 19.  Impact hasn’t produced complete financial data for its
bankruptcy case and has until next week to do so.  Meg Lockhart, spokeswoman for the Tennessee Department of
Environment and Conservation, said after the filing that Impact
“shut its doors” May 18 and the site is being closely
monitored. The company said in bankruptcy documents that the
low-level radioactive material presents no immediate health
hazard if properly stored.  In its statement, Kurion said that with the newly acquired
technology, it’s “well positioned for awards at a number of
sites,” including cleaning up the contaminated  Daiichi Nuclear
Power Plant  soils at Fukushima Prefecture in  Japan  and at
radioactive weapons complexes.  Impact Services, according to court records, is a unit of
Impact Holdings Inc., which in turn is owned by Southpaw Credit
Opportunity Master Fund LP of Greenwich,  Connecticut .  The case is In re Impact Services Inc., 12-11605, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  