-- Impala Platinum Gross Refined Platinum Output Fell 46%
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-05-29T15:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/impala-platinum-gross-refined-platinum-production-fell-46-.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the
world’s second-largest platinum producer, said third-quarter
output of the metal fell 46 percent as union rivalry and a pay
dispute prompted a six-week stay-away by workers.  “The strike resulted in significantly lower production at
Impala Rustenburg,” the Johannesburg-based company said. Costs
“were severely impacted by the strike,” it said.  Impala’s Rustenburg operation, the world’s biggest platinum
mine, lost more than 120,000 ounces of output in the strike that
started in mid-January. The stoppage was the main reason for
 South Africa ’s  economic growth  slowing to an annualized 2.7
percent in the first quarter from 3.2 percent in the previous
three months,  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  said in an e-mailed statement
today.  South Africa is the world’s largest producer of platinum,
used in devices that cut harmful vehicle emissions and to make
jewelry. Impala and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  produce more
than half of the world’s platinum.  Violent union rivalry in which a worker was shot stopped
the mine again for two days last week. The operation is expected
to return to full output next month, the company said.  The  National Union of Mineworkers , South Africa’s largest
miners’ union, has had 10,813 resignations at Rustenburg, Impala
said. The rival Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union claims it now has more than 8,000 members and has
approached the company for organizational rights, Impala said.  Output Decrease  A reduction of volume treated for third parties also cut
production at Impala Refining Services, it said. Gross refined
platinum output fell to 230,000 ounces in the three months
through March from a year earlier, while palladium declined 43
percent to 160,000 ounces and rhodium decreased 37 percent to
40,000 ounces.  Impala’s third-quarter production missed BMO Capital
Markets’ estimate for 266,000 ounces, analyst Edward Sterck said
in a note.  Impala said it increased the pay of rockdrill operators,
who started the strike in January.  Impala may look at a multi-union recognition agreement to
resolve labor issues at its Rustenburg mine in South Africa,
Chief Executive Officer  David Brown  said on an investors’ call
today. The Rustenburg mine produced about 64,000 ounces this
month and 50,000 in April, Paul Dunne, director of South African
operations, said on the call.  ‘Close to Balance’  The platinum market will probably be “close to balance”
this year while palladium is likely to move into a deficit,  Bob Gilmour , a spokesman for the company, said on the call.  The company’s  Zimplats (ZIM)  unit in  Zimbabwe  increased
production 7 percent to 45,000 ounces, Impala said. Its second
phase of expansion is on track to boost output to 270,000 ounces
of platinum in fiscal 2014.  Impala yesterday denied breaking the law after the central
bank ordered the company’s bankers to stop international
transactions, including the processing of export documentation,
until the company shifts its offshore accounts to the country.  The stock gained for a second day, adding 2.2 percent to
140.49 rand by the close in Johannesburg. Platinum for immediate
delivery rose 0.4 percent to $1,444 an ounce by 4:17 p.m. in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  