-- Goldman Sachs, P2 Funds to Buy Interline for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-29T20:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/interline-brands-to-be-bought-by-gs-capital-for-1-1-billion.html
Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.’s private-
equity unit and P2 Capital Partners LLC agreed to buy  Interline
Brands Inc. (IBI) , a distributor of janitorial, plumbing and lighting
products that went public in 2004, in a deal valued at $1.1
billion including debt.  Funds managed by GS Capital Partners and P2 Capital will
pay Interline shareholders $25.50 a share, 42 percent higher
than the closing price on May 25, according to a statement from
the Jacksonville, Florida-based company today. Interline may
solicit alternative proposals through June 28.  The deal would mark Interline’s return to private hands
after eight years. Formed as Wilmar Industries in 1978, the
company went public in 1996 and was purchased four years later
by an investor group including Parthenon Capital LLC, Chase
 Capital Partners , Chase Manhattan Bank and Sterling Investment
Partners LP in a cash deal valued at about $300.8 million. The
company raised $187.5 million in its public offering in 2004.  “Interline has operated successfully in both public and
private settings in the past,” said Michael J. Grebe,
Interline’s chairman and chief executive officer. “GS Capital
Partners and P2 Capital Partners have a shared vision of our
value creation opportunities and the actions needed to realize
them.”  Interline  soared  40 percent, the most since its IPO, to
$25.08 at the close of trading in  New York . The stock has gained
61 percent this year.  Plumbing and Lighting  Interline, which distributes products such as plumbing and
lighting fixtures and cleaning products, has operations
primarily in North and Central America and the Caribbean. Its
brands include AF Lighting, CleanSource janitorial and
sanitation products, and Hardware Express home and building
supplies, according to the company’s  website . The company has
grown through acquisitions such as the purchase of Barnett Inc.
in September 2000 and Florida Lighting in November 2003.  In addition to equity from funds managed by GS Capital
Partners and P2 Capital Partners, both based in New York,
members of Interline’s management plan to invest a portion of
their proceeds from the transaction, according to today’s
statement. The company’s board of directors approved the offer
and agreed it would pay GS Capital Partners and P2 Capital
Partners a termination fee of $13.9 million if it accepted a
better proposal during the so-called go-shop period, according
to a regulatory filing today.  Interline is being advised by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and receiving
legal advice from Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP.
Goldman Sachs is advising GS Capital Partners, and Fried, Frank,
Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP is acting as legal adviser. P2
Capital Partners is receiving legal advice from Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  