-- Lira Yields Fall on Bets Basci Getting More Dovish on EU Crisis
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-29T14:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/lira-yields-fall-on-bets-basci-getting-more-dovish-on-eu-crisis.html
Bond yields  in  Turkey  fell for a
second day on speculation that central bank governor Erdem Basci
is becoming more dovish on monetary policy amid rising concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is intensifying.  The yield on two-year benchmark debt retreated five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.40 percent at the 5 p.m.
close in Istanbul, the lowest since May 3. The lira strengthened
0.4 percent at 1.8305 per dollar, the highest level in a week.  The  central bank  said today it may tighten for shorter
periods under a variable interest rates policy, a change from
previous announcements that the bank may implement additional
monetary tightening more frequently.  “This means more funding at 5.75 percent and I can say the
central bank is slightly more dovish,” Sercan Kiliclar, a
fixed-income trader at  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  The central bank made the comments in a statement outlining
a decision to keep the interest rate corridor unchanged at
between 5.75 percent and 11.5 percent at a meeting of its
Monetary Policy Committee today. Basci has varied lending rates
to banks daily since October to support the lira and help stem
loan growth that has drawn in imports and widened the  current
account deficit  to a record.  The central bank provided 3 billion liras ($1.6 billion) of
funding to banks at 5.75 percent today, in a second day of
loosening after withholding funding at that lowest rate in the
previous five working days.  “Although the rhetoric has become slightly less hawkish,
we do not expect any material easing anytime soon,”  Yarkin Cebeci , economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul, said in
an e-mailed report to clients today. “The central bank has
become more confident on the disinflation process.”  Inflation may slow to about 8 percent this month from 11.1
percent in April, the highest in more than three years, Basci
said on May 18. The rate will remain “well above” the central
bank’s goal of 5 percent until the fourth quarter, the central
bank said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  