-- Iran’s Mehmanparast Says ‘Soft War’ Cyber Attacks to Fail
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-05-29T09:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/iran-s-mehmanparast-says-soft-war-cyber-attacks-to-fail-2-.html
Iran ’s Foreign Ministry said cyber-
attacks against the Islamic republic are launched by hostile
governments as part of a broader “soft war” and will fail.  “Illegitimate regimes are producing viruses” and “trying
to use the cyber space and this will not be really effective,”
 Ramin Mehmanparast , the ministry’s spokesman, told reporters in
Tehran. He was commenting in response to a question about
whether a newly detected virus, called Flame, had infected any
Iranian computer systems. The Islamic republic has never
recognized Israel as a legitimate state.  Iran, whose nuclear facilities and oil ministry have
previously been the target of virus attacks, accuses the U.S.
and Israel of trying to sabotage its technological progress. The
U.S. and  Israel  say the country’s nuclear activities may have
military intent, an allegation that Iran denies.  The Moscow-based information-technology security company
 Kaspersky Lab  said on its website that the creators of Flame are
seeking to collect information in some Middle Eastern countries
including Iran, Lebanon,  Syria  and Israel and the Palestinian
territories.  The software is a “highly sophisticated malicious program
that is actively being used as a cyber-weapon” and can steal
computer files, contact data and audio conversations, Kaspersky
said. “Its complexity and functionality exceed those of all
other cyber menaces known to date.”  ‘Various Measures’  Israeli Vice Prime Minister Moshe Yaalon, asked about
reports of a computer virus targeting Iranian computer systems,
said it is “reasonable that whoever sees the Iranian threat as
significant would use various measures, including this, in order
to hurt it.”  Yaalon, a former army chief, also told Israel’s Army Radio
today that “Israel is blessed as a country rich in advanced
technology, and these tools open to us all sorts of
possibilities.”  There are no sign of the virus in Palestinian computers and
the situation is being monitoring, Sabri Sidem, an adviser on
telecommunications to Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , said in an interview.  Almost two years ago, malicious software known as Stuxnet
impacted computer systems and several centrifuges used in Iran
to enrich uranium, Iranian officials said at the time. Stuxnet
may have been part of a campaign to disrupt Iranian nuclear
installations, international computer-security researchers have
said. In April, Iranian officials said they managed to contain a
cyber-attack that targeted the country’s crude industry and
caused computer systems at the Oil Ministry and other related
state-owned businesses to crash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  