-- Iraq Seeks Oil Investors in Post-Saddam Exploration Offer
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-05-29T14:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/iraq-seeks-oil-investors-in-first-post-saddam-exploration-offer.html
Iraq is preparing to hold its first
auction of oil and natural-gas exploration rights since the 2003
ouster of  Saddam Hussein , offering investors the opportunity to
exploit the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves.  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , already partners at two
of the country’s largest  oil fields , are among the 47 companies
pre-qualified to take part in bidding tomorrow and May 31,
according to the Oil Ministry. Iraq’s main priority is to find
gas deposits that can provide fuel needed to run  power plants ,
the ministry said in a statement on its  website  last month.  The auction marks another step in an energy-industry
revival that has vaulted Iraq into third-place among the 12-
member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, nine years
after the U.S.-led invasion that toppled Hussein. Iraq has
boosted crude output to more than 3 million barrels a day and is
poised to overtake  Iran  as OPEC’s No. 2 producer. The government
seeks investment as a way of boosting wealth in a country where
4,087 civilians died from violence in 2011, according to Iraq
Body Count, a London-based research group, and per capita gross
domestic product averages $2,100, World Bank data show.  “Access to reserves and the huge resource base in the
country is sure to attract  oil companies  that need to replace
the oil they produce,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-
markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London, said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “Security concerns have been less at the
forefront and there’s a high demand for crude in the market, so
it’s not surprising there would be a high level of interest.”  Rumaila, West Qurna-1  In its three previous bid rounds since 2003, Iraq auctioned
rights to produce at oil fields already discovered or in
operation. It awarded 15 such contracts, including a license for
the Rumaila field, Iraq’s largest, to BP and  China  National
Petroleum Corp.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  operates the West Qurna-1
deposit, with Shell as a partner.  Iraq is offering drilling rights tomorrow to 12 areas,
seven for oil and five for gas, covering 80,700 square
kilometers (31,158 square miles), according to the Oil Ministry.
The areas contain 29 billion cubic meters of gas and 10 billion
barrels of crude, Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said when
announcing the round in March 2011.  “We expect that there will be a lot of interest in these
12 blocks,” Hussain Al-Shahristani, deputy prime minister for
energy affairs, said in an interview in  Baghdad  on May 27.
“There is potential for important discoveries, particularly
concerning gas in some of the blocks.”  Gas Priority  Boosting gas output is central to the government’s aim of
spurring the economy, which has been hobbled by electricity
shortages. Authorities may want to speed the development of any
gas finds and move less quickly to exploit discoveries of oil,
posing a risk to some of this week’s bidders, said Robin Mills,
an analyst at Manaar Energy Consulting in Dubai.  Iraq ’s effort to renegotiate some previously signed
contracts to reduce oil-production targets suggests the
government sees a less urgent need for crude and may make
investors wait longer before they can produce oil and recoup
exploration costs, he said.  “This increases the risk for the explorer who may not be
able to recover their money for an extended period,” he said in
e-mailed comments yesterday.  Service Contracts  Iraq is offering service contracts that pay its partners a
fee for each barrel of crude produced, whereas oil companies
tend to prefer production-sharing agreements under which they
are compensated with a share of their output. Terms in this
bidding round aren’t attractive, said Arnaud Breuillac,  Total (FP) 
SA’s senior vice president for exploration and production in the
 Middle East .  “When you are going to drill exploration wells, service
contracts are not enough,” he told reporters today in  Abu Dhabi 
today. “We would like something where exploration risk is
better rewarded.” Total is developing the southern Halfaya
field, under a license Iraq awarded in December 2009, together
with China’s CNPC and Petroliam Nasional Bhd., or Petronas, of
 Malaysia .  Another potential source of concern for investors is an
impasse over the sharing of oil revenue between the central
government and the Kurdish region in northern Iraq.  The dispute threatens projects of Exxon Mobil and other
investors. Companies operating in the self-ruled Kurdish area
are barred from taking part in tomorrow’s auction because the
central government didn’t approve the production-sharing
agreements they signed with the Kurds. Exxon, which agreed to
explore in the Kurdish region, is banned from bidding.  ’Fragile’ Gains  Iraq’s gains in crude production are “fragile,” as
“domestic politics continue to pose a risk,” Miswin Mahesh and
Amrita Sen, analysts at Barclays Plc in  London , said in a May 25
report.  Tchilinguirian of BNP Paribas said the country, which seeks
to more than double oil output by 2015, will need to upgrade
export capacity to sell additional production.  “The terms of the contracts will have to give enough
incentive for companies to take up the exploration risk,
Manouchehr Takin, an analyst at the Centre for Global Energy
Studies in London, said by phone yesterday. “Exploration is a
long-term prospect. If gas is discovered, it may be pushed more
quickly to get into production.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ; or
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  