-- Israel's Netanyahu Seeks Tougher Nuclear Demands on Iran
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-05-29T21:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/israel-s-netanyahu-seeks-tougher-nuclear-demands-on-iran.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Iran must be forced to halt its nuclear program
through tougher sanctions and stiffer demands than those
presented in two rounds of talks conducted with world powers.  Netanyahu, speaking yesterday at a defense conference in
Tel Aviv, said he has no doubt that Iran aims to build a nuclear
bomb. He repeated previous calls that it stop all uranium
enrichment, get rid of nuclear material already produced and
dismantle its underground facility near Qom.  “Only an explicit commitment by Iran to accept all these
demands and explicit confirmation that this has been done can
stop the nuclear program,” Netanyahu said at the conference of
the Institute for National Security Studies. “This is not what
is being required of Iran today.”  Iran and six world powers --  China ,  Russia ,  Germany ,
 France , Britain and the U.S. -- agreed on May 24 to hold a new
round of talks about the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program
next month in Moscow, after failing to bridge differences during
two days of negotiations in  Baghdad .  It will mark the third attempt in three months to answer
international worries that Iran’s atomic energy program may be a
cover for secret weapons work, and to address Iran’s concerns
about sanctions and diplomatic isolation.  Military Strike  Israel , which says Iran wants to destroy the Jewish state,
has threatened a military strike if negotiations and sanctions
fail. U.S. intelligence officials say Iranian leaders haven’t
made a decision on whether to seek a weapons capability.  “Not only do we need to tighten the sanctions on  Iran , we
also need to toughen the demands from Iran and see their
implementation,” Netanyahu said. “Iran might temporarily halt
enrichment to 20 percent but the test will be to see if they
agree to halt all enrichment.”  He said international demands on Iran have been “reduced”
instead of toughened.  Concerned about Israel’s reaction to the lack of progress
made at last week’s meetings with Iran, the Obama administration
sent Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Wendy Sherman to meet with Netanyahu in Jerusalem May 25 “to reaffirm
our unshakeable commitment to Israel’s security,” according to
an e-mail from the State Department.  Iran is under U.S. and European Union sanctions on oil,
banking, insurance and trade that have hobbled its economy. The
six major powers want Iran to curtail  uranium enrichment  as a
step toward building trust in negotiations. Under international
safeguards, Iran now enriches uranium to 3.5 percent purity for
civilian reactors and to 19.75 percent for the production of
medical isotopes.  Enriched Uranium  The Israeli prime minister also challenged Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to seize the “unique
opportunity” of Netanyahu’s strengthened government coalition
to restart negotiations on a peace agreement.  Netanyahu currently leads a coalition government that
includes 94 members of the 120-seat Knesset after signing an
agreement with the Kadima party, which previously led the
opposition with the biggest delegation in parliament.  Netanyahu said the  Middle East  has become more dangerous
since the Arab Spring and Israel needs “surplus power” to
maintain its military edge over hostile neighbors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  