-- James Leads Heat Past Celtics to Open Eastern Conference Finals
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-29T05:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/james-scores-32-as-heat-win-nba-eastern-conference-finals-opener.html
LeBron James  had 32 points and 13
rebounds as the  Miami Heat  beat the Boston Celtics 93-79 to open
the National Basketball Association’s Eastern Conference finals.  James, the league’s Most Valuable Player during the regular
season, also had three assists and three blocked shots, while
teammate  Dwyane Wade  scored 22 points last night in Game 1 of
the best-of-seven series.  The Heat, who host Game 2 tomorrow, never trailed in the
contest at AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami as they seek to
repeat as conference champions and return to the NBA Finals
after losing to the Dallas Mavericks last year.  “We know we haven’t accomplished anything,” Heat coach
Erik Spoelstra said in a televised news conference. “The way
they grind, they’ve already thrown this game away and they’re
just focusing on what they can do to try and steal Game 2.”  The series winner will face the Oklahoma City Thunder or
the  San Antonio Spurs  for the NBA championship. The Spurs host
Game 2 of the Western Conference finals tonight after winning
the opener 101-98.  Miami led 21-11 last night after one quarter before being
outscored 35-25 in the second as Boston’s  Kevin Garnett  scored
13 in the half, making six of his eight shot attempts. It was
the first time this postseason that Miami allowed at least 30
points during a quarter.  A layup converted by Miami’s Joel Anthony with more than
two minutes remaining in the quarter also was reviewed at the
half and overturned for violating the 24-second shot clock. That
left the teams tied 46-46 heading into the third quarter.  Miami, playing without injured forward  Chris Bosh , took
control in that period, outscoring Boston 26-15. The Heat led by
as many as 17 points in the fourth quarter.  ‘On Attack’  “I was able to attack early in the game,” James said at a
news conference. “On a lot of my post-ups I was able to get to
a lot of my shots that I’m comfortable with making. I’m always
trying to be on attack.”  Miami forward Shane Battier added 10 points and 10
rebounds, while guard  Mario Chalmers  scored nine.  Garnett finished with 23 points and 10 rebounds, making
nine of his 16 shot attempts in the loss. Point guard Rajon Rondo added 16 points and seven assists, while forward  Paul Pierce  was held to 12 points on 5-of-18 shooting.  The Heat converted 5 of 25 three-point shot attempts,
though still made half of their 72 field-goal attempts.  “They made way too many layups,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers
said. “We have to do a better job of protecting the paint.
There’s no way any team should get that many layups, that many
point-blank shots against our defense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 