-- Kim Dotcom Can Return to Luxury Mansion, New Zealand Court Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-05-29T05:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/kim-dotcom-can-return-to-luxury-mansion-new-zealand-court-says.html
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom,
accused of orchestrating the biggest copyright infringement
conspiracy in U.S. history, can return to his leased luxury
mansion after a New Zealand court relaxed bail terms.  The judge ruled today that Dotcom was no longer a flight
risk, granting the removal of electronic tags the Internet
tycoon was required to wear, according to a report on
stuff.co.nz. Dotcom had been staying in a smaller home next to
the mansion in an Auckland suburb. Ministry of Justice
spokespeople were unable to obtain a copy of the ruling for
Bloomberg News.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment.  German-born Dotcom was arrested at his residence in late
January and spent four weeks in jail before being released to
await an extradition hearing, currently scheduled for Aug. 20.
When police raided the mansion in Coatesville, north of
Auckland, they seized 18  luxury vehicles , including a Rolls
Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink Cadillac.  The Dotcom mansion is valued at NZ$30 million ($23
million), according to an article on the stuff.co.nz website.
The property is also known as the “Chrisco mansion,” because
it was built by the founders of the Christmas hamper company.  Dotcom last month said that New Zealand politician John Banks, leader of the one-seat ACT party in coalition with Prime
Minister John Key’s government, incorrectly reported that
donations of NZ$50,000 from Dotcom towards his failed 2010 bid
for the Auckland mayoralty were anonymous.  Dotcom then lampooned the politician in a rap song he
recorded at Crowded House singer Neil Finn’s recording studio in
Auckland, along with an accompanying music video.    To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  