-- Kim Dotcom Wins Access to FBI Arrest Files in New Zealand Court
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-05-29T22:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/kim-dotcom-wins-access-to-fbi-arrest-files-in-new-zealand-court.html
A New Zealand court granted
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom, accused of orchestrating the
biggest copyright infringement conspiracy in U.S. history,
access to FBI files that led to his arrest.  Judge David Harvey ruled yesterday that withholding the
information could threaten Dotcom’s right to a fair trial,
according to a copy of the ruling e-mailed to Bloomberg News.
The U.S. government opposed the disclosure.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and  money-laundering  charges in the indictment.  “A denial of the provision of information that could
enable a proper adversarial hearing in my view would amount to a
denial of the opportunity to contest,” Harvey said in the
ruling. “That would effectively mean that the process is one-
sided.”  Dotcom wasn’t given the right to all information that had
been gathered on him, according to the ruling. Documents to be
disclosed include those relating to allegations of copyright
breaches, money laundering, racketeering and  wire fraud .  In a separate court ruling yesterday, German-born Dotcom
was also allowed to return to his leased luxury mansion in an
Auckland suburb after his bail terms were relaxed. He was no
longer deemed to be a flight risk, according to a report on the
stuff.co.nz website.  Dotcom was arrested at his residence in late January and
spent four weeks in jail before being released to await an
extradition hearing, currently scheduled for Aug. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  