-- Kodak Court Loss Leaves Less for Bondholders: Corporate Finance
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-05-29T15:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/kodak-court-loss-leaves-less-for-bondholders-corporate-finance.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) ’s setback last week
in its two-year legal fight over a digital-camera patent has
bond investors fretting there will be little left over for them
in the 132-year-old company’s bankruptcy.  Kodak’s $250 million of 7.25 percent senior unsecured notes
due in 2013 lost 48 percent of their value after the May 21
decision. Its secured bonds fell about 15 percent. More than $1
billion of potential patent value may have “evaporated”
because of a U.S. International Trade Commission judge’s
preliminary finding in favor of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Research in
Motion Ltd., according to debt researcher KDP Investment
Advisors Inc.  The reversal may undermine the Rochester, New York-based
camera maker’s plan to transform itself into a digital printing
business by selling a collection of patents and its photography
unit, leaving holders of its $1.4 billion of  bonds  on the hook
for more losses. Matthew Hart, an adviser to Kodak at Lazard
Freres & Co., said in a January court filing that there’d be
enough money to pay off secured bondholders in full.  “That money seems to really be gone,” Scott Dinsdale, an
analyst at Montpelier, Vermont-based KDP, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s not enough to cover the debt under a worst
case scenario, which I think is where we’re headed.”  Kodak, the photography pioneer that introduced the Brownie
camera more than a century ago, filed for bankruptcy on Jan. 19
as the rise of digital photography impaired its high-margin film
business.  Kodak Appeal  The company is trying to sell more than 1,100 digital-
imaging patents, and is pursuing device makers for patent
infringements, maintaining other businesses owe it royalty
payments.  U.S. International Trade Commission Judge Thomas Pender
said May 21 in a  notice  posted on the agency’s website that the
patent is invalid. Kodak said it will appeal the findings with
the six-member commission in  Washington , which has the power to
block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  A different judge at the agency found the patent valid and
there’s been “strong interest” from potential buyers for
Kodak’s portfolio, said Chris Veronda, a company spokesman.  “The full commission will make a ruling that’s favorable
to us in the end,” he said.  Disputed Patent  The disputed patent, which Kodak says is used in all modern
cameras, covers a feature that previews low-resolution versions
of a moving image while recording still images at a high
resolution. Higher resolution requires more processing power and
storage space. Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc.
have already paid $964 million in settlements to Kodak for using
the technology.  Kodak contends Apple already owes it more than $1 billion
in damages for infringement of this and other digital capture
patents, according to a bankruptcy court filing this month.  The commission is scheduled to complete the investigation
by Sept. 21. Kodak has other claims pending against HTC Corp.,
Fujifilm Holdings Corp. and Ricoh Co.  Kodak’s  bondholders  include the credit-investment arm of
Blackstone Group LP and hedge funds Avenue Capital Group LLC,
D.E. Shaw & Co. and  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital Inc.,
according to a January court filing by Michael Stamer, their
lawyer at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP.  Bonds Tumble  The unsecured notes due 2013 plunged to 16 cents on the
dollar on the day of the decision, from 27 cents before the
ruling, and declined to 14 cents on May 23, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Investors trade the debt of bankrupt
companies as a bet on how much money will be distributed in the
reorganization.  “It was always a speculative investment, but there’s much
less recovery possible today given the ruling,” said Dinsdale,
who changed his recommendation on the debt from “hold” to
“sell” in a May 22 report.  The unsecured notes, along with $400 million of convertible
bonds, rank below $750 million of secured bonds, Antoinette McCorvey, Kodak’s chief financial officer, said in a January
court  filing . The company also has a $925 million debtor-in-
possession bankruptcy loan, which gets paid first, Hart said in
his January filing.  Searching for Value  Kodak’s $500 million of 9.75 percent secured bonds due 2018
have dropped to 68.6 cents on the dollar from 81 cents on May
18, according to Bloomberg pricing data.  “There could be value for the second-lien holders,” said
Randy Laufman, an analyst at investment bank Imperial Capital
LLC in  Los Angeles . “We don’t think there’s value for the
unsecured bonds.”  The ruling may also hurt the value of the patents that
Kodak is planning to auction, Dinsdale said. The company has
until June 30 to file the patent-bidding procedures, which
typically name the bidder preferred by the seller, also known as
the stalking horse. The technology is valued at $2.21 billion to
$2.57 billion, based on an estimate by 284 Partners LLC, a
patent advisory firm hired by Kodak and cited in a January court
filing.  “I don’t think the Street really believes those numbers,”
Laufman said. “If anybody believed those numbers, those bonds
wouldn’t be in the 60s.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 