-- Krugman: U.K. Government Should Be Spender of Last Resort
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/krugman-u-k-government-should-be-spender-of-last-resort.html
Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  said the
U.K. government should drop its commitment to fiscal cutbacks
and boost spending to avert an extended downturn in the economy.  In a “depressed economy” officials should realize that
“this is the time for the government to act as the spender of
last resort,” he said yesterday in a speech at the  London
School  of Economics. “Supplement that with exotic monetary
policy. If you want to worry about debt and deficits, fine, but
this is the time, to quote  St. Augustine , to say ‘Oh Lord, make
me chaste and continent, but not yet.’”  The economy slid into its first  double-dip recession  since
the 1970s amid the financial crisis in  Europe  and Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s commitment to the biggest fiscal squeeze since
World War II. The Conservative-led coalition government, which
took office two years ago, has said its fiscal program has
benefited Britain by keeping bond yields low.  “When the current coalition came to power the whole
strategy was based around the belief that austerity would be
expansionary” and that “it would inspire confidence,” said
Krugman, a Princeton University professor. “But the promised
expansion in private spending never happened.”  Krugman said the focus on reducing the U.K.’s ratio of debt
to gross domestic product doesn’t need to be the center of
policy because Britain, like the U.S., has the benefit of being
able to borrow in its own currency. The yield on the five-year
gilt fell to a record low of 0.716 percent on May 25.  ‘Greek-Style Crisis’  “The idea that a country like the U.K. or U.S. is about to
face a Greek-style crisis any day now doesn’t fit the record,”
he said. “The  bond market  is saying ‘borrow, borrow!’ This
isn’t a bad time to do that, it’s only the politicians who are
saying otherwise.”  Governments should use tools that increase growth before
altering central bank policies, Krugman said. Asked about the
Bank of England’s program of so-called  quantitative easing , he
said policy makers should consider raising their inflation
target, now at 2 percent.  “Buying unconventional assets by the central bank is
operating on a margin that’s probably not very effective,” he
said. “I’m not against it, I’m basically willing to try
anything. A higher inflation target will reduce debt burdens,
reduce the incentive to sit on cash, that’s also possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  