-- Razzano Upsets Serena Williams in French Open Tennis; Nadal Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-29T20:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/kvitova-reaches-second-round-of-french-open-with-win-over-barty.html
Virginie Razzano upset  Serena Williams  in the French Open, sending the American to her
earliest exit from a Grand Slam tennis tournament, and  Rafael Nadal  won to open his bid for a record seventh men’s title.  France ’s Razzano won 4-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3 at Roland Garros
in Paris in three hours and three minutes. She rallied from 5-1
down in a tiebreaker to force the third set, which she won on
her eighth match point.  “It’s incredible to win today against Serena Williams,”
Razzano said in a news conference. “For me, it’s a good
comeback. It was a tough match and very difficult physically and
mentally.”  Defending champion Nadal, the second seed from Spain,
defeated  Italy ’s Simone Bolelli 6-2, 6-2, 6-1. The left-hander
is now 46-1 at  Roland Garros , his only loss coming in the fourth
round in 2009.  “I felt really comfortable,” Nadal, who equaled Bjorn Borg’s record of six French titles last year, said in a news
conference. “I think it’s one of my best first rounds for me. I
hope that in two days, I’ll play even better.”  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and Petra Kvitova of the Czech
Republic advanced to the second round of the year’s second major
championship, as did men’s fourth seed  Andy Murray  of Britain.  Razzano is ranked 106 places below No. 5 Williams, whose
previous earliest major loss was a second-round defeat to her
sister Venus at the 1998 Australian Open. Williams had a 17-0
record on clay this year, the longest women’s run on the surface
since Belgium’s Justine Henin won 27 straight over the 2005 and
2006 seasons.  “The whole match, I just didn’t play at all the way I have
been practicing,” Williams said in a news conference. “It is
disappointing, but it’s life.”  Sharapova’s Shutout  Second-seeded Sharapova routed Alexandra Cadantu of Romania
6-0, 6-0. The three-time Grand Slam champion, seeking her first
 French Open  title, needed 48 minutes for victory.  “Nothing is ever easy because you have to face whoever is
across the net,” Sharapova, who lost 18 points in the match,
told reporters. “No matter how good or how bad they’re playing,
you still have to win that match. That was just my goal today.”  Wimbledon champion Kvitova, the fourth seed, beat
Australian Ashleigh Barty 6-1, 6-2. No. 9 Caroline Wozniacki of
Denmark defeated Eleni Danilidou of Greece 6-0, 6-1, and No. 14
Francesca Schiavone of Italy, the 2010 champion and last year’s
runnerup, defeated Kimiko Date-Krumm of  Japan  6-3, 6-1.  Williams, 30, was the second American woman eliminated
today. Jamie Hampton retired following treatment on her back
while trailing Arantxa Rus of the Netherlands 4-6, 3-4. Ten U.S.
women reached the second round, the most in nine years in Paris.  Murray Advances  Murray, seeking to become the first British man to win a
Grand Slam since Fred Perry in 1936, moved on with a 6-1, 7-5,
6-0 win against Japan’s Tatsuma Ito, and No. 6 David Ferrer of
 Spain  beat Slovakia’s Lukas Lacko 6-3, 6-4, 6-1.  “The first and third sets were very comfortable,” Murray
told reporters. “The second set could have been, but I played
one bad game. For a first-round match in a slam, it’s a good
start.”  Janko Tipsarevic, the eighth seed from Serbia, defeated  Sam Querrey  of the U.S., while No. 16 Alexandr Dolgopolov lost to
fellow Ukrainian Sergiy Stakhovsky in five sets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  