-- MTN Accelerates Buyback as Subscriber Numbers Rise 5.2%
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-05-29T12:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/mtn-accelerates-buyback-as-subscriber-numbers-rise-5-2-1-.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
mobile-phone operator, said its subscription base expanded 5.2
percent in the first four months of 2012 and it accelerated its
share buyback as the stock declined.  MTN has boosted the number of mobile subscribers to more
than 173.1 million, the Johannesburg-based company said in a
statement today.  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange brand had 147
million customers as of the end of last year.  Revenue in the first four months of the year increased by a
“double digit” percentage as the South African rand weakened
against the dollar, the company said. The rand, MTN’s reporting
currency, has weakened 19 percent against the dollar since June
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said it bought 1.36 billion rand ($163 million)
of shares between March 8 and yesterday, more than the 927
million rand it bought back in the year through December. The
stock has dropped 6 percent so far in 2012.  “The MTN board will continue to implement share buybacks
on an opportunistic basis,” said the company. This brings total
spending on buybacks to 2.29 billion rand, including purchases
in 2011, MTN said.  MTN said it is working with the U.S. to manage its
compliance with sanctions against  Iran , its third-biggest
market. The company said it continues to consult international
legal advisers to remain compliant with measures taken by the
European Union, the U.S. and the  United Nations . The company
will only exit Iran if  South Africa  imposes sanctions on the
oil-producing nation, Chief Executive Sifiso Dabengwa said on
March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story: Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Kenneth Wong
at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  