-- Natural Gas Golden Age Is Threatened by Pollution, IEA Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-05-29T11:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/natural-gas-golden-age-is-threatened-by-pollution-iea-says-1-.html
A tripling of natural-gas production
from unconventional sources, such as shale formations, will only
happen if environmental concerns are addressed, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  Annual extraction from unconventional resources may rise to
1.6 trillion cubic meters in 2035 to account for 32 percent of
all gas production, up from 14 percent this year, the IEA said
in an e-mailed report released today. That figure will only be
reached if companies and regulators are transparent, monitor
environmental impacts and take the concerns of local communities
seriously, according to the report.  “The concerns of local communities are legitimate ones,”
 Fatih Birol , chief economist at the IEA in Paris, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There are some companies that
are following the rules we are suggesting here. The destiny of
the shale-gas industry will be decided not by the best practices
but by the worst practices.”  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the practice of pumping
water, sand and chemicals into wells to extract gas from hard-
to-exploit shale rock, helped the U.S. overtake  Russia  as the
world’s biggest producer of the fuel. The global potential of
shale resources has been stymied after France and Bulgaria
banned the practice and activity was suspended in the U.K.  More than 20 towns in  New York  state have adopted laws to
ban drilling, according to Karen Edelstein, a geographic
information-systems consultant in Ithaca, New York.  Greenpeace Opposition  Following best-practice guidelines as proposed by the IEA
will add about 7 percent to production costs, the organization
said in the report. That will still leave “healthy revenues”
for investors, Birol said.  Greenpeace said in an e-mailed statement today that the
IEA’s report doesn’t sufficiently evaluate the climatic
implications of its guidelines.  “It fails to provide hard rules to prevent methane leakage
from unconventional gas production or hard evidence that leakage
can be reduced to acceptable levels,” Paul Johnston, the
environmental group’s chief scientist, said in the statement.
“Greenpeace opposes the exploitation of unconventional gas
reserves because the impacts have not been fully investigated,
understood, addressed and regulated.”  Prices Unsustainable  Birol said in  London  today that U.S. gas prices aren’t
sustainable and need to rise to about $4.50 per million British
thermal units. Prices have slumped as much as 62 percent in the
past year as unconventional output rose. The June contract
traded at $2.502 per million Btu today after falling to a 10-
year low of $1.902 on April 19.  Increased shale production will bring about a global golden
age of gas, pushing down prices and increasing demand by more
than 50 percent from 2010 levels by 2035, when its share of the
energy mix will have risen to 25 percent from less than 21
percent, the IEA said.  European gas usage will remain about the same and increased
production from shale, led by  Poland , will make up for a decline
in conventional sources in the  North Sea  and elsewhere in the
continent after 2020, according to the report.  Prices will decline in  Europe  as existing suppliers, such
as Russia and  Norway , are forced to compete for market share,
the IEA said.  “From the geopolitics point of view, the U.S.,  China  and
 Australia  emerging as major gas producers means more
diversification, which is good news for the energy security of
Europe,” Birol said.  Technological Hurdles  In April 2011, the U.S. Energy Department’s Energy
Information Administration said that China has 1,275 trillion
cubic feet of recoverable shale gas, almost 50 percent more than
that held by the U.S., and that Poland has 187 trillion cubic
feet. Since then, shale development in China has been slower
than predicted by the government.  The Polish Geological Institute said in March that reserves
in the eastern European nation may be as much as 85 percent less
than the EIA’s estimates. The cost of drilling in Poland is
three times that in the U.S.,  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  said in
November.  Technological hurdles to the exploitation of shale gas
outside of the U.S. will be overcome, Birol said yesterday.  “Hundreds of thousands of wells need to be drilled in
Poland,” he said. “Poland needs to prepare the country from a
regulatory point of view. The main issue in China is water
availability. These problems will be solved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  