-- Nigeria’s President Plans to Increase Agricultural Production
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-05-29T14:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/nigeria-s-president-plans-to-increase-agricultural-production.html
Nigeria , the world’s biggest producer
of cassava, plans to raise the output of the tuber as part of
its efforts to diversify its revenue base from oil and increase
agricultural production, President  Goodluck Jonathan  said.  This year, the West African nation will earn $136 million
from the export of 1 million metric tons of dried cassava chips
to  China , the president said in an e-mailed version of his
nationwide television broadcast to mark the country’s Democracy
Day today. The shrub, which is a source of carbohydrates, is
also known as tapioca and its development is one example of the
government’s move to diversify the economy away from oil, he
said.  “We are now treating agriculture as a business, one that
can generate wealth and create jobs for millions of our
youths,” Jonathan said. “Our goal is to transform Nigeria from
a mono-modal economy, to a diversified one.” The country’s
agricultural plan will promote local production and cut down on
importing foods, he said.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation with at least 160
million people, spends more than $10 billion a year to import
wheat, rice, sugar and fish, Jonathan said. “This is
unacceptable,” he said.  “Our goal is to add 20 million metric tons of food to our
domestic  food supply  by 2015 and create 3.5 million jobs,”
Jonathan said. “To achieve this, the appropriate infrastructure
to support all-year round farming through irrigation is being
rehabilitated and developed across the country.”  The government is importing and installing 100 new large-
scale integrated rice mills across the country to achieve self
sufficiency in its production by 2015, he said.  The fourth-biggest producer of cocoa, Nigeria is also
distributing 3.6 million pods of high-yielding cocoa varieties
to farmers for free, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  