-- NLRB Reached Deal Leading to Member Resignation Amid Accusations
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-29T20:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/nlrb-reached-deal-leading-to-member-resignation-amid-accusations.html
Four members of the  National Labor
Relations Board  said they worked out an agreement that led the
fifth member to resign after the agency’s watchdog said he
violated ethics rules in releasing non-public information.  Terence Flynn will leave on July 24 as part of an agreement
with the board. His resignation from the $155,500-a year job was
announced in a May 27 statement, which said he would recuse
himself from board work.  The NLRB’s inspector general said in a May 2 report that
Flynn, while an employee, gave internal information, such as a
draft board decision, to former agency members, including one
who worked on  Mitt Romney ’s presidential campaign last year. The
AFL-CIO labor federation and two Democrats in Congress had
called on Flynn to resign after the disclosures.  “We acknowledge that the events leading up to this
announcement may have been the cause of some frustration among
our staff” and created a distraction, Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce said today in a joint  statement  with the other members.
The board and staff “worked tirelessly to reach a resolution
acceptable to all concerned.”  Pearce said Flynn’s cases would be reassigned, along with
his staff, to the other members and the board will resume
deliberations and processing of cases. Flynn’s lawyer, Barry Coburn, declined to comment after providing a copy of the four-
sentence May 25 resignation letter.  Senate Bypassed  The inspector general’s reports on March 19 and May 2,
added to criticism of the board that mediates disputes between
labor and employers. President  Barack Obama  in January appointed
Flynn, who had been nominated a year earlier, and two Democrats
when the Senate wasn’t in session, bypassing confirmation and
triggering legal challenges from Republicans. Flynn was one of
two Republicans on the five-member board.  Pearce said after the watchdog report this month that he
took the allegations seriously and that they raised questions
about ethics and trust.   Jay Carney , the White House spokesman, declined to comment
on a replacement for Flynn.  “I can’t speculate on any announcement,” Carney told
reporters today, saying he hadn't talked with the president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  