-- Nomura Falls on Report SESC May Recommend Penalty for Leak
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-05-29T02:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/nomura-falls-on-report-sesc-may-recommend-penalty-for-leak-1-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest
brokerage, fell in Tokyo  trading  following a report that the
country’s financial watchdog will recommend a penalty for its
role in cases of insider trading tied to share sales.  Nomura slipped 1.2 percent to 256 yen as of 10:34 a.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange after earlier dropping as low as 254
yen. The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission will
seek a penalty after the brokerage allegedly leaked insider
information on sales of  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  shares, the Mainichi newspaper said, without citing anyone.  Japanese regulators have been probing trading related to
the equity offerings in response to criticism from investors who
allege that leaks on financing plans are eroding confidence in
the market. Nomura was involved in an  insider-trading  case
connected to Inpex’s 2010 share offering, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in March.  “Illegal insider conduct related to public offerings harms
market reliability,”  Shozaburo Jimi , the country’s financial
services minister, said at a press conference in Tokyo, while
declining to comment on the report. “We will collaborate with
overseas regulators and monitor the market with the goal of
transparency and fairness.”  Keiko Sugai, a Tokyo-based Nomura spokeswoman, also
declined to comment.  Inpex Case  The SESC in March reprimanded the underwriter involved in
the Inpex insider-trading case, without naming the firm or
commenting on potential penalties.  A  fund manager  at Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust & Banking Co.
obtained non-public information on on June 30, 2010, from an
employee of one of the lead underwriters for Inpex’s sale, the
commission said at that time. That was days before the official
July 8 announcement of the offering by Japan’s biggest energy
explorer, the SESC said.  An employee of Chuo Mitsui Asset, a unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) , traded on the information, according to the
SESC. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Mizuho Securities Co. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. were also underwriters.  The SESC recommended fining Chuo Mitsui Asset 50,000 yen
($628) for the alleged breach, an amount that corresponds to the
fees the company earned from selling Inpex shares for customers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  