-- Norman Mailer Chomps Rip Torn’s Ear, Runs for Mayor: DVD
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-05-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/norman-mailer-chomps-rip-torn-s-ear-runs-for-mayor-dvd.html
In “ Norman Mailer: The American ,” a
documentary on DVD from Cinema Libre, we get to see the infamous
moment when the author of “The Executioner’s Song” attempted
to execute Rip Torn’s ear.  It happened during the final, improvised moments of the
filming of Mailer’s indie, “Maidstone.”  A deadly serious Torn goes at Mailer’s head with a hammer.
Mailer, aghast and bleeding, retaliates by taking a bite out of
Torn’s ear as they grapple on the ground, while an eerily
quiescent crew and Mailer’s frantic family look on.  That’s Mailer’s world in a nutshell. His favorite word was
“existential,” and what could be more existential than having
an improvised scenario break into real life, real blood?  The kicker is that, deranged as this episode is, Mailer
later says in a filmed interview (and in an essay on
“Maidstone” reprinted in -- where else? -- “Existential
Errands”) that Torn’s ripping and tearing was “right” for the
film:  “Without it, there was not enough.” With it, there still
isn’t much.  This is the second major documentary on Mailer, the first
having aired on PBS in 2000, seven years before the writer’s
death. That film focused primarily on Mailer’s politics
throughout a long and tumultuous career. “The American,” which
draws on the earlier film, concentrates on Mailer the brawler,
the blowhard, the serial philanderer.  Bold-Face Names  Directed by Joseph Mantegna (not the actor), it’s a
fascinating slice of scurrility. Once you forget about actually
learning anything about Mailer the writer, you can sit back and
bask in all those Page Six episodes in the great writer’s life.  There’s the Town Hall panel discussion on feminism with
Germaine Greer, where the author of “The Prisoner of Sex”
comes under heavy mortar attack from the “libbies.”  There’s his second wife Adele (he had six) crying as she
talks about the night Mailer stabbed her with a penknife at a
party and he was carted off to Bellevue.  There’s his not quite mea culpa after the convict Jack
Henry Abbott, whom he helped gain parole, promptly commits
murder soon after his release.  There’s Mailer’s 1969 run for mayor of  New York  City
(campaign slogan: “The Other Guys are the Joke”).  And of course, there’s his immortal appearance on “The
Dick Cavett Show,” where he goes after  Gore Vidal  for lumping
 Henry Miller  and him with Charles Manson.  Marilyn Monroe  Mailer tells a revealing story about how he almost met
 Marilyn Monroe , the subject of his fawning, conspiracy-mongering
1973 book, “Marilyn.” In that coffee-table tome, Mailer takes
some nasty swipes at fellow Brooklyn-Jewish boy  Arthur Miller 
(who wrote “Death of a Salesman” in the same apartment
building where Mailer, in the upper floors, was writing “The
Naked and the Dead.”)  Miller invited Mailer and Adele to his Connecticut home at a
time when the playwright and the movie star were married. Mailer
showed up with every intention of stealing Monroe away, only to
be told that she was out of town. Dirty trick.  Mailer found out later that Monroe, afraid of meeting him,
had been hiding upstairs the whole time. At least that’s his
version. Sounds like everybody involved dodged a bullet.  Mailer’s long term mistress, Carole Mallory, talks about how
she insisted on a “writing lesson before sex.” His third wife,
Lady Jeanne Campbell, favorite granddaughter of Lord Beaverbrook
and mistress of Henry Luce, got a fat advance to write a tell-
all memoir, used it to buy a Greek villa and never published the
memoir.  Norris Church Mailer, his last wife, is interviewed in the
documentary and did write a memoir, “ A Ticket to the Circus.”
It’s not pretty. (She died in 2010.)  So with all this, what did Mailer hate most in the world?
Plastic. “You touch it and nothing comes back.”  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include Esplund on  art  and Vines on
 restaurants .  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  