-- Norway Oil, Gas Output Threatened as Government Strike Expands
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-05-29T11:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/norway-oil-gas-output-threatened-as-government-strike-expands.html
The escalating government workers’
strike is threatening to hamper Norway’s oil and gas exports and
may leave some petrol stations in the capital empty within days.  The number of striking workers will tomorrow double to
about 47,900 from the initial 24,000 taken off last week,
according to figures provided by four unions. Talks broke down
on May 24 over the government’s wage increase offer, triggering
the first strike of public workers in two years.  Previously unaffected oil refineries and gas processing
plants will be hit when all pilot boats in the country are taken
out of service. The disruption in deliveries may eventually
spill over to both oil production and exports, said Morten Eek,
a spokesman for  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest oil company.  “If it’s prolonged, it could have financial consequences
for the companies involved and the government,” Eek said by
telephone. While it wasn’t possible to estimate the timing or
scope of possible disruptions to exports or production, Eek said
that storage capacity is limited and “if you don’t get anything
out, that would pose challenges.”  A strike of 103 of Norway’s 116 pilot boat crew members
will affect mainly Statoil’s Mongstad oil refinery and terminal
and the Kaarstoe gas processing plant, Eek said. Mongstad has an
average capacity of 27,400 tons of oil a day, and the Kaarstoe
plant has a capacity of 88 million cubic meters of gas a day,
according to Statoil’s website.  Sea Shipments  Eek said the strike would cancel about 30 boats at the
facilities during the week starting tomorrow. He didn’t provide
details of the volumes involved. While pipeline deliveries are
unaffected, Mongstad receives some oil by sea and also ships out
refined products. Kaarstoe ships out condensate, liquefied
petroleum gases and ethane.  Ships longer than 70 meters or carrying dangerous materials
are required to have a pilot on board when navigating in and out
of Norwegian harbors, said YS union representative Narve
Leonhardsen in a phone interview.  A pilot strike in the Oslo area since May 24 has already
caused a halt in all transport of refined products to the
Sjursjoeya terminal, which supplies 40 percent of  Norway ’s
gasoline stations, Statoil spokesman Paal Heldaas said.  Gas stations in Oslo, Norway’s biggest city, were in a
“precarious” situation and would start running out of gas by
the end of the week if the strike continues, he said.  Unions Fagforbundet, LO, YS and Unio representing workers
in both the state and municipalities went on strike May 24
because the government proposed a pay increase of less than 4
percent. Fagforbundet is the first union to step up the strike
today with 14,700 new workers, up from 9,500 the week before.  There were 793,000 public employees in 2011, or 30 percent
of the workforce, according to the bureau of statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  