-- NYC Mayor Seeks Law to Fire Teachers for Sexual Misconduct
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-29T19:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/nyc-mayor-seeks-law-to-fire-teachers-for-sexual-misconduct.html
New York  school employees accused of
sexual misconduct with students could be fired even if hearing
officers call for a lesser penalty under a law proposed by Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg .  The proposal would give the New York City schools
chancellor or the local school district final say on the case’s
facts and the appropriate discipline after arbitrators submit
their decisions, the mayor said at a Manhattan news conference.
Tenured employees would retain the right to file an appeal of a
dismissal with the New York Supreme Court.  Current law forces school districts to abide by hearing
officers’ rulings, including whether a teacher is fired and
whether penalties should be imposed, the mayor said. As a
result, the city has been prevented from terminating teachers in
cases where its own independent investigator found instances of
sexual misconduct, the mayor said.  “If a school employee is found to have engaged in sexual
behavior or made sexual comments towards students, the
chancellor should have the authority to decide on both the case
and the penalty,” said Bloomberg, 70.  In March, after reviewing cases of employees previously
found guilty of misconduct, Schools Chancellor Dennis Walcott
announced he’d removed from classrooms eight educators -- four
tenured teachers and four paraprofessionals -- whom he said had
been “insufficiently disciplined” after “totally
unacceptable” conduct with students. Walcott dismissed the
aides and said he would try to fire the tenured teachers, too.  “This common-sense legislation takes the much-needed step
of allowing us the final say on whether these adults should be
entrusted with the care of our students,” Walcott, 60, said in
prepared remarks for the news conference.  Misconduct Allegations  Michael Mulgrew, president of the  United Federation of
Teachers , said in an e-mail that the union’s contract “already
includes the toughest penalty in the state -- automatic
termination -- for any teacher found guilty of this offense.”  “This proposed legislation would allow the chancellor to
unilaterally find an employee guilty of sexual misconduct even
though an independent hearing officer who has weighed all the
evidence has determined otherwise,” Mulgrew said. “Giving the
chancellor -- who has previously said that an accusation is not
the same thing as a finding of guilt -- the power to ignore the
evidence and an arbitrator’s decision is not an answer.”  The 1.1 million-student New York City school system, the
largest in the U.S., receives an average of 30 to 35 sexual
misconduct allegations a year among its 75,000 teachers, said
Lauren Passalacqua, a mayoral spokeswoman.  45 Days  The proposed law, sponsored by state Senator Steve Saland,
a Poughkeepsie Republican, has the support of the  New York State
School Boards Association  and New York State  Council of School
Superintendents .  Current law prevented the city Department of Education from
firing a teacher who “inappropriately touched a number of
female students’ buttocks, breasts, waists, stomachs and
necks,” the mayor’s office said in a news release.  “The hearing officer determined that the individual hugged
one student and hugged and tickled another on her waist,
dismissing or withdrawing all other charges,” the mayor’s
statement said.  The officer imposed a 45-day paid suspension and permitted
the teacher to return to the classroom. The Department of
Education intends to file new charges based on other
allegations, the news release said.  $5,000 Fine  In a second case, city investigators found an
“inappropriate relationship” in which a teacher took a 15-
year-old student shopping and to the movies and engaged in
telephone conversations and in gestures that were “physically
affectionate.”  An arbitrator found “an overly personal, ill-advised and
unprofessional relationship,” and fined the teacher $5,000,
with permission to return to the classroom, the mayor’s news
release said.  The administration cited a third case in which an
individual allegedly told a 17-year-old student, “Baby, when
you turn 18 years old, you could come to my home and we can have
a real party,” and also showed a female student a sexual image
on his telephone. The mayor’s office didn’t identify the
teachers in the cases it cited in the news release.  After the Department of Education tried to fire the
teacher, a hearing officer found that he did call the student
“baby” and dismissed the other charges, imposing a $1,500
fine, the mayor’s office said.  “Current law does not adequately protect students from
teachers who engage in acts of sexual misconduct,” said Timothy Kremer, executive director of the New York State School Boards
Association.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  