-- To Stop Iran’s Nuclear Program, Cut a Deal on Oil
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-29T23:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/to-stop-iran-s-nuclear-program-cut-a-deal-on-oil.html
Only the imposition of harsh economic
sanctions brought Iranian negotiators back to the table for
talks on its nuclear program last week in  Baghdad . Only the
prospect of lifting those sanctions can keep them there.  This is the central bind that the so-called P5+1
negotiators faced in Baghdad, and will do again June 18-19 in
Moscow: Remove sanctions too soon and the Iranians will go back
the holding pattern of the past six years, as they continue to
develop their nuclear program while stringing talks out; set the
bar for relief too high, and the Iranians lose all incentive to
cut a deal.  Before Western diplomats sit down again with Iran’s
negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , they need to agree on exactly what is
their achievable goal in the talks, and to calibrate their
proposals -- even for interim deals -- accordingly. For all the
many sins and faults of the Iranian side in this dispute, in
Baghdad last week, European Union foreign-policy chief  Catherine Ashton  and her patrons from the P5+1 -- the U.S.,  Russia ,  China ,
 France , the U.K. and  Germany  -- appeared to get the balance
wrong.  Squeeze Gets Tighter  Western diplomats said, one after the other as they went
into the talks, that U.S.  oil-related sanctions  against Iran’s
central bank scheduled to take effect on  June 28 , and European
Union restrictions on oil imports from Iran due on  July 1 , would
go forward no matter what. They offered only to lift a ban on
the sale to Iran of spare parts for civilian aircraft, and
provide it with medical isotopes.  That offer would do nothing to relieve the economic
pressure now on Iran -- on the contrary, it ensured that the
squeeze would get far tighter in few weeks. In return, Iran was
being asked to suspend efforts to enrich uranium to 19.75
percent purity (which could be used in a medical research
reactor), agree to ship its stockpile out of the country and
open up to United Nations inspectors. These would be
significant, if reversible, concessions -- and the approach was
guaranteed to fail.  Western negotiators are right to focus first on suspending
enrichment of uranium to 19.75 percent, which brings Iran an
important step closer to weapons grade. A  report  by the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  released Friday shows that
Iran has now produced 146 kilograms (323 pounds) of the fuel,
already more than enough to power its existing research reactor,
making future production doubly suspicious. Meanwhile,
production of 3.5 percent uranium, which is appropriate for use
in civilian nuclear power plants, accelerated significantly in
March, boosting Iran’s stockpile to 6,197 kilos. This would be
 enough for  five nuclear weapons if it were further processed to
weapons grade (90 percent).  The international community has two goals to choose from.
The first is to stick with the aim of getting Iran out of the
nuclear fuel business altogether. That has been the target ever
since international inspectors  confirmed  in 2003 that  Iran  had a
covert nuclear fuel program, has been set out in UN Security
Council  resolutions  since 2006, and continues to be a red line
for  Israel  and many in the  U.S. Congress .  This would be, without question, the most desirable
outcome. But after 10 years of failed negotiations, it’s clear
that such a capitulation would require either regime change in
Tehran or a wholly successful military strike against Iran’s
nuclear facilities. It cannot be achieved through talks, and
most military analysts -- including senior figures in Israel --
say that it can’t be achieved by airstrikes either.  Compromise Plan  The  alternative  is to clear Iran of its 19.75 percent
uranium, mothball the hardened facility at Fordo and ensure full
transparency to international inspectors. This would need to
include installation of IAEA cameras that could monitor Iran’s
continued enrichment of uranium to 3.5 percent for  power plants .
It would also require a halt to construction of further
enrichment facilities and heavy water plants. Later talks could
cap Iran’s production of low enriched uranium to match its
current consumption needs, and secure a full accounting for past
weaponization programs.  This compromise is the best we can hope to do through
negotiations. The Obama administration appeared to open the door
to a deal along these lines this year by de-emphasizing the
demand for a ban on all enrichment. The White House is doubtless
wary of being seen to give away too much, too early, ahead of
presidential elections in November. With Israel threatening war
and Iran pushing ever harder toward a nuclear breakout capacity,
too much is at stake to let U.S. domestic politics dictate the
outcome in Moscow next month.  The P5+1 shouldn’t give away the store for an interim
freeze, and it should make clear to Iran a road map that will
lead to a staged removal of sanctions, together with the
understanding that a limited right to  uranium enrichment  would
be  on the table  in an eventual, permanent deal.  There is a  huge list  of sanctions to pick from in giving
Iran inducements to stay engaged in a meaningful process. One
measure in particular should be on offer in Moscow: postponement
of the July 1 European oil embargo. This could be used to induce
a freeze on Iran’s production of 19.75 percent enriched uranium,
an agreement to ship its fuel stock out of the country in
exchange for processed rods, and a provision for IAEA inspectors
with full access to verify compliance.  If all these conditions can be met by July 1, then the
European oil sanctions should be postponed. They could always be
resurrected if subsequent negotiations fail and Iran resumes
production. The goal here isn’t to look tough. The goal is keep
up the pressure in a way that is most likely to halt  Iran’s
nuclear program  and avoid war.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  high-skills immigrants ;
 Edward Glaeser  on  what the latest housing numbers tell us ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  Romney’s public-sector experience ; Clive
Crook on  an EU debt plan ;  Peter Orszag  on the  problem with
spending caps ; William Pesek on  Osaka’s problematic mayor ;  Luigi
Zingales  on  capitalism and populism ; John O’Brennan on  Ireland’s
fiscal referendum .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 