-- Obama Pro-Business Regulation Push Reaps No Political Dividends
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-05-29T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/obama-pro-business-regulation-push-reaps-no-political-dividends.html
Barack Obama  boasts that he’s issued
fewer rules than  George W. Bush , and his officials say
regulatory rollbacks are expected to save more than $10 billion.  The administration has postponed decisions on several
regulations, including a proposal to require rearview cameras in
cars and a draft plan to cut ozone emissions that may cost as
much as $90 billion. If the president is betting on that record
working to his advantage with business groups in an election
year, the odds are against him, say industry lobbyists and
analysts.  “There’s still a lot of nervousness,” William Kovacs,
senior vice president for regulatory affairs at the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, the largest business lobbying group, said in an
interview. “They’re making the right statements on marginal
items. There hasn’t been any statement that they’re not going
forward on big issues that haven’t been concluded -- it just
leaves us uncertain.”  The White House is touting its pro-business credentials as
Obama steps up his criticism of Republican presidential front-
runner  Mitt Romney , whose private-equity career as co-founder of
Bain Capital LLC is a target of the president’s campaign ads.  The Republican hit back at the administration’s rulemaking
in a television spot outlining what Romney would do on “Day 1”
in the White House. “President Romney begins repealing jobs-
killing regulations that are costing the economy billions,” the
ad said.  Some Credit  Obama deserves credit for issuing fewer rules and setting
up a process to weed out unnecessary burdens, said Susan Dudley,
the former top regulator in the  Bush administration . Yet those
advances pale in comparison to the regulations that come with
the new health-care law and recently issued guidelines on
mercury emissions from coal plants and pollution from boilers in
paper mills and refineries, she added. Those two measures are
estimated to cost a total of $11.1 billion annually, according
to the Environmental Protection Agency.  “There are a number of expensive rules that have been
issued and a lot of the benefits are overstated,” said Dudley,
the former administrator of the  Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs  under Bush who’s now a research professor of
public policy and administration at George  Washington  University
in Washington. “Obama has issued a lot more big rules.”  Cass Sunstein, appointed by Obama to head OIRA, has ordered
agencies to consider the cost of cumulative regulation when
crafting new rules and wants to more closely align the U.S.
regulatory regime with those of major trading partners.  The regulatory review program has identified more than $10
billion in projected savings, according to Sunstein.  ‘Unnecessary Burdens’  Savings identified thus far include more than $5 billion
from loosened reporting requirements for health-care providers,
$2.8 billion from changing the labeling and classification of
hazardous chemicals, and $1.8 billion from overhauling
inspection rules for poultry slaughtering operations.  Many of the regulatory changes have been recommended by
business leaders on the  President’s Council  on Jobs and
Competitiveness, Moira Mack, a spokeswoman for the White House
Office of Management and Budget, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The Obama administration has aggressively reformed
regulatory policy to eliminate unnecessary burdens on America’s
families and businesses while utilizing smart rules to protect
lives, safety and the environment,” she said.  ‘Revolutionary’ Review  While executives support some of Obama’s reform program,
they’re wary of the price tags attached to some of his new
rules, said  James Conrad , a Washington regulatory lawyer.  “Among business people, there’s cognitive dissonance,”
said Conrad, a Democrat who served on the Bush-Cheney Transition
Advisory Committee for the Environmental Protection Agency.
“They’ll say ‘you’ve institutionalized regulatory look-back,
but you’re pressing ahead with these big expensive air rules.’”  The review program is “the most revolutionary part” of
Obama’s approach, saidMichael Greenstone, a professor of
economics at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  “Businesses and consumers should both want a look back to
see if our best guess about how things are going to work out,
actually turned out to be right,” said Greenstone, who served
in the Obama White House as chief economist for the  Council of
Economic Advisers .  “I am not sure the business community sees any particular
benefit to playing nice on these issues,” notes Michael A.
Livermore, executive director of the  Institute for Policy
Integrity  at  New York  University School of Law. “Clearly, they
don’t see it in their interest to give the administration a lot
of credit for what they have done so far.”  Obama's Efforts  Obama’s efforts thus far don’t cancel out potentially
expensive rule-making in higher education, agriculture and
manufacturing, according to John Graham, who headed OIRA under
Bush from 2001 to 2006.  “Sunstein is doing an admirable job within an
administration that is dominated by many pro-regulation
personalities,” Graham, now dean of the  School of Public and
Environmental Affairs  at  Indiana University , said in an e-mail.  Obama’s efforts to draw support from industry risk
alienating those advocating stronger rules.  Missed Deadlines  A  report  released in March by the Center for Progressive
Reform, a Washington-based research group that examines
regulations, found that 10 of 12 regulatory actions tracked by
the organization missed timelines proposed by the Obama
administration last June. Rena Steinzor, the center’s president,
blamed the delays on the inclination of agencies “not to rock
the boat” in an election year.  Obama is taking advantage of the fact that
environmentalists don’t have a viable alternative in this
election, said Daniel Farber, director of the  California Center
for Environmental Law and Policy  and a law professor at the
 University of California  at Berkeley. “Either they continue to
support Obama or give way to Romney, who’s promised a slash-and-
burn approach to regulation,” Farber said.  The partisan environment in Washington means that it will
be tough for Obama’s regulatory slowdown to pay political
dividends, Conrad said.  “There are some people for whom nothing they do will be
enough,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  