-- Obama Frees 8 States From ‘No Child’ Education-Testing Rules
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-05-29T19:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/obama-frees-8-states-from-no-child-education-testing-rules.html
President  Barack Obama  freed eight
states from provisions of the  No Child Left Behind  education-
testing law after they pledged to turn around low-performing
schools and tie teacher evaluations to student achievement.  Connecticut,  Delaware ,  Louisiana ,  Maryland , New York,  North
Carolina ,  Ohio  and Rhode Island received waivers from the law,
enacted under former President  George W. Bush . In all, 19 states
have now have been granted permission to sidestep the statute in
exchange for agreeing to elements of the Obama administration’s
education agenda.  Obama has pledged to change the 10-year-old No Child Left
Behind Law, saying its focus on standardized-testing dumbs down
teaching, narrows school curriculums and labels even high-
achieving schools as failing. Republicans -- including  John Kline , chairman of the House education committee -- have said
Congress should change the law, rather than the administration,
through executive orders.  “States must show they are protecting children in order to
get flexibility,” Education Secretary Arne Duncan said in a
statement. “These states met that bar.”  The states obtaining waivers would be exempt from the
requirement that all students pass achievement tests by 2014 --
and make progress toward that goal each year -- or risk losing
federal funding. Under No Child Left Behind, each state
establishes its own proficiency tests and determines what
constitutes passing.  ‘Changing Whims’  Kline, who represents  Minnesota , said he has “significant
concerns” about waivers that leave states “subject to the
changing whims of the Secretary of Education.”  House
Republicans  are advancing two pieces of legislation to improve
the law, he said.  “This plan does not constitute the long-term reform
families, schools, and students need,” Kline said in a
statement. “It’s a temporary Band-Aid to a problem that must be
resolved through legislation.”  In a conference call with reporters, Duncan said he still
prefers that Congress reach a bipartisan agreement to rewrite
the law -- something it has been unable to do for five years.  “Children cannot wait any longer,” Duncan said.
“Teachers can’t wait, and American can’t wait, so we’re moving
forward.”  Almost half of U.S. public schools are considered failing
under the No Child Left Behind law, according to a  report  in
December by the Center on Education Policy, a Washington-based
nonpartisan research group. The administration has cited the
failure rate as a reason to offer states and local school
authorities more flexibility.  Previously Excused  Obama previously excused 11 other states from the law:
Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Massachusetts,
Minnesota, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Tennessee.  In the latest round of waiver plans,  New York  said it would
require turnaround proposals for the lowest-performing 5 percent
of schools and those with a graduation rate below 60 percent.
The state noted that it negotiated a teacher and principal
evaluation system that gives a 40 percent weighting to
improvement in the academic performance of students.  Connecticut promised to increase the number of schools held
accountable for the lagging performance of black and Hispanic
students, as well as those with disabilities and those who speak
English as a second language or come from low-income families.
Fighting that “achievement gap” was a major focus of No Child
Left Behind.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  