-- Ocado Tackles Tesco With 3-D Gaming Technology in Grocer: Retail
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-05-29T23:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/ocado-tackles-tesco-with-3-d-gaming-technology-in-grocer-retail.html
Video-game software used to portray
three-dimensional warriors, alchemists and dungeons is assisting
U.K. online grocer  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  as it expands to take on
supermarket giants such as  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)   A software package called OGRE helps provide a computer-
generated display of the automated processes taking place inside
the company’s distribution center in Hatfield,  England . Chief
Executive Officer Tim Steiner and his management team can
monitor the imagery from their iPads to iron out any errors that
arise as Ocado increases its distribution capacity to record
levels and seeks to become profitable for the first time.  “We used 3-D gaming technology to make the moving images
realistic,” Steiner said in an interview. A complex
mathematical model enables the software to detect if any part of
the 295,000 square-foot (27,406 square-meter) warehouse isn’t
working as efficiently as it should.  The gadgetry will become more important over the next 18
months as Ocado seeks to double its product range, adding non-
food items such as kitchen utensils that will place the company
in the firing line of Tesco and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  The online
grocer is scheduled to open a second distribution center in the
first quarter of next year, a key milestone in its efforts to
more than triple sales to 2 billion pounds ($3.1 billion).  “We are going to move from being a supermarket today to a
hypermarket by the end of this year,” Steiner said. Ocado needs
to offer a competitive range to challenge Tesco, the U.K.’s
largest grocery chain, and competitor  J Sainsbury Plc, (SBRY)  though
“we’re not going to be Amazon tomorrow,” he said.  Video-Game Hero  The online grocer created its own warehouse-monitoring
software in 2008 because there was no product available to cope
with the complexity of its distribution center. So programmers
opted to employ OGRE, or the object-oriented graphics rendering
engine, which is used in games such as the Xbox Live Arcade-
based fantasy Torchlight, racing game Proun and animated
adventure  Okabu .  The technology allows managers to zoom in on any part of
the machinery to see an animated rendering of its performance.
Like a video-game hero, the user can fly through the warehouse
and see what’s happening in bright video-game-like colors.  The visualization can represent all the equipment, 6,000
moving boxes, pick stations and conveyors and can display what’s
happening live or replay any part of the production day. And the
software allows users to choose what element they want to see
from any viewing position, so they can zoom in on problem areas.  No Profit  “IT is a key part of the value in Ocado,” said  Andrew Wade , an analyst at Numis Securities with a buy recommendation
on the shares. The simulation, allowing users to see lighting,
shadows, reflections and textures, is “a useful monitoring and
diagnostic tool, and looks really impressive.”  Steiner, one of three former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bond
traders who founded the online grocer 12 years ago, has
discovered that growth isn’t easy to manage. Ocado said in
December that earnings would miss estimates, hurt by capacity
constraints at its distribution center and by the cost of extra
staff to ensure orders were fulfilled.  Ocado said last week that  revenue growth  accelerated in the
second quarter as warehouse capacity reached record levels.  The company, which listed on the stock exchange in July
2010 and mostly sells items from upscale grocery chain Waitrose
Ltd., has never reported a profit. The  shares  have fallen 53
percent in the past year and at 105 pence haven’t traded above
their 180 pence initial public offer price since last July.  Non-Food Expansion  “Ocado remains a distinctive and interesting business in
our view, though it remains a business model distinctly
unproven,” Darren Shirley, an analyst at Shore Capital, said by
e-mail. He has a sell recommendation on the stock.  Steiner acknowledges that selling Waitrose products alone
won’t be enough for Ocado to achieve its financial ambitions. To
that end, the online grocer next year plans to start directing
its customers to related websites offering products such as pet
supplies, kitchen items, baby products and seasonal goods like
gardening tools and Halloween outfits.  The concept is similar to Amazon-owned  Quidsi Inc. , the
company behind Soap.com and Diapers.com, which offer a common
online shopping cart so consumers can purchase items from any of
the sites with just a single checkout.  Creating these so-called destination stores means Ocado
will have a broader selection of items, providing customers with
a range of products similar to that of a department store,
Steiner said. Those goods will be packed separately from
groceries, but billed and delivered together.  Online Grocery Growth  “They already have a core customer base so broadening
their product range into non-food makes sense,” said  David
Gray , an analyst at research company  Planet Retail  in  London .
“They are being quite forward looking putting in place capacity
for non-food.”  Steiner estimates that Ocado will offer about 10,000 non-
food products by the end of this year, up from about 4,500 now.
The total  range  may increase to as many as 40,000 items by the
end of 2013 from about 21,000 today, he said. That would make
Ocado’s selection wider than a Tesco Extra store, the retailer’s
largest format. Tesco would still outrank Ocado online, though,
with about 75,000 items today.  Ocado is the U.K.’s eighth-largest online retailer behind
Amazon, Tesco, Sainsbury,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) ,  Next
Plc (NXT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda. It held a 2 percent share
of the 27.8 billion-pound U.K. online market last year,
according to Euromonitor International.  Steiner wants to grab a larger slice of that business, and
by using innovative technology to get there he may have an edge.  “Ocado’s efficiencies and technological excellence may put
them at an advantage” to larger competitors, said Jon
Copestake, a retail analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  