-- Oil Falls as Euro Drops Near Two-Year Low on Spain
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-05-29T19:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/oil-gains-for-third-day-on-u-s-growth.html
Oil fell for the first time in three
days after Egan-Jones Ratings Co. downgraded  Spain ’s credit,
pushing the euro to the lowest level in almost two years.  Futures slipped 10 cents as Spain’s rating was cut to B
from Bb-. A debate in the country about how to fund a
recapitalization of the Bankia group is spurring speculation
that the debt crisis that is battering  Greece  is spreading.
Earlier, oil touched a one-week high as U.S. equities advanced.  “We had the euro just drop like a rock,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago . “Crude is really just affected by the currencies as
the Spanish situation worsens.”  Oil for July delivery settled at $90.76 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are down 13 percent this month.
Futures touched $92.21, the highest level since May 22, in
intraday trading. Floor trading was closed yesterday for
Memorial Day.  Brent oil for July settlement fell 43 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $106.68 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Spain’s 9.6 percent budget deficit, 24 percent jobless rate
and bank losses of as much as 260 billion euros ($324 billion)
weigh on the economy, Haverford, Pennsylvania-based Egan Jones
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Spain will inevitably be faced with payments to support a
portion of its banking sector and for its weaker provinces,” it
said. “Assets of Spain’s largest two banks exceed its GDP.”  Euro Tumbles  The euro fell as much as 0.6 percent to $1.2461, the lowest
level since July 1, 2010. A weaker euro and stronger dollar
reduce oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index pared gains to 0.7 percent
after rising as much as 1.3 percent.  “You have equities coming off hard and essentially you
have the euro getting hammered,” said  Stephen Schork , president
of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Oil is
following the markets lower.”  Crude also dropped as confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly fell in May to the lowest level in four months. The
Conference Board’s confidence  index  decreased to 64.9 from a
revised 68.7 in the prior month, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today.  “We had poor  consumer confidence  numbers,” Schork said.
“You’ve got a couple of headlines that suggested some weakness
in the market.”  BNP Paribas Forecast  BNP Paribas SA cut its 2012 price forecast for West Texas
Intermediate oil by $7 to $100 a barrel as the debt crisis
worsened. The bank also reduced estimates for  Brent crude  by $4
to $115 a barrel, according to an e-mailed report.  “In the short term, the market may well remain in limbo
without clear direction, waiting for European elections and the
next OPEC meeting,”  Harry Tchilinguirian  and Gareth Lewis- Davies, analysts based in  London , wrote in the report. “In the
second half of the year, the world will live increasingly with
lower spare production capacity and a more geopolitically
charged environment.”  Oil ministers from members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries are scheduled to meet June 14 in Vienna.  Earlier, oil and equities rose after the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values showed the U.S. housing market is
stabilizing.  “We’re got a mixed and uncertain economic outlook but
investors are looking at things with some optimism after the
long weekend,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in  New York .  U.S Homes  Home values in 20 cities fell at the slowest pace in more
than a year in the 12 months to March. The  index  fell 2.6
percent from a year earlier after a 3.5 percent drop in
February, the group reported today in New York.  “Crude really moved, to a large extent, hand in hand with
equities,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities research
at IAF Advisors in Houston.  New York futures fell to $89.28 on May 23, the weakest
intraday level since November, from this month’s high of $106.43
on May 1.  Crude’s decline may halt near the psychological $90 level
and the 38.2 percent one-year Fibonacci retracement level of
$88.55, according to  Richard Ross , a technical analyst at
brokerage Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New York.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 412,699
contracts as of 3:34 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 273,089
contracts on May 25, the lowest level since Dec. 27 and 52
percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.44
million.  -- With assistance from Catarina Saraiva and Mark Shenk in New
York, and Timothy R. Homan and Lorraine Woellert in Washington
Editors: Margot Habiby, Dan Stets  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  