-- Crude Advances in New York on Outlook for U.S. Economic Growth
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-29T12:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/oil-advances-for-a-third-day-on-outlook-for-u-s-economic-growth.html
Oil traded near the highest in a week
in New York as speculation that economic growth will boost fuel
demand in the U.S. countered concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
will worsen.  Futures advanced as much as 1.2 percent from the close on
May 25. U.S.  consumer confidence  probably gained in May and job
growth may have picked up, according to surveys by Bloomberg
News before reports this week. The U.S. Memorial Day holiday
yesterday marked the start of the nation’s peak driving period.  “The U.S. situation is hopeful, with demand numbers
improving lately as we kick off the summer driving season,”
said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London ,
who predicts oil will trade from $84 and $96 a barrel next
month. “But at the same time inventories are high, so we’d
really need refinery runs to hold up early summer to work
through the excess crude.”  Crude for July delivery climbed as much as $1.13 to $91.99
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest since May 22, and was at $91.23 at 12:42
p.m. London time. Floor trading was closed yesterday for the
U.S. Memorial Day holiday and transactions will be booked with
today’s trades for settlement purposes. Front-month prices are
down 7.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement was at $106.94 a barrel, down
17 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Prices have fallen 10 percent in May. The European benchmark
contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate was at $15.72,
compared with $16.12 yesterday.  Technical Support  Oil’s slump this month may be stalling as futures trade
close to $90 a barrel, according to technical analysis by
Auerbach Grayson & Co.  West Texas Intermediate oil traded in  New York  fell to
$89.28 on May 23, the weakest intraday level since November,
from this month’s high of $106.43 on May 1. The decline may halt
near the psychological $90 level and the 38.2 percent one-year
Fibonacci retracement level of $88.55, according to  Richard Ross , an analyst at the New York brokerage.  “The second half of the year should be stronger, so we’d
look for buying opportunities if our macro indicators
stabilize,” said Guy Wolf, a macro strategist at Marex Spectron
Group Ltd., a London-based commodities broker. “At the moment,
we’re in a ‘bad-news vacuum’ and that’s helping things
stabilize. The underlying environment is still poor, but markets
had become quite oversold in the short term.”  U.S. Economy  The New York-based Conference Board’s gauge of  consumer
confidence  probably rose to 69.5 in May from 69.2 the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey before a report tomorrow.
U.S. payrolls increased by 150,000 workers after a gain of
115,000 in April that was the lowest in six months, according to
the median forecast of 70 economists in a separate survey before
Labor Department figures on June 1.  “There’s little green shoots of optimism,”  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a
commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney, said by phone today.
“We’re going to get a robust story out of the U.S. We’re not
out of hot water with Europe.”  Libya ’s state-owned Arabian Gulf Oil Co.’s crude output may
rise to 450,000 barrels a day by the end of the year, surpassing
pre-conflict levels, International Oil Daily reported, citing
unidentified company officials.  The company, known as Agoco, is producing about 400,000
barrels a day, IOD said. The additional  output  will come from
the company’s Messla oilfield, according to the newsletter.  Futures in New York have slipped 13 percent this month amid
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will derail the global
economic recovery.  Greece , responsible for 0.4 percent of the world economy,
now poses a threat to international prosperity as investors
raise bets its days of using the euro are numbered.  A Greek departure from the currency would inflict
“collateral damage,” says Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Richard Clarida, a view echoed by economists from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  