-- Home Prices in U.S. Fell at Slower Pace in Year Ended March
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-29T14:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/home-prices-in-u-s-fell-at-slower-pace-in-year-ended-march.html
Home values in 20 U.S. cities fell in
the 12 months ended March at the slowest pace in more than a
year as lower borrowing costs and an improving job market gave
sales a boost.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values fell 2.6
percent from a year earlier after a 3.5 percent drop in
February, the group reported today in  New York . The decline
matched the median  forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The index rose from the prior month on a seasonally
adjusted basis.  A comeback in the housing market might be under way.
Homebuilders are reporting their most-improved spring selling
season in seven years, propelled by record-low  mortgage rates ,
job gains and shrinking inventories. At the same time the market
faces challenges as mortgage credit is difficult to obtain and
slow wage growth is keeping some would-be buyers on the
sidelines.  “We’ve turned the corner,” said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida , who correctly projected the drop. “This was always
going to be a very gradual process. No one expected a real sharp
housing recovery.” he said.  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly dropped in May for a third
consecutive month, another report today showed. The New York-
based Conference Board’s sentiment index fell to 64.9 this
month, the lowest level since January, from April’s reading of
68.7, the research group said.  Stocks held earlier gains after the reports. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.8 percent to 1,328.4 at 10:02 a.m. in
New York.  Survey Results  Estimates for the year-over-year change in the home price
index for March ranged from declines of 1.5 percent to 3
percent, according to the Bloomberg survey of 31 economists. The
Case-Shiller index is based on a three-month average, which
means the March data were influenced by transactions in January
and February.  The year-to-year decrease in March was the smallest since
December 2010.  Home prices  adjusted for seasonal variations increased 0.1
in March from the prior month, following a 0.2 percent gain in
February. Unadjusted prices were little changed from the prior
month.  National Data  Today’s report also included quarterly national figures.
Prices covering all the U.S.  decreased  1.9 percent in the first
quarter from the same time in 2011 compared with a 3.9 percent
drop in the year ended in the fourth quarter. They fell 2
percent from the previous three months before seasonal
adjustment, and increased 1.1 percent after taking those changes
into account, the best performance since the third quarter of
2009.  The year-over-year gauge for the 20-city index, begun in
2001, provides better indications of trends in prices than the
monthly measure, S&P/Case-Shiller has said in the past. The
panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  Thirteen of the 20 cities measured had a year-over-year
decline, led by an 18 percent plunge in Atlanta. Phoenix showed
the biggest increase, with prices rising 6.1 percent in March
from a year earlier.  Five cities reached new lows in property values since the
housing slump began, including Atlanta,  Chicago ,  Las Vegas , New
York and  Portland ,  Oregon .  Other Data  Another measure of home values released last week showed
gains. Prices rose 2.7 percent in the 12 months through March,
the biggest year-over-year increase since November 2006, the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  reported.  Improving demand is helping prices stabilize. New-home
purchases rose more than forecast in April, to a 343,000 annual
rate, up 3.3 percent from a revised 332,000 in March, the
Commerce Department reported last week. Sales of  existing homes 
increased 3.4 percent to a 4.62 million annual rate in April,
just shy of the 4.63 million in January that was the highest in
almost two years, the National Association of Realtors reported.  Record-low borrowing costs are among reasons purchases are
picking up. Mortgage rates for 30-year loans fell to 3.78
percent on average last week, the lowest in Freddie Mac records
dating back to 1971.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  is among the builders reporting growth
in orders. The company, based in Horsham,  Pennsylvania , beat
estimates with its second-quarter profit of $16.9 million.  “We are feeling better than we have at any time in the
past five years,” Executive Chairman Robert Toll said on a May
23 earnings call. “We would like to say we’re back, but we need
a little more confirmation. Nonetheless, it sure feels good
compared to the desert we’ve just crossed.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  