-- Montreal Protests May Curb Crowds for Grand Prix, Francofolies
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-05-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/montreal-protests-may-curb-crowds-for-grand-prix-francofolies.html
Montreal ’s spring of discontent is
threatening to turn into a summer of lost business for the
city’s C$2.3 billion-($2.25 billion)-a-year tourist industry.  With less than two weeks until the opening weekend of the
Francofolies music festival and the June 10  Grand Prix du Canada ,
the mood in the country’s second-largest city is far from
festive. A three-month protest movement against rising
university fees has sparked more than 260 demonstrations, about
1,600 arrests and a smoke bomb that shut down the  subway system .  Bookings at some hotels have dropped as much as 10 percent
this month from May 2011, and the trend may continue in June,
according to William Brown, president of the Hotel Association
of Greater Montreal. Room reservations for the Grand Prix race
weekend, which can draw daily crowds of more than 100,000 people,
are running behind schedule, he said.  “We’re beginning to see a negative reaction,” said Brown,
whose association includes 77 member hotels. “Each additional
day just compounds the situation. We are very concerned.”  About 155,000 students at  Quebec  universities and community
colleges have been on strike since Feb. 13 over a  plan  by the
provincial government to raise university fees by 75 percent, or
C$1,625, over five years. A subsequent government offer to
spread an 82 percent increase over seven years failed to yield a
permanent deal, leading to the resignation of Education Minister
Line Beauchamp. About 70 percent of all post-secondary students
in Quebec finished their year as planned.  Negotiations  Talks between student and government negotiators resumed in
 Quebec City  yesterday, with Finance Minister Raymond Bachand
telling LCN television network he’s “hopeful” an accord can be
reached. Bachand is counting on the tuition increase to help
Quebec, which has the highest debt as a percentage of gross
domestic product in  Canada , plug a C$1.5 billion budget gap by
2013-14. Quebec expects the additional fees to bring in as much
as C$332 million a year by 2016-17.  “We’re here to find an agreement,” Leo Bureau-Blouin,
head of one of the three main student unions, told reporters in
Quebec City. “It will take whatever time is necessary.”  What started as a resistance movement against rising
university tuition fees has mushroomed into a social conflict
pitting post-secondary students, professors, labor unions,
opponents of capitalism and wide swaths of Quebec society
against the government of Premier Jean Charest, who must call an
election by December 2013.  Charest’s Liberal Party government, in power since April
2003, has been rocked in recent months by media reports that
organized crime infiltrated the  construction industry  to win
government contracts. An inquiry  commission  into the granting of
public contracts opened last week.  Social Justice  “The reason so many people have come out into the streets
is that there’s a growing frustration with inequality in
society,” said  Harold Chorney , a political science professor at
Montreal’s Concordia University. “This is really about social
justice versus the neo-Liberal, or business-oriented,
philosophy.”  The protest movement “has become a federation of people
who have demands to make, some of which have nothing to do with
tuition fees,” Quebec Transport Minister Pierre Moreau told RDI
network last week.  Protester outrage has been heightened by the May 18
adoption of  Bill 78 , a law that compels march organizers to file
their itineraries to police at least eight hours ahead of time.
It also calls for fines of as much C$125,000 for student
federations found to have blocked anyone from entering a
university or college. Organizations ranging from  Amnesty
International  to the  Quebec Bar Association  have criticized the
legislation, saying it violates constitutional rights.  Divides Quebecers  Bill 78, which will expire in July 2013, has also divided
Quebecers. In a CROP Inc.  poll  conducted May 22 to 25 for
Montreal’s La Presse newspaper, 51 percent of respondents said
they favored the law, while 49 percent opposed it. CROP polled
1,500 Quebec residents on the Internet.  Montreal police arrested 518 people on the night of May 23-
24 alone. That’s more than the tally for the “October Crisis”
of 1970, which saw the kidnapping and murder of a government
minister by a Quebec nationalist group, the intervention of the
Canadian army and the imposition of the War Measures Act.  In one  incident  earlier this month, which has garnered more
than 34,000 hits on Youtube, Montreal riot police pepper-sprayed
patrons drinking on a bar patio during a demonstration.  Nightly protests not only hurt Montreal’s image, they could
swell if the dispute drags on and angry demonstrators confront
festival-goers, said Paul Arseneault, a professor of business
administration at University of Quebec in Montreal.  Jazz Festival  Besides the  Francofolies , a 10-day festival that will
feature almost 150 open-air concerts, Montreal is home to the
world’s biggest jazz festival, which begins June 28, and the
Juste Pour Rire comedy festival, whose 30th-anniversary edition
is due to start July 12.  International media interest has been high, with newspapers
in more than 70 countries -- including  Australia , Slovakia,
 Germany ,  Turkey ,  China  and the U.S. -- devoting space to the
conflict, according to Influence Communication, a Montreal-based
media monitoring firm.  “There has to be a settlement, and soon,” said Arseneault,
director of research at the university’s tourism chair.
“Demonstrators and the massive crowds you typically see at the
festivals can’t coexist. Something could go very wrong.”  Gilbert Rozon, founder of the Juste Pour Rire festival,
told Montreal’s 98.5 FM radio station in a May 22  interview  the
prospect of disruptions “can be scary.” Rozon, who supports
the tuition increase and has waded into the debate by commenting
on Twitter, says he’s received boycott threats in response to
some of his comments. He didn’t return a voice mail message
seeking comment for this story.  Grand Prix  Grand Prix du Canada promoter Francois Dumontier told
Radio-Canada’s website in an interview published yesterday that
while he doesn’t expect demonstrations to disturb the race,
ticket sales so far have lagged expectations.  Steve Siozos, who owns the Stogies Cigar Lounge in downtown
Montreal, said revenue has dipped about 30 percent in the last
two weeks, in line with other businesses on his street. He
attributes the decline to suburban Montrealers staying away from
the city center.  “Most of this happened when the protests got violent,” he
said in an interview. “Before that it wasn’t good, but you
weren’t getting an outcry from the merchants.”  Grand Prix week is traditionally the year’s most profitable
for restaurant owners and employees, said Alain Creton, who owns
the Alexandre & Fils brasserie in downtown Montreal. Students
can earn as much as C$1,000 by working at the restaurant during
the four days leading up to the race, he said. Protests so far
have had a “minimal” impact on business, Creton said.  Like Snowstorms  “Demonstrations are like snowstorms,” he said. “When
there’s a big storm, people stay away.”  Only a minority of gatherings have turned violent. On May
22, a daytime march to mark the 100th day of the conflict drew
as many as 250,000 people, organizers say, including many
families with children and retirees.  For the past two weeks, Montrealers have even started
coming out onto their balconies and in the streets to bang their
pots and pans at 8 p.m. -- a cacophony inspired by anti-
government protests in  Chile  during the 1970s.  Kitchenware concerts aside, things have quieted down since
May 23, with police reporting a single arrest for the night of
May 27-28. Montrealers such as Creton say they hope the trend
heralds a swift and peaceful resolution to the dispute.  “Visitors to Montreal often tell me they like the fact
they can walk around at 4 a.m. and never have to worry about
something bad happening,” he said. “For now our reputation as
a safe city is unscathed, but it wouldn’t take much to lose it.
Everyone involved understands that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  