-- Opera Jumps Most Ever After Report Facebook May Bid: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-29T09:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/opera-jumps-most-on-record-after-report-of-facebook-s-interest.html
Opera Software ASA (OPERA) , the Norwegian
marker of Internet browsers, surged the most on record in Oslo
after technology website  Pocket-Lint  reported that  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
may try to acquire the company.  Opera gained as much as 26 percent, the biggest jump since
it first sold shares in 2004. The Oslo-based company rose 18
percent to 40.5 kroner at 11:37 a.m., giving it a market value
of 4.85 billion kroner ($807 million).  Opera is the last major independent browser left, with the
others owned by companies such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , said Aleksander Nilsen, an analyst at Abg Sundal
Collier in Oslo. The company has a strong balance sheet, and
could be an attractive target for other companies, such as
 Mountain View , California-based Google, he said.  “A deal would make strategic sense for Facebook,” said
Nilsen, who doesn’t own shares of either company. “If they want
to get their own browser, they have two alternatives: one is to
build their own browser, which will take some time, and two is
to buy a company that has a current browser. Opera is the only
independent player here.”  The Pocket-Lint report cited an unidentified source.  Pal Unanue-Zahl, an Opera spokesman, declined to comment on
speculation. Bethan Thomas, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said the
company doesn’t comment on rumor and speculation.  Increasing Revenue  Opera’s revenue may increase 38 percent this year to 1.24
billion kroner, according to the average  estimate  of analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. Adjusted earnings per share may rise 50
percent to 1.83 krone, according to the survey.  Chief Executive Officer Lars Boilesen has expanded Opera to
150 million users a month by targeting faster-growing markets
such as Russia and  Indonesia  where it is one of the cheapest way
to access the Internet, he said in an interview in February. The
company plans to release improvements to its computer,
smartphone and TV products this year, he said.  An acquisition of a company such as Opera could help
Facebook create its own phone or help it improve its services on
mobile phones, computers and televisions, said Tony Cripps, a
principal analyst at Ovum in London.  “To become a real power player in the consumer technology
market, you need to have a strong presence in the devices
themselves,” Cripps said in an interview. “The Web browser
might be the best route in that it gives you the ability to do a
lot of what you can do with an operating system: you can run
apps and app stores through the Web browser.”  Facebook raised $16 billion in its initial public offering
this month. The company is trying to adapt as more users access
its site via mobile phones. That put pressure on executives to
articulate their mobile strategy as they marketed the stock to
potential investors ahead of the IPO. Facebook has said it will
add mobile advertising along with new ads to reach users when
they log off of the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  