-- Housing Finance Drops Most in 1 Month on Rates: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-05-29T13:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/housing-finance-drops-most-in-9-months-on-rates-nairobi-mover.html
Housing Finance Ltd. (HFCL) ,  Kenya ’s only
publicly traded mortgage lender, dropped the most in more than a
month on concern that new mortgage uptake could be crimped by
high interest rates.  The stock fell 3.8 percent to 15.20 shillings at the close
in Nairobi, the capital, the biggest decline since March 19,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya’s mortgage market in 2012 will be “dampened” by an
increase in interest rates, higher cost of building materials
and borrowers postponing investment decisions to await the
outcome of general elections next year,  the Central Bank of
Kenya said in a report dated May 25. Housing Finance said April
24 first-quarter sales dropped 38 percent as higher interest
rates affected mortgage uptake.  “Mortgage take up has been choked up by the high interest
rates regime and in part investors are worried about the health
of not only new mortgages but also lending to the construction
sector, which Housing Finance is now involved in,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , chief executive officer of Nairobi-based Rich
Management, said in a phone interview today.  Earlier this month the company announced plans to begin
construction of houses for sale after a 13-year break. Through
its unit, Kenya Building Society, it will begin by putting up
162 maisonettes in Komarock, a residential estate in Nairobi, it
said on its  website .  In December Housing Finance raised its base lending rate to
23 percent for new customers, while existing customers will pay
16.5 percent, up from 14 percent. The increase came a day after
Kenya’s central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  for a
fourth consecutive time by 1.5 percentage points to 18 percent
on Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  