-- How Political Clout Made Banks Too Big to Fail
-- B y   L u i g i   Z i n g a l e s
-- 2012-05-29T23:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/how-political-clout-made-banks-too-big-to-fail.html
The U.S. has historically kept the
financial sector in check through a combination of sound
principles and serendipitous decisions. But as the financial
system gained strength in recent years, it also gained political
influence. In the last decade, it has become too concentrated
and too powerful, which has damaged not only the economy but the
financial sector itself.  How did it happen? In 1933, the  Glass-Steagall Act  erected
a wall between two ways that banks could help customers borrow
money. The idea was to keep commercial banks from exploiting
their depositors, who might get saddled with the bonds of firms
that could not repay the money they owed. One beneficial side
effect of the  Glass-Steagall Act  was to fragment the banking
sector and reduce the financial industry’s political power.
Another was to foster healthy competition between commercial
banks and investment banks.  Bank Concentration  Starting in the 1970s, these limits were progressively
removed. The deregulation unquestionably increased the
efficiency of the banking sector and fostered economic growth.
But with this growth came concentration. In 1980, there were
14,434 banks in the U.S., about the same number as in 1934. By
1990, this number had dropped to 12,347; and by 2000, to 8,315.
In 2009, the number was less than 7,100.  Most important was that the concentration of deposits and
lending increased significantly. In 1984, the top five U.S.
banks controlled only 9 percent of the total deposits in the
banking sector. By 2001, that figure had increased to 21 percent
and, by the end of 2008, to almost 40 percent.  This process of deregulation and consolidation culminated
in 1999 with the passage of the  Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act , which
completely removed the separation between commercial banks and
investment banks. The real effect was political, not economic,
at least directly. Under the old regime, commercial banks,
investment banks and insurance companies had different agendas,
so their lobbying efforts tended to offset one another. But
after the restrictions ended, the interests of all the major
players aligned. This gave the industry disproportionate power
in shaping the political agenda.  The concentration of the banking industry amplified this
power. Consider the example of the 2005 bankruptcy reform: After
more than 10 years of discussions in Congress, on April 20,
2005, President  George W. Bush  signed into law the Bankruptcy
Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act, which overhauled
bankruptcy, especially personal bankruptcy.  Historically, the U.S. has been a pro-debtor country. This
bias has made defaulting on credit-card debt relatively
painless, and the percentage of Americans filing for personal
bankruptcy has been high even during economic expansions. In
2003, for example, the percentage of adults filing for
bankruptcy in the U.S. was 10 times higher than that in the U.K.  The  2005 reform  was intended to discourage opportunistic
filings by debtors who used bankruptcy to wipe out their debt
even when they could afford to repay at least part of it. A
reduction in opportunistic filings, it was thought, would lower
the cost of credit for all Americans.  But a reduction in strategic defaults that is achieved by
making all defaults (including nonstrategic ones) more painful
might have negative implications by inhibiting risk taking by
entrepreneurs, which would depress economic growth.  Strengthened Lobbying  Prior to the repeal of the  Glass-Steagall Act , creditors
seldom joined forces to lobby because they often had distinct
interests. In the past, different kinds of lending were often
carried out by different types of institutions. After the major
consolidation that took place in the banking sector, though, a
smaller number of entities performed all of these functions --
and for them, consensus was easier. The 2005 reform was
dominated by the credit lobby and the National Consumer
Bankruptcy Coalition. The result was a law that was entirely in
favor of creditors.  The consequences were rapidly felt. Only eight months after
the law was signed,  house prices  plateaued and then started to
drop, straining the financial situation of many homeowners. In
the pre-bankruptcy-reform world, distressed homeowners would
have filed for personal bankruptcy, which would have allowed
them to discharge their credit-card debt, making it easier to
hold on to their houses. Under the new law, this option was no
longer open. According to calculations based on a recent study,
the 2005 reform increased the number of people  defaulting  on
their mortgages by almost 500,000; and when a mortgage holder
defaults and the house is auctioned off, on average it loses 27
percent in value. If we apply this loss to the average price of
a house sold in 2005 ($290,000), we can estimate that the
financial industry lost $39 billion as a result of bankruptcy
reform.  Yet the reform’s strongest negative effect on the financial
industry resulted from an arcane section of the bill that was
little noticed at the time and that strengthened the rights of
derivatives owners in bankruptcy cases.  The 2005 law, rather than requiring a derivatives holder to
be paid back as much as possible with a bankrupt company’s
assets, allowed the derivatives holder to pretend that nothing
had happened at all. That means the derivatives holder got the
right to receive a contract identical to the one it had signed
before, but now with a different counterparty. The previous
counterparty would shoulder the transaction cost of the new
contract, which typically ranges from 0.1 percent to 0.2 percent
of the contract’s face value.  Lehman Collapse  If this cost seems insignificant, just look at what
happened with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. At the time it went
bankrupt, the bank had derivatives contracts with a notional
value (face value) of $35 trillion. At an average transaction
cost of 0.15 percent, reintegrating those contracts amounted to
$52.5 billion of extra cost. In other words, in addition to
repaying its debt to derivatives holders before anybody else was
paid, the Lehman bankruptcy estate had to spend an additional
$52.5 billion on new contracts, reducing the payoff of all the
other creditors by that amount.  Another reason that large banks are politically influential
is that their demise can create a catastrophic disruption in the
economy -- or so policy makers believe. Whether they are right
is irrelevant.  Suppose a large asteroid is hurtling toward Earth and has a
5 percent chance of hitting us, creating $10 trillion worth of
physical damage to the U.S. Should the president authorize a
$700 billion mission to destroy the asteroid and stave off
disaster? If you reason in purely statistical terms, the
expected cost of failing to act (0.05 × $10,000 billion = $500
billion) is much less than the cost of acting.  But if the president spends the money to stop the asteroid,
nobody will know whether it would indeed have hit the Earth, had
he neglected to act. By contrast, if he does nothing, he has a 5
percent chance of going down in history as the president who
knowingly failed to avoid catastrophe. Doesn’t the operation to
destroy the asteroid suddenly look much more appealing? And,
after all, the  aerospace industry  would be delighted to be paid
to work on the mission. Perhaps because all of the experts
would, directly or indirectly, benefit from the proposed
mission, the public would start hearing that the chances of
disaster are really 10 percent to 20 percent. With those odds,
the $700 billion mission would make sense, both politically and
statistically.  The circumstances that make policy makers succumb to the
“too big to fail” doctrine are similar. An important
difference, however, is that a Federal Reserve chairman’s
resolve to bail out banks actually increases the likelihood of
disaster, since the implicit promise to intervene has a perverse
influence on the banks’ willingness to take risk.  Self-Fulfilling Prophecy  Worse, “too big to fail” creates a self-fulfilling
prophecy: Shortsighted policy makers will always prefer the cost
of a bailout to the cost of upsetting the market. As a
consequence, the problem continues and expands. Anticipating
government bailouts in case of emergency, lenders are willing to
lend to large financial institutions very cheaply and without
restrictions. The managers of these financial institutions find
it attractive to borrow a lot and to take wildly risky gambles,
because they can maximize their profits by doing so.  Unfortunately, the risky bets also maximize the probability
that the government will have to intervene, as well as the cost
to the government when it does. The value of this implicit
government subsidy is estimated to be half of a percentage point
of interest. Multiplied by the debt of the top 18 bank holding
companies, it corresponds to a $34.1 billion subsidy per year.  By reducing the  cost of credit  for large banks deemed “too
big to fail,” this subsidy also distorts competition, hampering
small banks’ ability to compete. The result, naturally, is an
increase in the number of big banks -- banks that may need to be
rescued in the future.  ( Luigi Zingales  is a professor of entrepreneurship and
finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business,
a contributor to  Business Class  and a contributing editor
of City Journal. This is the first of three
excerpts from his new book, “A Capitalism for the People:
Recapturing the Lost Genius of American Prosperity,” which will
be published in June by Basic Books, a member of the Perseus
Books Group. The opinions expressed are his own. Read Part 2.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  high-skills immigrants 
and  cutting a deal with Iran ;  Edward Glaeser  on  what the latest
housing numbers tell us ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Romney’s public-
sector experience ; Clive Crook on  an EU debt plan ;  Peter Orszag 
on the  problem with spending caps ; William Pesek on  Osaka’s
problematic mayor ; John O’Brennan on  Ireland’s fiscal
referendum .  To contact the writer of this article:
Luigi Zingales at  Luigi.Zingales@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  