-- Low, Stable Housing Prices: What’s Not to Like?
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-05-29T23:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/low-stable-housing-prices-what-s-not-to-like-.html
The Case-Shiller Housing Price
figures for March were released Tuesday, and they reveal a
second month of modest price increases.  These slightly rising prices don’t portend a housing
comeback. Instead, the seasonally adjusted figures illustrate
that since March 2009, we’ve been bumping along the bottom of
the housing market, just as we did for six years after the last
housing bubble burst in 1991.  Although a new surge in housing prices might improve the
macroeconomy, there is plenty to like in low and stable  housing
prices , and that’s what we should now expect in a world free
from bubbly delusions of constant price appreciation.  The two-month increase in the Case-Shiller 20-city index
between January and March 2012 still leaves us only 0.2 percent
above the post-2006 market bottom. In real terms, the 20-city
index is about where it was in March 2000. The 10-city index,
which goes back to the 1980s, is about the same today, in real
terms, as it was at the end of the Ronald Reagan presidency.
Let’s hope that U.S. homebuyers will never again believe the lie
that housing is a fail-safe investment strategy.  On average, the Case-Shiller cities have housing values
that are 90 percent of their values in May 2009, when the market
hit its first bottom. After that, prices began rising,  abetted
by  the homebuyer tax credit. But when the credit expired in May
2010, prices fell again until February of this year, with the
exception of a one-month uptick in April 2011. The homebuyer tax
credit may explain the extra gyration in this downturn that was
missing from the price drop of the early 1990s.  Still Lagging  Fifteen of 20 Case-Shiller cities have prices today that
are 83 percent to 97 percent of their May 2009 prices. Two
cities,  San Francisco  and  Washington , have done unusually well,
with housing prices that are essentially unchanged from 2009.
Three cities -- Atlanta, Chicago and  Las Vegas  -- have been poor
performers, declining an additional 20 percent in real terms
since then. Atlanta and Las Vegas were epicenters of
overbuilding, and Las Vegas’s  unemployment rate  remains at 12.1
percent.  By contrast, the unemployment rate in the  Washington  area
is 5.5 percent, thanks in part to an era of big government. If
we turn to the longer-term picture, there is far more disparity
between metropolitan areas, but the differences in price
patterns are relatively easy to understand using the simple
concepts of supply and demand.  From 1992 to 2012, real housing prices shot up by more than
40 percent in Boston and Denver, and by about 30 percent in  New
York  and  Portland . Over that period, real prices fell by 26
percent in Atlanta, 30 percent in  Detroit  and 34 percent in Las
Vegas. Long-term price growth appeared primarily in places with
a skilled population and a shortage of new housing.  Among metropolitan areas with more than 1 million people in
2000, Boston and Denver were two of the 10 most-educated, with
more than one-third of adults with college degrees. They also
have a dizzying  array  of land-use restrictions that restrict
supply. Portland,  Oregon , is also known for its barriers to
building.  Detroit and Las Vegas are among the least-skilled large
metropolitan areas; only 16 percent of adults in Las Vegas had
college degrees in 2000. Las Vegas was the easiest bubble to
call, because there are few barriers to building in
unincorporated  Las Vegas  and outside the urban core. The Atlanta
area’s education base comes close to rivaling  Boston ’s, yet
housing prices in the two areas have moved in opposite
directions over the last 20 years.  Homebuyers Benefit  The most natural explanation for this divergence is a
different attitude toward new construction. Atlanta’s prices are
low because the city has built and even overbuilt, and, as a
result, the area’s population has grown by 30 percent over the
past 10 years. By contrast, the Boston area’s population, held
back by a lack of construction, has increased by less than 4
percent.  The contrast between Atlanta and Boston explains why I’m
not unhappy with the prospect of low and stable housing prices.
Homeowners, like myself, have lost from the drop in prices, But
homebuyers have benefited an equal and offsetting amount.  Cheap homes make it easier for young families to buy. Given
that our public policies tend to be rigged against the young,
who will have to pay the cost for our current deficit and
extraordinary spending on Medicare, I can’t begrudge them the
benefit of lower housing prices.  In the long run, we should expect to see prices stay low in
most of the U.S. We have an abundance of land. The U.S Census
reports that there were 117 million  households in 2010 . So every
U.S. household could have more than an acre of land and we’d all
still fit into  Texas .  Meanwhile, building technology continues to improve, which
should push down the cost of construction and housing. Housing
prices can only stay high in areas that limit construction and
that enjoy hypercharged economies and attractive amenities --
which is why San Francisco and New York remain so expensive.  Yet even these areas face competition from upstart cities
such as  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and Austin, Texas. As  New
York City  learned in the painful 1970s, no city has a lock on
economic eminence.  I may cheer for affordable housing in the long run, but
there is little doubt that falling housing prices played a
crucial role in creating the recession. Too many of our
financial institutions were long on housing-related assets, and
when prices dropped, the entire system neared the edge of
collapse. Low housing prices today trap homeowners who would
like to sell and move to greener pastures, but can’t because
they’ve lost their  down payments . It is hard to move past the
mortgage default crisis when so many homeowners are underwater.  Thriftier Households  The work of  Karl Case ,  Robert Shiller  and John Quigley (who
sadly died this month)  demonstrates  that there is a housing
wealth effect on consumption. High housing prices in the early
2000s may have mitigated the macroeconomic effects of the
Internet bust. Low housing prices today mean thriftier
households that consume less than they might otherwise.  The 1990s offer us one upbeat message. Housing prices
stayed static for six long years after 1991, and in real terms,
housing prices were no higher in 1998 than they were in 1991.
Yet  real GDP  grew an impressive 28 percent between 1991 and
1998. It’s a myth that the housing market must recover before
the larger economy can surge.  The one sector that will not boom until housing markets
come back is construction. From 2003 to 2008, the U.S. added 9.3
million units to its housing stock, and the number of vacant
homes  increased  by 3.4 million. Construction can only come back
when we work through that excess housing inventory, and that
process has been slow. The rate of household formation was
incredibly modest during the downturn, as young people
increasingly chose to live at home. Eventually, though,
construction will return to the level needed to satisfy the
still growing U.S. population.  I see no reason to think that this period of housing-price
stagnation will be shorter than the six-year stagnation of the
1990s. I hope that housing prices continue to be modest for
decades so that ordinary Americans can afford to buy, and I see
little good in government policies, like the homebuyer tax
credit, intended to artificially boost housing prices.  My greatest hope, however, is that prospective buyers have
learned the lesson of the past decade: Housing prices go down as
well as up. The right reason to buy a home is not as an
investment, but as a place to live a fulfilling life.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View. Subscribe to
receive a daily e-mail highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  high-skills immigrants 
and  cutting a deal with Iran ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Romney’s
public-sector experience ; Clive Crook on  an EU debt plan ;  Peter
Orszag  on the  problem with spending caps ; William Pesek on
 Osaka’s problematic mayor ;  Luigi Zingales  on  capitalism and
populism ; John O’Brennan on  Ireland’s fiscal referendum .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 