-- How to Stop Sleeping With Your Smartphone
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-05-29T20:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/how-to-stop-sleeping-with-your-smartphone.html
The last few years have been tough on U.S. workers, even those
lucky enough to have kept their jobs. While layoffs squeezed
more profits out of each remaining employee, vacation time
dropped and job stress increased.  Leslie A. Perlow, a Harvard Business School
professor, thinks she's found a way to give American workers
their lives back. In her new book, "Sleeping With Your
Smartphone: How to Break the 24/7 Habit and Change the Way You
Work," Perlow chronicles her experiments at Boston Consulting
Group. There, she found ways to get extreme workaholics to
take more time for themselves -- without, she insists, hurting
their work output.  Extreme Honesty  Her strategy to give employees more of their time back was
twofold. First, get a team of workers to agree on a collective
goal, one that would improve their personal lives. Second, use
some extreme honesty to make the team more efficient while
changing the workplace's unsustainable culture.  Change like that is easier said than done, particularly at
a management consulting firm like BCG. When consultants aren't
working 16-hour days, they're tethered to the job through
e-mail. They must cancel without notice everything from
exercise classes to dinners with family and friends. Health
and family relationships suffer, and many high-performers burn
out and quit. The loss of skilled employees is precisely why
BCG allowed Perlow to make the firm her guinea pig, says
Deborah Lovich, the head of consulting and business services
staff in BCG's Boston office.  Falling Vacation Time  Data on vacation trends, though scarce, confirm that a wide
variety of employees are feeling extra pressure. One Kelton
Research survey of 1,002 adults for Carlson Hotels found the
average American worker didn't take 4.8 days of entitled
vacation time last year. Comparisons with a similar 2005
survey by the Families and Work Institute suggest average
vacation time has fallen 9 percent in seven years, to 13.4
days per year.  And even if workers take their allotted vacation, they're
still putting in overtime in other, often difficult-to-measure
ways. They're staying later and arriving earlier, while
checking e-mail on nights, weekends and vacations. "Work
doesn't stop. [It] keeps coming at you," says Ellen
Galinsky, president and co-founder of the Families and Work
Institute. "We're wired 24/7."  A Modest Goal  At BCG, Perlow set a modest goal: Each week, get every
member of a team one night off. This must be predictable time
off, with no e-mail and no last-minute cancellations that foil
plans. BCG employees soon loved their night off, and -- to
ensure the experiment's success -- prodded co-workers, even
bosses, to leave the office on their assigned nights. "No, we
can handle it. It's time to go," they said. When one team
member complained he was just moving work around --
rescheduling Tuesday-night work to Friday night or Saturday
morning -- the team tried to find ways to ease his burden.  Perlow acknowledges that a company's 24/7 culture can't be
changed this easily. That's because there is serious momentum
behind what Perlow calls the "cycle of responsiveness." When
intense, ambitious people work together, the incentives are
tilted toward overworking.  For example, consider those late-night e-mails. To prove
I'm a good worker, I stay online late into the night. You, my
co-worker, realize how available I am, so you start e-mailing
more frequently during off hours. This, in turn, means I need
to be even more available, and can result in my e-mailing
other co-workers for help, spreading the "culture of
responsiveness" to other employees. No one wants to look like
a slacker.  Candid Conversations  The key to breaking this cycle is communication, Perlow
says. So she held a weekly meeting of "structured dialogue"
where everyone answers a series of questions about how he or
she is feeling about work and personal life -- and where
candid conversation is strongly encouraged. "If you create a
forum where everyone is speaking up, it becomes less risky to
speak up," says BCG's Lovich.  BCG employees became more blunt as they saw outspokenness
get results. A senior partner found out how much time was
being wasted each week preparing presentations for him.
Another boss found out his daily schedule was driving his
subordinates nuts: They wouldn't have much to do in the
morning, and then he'd e-mail assignments at 3 p.m. that would
have them working late into the night. The openness worked
both ways: One team leader admitted he didn't like his
employees taking a break each day for a late-afternoon
exercise class.  In the first team Perlow studied, workers found ways to
reorganize work so that they could take 94 percent of their
nights off. BCG has rolled the process out to other teams. By
the end of 2012, the company expects 80 percent of its teams
worldwide will have implemented Perlow's ideas, says BCG's
Lovich, noting that teams who do so are "happier on every
dimension."  'Extreme Case'  Perlow admits the consultants at BCG are an "extreme case,"
but says the process can succeed at other workplaces. She's
now working with a pharmaceutical company where hours aren't
long, but employees are choosing other collective goals that
make their days less stressful.  Good managers may be following Perlow's prescription
without realizing it. Robbie Cape is chief executive officer
and co-founder of Cozi, a mobile application that helps
families manage daily life with calendars, to-do lists and
communication tools. His goal is to get his 35 employees, most
based in Seattle, to "work at a sustainable pace" -- which he
defines as at most eight hours a day. His method? "We
literally talk about it all the time," he says. If an employee
is feeling stressed, he resets priorities. "It's all a matter
of getting those individuals to be focused on the right set of
things during those eight hours," he says.  Saner work schedules will depend on managers who care about
their employees' home lives and who aren't offended by candid
feedback -- or afraid to give it. Perlow quotes one
manager, scolding an employee for working on a planned night
off:  "I firmly think you could have made it work if you had
prioritized your work better." That's a new one: getting
scolded for not not working.
 