-- Loyola Wins First NCAA Lacrosse Title as Lusby Sets Goal Record
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/loyola-wins-first-ncaa-lacrosse-title-as-lusby-sets-goal-record.html
Loyola University Maryland 's
Eric Lusby had four goals and set a tournament scoring record
as the Greyhounds beat the University of Maryland 9-3 to win
their first National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s
lacrosse championship.  Lusby’s final goal was his 17th of the tournament, while
goalie Jack Runkel made six saves for the top-seeded Greyhounds
yesterday at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough,  Massachusetts .  After trailing 3-2, Loyola scored seven unanswered goals
and held Maryland scoreless for the final 40 minutes to seal its
first title at college lacrosse’s top level. The Greyhounds were
runners-up in 1990, their only previous appearance in the
championship game.  “When I look at my locker room, I’m just so proud of
them,” Loyola coach Charley Toomey said at a post-game news
conference. “They’ve handled every situation with dignity and
class this year.”  Lusby, a graduate student who missed last season because of
injury, was the first Greyhound to hoist the championship trophy
after the game. Surrounded by teammates, he jogged to the corner
of the stadium where the Loyola fans had gathered.  “I just got hot at the right time,” Lusby said at the
news conference. “When I had the opportunity to shoot and
score, I wanted to make sure I made it count.”  The Terrapins held early leads at 1-0 and again at 3-2,
when junior midfielder Kevin Cooper scored with 10:40 remaining
in the second quarter. The Greyhounds responded with seven
straight goals, the final three from Lusby, and  Maryland  missed
on its 20 shots across the final 40:40 of the game.  Sight Lines  Runkel credited the Greyhounds defense for limiting the
Terrapins’ opportunities and giving him clear sight lines.  “They gave me shots I wanted to see,” Runkel said.
“They’ve been playing well for the past five, six games, and
it’s been awesome.”  The two schools, located 40 miles (64.3 kilometers) apart
in Maryland, took different routes to the finals. The Greyhounds
finished the regular season with one loss and clinched the
tournament’s No. 1 seed for the first time since 1999.  Maryland lost five times before the tournament began and
entered unseeded. The Terrapins beat third-seeded  Johns Hopkins 
and second-seeded  Duke  to reach the finals.  Lusby’s 54 goals this season were two more than junior
attack Mike Sawyer scored and set a school record. Earlier this
month Sawyer, who gave the team a permanent lead yesterday when
he broke a 3-3 tie with 5:57 remaining in the second quarter,
was named one of five male finalists for the  Tewaarton Award ,
given every year to the sport’s best male and female players.  Maryland, which won the NCAA championship in 1973 and 1975,
is winless in its last seven trips to the tournament final.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  