-- Palm Oil Climbs to Highest in Two Weeks on Demand Outlook
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-05-29T10:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/palm-oil-climbs-to-highest-in-two-weeks-on-demand-outlook.html
Palm oil  climbed for a fourth day to
the highest level in two weeks as rising exports from  Malaysia ,
the second-largest producer, signaled a surge in demand ahead of
the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.  The August-delivery contract advanced 1.1 percent to 3,178
ringgit ($1,007) a metric ton, the highest closing price since
May 15. Futures are heading for a 8.4 percent decline in May,
the biggest monthly drop since June last year.  Exports from Malaysia rose 10.5 percent to 1.15 million
tons in the first 25 days of this month from the same period a
month earlier, surveyor Intertek said May 25. Consumption of
food staples and cooking oils climbs during the fasting month of
Ramadan, which starts in July this year, as followers break
daylong fasts with communal meals.  “Prices have moved up as the export figures have come
surprisingly higher,” said Gnanasekar Thiagarajan, a Mumbai-
based director at Commtrendz Risk Management Services Pvt. “We
are seeing bargain hunting at these levels after the way prices
declined earlier.”  Gains in futures may be capped by any negative news about
the European debt crisis, he said.  India Imports  Crude palm-oil imports by  India , the largest buyer, are
poised to increase after the nation raises the tax on refined
cooking oils, said  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive officer of
Adani Wilmar Ltd., India’s second-biggest importer.  Refined palm-oil and  soybean oil  will become more expensive
once the government links the import tax to market prices, he
said. The nation may raise the benchmark import price, unchanged
since 2006, to protect refiners, a government official said
yesterday. He gave no time frame. Refined oils are taxed at 7.5
percent, while there’s no tax on crude oils.  Soybeans for July delivery advanced 0.9 percent to $13.9375
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybean oil for the same
month rose 0.7 percent to 50.47 cents a pound. Palm oil and
soybean oil are both used in foods and fuels.  Palm oil for September delivery climbed 0.4 percent to
close at 8,052  yuan  ($1,270) a ton on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange . Soybean oil for January rose 0.3 percent to end at
9,366 yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  