-- Pep Boys Terminates Proposed Merger Deal With Gores Group
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   R o b i n   A j e l l o
-- 2012-05-30T20:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/pep-boys-terminates-proposed-merger-deal-with-gores-group.html
Pep Boys -- Manny, Moe & Jack, the
auto-parts chain, slumped after ending its proposed $1 billion
sale to Gores Group LLC, which questioned the deal earlier this
month following lower-than-expected earnings.  Pep Boys   plunged  20 percent to $8.89 at the close in New
York. The shares were little changed this year before today.  Gores Group agreed to pay Pep Boys a fee of $50 million and
to reimburse it for certain merger-related expenses as
settlement “for any and all potential claims that Pep Boys
could assert under the terms of the merger agreement,”
Philadelphia-based Pep Boys said in a statement yesterday.  The Los Angeles-based private-equity firm had agreed to buy
Pep Boys for $15 a share in January. On May 1, Pep Boys
disclosed first-quarter sales and net income that both trailed
analysts’ estimates. It also said Gores had asked to delay a
shareholder vote set for May 30 to examine the results for a
possible “material adverse effect” that could void the deal.
Pep Boys declined the request.  The company also said it canceled its special meeting of
shareholders scheduled to be held today.  “The mild winter weather, restrained customer spending,
delays in implementing new technology and disruption during
store conversions have impacted recent results,” Chief
Executive Officer Mike Odell said in the statement.
“Nevertheless, we remain on course with our transformation.”  ‘Financial Position’  The company’s “financial position is solid” and it
intends to use cash on hand and the settlement proceeds to pay
down its  term loan  this year and then to refinance senior
subordinated notes in 2013, Odell said.  Pep Boys will hold a conference call on June 7 to discuss
its first-quarter earnings, according to the statement.  The retailer traces its roots to 1921 when four Navy
friends pooled $800 to open an auto-parts supply store in
Philadelphia, according to the company’s website. Since becoming
a publicly traded company 65 years ago, it has grown to more
than 700 locations that repair vehicles and sell parts such as
tires, brake pads and windshield wiper blades.  In March, Midas Inc., which operates its namesake and
SpeeDee automotive service centers, agreed to be acquired by
tire supplier TBC Corp. for about $173 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello in  New York  at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  