-- Phillies’ Roy Halladay May Miss 6-8 Weeks With Strained Muscle
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/phillies-pitcher-halladay-may-miss-6-8-weeks-with-muscle-strain.html
The injury-depleted  Philadelphia
Phillies  might be missing two-time Cy Young Award-winning
pitcher  Roy Halladay  until July as they try to win the National
League East division for the sixth straight season.  Halladay, 35, was placed on the 15-day disabled list
yesterday with a strained back muscle and assistant General
Manager Scott Proefrock told reporters the right-hander might be
sidelined for six to eight weeks.  “Halladay’s thrown a lot of pitches,” Phillies manager
 Charlie Manuel  said before Philadelphia’s 6-3 loss at the  New
York  Mets last night. “He’s thrown a lot of bullets over his
career. Sooner or later, that’s going to catch up with him.”  Philadelphia has been without top players this season
because of injuries. First baseman Ryan Howard and second
baseman  Chase Utley , both All-Stars, have yet to play. All-Star
pitcher Cliff Lee spent time on the disabled list with a
strained oblique muscle and Vance Worley, who went 11-3 last
season, has been sidelined with soreness in his elbow.  The Phillies are 26-25 this year, in last place in the
five-team NL East, four games behind the division-leading
Washington Nationals.  Two years to the day after he threw the 20th perfect game
in Major League Baseball history, Halladay was diagnosed with a
right latissimus dorsi strain, the team said in a news release.
The latissimus dorsi helps draw the shoulder down and backward,
according to Merriam-Webster.com.  Halladay lasted two innings of a May 27 game against the  St.
Louis Cardinals  before exiting with soreness in his right
shoulder. He gave up four earned runs on four hits before his
departure.  After winning his first three starts this season, Halladay
dropped five of six decisions as his earned run average rose to
3.98 from 1.17. Now 4-5, Halladay has made 11 starts this season.
He’s had at least 31 starts in each of the previous six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 