-- Philippine Peso Falls as Spain Concern Mounts
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-05-29T02:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/philippine-peso-falls-as-spain-concern-mounts.html
The Philippine peso fell toward a
four-month low as concern the Spanish economy is looking
increasingly fragile deterred risk-taking. Bonds were steady.  The currency was poised for a second monthly loss after
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  called for a show of force
from European authorities as his government sought ways to avoid
tapping markets to fund the bailout of the nation’s third-
biggest lender. Philippine gross domestic product increased by
the most in a year in the first quarter, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before official
data due this week.  “The peso is mostly being driven by global sentiment,”
said Goh Puay Yeong, a Singapore-based foreign-exchange
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Growth is still pretty
decent there. The macroeconomic outlook is still stable.”  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 43.627 per dollar as of
9:59 a.m. in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency reached 43.960 on May 25, the weakest level since Jan.
16, and has lost 3.2 percent in May, following a 1.7 percent
decline in April. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
7.25 percent.  The Southeast Asian economy expanded 4.4 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, following 3.7 percent growth
in the preceding three months, according to the Bloomberg survey
before a government report on May 31.  The yield on the  Philippines ’ 5.75 percent bonds due
November 2021 was steady at 5.55 percent, according to prices
from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  