-- Picasso Paints His Mistress; Helion’s Suave Nudes: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-05-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/picasso-paints-his-mistress-helion-s-suave-nudes-review.html
In Francoise Gilot’s 1964 memoir,
“Life with Picasso,” a famous photograph shows the couple
walking together at a sunny resort on  France ’s Cote d’Azur.
Picasso, 40 years her senior, follows dutifully behind his
beautiful mistress and holds a large beach umbrella high above
her head -- as if he were her slave and she his princess.  Picasso worshipped and treated all of his lovers -- his
successive muses -- like royalty.  And in many of his masterly portraits of Gilot (born 1921),
on view in the fascinating exhibition “Picasso and Francoise
Gilot: Paris-Vallauris, 1943-1953,” he’s Velazquez to the
Spanish queen.  The couple’s decade-long romance and life with their two
young children, Claude and Paloma, is the subject of this
exhibition, which fills  Gagosian ’s uptown space with Picasso’s
magnificent pictures and sculptures, a breathtaking vitrine of
decorated ceramic plates and vases, and, elsewhere, a nude
painted on a wood door.  Comprising about 180 works, it is the fourth show in a
series organized by Picasso biographer  John Richardson . Despite
a few maudlin pictures by a doting father, Picasso is at his
inventive and protean best here.  Numerous paintings, drawings and two large printed portrait
series of Gilot, as imaginative as his earlier “Vollard Suite,”
transform Picasso’s subject into plants, flowers and birds and
give her the regal frontality of playing cards.  Loaded Catapult  Tender, erotic, humorous, confounding, this show explores
every aspect of family life. In one blue-gray painting from
1952, of a bather wringing out her hair, Gilot is both loaded
catapult and building storm.  In others she is a complex, abstract puzzle Picasso can’t
quite figure out.  And in sculptures and ceramics, which seem to span the
styles of almost every ancient culture, Gilot is transformed
into goddess, monster, musical instrument, totem and cloud.  The exhibition falls off considerably in the section
devoted to about 30 pictures from the same decade by Gilot, who
was an artist at 21 when she met Picasso in a Paris restaurant.  Gilot is a competent painter. But these family portraits
occupy a realm somewhere between academic realism and Picasso
pastiche.  Runs through June 20 at Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Ave.
Information: +1-212-744-2313;  http://www.gagosian.com .  Jean Helion  The occasion for the compact, beautiful retrospective “Jean
Helion: Five Decades” at  Schroeder Romero & Shredder  is the
republication of Helion’s seminal 1943 war memoir “They Shall
Not Have Me,” which he wrote in English in  New York City .  It thrillingly chronicles the French writer and painter’s
capture, 2-year incarceration, hard labor and escape from Nazi
prison camps.  Influenced by Mondrian, Helion (1904-87) was a key figure
in the School of Paris. He began as an important and influential
abstractionist and, later, became a figurative painter.  Yet he chose not to depict his World War II ordeals. A
profound poet-painter of the everyday, instead he worked in
universal themes and allegories.  Mystical Nudes  He gave inimitable, off-hand elegance -- even mysticism --
to nudes, baguettes, still lifes, bicycles, giant pumpkins and
car accidents. Street scenes depict men in fedoras reading
newspapers and mannequins in shop windows.  This show of some 30 pictures touches on about his whole
career. The long, horizontal masterpiece “Abstraction” (1939)
conflates volumetric monument and flat frieze.  In the almost surreal “Nu Accoude” (1949), a seated,
daydreaming, female nude is threatened by the claw-like wrinkles
of the bed sheet.  In “Untitled” (1957), men standing in a group read
newspapers, which flutter in their hands like captured white
birds.  And in the large “Remake” (1983), a violet-tinged naked
female bursts through an open window, apparently knocking a man
to the ground, capturing the force of the nude both in person
and in art.  Helion’s commonplace objects, acts and subjects become
stand-ins for everything and every man. Equally sacred and
profane, they are emissaries for our age.  Runs through June 30 at Schroder Romero & Shredder, 531 W.
26th St. Information: +1-212-630-0722;  http://srandsgallery.com .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include reviews of  dining  and  books .  To contact the writer of the review:
Lance Esplund in  New York  at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 