-- Pimco’s Bosomworth Predicts Bund Bubble, Spain Bailout
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-05-29T15:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/pimco-s-bosomworth-predicts-bund-bubble-spain-bailout.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Andrew Bosomworth  said a bubble is starting to form in Germany’s
government bond market as Spain moves closer to a request for
financial support.  Germany’s 10-year  bund yield  may still fall below 1
percent, Bosomworth, a  money manager  at the Newport Beach,
California-based company, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “City Central” with  Francine Lacqua , Guy Johnson
and  David Tweed . U.K. 30-year gilt yields may also “go a lot
lower” as investors seek protection from the European debt
crisis, he said.  “The world looks at Germany as the only real AAA sovereign
balance sheet out there,” Bosomworth said in the interview in
London. “If there’s a bubble, we’re seeing the beginnings of
one in that market.  Japan  is a good benchmark so we could even
go through 1 percent on 10-years if things get worse.”  The German  10-year bund  dropped to a record 1.345 percent
today from last year’s high as 3.51 percent on April 11, 2011.
Europe’s benchmark government bond yielded 1.36 percent as of
4:48 p.m. in  London .  The yield is 74 basis points below the rate of consumer-
price inflation. The so-called  real yield  has been less than
zero since August.  ‘Negative Territory’  “From a bubble perspective you look at real yields and
German bunds are really in negative territory,” he said.  Germany’s government bonds returned 13.4 percent in the
past year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
bonds dropped 0.4 percent bonds, and Italy’s dropped 0.3
percent, the indexes show.  Spain may also be forced to seek further assistance and
have to tap an external balance sheet one way or another,
Bosomworth said.  “It clearly wants to avoid the form that the other
countries have taken so far because their experience hasn’t been
good,” he said, referring to the bailouts for  Greece , Ireland
and Portugal that required them to comply with austerity
measures as a condition for the aid.  While purchases of Spanish bonds by the  European Central
Bank  would help the market, the support wouldn’t last
indefinitely, he said.  “It’s like morphine, it works for a bit but it only works
for so long and if you don’t attack all those underlying
problems, when that liquidity wears off you’re back to square
one,” Bosomworth said.  The U.K. 30-year  gilt yield  was little changed at 3.09
percent after dropping to 3.04 percent on May 25, the lowest
since Feb. 1.  “The U.K. has had some pretty low real yields as well but
3 percent on 30-year gilts with the euro-zone going further down
the path of disintegration,” Bosomworth said. “Those 30-year
yields in the U.K. could go a lot, lot lower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  