-- Planes in Fatal Crash Owned by Aviation Agencies’ Employees
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-30T18:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/planes-in-fatal-crash-owned-by-aviation-agencies-employees-1-.html
U.S. aviation accident investigators
have obtained help from  Canada  to probe a May 28 collision
between two small planes owned by employees of separate federal
agencies.  A plane owned by a  National Transportation Safety Board 
employee collided over Sumerduck,  Virginia , with an aircraft
owned by a  Federal Aviation Administration  worker, according to
an e-mailed release from the NTSB.  James Michael Duncan, 60, a physician at the safety board,
and a passenger died when their plane caught fire after the
collision, Corinne Geller, a spokeswoman for the Virginia State
Police, said today in an e-mailed statement. The passenger was
identified as Paul Gardella Jr., 57, of Burke, Virginia.  Duncan, of Bethesda,  Maryland , was the NTSB’s chief
technical adviser for medical issues,  Kelly Nantel , an agency
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. He previously served as chief pf
space medicine at  NASA , according to that agency’s website.  The owner and sole occupant of the other plane, Thomas
Proven, survived the collision, Geller said.  Proven, 70, is an accident investigator with the FAA, the
agency said in an e-mailed statement. He was off duty at the
time of the accident, it said.  Because U.S. government employees were involved, NTSB
Chairman Debbie Hersman, after consulting FAA acting
Administrator Michael Huerta, asked the Transportation Safety
Board of Canada to handle the investigation, the NTBS said in
the release.  The safety board, an independent agency that reports
directly to the White House, determines the cause of aviation
accidents and makes non-binding safety recommendations. The FAA
regulates the aviation industry.  The Canadian team was scheduled to hold a briefing on the
accident at 3 p.m. today in  Washington , according to an e-mailed
statement from the TSB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Rohner at 
 mrohner@bloomberg.net  