-- Playboy Meets Elvis in U.S. Passion for Machines That Go Vroom
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2012-05-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/playboy-meets-elvis-in-u-s-passion-for-machines-that-go-vroom.html
It’s rare that a car history offers
both a Yeats parody and a non-poet named John Keats who spanks
Detroit makers for putting “penial geegaws on the hoods.”  Paul Ingrassia’s “ Engines of Change: A History of the
American Dream in Fifteen Cars ” ranges as widely and quirkily
as the title suggests among the people, passions and foibles of
the automotive industry.  As a journalist for the Wall Street Journal, Ingrassia
shared a 1993 Pulitzer Prize for writing on  General Motors Co. (GM) 
In this book he lets out the journalistic stays, enjoying the
freedom to openly needle an industry and admire its pioneers
without any loss of the good reporter’s delight in detail and a
fine tale.  Ingrassia’s survey starts with  Henry Ford ’s practical,
black-only Model T, which monopolized the roads for 20 years
until yielding in 1927 to the panache of the Roaring Twenties
and GM’s stylish LaSalle.  “One was dutiful and self-reliant; the other beautiful and
self-indulgent,” Ingrassia writes, deeming these “different
philosophies that helped shape American culture.”  Elvis the Pelvis  The book takes off, as the country does in the postwar
boom, with the Chevrolet Corvette.  Ingrassia  weaves the car’s
1953 debut with those of Playboy and Elvis the Pelvis that year,
and the burgeoning hot rod culture. Flip to the book’s first
batch of color photographs to see the extraordinary evolution of
car design -- it’s like going from boom box to iPod.  From there it’s quite a stretch to the long lines and crazy
tailfins of the 1959 Cadillac Eldorado, but whether the style
embodied rebellion or self-indulgence or just a convenient boost
to the sticker price -- all points Ingrassia touches on -- is
hard to say.  He spends as much time sketching the key players as he does
on the machines, like the Corvette’s champion, an immigrant
engineer named Zora Arkus-Duntov, or Hal Sperlich, the man
behind both the Mustang and the minivan. He “nailed the needs
of the largest generation in American history twice, at critical
junctures,” Ingrassia writes, somewhat generously.  Nader’s Raid  With the Chevrolet Corvair story, the main character is a
young lawyer named  Ralph Nader . A heralded response to the
popular Volkswagen Beetle and the demand for compacts, the
Corvair revealed stability problems soon after it went on sale
in 1959-60.  Nader’s 1965 book, “ Unsafe at Any Speed ,” blasted the
industry and ultimately changed liability law in ways that truly
marked American culture. As an aside, Ingrassia notes that GM’s
extensive dirt-seeking investigation of Nader included an
episode where “an attractive young woman asked him to come to
her apartment to discuss ’foreign affairs.”’  GTOs, BMWs, SUVs cruise by and then Ingrassia digs into the
confluence of trends, like wilderness chic, that put the urban
cowboy in off-road vehicles (when off-road probably meant
“having a gravel driveway in the Hamptons,” he says) and made
the  Ford (F)  F-Series pickup the best-seller of all cars and trucks
in America for more than 30 years.  He closes with the Toyota Prius hybrid, applauding
“breakthroughs in technology deemed impossible for decades,
even centuries.” Ingrassia also has fun with the self-
congratulatory owners, citing episodes of TV’s “Curb Your
Enthusiasm” and the animated show “ South Park ,” where
“Priuses have become so popular that the town develops a huge
cloud of ‘smug.”’  I’m a big fan of potted histories and brief lives, both of
which Ingrassia offers with the sure hand of a writer trained in
one of the Fourth Estate’s better finishing schools. How on-
target he is with his defining-moment theme is a matter for much
debate. But then that’s partly the point and fun of any
greatest-hits list.  “Engines of Change” is published by  Simon & Schuster (CBS)  (395
pages, $30). To order this book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining and  James
Pressley  on business books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 