-- Portugal’s Asset Sales Draw Foreign Bids, Boutique Firms
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-05-29T08:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/portugal-s-asset-sales-draw-foreign-bids-boutique-firms.html
The factors forcing  Portugal  to seek
a bailout in 2011 have triggered a wave of mergers, acquisitions
and government disposals in the country as it prepares to sell
more assets such as flag carrier TAP SGPS SA.  Mergers and acquisitions in the first quarter rose to 6.1
billion euros ($7.6 billion), extending one of the strongest
deal streaks in almost two years, according to Bloomberg data,
buoyed by the government’s sale of state-owned assets and a
series of takeover bids.  Brazil ’s Camargo Correa SA expects to
register its 2.5 billion-euro bid for  Cimpor-Cimentos de
Portugal SGPS SA  in the coming days, said an official speaking
for Camargo, requesting anonymity in line with company policy.  “Although the merger and acquisition activity is
temporary, I expect it to continue this year at least until the
sale of TAP and airport operator ANA is concluded,” Jose
Gabriel Chimeno, a partner in Lisbon at consulting firm
Deloitte, said in a May 25 interview. There’s an “opportunity
to buy assets that were not for sale in the past,” he said.  Last year, Portugal became the third euro-area country
after Greece and Ireland to request a bailout from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund . As part of that aid
package, the government agreed to sell stakes in companies
including the biggest utility and the energy grid operator,
while banks have to deleverage and boost  capital ratios .  The country received many indications of interest for TAP,
Maria Luis  Albuquerque , secretary of state for treasury and
finance, said on May 25. There will be “very significant”
demand, Albuquerque said, for the carrier and airport manager
ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA, which are set to be sold by the
end of the year. The country also plans to sell the freight
branch of rail service operator CP-Comboios de Portugal SA and
postal operator CTT-Correios de Portugal.  Foreign Buyers  Chinese bidders have emerged in numerous deals for
Portuguese companies. Portugal said on Dec. 22 that  China  Three
Gorges Corp. will pay 2.7 billion euros for 21 percent of
utility  EDP-Energias de Portugal SA  to gain access to wind and
hydropower assets from  Europe  to the U.S. The bid by the world’s
biggest dam operator was a 54 percent premium to the Dec. 21
market price, Portugal’s state holding company Parpublica SGPS
SA said.  In November, refiner China Petrochemical Corp. agreed to
buy 30 percent of the Brazilian unit of  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) ,
Portugal’s biggest oil company. And in February, Portugal said
it had agreed to sell 40 percent of REN for 592 million euros to
State Grid International of China and  Oman Oil Co. (OOMS)  The price
values REN- Redes Energeticas Nacionais (RENE)  SA, Portugal’s power and
gas grid operator, at about 150 million euros more than its
market value, Albuquerque said.  ‘Substantial Premium’  The IMF noted in April that the sale of a 40 percent stake
in REN had been at a “substantial premium” to market prices,
bringing privatization proceeds to 3.3 billion euros, two-thirds
of the revenue from asset sales foreseen by the financial aid
program.  Angolan investors have also been raising stakes in
Portuguese companies. Isabel dos Santos, the daughter of
 Angola ’s president, is the biggest shareholder in Portuguese
cable-television company  Zon Multimedia (ZON)  SGPS SA, and holds 19
percent of Portuguese lender  Banco BPI SA. (BPI)   As advisers on the sale of stakes in EDP and REN, Portugal
hired state-owned  Caixa Banco de Investimento SA  and Perella
Weinberg Partners LP.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Espirito Santo (BES) 
advised China Three Gorges, and Banco Espirito Santo SA and
Deutsche Bank SA advised State Grid.  Boutique Banks  While Portugal’s biggest banks have been the most involved
in its largest deals, including the planned sale of TAP, small
financial advisers known as boutique investment banks are
setting up shop in Lisbon to try to grab a piece of the action.  “The time seems just about right to increase our presence
in the Portuguese market,” said Paulo Gray, principal and
managing director of financial advisory company StormHarbour.  StormHarbour, based in  London , plans to open an office in
Lisbon next month, Gray, the former Portugal head for  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , said in an interview. Other investment banks that have
recently opened offices in Lisbon include  3anglecapital  and  GBS
Finanzas .  The government’s decision to hire outsider Perella Weinberg
Partners last year for the sale of stakes in EDP and REN is a
sign that that smaller investment banks may be able to take part
in deals, said Santiago Biedma, general manager at GBS Finanzas
in Portugal.  “That’s good news for independent boutique investment
banks and bad news for the market incumbents,” said Biedma,
whose company is currently working on three deals worth as much
as 300 million euros in Portugal.  “We expect more state-owned companies to come up for sale
this year while other, non-state companies, decide to merge to
cut costs amid a challenging economic environment in Portugal,”
he said.  Shrinking Economy  Portugal’s  economy  shrank for a sixth quarter in the three
months through March as the government cut spending and raised
taxes to trim the  budget deficit  and curb debt. The economy may
contract 3.3 percent this year before expanding 0.3 percent in
2013, the European Commission forecasts.  Tagus Holdings Sarl’s offer to buy out Portuguese highway
operator  Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal  SA has also bolstered
mergers and acquisitions volumes this year, according to
Bloomberg data.  That bid as well as Camargo’s Cimpor offer were both
announced in the last week of March and may signal growing
investor interest in Portuguese companies with overseas
activities or in key sectors of Portugal’s economy, Jose Luis
Silva, a partner at accounting firm  KPMG  in Portugal, said on
May 25.  “The main deals that took place in Portugal in the last 12
months included companies with operations abroad and in
strategic sectors of the Portuguese economy that were previously
protected,” Silva said. “These factors strongly mitigate the
risks of these investments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  