-- Pound Approaches 3 1/2-Year High Versus Euro on Spanish Concern
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-29T15:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/pound-approaches-3-1-2-year-high-versus-euro-on-spanish-concern.html
The pound was within a penny of a
three-and-a-half-year high against the euro after  Spain  said it
may need to sell bonds for a banking rescue, underpinning demand
for alternatives to the 17-nation shared currency.  Sterling has appreciated 4.3 percent against the euro this
year as speculation that  Greece  may leave the currency bloc
bolstered the appeal of British assets as a haven. U.K.
government bonds slipped for a second day after an index of
British retail sales climbed to its highest level in more than a
year in May. The data followed a report last week that showed
the nation’s recession was deeper than initially estimated.
Britain sold inflation-linked debt at a record-low yield.  “The pound is regarded by continental investors as a
relative safe haven,” amid  Europe ’s turmoil, said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in
 London . “The numbers coming out of the U.K. have been a bit
discouraging but that’s not limiting the currency at the moment.
Gilts will continue to attract strong demand from investors who
are keen to diversify out of local currencies.”  Sterling was little changed at 79.98 pence per euro at 4:28
p.m. London time, after reaching 79.51 pence on May 16, the
strongest level since November 2008. It was 0.2 percent weaker
at $1.5659.  Derks said the pound may appreciate to 75 pence per euro
within three or four months.  Spanish Recapitalization  A spokesman for the Spanish economy ministry said the
nation’s preferred option for raising funds to recapitalize
Bankia group is via debt markets. Pacific Investment Management
Co. money manager  Andrew Bosomworth  said on Bloomberg Television
today that the nation will probably need some form of financial
assistance.  The pound has appreciated 2.9 percent this year, the best
performer of the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar advanced 2.1
percent and the euro dropped 1.8 percent.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  discussed with Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  plans to insulate the British economy from
any escalation of the euro-area debt crisis yesterday, Cameron’s
office said in an e-mailed statement.  Wolseley Plc (WOS) , a U.K.-headquartered plumbing- and heating-
products supplier, said today that the stronger pound is hurting
its earnings. “If current rates apply throughout the period
then fourth-quarter profit growth will be adversely impacted”
as it repatriates earnings from the euro region, the company
said in a statement, referring to the three months through the
end of July.  Inflation Forecast  The 10-year gilt yield rose two basis points after  Bank of
England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said the decision not to
increase stimulus this month was justified by the outlook for
inflation.  “We still anticipate a decline” in inflation, “but it
looks to be taking slightly longer than we had first thought it
would,” Broadbent said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Linda Yueh . “My answer to the questions as to why
policy didn’t change in May: the forecast didn’t warrant it.”  The yield on  10-year bonds  advanced to 1.78 percent. It
reached an all-time low of 1.738 percent on May 24. The price of
the 4 percent bond maturing in March 2022 was at 119.805.  Thirty-year gilt yields may “go a lot lower” as investors
seek protection from Europe’s debt crisis, Pimco’s Bosomworth
said. The rate was at 3.10 percent today.  U.K. Sales  A gauge of annual U.K. sales growth jumped to 21, the
highest reading since April 2011, from minus 6 the previous
month, the  Confederation of British Industry  said today. Data
last week showed the U.K. contracted a revised 0.3 percent in
the first quarter, deeper than an initial estimate of 0.2
percent.  An index of U.K.  consumer confidence  fell to minus 32 in
May from minus 31 in April, economists forecast before a report
to be published by GfK NOP Ltd. on May 31. A U.K. manufacturing
index released on June 1 will show output shrank for the first
time since December, according to a separate survey.  Britain sold 4 billion pounds of index-linked gilts due in
2062 at a real yield of 0.04 percent, the lowest rate on record
for 50-year inflation-protected securities, the Debt Management
Office said. Overseas investors bought 17 percent of the debt,
the most on record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  