-- Putin Punishing Utilities Means Cheapest Stocks Falling More
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-29T12:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/putin-punishing-utilities-means-cheapest-stocks-falling-further.html
President  Vladimir Putin ’s power-
industry tariff freeze and delays to state-asset sales mean the
shares of electricity providers are poised to tumble from their
cheapest valuations in three years, according to Alfa Capital.  MSCI Inc.’s Russia Utilities Index slumped 25 percent this
year and trades at a 64 percent discount to the MSCI Emerging-
Markets Utilities Index on a price-to-book basis, the biggest
gap since March 2009. The gauge is the worst  performer  in 2012
among six Russian industry indexes compiled by MSCI.  Putin delayed tariff increases to slow inflation before his
March 4 election bid. Prospects for the government selling a
stake in power distributor OAO MRSK Holding faded after the
company said it would merge with Federal Grid Co., the high-
voltage transmission monopoly, triggering Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc to  recommend  selling shares of
Federal Grid. Utility stocks slid further after Putin added key
power companies to a list of state assets that won’t be sold.  “Everyone is afraid that the government will cancel
privatization reforms, freeze tariffs,” Vladimir Bragin, head
of research at Moscow-based Alfa Capital, which manages $1
billion, said by phone. “Now the state has created a list of
strategic companies that are banned from privatization. In the
short-term, we expect the stocks to tumble.”  ‘Disappointment’  The MSCI  Russia Utilities Index (MXRU0UT)  is trading at 7 times
estimated earnings, compared with a ratio of 11.2 times
estimated profit for the MSCI gauge for the industry in
developing nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “These cheap valuations show investors’ disappointment and
may remain for a long time until we see some progress on the
reforms,”  Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at Moscow-
based Verno Capital, which manages more than $200 million, said
by phone.  State-run Federal Grid has lost 34 percent in 2012, the
biggest decline in the four-member gauge of Russian power
companies. MRSK Holding has dropped 28 percent, while OAO Inter
RAO UES has retreated 23 percent. OAO Mosenergo, Moscow’s
dominant power generator, has fallen 18 percent this year.  Former President  Dmitry Medvedev  pledged in June last year
to relinquish government control of some of the biggest state
companies, including MRSK’s subsidiaries and OAO RusHydro, the
country’s largest hydropower producer, along with OAO Rosneft,
VTB Group, and OAO Alrosa, saying it was time to reverse the
policy of strengthening the state’s presence. Medvedev was
appointed prime minister on May 8. None of the sales has
started.  Uncertainty  Federal Grid will take over management of MRSK, the holding
company said on May 11, citing a government decision.
Consolidating management of the high-voltage transmission and
local power grids should help raise efficiency of the industry,
it said. The shares have tumbled 19 percent since the
announcement. The government holds 78 percent of Federal Grid
and 56  percent  of MRSK, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  MRSK was created in July 2008 as part of the reorganization
of OAO Unified Energy Systems,  Russia ’s state-run electricity
monopoly, which was broken up into more than 25 companies to
foster competition in the industry. The government established
MRSK as a legal entity to keep majority control of 12 regional
power distributors.  “Investors are scared of uncertainty -- they were
expecting privatization of the MRSKs, right now they are worried
that this decision may mean a delay in or cancellation of the
privatization plans,” Dmitry Bulgakov, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in Moscow, said by phone. “Serious decisions are being
made without much discussion with the companies and investors.”  ‘Effective’  MRSK’s assimilation under Federal Grid will help the
companies coordinate the development of Russia’s electricity
distribution sector and raise the subsidiaries’
“effectiveness,” Dmitry Klokov, an Energy Ministry spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement May 12. Spokesman Dmitry Gryzunov
declined to comment when contacted by e-mail May 28.  “Integration of management will help make the Russian
electricity grid infrastructure more efficient,” Alexei
Demidov, MRSK’s chief financial officer, said by e-mail today.
The deal will ensure “effective investment and regional
policies throughout the grid sector,” he wrote.  A spokewoman for Federal Grid declined to comment when
reached by e-mail. Rushydro’s press office didn’t return calls
and e-mails seeking comment.  Federal Grid has lost 30 percent this month as Goldman
Sachs downgraded the stock and Russia’s Federal Tariff Service
raised the prices the state company will charge for the next
three years by less than analysts anticipated.  Rosneftegaz  Goldman cut its recommendation on the stock to sell from
buy, citing “uncertainty about the target structure of the
power transmission and distribution sector,” analysts wrote in
a  report  on May 14. “Associated merger and acquisitions risks”
have increased after the merger announcement, they said.  Federal Grid and MRSK Holding tumbled today after
Kommersant reported Rosneftegaz, the state company chaired by
former Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , may be given control
of the energy companies. MRSK lost 6.5 percent to 1.667 rubles
by 3:06 p.m. in Moscow, the lowest intraday level since August
2009 for the shares trading on the Micex Index. Federal Grid
fell 3.6 percent to 0.7 kopeks.  The government plans to propose a single team of directors
for the boards of the two companies, Kommersant reported, citing
people familiar with the situation. At the same time, stakes in
MRSK and Federal Grid will be transferred to a unit of
Rosneftegaz, according to Kommersant.  Political ‘Hostage’  The plan would keep the Russian grid under Sechin’s
“strong influence,” even after his departure from the Cabinet,
Igor Goncharov, an analyst at ING Bank Eurasia ZAO, said in an
e-mailed note. “This would be negative for investors’
sentiment.”  Putin delayed power-price increases due in January by six
months to bolster his campaign ahead of the March 4 presidential
vote as thousands of Russians took to the streets, protesting
his bid for a third term. Federal Grid tumbled 16 percent last
week after Russia’s Federal Tariff Service confirmed a smaller-
than forecast tariff increase from July 1.  “One of the sector’s problems is that tariffs somehow
became hostage to the political cycle,” Deutsche Bank’s
Bulgakov said.  Strategic Assets  Russia started selling its stakes in utilities including
power distributors and generators in 2007, under former UES
Chief Executive Officer  Anatoly Chubais , in a bid to modernize
and expand  power plants  and infrastructure as aging equipment
and constrained capacity threatened to slow economic growth.  While the state-asset sales focused on generating
companies, Medvedev’s vow last year to sell state-owned
controlling stakes raised the possibility that Federal Grid and
MRSK would be opened further to investors. The companies
extended their declines last week when Interfax reported that
they had been added to a government list of strategic assets
that may preclude their share offerings.  “If a positive scenario of modernization plays out, power
stocks will have a lot of room to grow in valuations,” Irina Filatova, an analyst Broker Credit Service in Moscow, said by
phone. “If the government doesn’t start a wave of modernization
in the sector in the near future, we may be left without
electricity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  