-- Putin Seeks to Safeguard Positive U.S. Ties, Aide Ushakov Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-05-29T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/putin-seeks-to-safeguard-positive-u-s-ties-aide-ushakov-says.html
President  Vladimir Putin  wants to
safeguard the closer ties achieved with the U.S. under  Dmitry Medvedev  and predicts progress in talks on a planned missile
shield in  Europe  after the November U.S. election, Putin’s
foreign policy aide said.  “We don’t want to lose the positive ties that developed
between Obama and Medvedev in recent years,” Yuri Ushakov told
reporters in Moscow today. Putin plans a “full-fledged”
meeting with U.S. President  Barack Obama  at June’s Group of 20
summit in Los Cabos, Mexico, he said.  Russia ’s relations with the U.S. showed strains as Putin
began his third term as president this month. The two countries
have locked horns over missile defense, the future of Syrian
leader Bashar al-Assad and  Iran ’s nuclear ambitions. Putin has
accused foreign powers of financing the biggest anti-government
protests in a decade to destabilize Russia, saying that U.S.
criticism of a December election emboldened the opposition.  “There may be a certain impulse in the talks on that topic
after the American election,” Ushakov said, referring to
negotiations over a U.S.-led missile-defense system in Europe.
“Our position is well known, and work on the expert and
bureaucratic level is continuing. Although as you know, the pre-
election campaign may not be the best time” to make progress on
sensitive security discussions, he said.  Putin and Obama are both seeking to develop ties between
their countries, Ushakov said. Putin is very interested in
reducing obstacles to obtaining visas and eventually moving
toward a visa-free regime, he said.  The Russian leader also wants to boost trade and investment
to help secure progress in other areas of bilateral interest,
according to Ushakov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  