-- Rajoy Seeks European Backing as Spain’s Access Narrows
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-29T14:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/rajoy-seeks-european-backing-as-spain-s-access-narrows.html
Spain backtracked on a plan to use
government debt instead of cash to bail out Bankia, as Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to shore up the nation’s
lenders without overburdening public finances.  An Economy Ministry spokesman said yesterday that the
government was considering using an injection of treasury debt
instead of cash to recapitalize BFA-Bankia, as laid out in
legislation approved in February. Spanish bond yields rose and
investors criticized the idea, which the spokesman, speaking
anonymously under ministry policy, said today had become a
“marginal” option for the 19 billion-euro ($24 billion)
rescue.  Spain is trying to bolster its banks and help cash-strapped
regions at a time of surging borrowing costs. The yield
difference between Spanish and German 10-year bonds increased
yesterday to the highest since the creation of the euro. As
Spain’s market access narrows, it depends increasingly on
domestic lenders, which in turn are getting cash from the
 European Central Bank .  The government has said it is designing a mechanism to help
regions regain access to  capital markets . To avoid adding to the
burden on the sovereign, the government is considering
guaranteeing joint regional bond issues with their  tax revenue ,
three people familiar with the plans said.  Risk Premium  Spain’s  10-year yield  has risen 60 basis points since the
day before BFA-Bankia was nationalized on May 9, even as Rajoy
said yesterday that the move had no impact on the nation’s risk
premium. The yield was at 6.44 percent at 4:26 p.m. in  Madrid .  “It looks like Spain is going to have to tap an external
balance sheet one way or another,”  Andrew Bosomworth , managing
director at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an
interview today with Bloomberg Television. “It clearly wants to
avoid the form that the other countries have taken so far
because their experience hasn’t been good.”  The cost to the taxpayer of the Bankia bailout has been
swelled by the fact that alternatives, such as forcing bond
investors to bear the cost, would hurt ordinary depositors at
Spain’s third-biggest lender. Bankia is among Spanish banks that
sold 22.4 billion euros of preferred stock to  individual
investors  through branches, according to data compiled by CNMV,
the markets supervisor. In a so-called bail-in, those investors
would be wiped out before holders of more senior bonds, which
tend to be institutions.  4.5 Billion-Euro Rescue  The Bankia group, which took a 4.5 billion-euro rescue in
2010, asked for another 19 billion euros on May 25 to
recapitalize and clean up its balance sheet as it took
provisions that went beyond what two bank decrees this year
called for.  Spain ’s  bank-rescue fund , which has already
committed 18.7 billion euros, equivalent to 1.8 percent of gross
domestic product, to struggling banks, has 5 billion euros in
cash. That means Spain’s ability to bail out Bankia depends on
the Treasury’s access to markets.  Foreign investors cut their holdings of Spanish debt to 37
percent of the total in circulation in April from 50 percent at
the end of last year. Domestic lenders, bolstered by emergency
funding from the ECB, have picked up the slack, increasing their
share to 29 percent from 17 percent over the same period. At a
 bond auction  on May 17, foreigners took 20 percent to 30 percent
of the issue, a government official, who declined to be named,
told reporters.  Struggling Banks  Rajoy repeated yesterday that he wouldn’t seek a European
rescue for his nation’s banks. Still, he said the European
Stability Mechanism, which is due to start operating as a
permanent rescue fund in July, should be able to recapitalize
struggling banks directly, bypassing national governments.  European leaders are split over the issue, an EU official
said on May 22, as the statutes say support must be channeled
through national governments. Rajoy said “a lot of people”
agreed with him, without giving details. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on May 4 that the mechanism shouldn’t be
allowed to recapitalize Spanish banks directly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  