-- Rand Gains 2nd Day as Yields Rise After Growth Beats Estimates
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-29T13:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/rand-gains-for-second-day-as-commodities-rise-before-gdp-report.html
The rand advanced against the dollar
for a second day after  South Africa ’s economy grew more than
forecast and commodity prices rose, boosting demand for shares
in mining companies. Bonds fell.  South Africa’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 8.3143
per dollar as of 3:25 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the
nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 7.70 percent.  Gross domestic product  expanded an annualized 2.7 percent
in the first quarter, down from 3.2 percent in the previous
three months, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its
website today. Growth was forecast at 2.3 percent, according to
the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The nation’s benchmark stock index climbed to the highest in a
week as shares in commodity exporters including Anglo American
Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. advanced.  “South Africa has now experienced 11 consecutive quarters
of positive growth, following the recession,”  Kevin Lings , an
economist at Stanlib Asset Management Ltd. in Johannesburg, said
in e-mailed comments. “The growth rate and recovery over the
past 11 quarters has actually been fairly reasonable.”  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials gained for a
third day as the prices of metals including copper and nickel
rose after  China ’s finance ministry said it will subsidize the
use of energy-saving products, a further step in the
government’s efforts to increase consumer demand and stimulate
the slowing economy. A report today showed U.S. home values in
20 U.S. cities fell in the 12 months ended March at the slowest
pace in more than a year.  South Africa Exports  Metals and other commodities account for 45 percent of
South Africa’s exports, according to government data for 2011.  Slower growth in  Europe , where a debt crisis that began
more than two years ago may lead to  Greece  leaving the monetary
union, is curbing demand from a region that buys about a fifth
of South African manufactured exports. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  in February cut his growth forecast this year to 2.7
percent from an earlier estimate of 3.4 percent.  “Risk appetite is being supported by growing optimism that
China will take steps to boost growth in its economy,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  