-- Treasuries Head for 2nd Monthly Gain on Euro Debt Crisis
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-29T09:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/treasuries-hold-gain-as-europe-crisis-drives-safety-bid.html
Treasuries headed for a second
monthly gain as speculation Europe’s debt crisis will break up
the 17-nation currency bloc and slow global economic growth
boosted demand for U.S. fixed-income assets.  U.S. government securities have returned 2.6 percent since
the end of March, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes, reflecting demand for the relative safety of the
nation’s debt. Investors tracking the MSCI All-Country World
Index of  stocks  lost 9.4 percent. Treasury yields are poised to
“grind lower,” according to Deutsche Bank AG, as European
governments struggle to cut spending.  “The demand for ultra-safe assets is enormous given what’s
going on in the euro zone,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed markets at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. “Quality flight
rather than the macro backdrop is the dominating force at the
moment.”  The benchmark 10-year yield was little changed at 1.74
percent at 10:31 a.m. London time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 1.75 percent security due May 2022 traded at
100 3/32. The yield dropped to a record 1.6714 on Sept. 23 and
has declined 18 basis points this month.  U.S. 10-year yields may decline to 1.4 percent or lower,
tracking the slide in German yields, according to Hans Goetti,
Singapore-based chief investment officer for  Asia  at Finaport
Investment Intelligence, which manages the equivalent of $1.5
billion in assets. Ten-year  bund yields  dropped to an all-time
low 1.351 percent on May 24. Goetti said he has been buying  U.S.
debt  for the past 12 months.  Treasury trading was shut yesterday in the U.S. for
Memorial Day.  Inflation Expectations  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt was 2.14 percentage points. The
figure is in line with the average over the past decade.  Spanish  10-year yields  climbed as high as 6.53 percent, the
most since November, on concern the nation’s banks will need
additional financial support to weather Europe’s debt crisis.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of their German counterparts expanded to 5.14 percentage
points, the widest since the introduction of the euro in 1999.  Deutsche Bank, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade
directly with the  Federal Reserve , is skeptical of trades that
add risk, according to a report on May 25.  ‘Remain Buyers’  “We remain buyers of Treasuries on dips,” Dominic Konstam, global head of interest-rate research in  New York  for
the bank, wrote in the report. “We continue to expect Treasury
yields to grind lower.”  Treasuries aren’t attractive to Yoshiyuki Suzuki, Tokyo-
based head of fixed income at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
which has the equivalent of $70.5 billion in assets.  “Yields are too low,” Suzuki said. “We don’t have to buy
at the current level. The  U.S. economy  is showing signs of
slowing, but it’s not so bad.”  The U.S. added 150,000 jobs in May, after a gain of 115,000
in April, based on a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
the Labor Department report on June 1. The Conference Board will
say today its index of  consumer confidence  rose to 69.5 in May
from 69.2 in April, based on survey estimates.  The Fed plans to sell as much as $8.75 billion of
Treasuries due from June 2014 to May 2015 today, according to
the Fed Bank of New York’s  website . The sales are part of the
central bank’s program to replace $400 billion of shorter-term
debt in its holdings with longer maturities by the end of June
to support the economy by keeping down borrowing costs.  Comparatively Cheap  While Treasury 10-year note yields approach record lows,
they’re cheap compared with AAA debt of other nations, helping
trigger record demand at U.S. bond auctions even in a fourth
year of $1 trillion budget deficits.  Yields on the benchmark security are  24 basis points  higher
than the average for comparable debt of nations from  Germany  to
 Australia , above the average of 12 basis points in the past
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gap between U.S.
notes and  German bunds  widened to 37 basis points. As recently
as November, bunds yielded 34 basis points more than Treasuries.  “Looking at the spectrum of opportunities in safe-haven
assets, yields in 10-year Treasuries don’t really look that
bad,” Gregory Whiteley, who manages investments in government
debt at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which has $35
billion in assets, said in a May 25 telephone interview.  Even after boosting the amount of marketable debt
outstanding to more than $10 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007, the Treasury is attracting record demand at auctions.
The cost to President  Barack Obama ’s administration of financing
a fourth straight deficit has never been lower. The extra yield
investors receive on Treasuries is an added benefit for
investors seeking a haven from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt turmoil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  