-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Trade Close to Record Lows on Europe
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-29T21:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/treasuries-rise-after-spain-sees-debt-sales-to-finance-bankia.html
Treasury yields traded close to
record lows as concern about  Spain ’s ability to recapitalize
troubled banks increased demand for the safest government
assets.  U.S. 10-year note yields were little changed after Spain
said it may need to sell bonds to rescue Bankia group, adding to
concern the  European debt crisis  is worsening. A report showed
confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly fell in May to the
lowest level in four months.  “None of the news in  Europe  now is positive,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New
York one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal
Reserve . “ Consumer confidence  plummeted and that’s not helping.
People are not thinking that bonds are cheap. They are being
forced in.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.75 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent
security due May 2022 lost 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 1/32. The yield reached as low as 1.71 percent,
approaching the record 1.6714 percent set on Sept. 23.  Treasury trading was shut in the U.S. yesterday for
Memorial Day.  Debt Returns  Treasuries have returned 2.6 percent since the end of
March, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Investors tracking the MSCI All-Country World Index of  stocks 
lost 9 percent.  U.S. debt  has returned 1.2 percent this year,
the data show.  The 10-year yield touched a 2012 low of 1.69 percent on May
17 after reaching a high of 2.4 percent on March 20. It will
increase to 2.44 percent by year-end, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  Valuation measures show Treasuries are close to the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.8 percent, close to
the most expensive closing level ever of negative 0.83 percent
reached May 17. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Spanish  10-year bond yields  climbed as high as 6.53 percent
today, the most since November, on concern the nation’s banks
will need additional financial support to weather the debt
crisis. The nation’s favored option is to raise funds for
refinancing Bankia in debt markets, said a spokesman for the
 Economy Ministry , who asked not to be identified by name in line
with policy. Spain is trying to shore up its banks and help
cash-strapped regions at a time of surging borrowing costs.  Spain’s Finances  Bank of Spain’s governor, Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez,
will leave his role one month early before his term ends, the
Bank of Spain said in an e-mailed statement.  The euro weakened to $1.25, the lowest level versus the
dollar in almost two years.  “There’s a renewal of European crisis concerns,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Flight to quality remains a key bullish
underpinning as the market digests headlines overseas.”  Risks from debt-strapped countries on the region’s economy
have increased, boosting demand for Treasuries.  Greece ,
responsible for 0.4 percent of the world economy, now poses a
threat to international prosperity as investors raise bets its
days using the euro are numbered.  Greek Numbers  Citigroup Inc. economists, who earlier forecast departure
chances at as much as 75 percent, now are assuming as a “base
case” that Greece will leave on Jan. 1, 2013. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch strategists estimated the euro-region’s gross
domestic product would contract at least 4 percent in the
recession that follows, similar to the decline after Lehman’s
2008 collapse.  Primary dealer  holdings  of  U.S. government debt  rose to
$108 billion, the highest ever, as of May 16, from a net bet
against the securities of $11.9 billion in September, according
to the Fed. Banks have added Treasuries to meet revised reserve
rules from the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law and  Basel  III
regulations set by the  Bank for International Settlements  in
Basel,  Switzerland .  While Treasury 10-year note yields approach record lows,
they’re cheap compared with AAA debt of other nations, helping
trigger record demand at U.S. bond auctions even in a fourth
year of $1 trillion budget deficits.  Relative Yields  Yields on the benchmark security are  24 basis points  higher
than the average for comparable debt of nations from  Germany  to
 Australia , above the average of 12 basis points in the past
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gap between U.S.
notes and  German bunds  widened to 37 basis points. As recently
as November, bunds yielded 34 basis points more than Treasuries.  “Looking at the spectrum of opportunities in safe-haven
assets, yields in 10-year Treasuries don’t really look that
bad,” Gregory Whiteley, who manages investments in government
debt at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which has $35
billion in assets, said in a May 25 telephone interview.  The central bank sold $8.6 billion of Treasuries due from
July 2014 to May 2015 today, according to the Fed Bank of  New
York ’s  website . The sales are part of its program to replace
$400 billion of shorter-term debt in its holdings with longer
maturities by the end of June to support the economy by keeping
down borrowing costs.  Consumer Mood  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly fell in May to
the lowest level in four months as Americans grew more
pessimistic about the labor market. The Conference Board’s
confidence index decreased to 64.9 from a revised 68.7 in the
prior month, figures from the New York-based private research
group showed today. The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a reading of 69.6.  “It’s a general reminder that the economy has turned to
the soft side here and people will start to take a look at
expectations for nonfarm payrolls,” said Tom Tucci, managing
director and head of Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World
Markets Corp.  The U.S. added 150,000 jobs in May, after a gain of 115,000
in April, based on a Bloomberg News survey of 80 economists
before the Labor Department issues the nonfarm payroll figures
on June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  