-- Renesas Shares Extend Two-Day Drop, Fall to Record: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-05-29T02:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/renesas-shares-extend-two-day-drop-fall-to-record-tokyo-mover.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  fell to the
lowest level on record in Tokyo, extending its  two-day drop  to
as much as 25 percent after the company was said to be planning
to cut 10,000 jobs and raise 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion).  Renesas plunged as much as 16 percent to 206 yen, the
lowest since its July 2003 initial public offering, and traded
at 210 yen as of 10:25 a.m. The stock fell 11 percent yesterday.
The world’s biggest maker of microcontrollers for cars presented
a restructuring proposal last week to its workers union and
lenders Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial
Group Inc., a person briefed on the matter said May 25.  The company, 91 percent  owned  by NEC Corp.,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) 
and  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , posted a  net loss  of 62.6 billion
yen for the year ended March 31. Deteriorating profit margins,
unclear plans for restructuring, difficulties managing short-
term debt, market-share losses and potential write-offs prompted
Bank of America Merrill Lynch to cut its share-price estimate on
Renesas to 150 yen from 410 yen yesterday.  “We expect Renesas Electronics to continue to suffer from
low margins,” Merrill Lynch analysts Simon Dong-je Woo, Mikio Hirakawa and Jennifer Kim wrote in a report dated yesterday. The
parent companies “are not much interested in injecting fresh
capital into Renesas as their respective core businesses are no
longer semiconductors,” they wrote.  Selling Shares  Renesas will explain the restructuring proposal to its main
shareholders this week, according to the person, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because plans may change. It probably
will ask the three companies to buy shares, the Yomiuri
newspaper reported May 22, without saying where it got the
information.  The major shareholders of Renesas may consider taking
“some kind of action” to support the chipmaker if asked,
Kenichiro Yamanishi, president of Tokyo-based Mitsubishi
Electric, said May 21.  NEC (6701) , the top shareholder of Renesas with a 35 percent stake,
has no plan to make an additional investment in Renesas, NEC
spokesman Takehiko Kato said yesterday. Hitachi hasn’t received
any requests from Renesas, spokesman Hirotaka Ono said May 22.  The proposed job cuts would amount to almost a quarter of
Renesas’s 42,800 employees. The company may need to eliminate
about 12,000 jobs, Takeo Miyamoto, an analyst at Deutsche Bank,
wrote in a May 23 report. Job cuts may reach 14,000,  Kyodo News 
reported May 26, without saying where it got the information.  Selling Plants  “We acknowledge the need for job cuts, though nothing has
been decided,” Shinichi Iwamoto, a senior vice president of
Renesas, told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday.  Renesas may sell some of its 19 production plants in Japan,
including one in Tsuruoka, Yamagata prefecture, the Yomiuri
reported May 27 after saying last week the company plans an
alliance with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  Renesas was formed in 2010 after the merger of money-losing
chipmakers Renesas Technology Corp. -- a venture between Hitachi
and Mitsubishi Electric -- and NEC Electronics Corp.  Elpida Memory Inc., which shares the same origin as Renesas,
filed for bankruptcy in February after posting losses for five
straight quarters because of falling prices of the main memory
used in personal computers. The Tokyo-based company was formed
in 1999 after merging Hitachi and NEC’s dynamic random-access
memory business. Mitsubishi Electric later separated its DRAM
unit and combined it with Elpida.  Renesas makes semiconductors that are used in products
ranging from automobiles to consumer electronics for tasks
including triggering air bags in cars and controlling  DVD
players . The company’s  customers  include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Sony (6758)  and
Nintendo Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  