-- Repsol Cuts Dividend, Raises Production Goal After YPF Loss
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-29T16:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/repsol-lowers-dividend-payout-raises-output-goal-after-ypf-loss.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  will cut its dividend
payout ratio, the highest among major oil producers, to increase
production outside  Argentina  after its  YPF SA (YPFD)  unit was seized.
The stock fell to a three-year low.  Spain’s biggest oil company will pay 40 percent to 55
percent of this year’s profit in dividends, the company said
today in a regulatory filing. That implies cutting the dividend
as much as 40 percent, based on analyst estimates for profit.
Repsol plans to increase the production of crude and natural gas
from its remaining assets by 7 percent a year through 2016 and
add new reserves covering 120 percent of the oil pumped.  Chairman  Antonio Brufau  is meeting investors today to
explain his plans to reshape the Madrid-based company after
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  in April
nationalized its YPF unit, her country’s largest oil company.
Analysts’ concerns have focused on how Repsol will finance its
expansion after the loss.  Standard & Poor’s  last month reduced
the  credit rating  to BBB-, saying it may cut the company’s debt
one more step to junk unless borrowings are lowered.  “They’ve partially sated the ratings agencies but at a big
cost,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities in
London who has a “sell” rating on the stock. “Repairing the
damage done by YPF was always going to take years and not
months.”  YPF contributed 26 percent of 2011 operating profit and had
45 percent of Repsol’s 2.2 billion barrels of proven reserves.  Share Performance  Repsol dropped 7.2 percent, its biggest decline since
November 2008, to 12.83 euros in Madrid. That confirmed its
place as the worst performer on the 23-member  Bloomberg
Integrated Oils Index (BRNGINTO)  this year.  “For sure, the dividend per share will be lower,” Brufau
said today at a press conference in Madrid.  He said existing shareholders will see their stakes diluted
by about 6 percent by 2016 as the company issues new stock to
pay dividends and offers the holders of 3 billion euros of
preference shares the option to swap those for mandatory
convertible bonds.  The company paid 64 percent of profit last year. The new
payout range implies cutting the dividend 17 percent to 40
percent this year, based on Repsol earning 1.741 euros a share,
the average of 25 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Self-Financing  Repsol’s expansion will be  self-financing , the chairman
said. The group will generate more than 8 billion euros ($10
billion) of free  cash flow  over the next four years for paying
investors and reducing its debt. The forecast assumes the price
of crude will remain at about $100 a barrel over the period. The
cash pile would be cut by 1.5 billion euros if oil was $80.  Benchmark Brent crude has averaged about $118 a barrel in
 London  this year. Brufau said he’s convinced the price of crude
will rise.  Other measures that may be considered to lower debt by 7
billion euros to 9 billion euros include disposing of its 5
percent of treasury stock and as much as 4.5 billion euros of
asset sales, it said in the presentation.  Repsol will spend $1 billion a year hunting for new oil
deposits and drill 25 to 30 wells annually. That amounts to
$6.50 for each barrel of oil produced, more than twice the
average investment rate for the industry, Brufau said. He aims
to find as much as 250 million barrels of new reserves each
year.  “The upstream business will be the motor of growth,” he
said.  Production Target  The company will reach its production target pumping oil
and gas from 10 new projects in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Latin America 
and North Africa. Those 10 sites, costing 6.3 billion euros to
set up, will add 200,000 barrels a day to output by 2016.  “When a company comes out and says it will grow at 7
percent a year there are risks around that,” Joyner said.
“What they have presented today is a little bit of a rosy
picture.”  Repsol’s payout ratio of was the highest among the 23
members of the Bloomberg Industries Integrated Oil Producers
Index.  Eni SpA (ENI)  ranked second with 53 percent while  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest oil producer, paid out 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  