-- Rexel CFO Says Getting Payment in Spain Is a Daily Struggle
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-05-29T08:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/rexel-cfo-says-getting-payment-in-spain-is-a-daily-struggle-1-.html
Rexel SA (RXL)  Chief Financial Officer
Michel Favre said getting paid in  Spain  is a daily struggle for
the distributor of electrical equipment as the financial crisis
exacerbates a construction slump in Southern Europe.  “We are focused on the cash to have a balanced  cash flow 
in all the countries of the region,” Favre said on a call with
journalists today. “We are very keen, mainly in Spain, to be
paid. It’s a daily fight, a monthly fight. We are in line with
last year, but things must be reworked every day.”  Rexel sales in  Italy , Spain and  Portugal  amount to about
400 million euros ($503 million), or about 3 percent of revenue,
which is “close to immateriality,” the CFO said. “We have
already downsized our operations” in these countries and have
no exposure to  Greece , he said. Favre reiterated 2012 and 2013
targets for the Paris-based company.  Rexel, the world’s largest distributor of electrical
equipment, said today that the  margin  for adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes and amortization should exceed 6.5
percent of sales in 2015 as it raises prices and sells more
valuable products, and reduces costs and working  capital
requirements . That margin was 5.7 percent in 2011.  Acquisition Strategy  The company, which sells electrical products such as
installation equipment, lighting and cables, expects 2012 Ebita
to reach at least 5.7 percent of sales regardless of the
“challenging economic environment,” and is on schedule to be
close to 6.5 percent in 2013, Favre said.  Organic growth excluding the effect of copper prices
between 2011 and 2015 should exceed “the weighted average”
economic growth of the regions in which the group operates by
about 2 percentage points, Rexel said today. The company may
spend about 500 million euros a year on acquisitions, which
should contribute 3 percent to 5 percent of additional annual
sales on average over the period, the company said.  “Acquisitions could be a little dilutive as a first
point,” the CFO said. “But within 18 months, we have
demonstrated the capacity to drive acquisitions into the
standards of the group.”  Acquisitions “should generate synergies of about 1.5
percent to 2 percent of sales of the acquired companies,” Favre
said. Rexel forecasts its net-debt-to-Ebitda ratio to remain
around 2.5, “assuming no transformational acquisition
opportunities,” the CFO said.  Rexel also confirmed its dividend policy of paying at
least 40 percent of its “recurring net result.”  Rexel  shares  rose as much as 2.3 percent to 14.35 euros,
and were up 1.7 percent at 14.26 euros as of 10:20 a.m. in
Paris, taking this year’s gain to 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 