-- RIM’s Surging Inventory Raises Prospect of Writedown
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/rim-writedown-risked-with-1-billion-inventory-corporate-canada.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s stockpiles
of BlackBerry smartphones and PlayBook tablets have swollen by
two-thirds in the past year because of slumping sales, raising
the chances of the company’s third writedown since December.  The value of RIM’s in-house supplies grew 18 percent last
quarter alone, a faster rate than at any other company in the
industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. And that
doesn’t include the BlackBerrys gathering dust at RIM’s carriers
and retail partners.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , meanwhile, saw its inventory
decline 11 percent in the period from the previous three months.  RIM faces an exodus of customers switching to Apple’s
iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system. While the company is preparing to release a new lineup
of phones based on the BlackBerry 10 software, the transition
makes its current models even less appealing. That means RIM is
more likely to record another quarterly expense next month to
account for the inventory’s declining value, said Neeraj Monga,
an analyst at Veritas Investment Research in Toronto.  “Clearly this stuff isn’t selling,” said Monga, who
maintains a buy recommendation on RIM’s stock in anticipation of
the company being sold. “Despite all the writedowns they’re
taking on the inventory, these inventory levels are not
dropping.”  Rebecca Freiburger, a spokeswoman for Waterloo, Ontario-
based RIM, declined to comment.  Previous Writedowns  RIM took a $485 million pretax charge to write down the
value of its PlayBook inventory in December, after shipping just
150,000 of the tablet computers in the quarter. Then in March,
the company recorded a $267 million expense for BlackBerry
inventory. RIM said at the time that it would stop giving sales
and profit guidance because of “ongoing weakness” in the U.S.  RIM’s market share is plummeting. The company’s piece of
the global smartphone industry fell by more than half to 6.4
percent last quarter, according to research firm IDC. Android’s
share jumped to 59 percent, and Apple’s iOS operating system
accounted for 23 percent.  That’s taking a toll on RIM’s sales. Its revenue is
projected to drop 26 percent to $3.64 billion this quarter,
according to  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income is seen declining 72 percent to $197.5 million. RIM is
scheduled to report the results on June 28.  RIM has said it aims to save $1 billion in operating costs
this fiscal year by cutting its number of manufacturing sites
and is “reviewing its organizational efficiency” across the
company. That may lead to job cuts of 2,000 to 3,000, assuming
the company will try to save 30 percent of that operating cost
through labor savings, said Sameet Kanade, an analyst at
Northern Securities Inc. in Toronto. That would be in addition
to the 2,000 positions eliminated last summer.  RIM may cut additional jobs gradually though layoffs and
attrition, according to a person familiar with RIM’s plans, who
spoke on condition they not be named because the cuts haven’t
been made public.  More Than $1 Billion  The value of the company’s inventory climbed to $1.03
billion last quarter, up from $618 million a year earlier. Back
in mid-2008, when the BlackBerry was still a hot seller and
RIM’s  stock  traded at an all-time high of $147.55, the figure
was less than $500 million.  The inventory tally measures the cost of the phones and
tablets stored in RIM warehouses around the world. It doesn’t
include the additional stock of devices held by retailers and
carriers.  “There’s their own inventory buildup and then there’s the
inventory with carriers and retailers,” said Kanade, who
recommends selling RIM shares. “It’s more than likely there
will be a writedown.”  The stock rose 2.7 percent to $11 on May 25, the most
recent day of U.S. trading. U.S. markets were closed for a
holiday yesterday. RIM rose 0.4 percent to C$11.39 in Toronto
yesterday. The shares have tumbled 75 percent over the past year
and are down more than 90 percent from their all-time high.  New Operating System  Other mobile-phone makers that have struggled to compete
with Apple and Google aren’t increasing inventory at RIM’s rate.
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s stockpiles rose less than 1 percent in value last
quarter.  RIM is counting on the BlackBerry 10 lineup to revive sales.
The software will improve the device’s Web features and allow
for new hardware designs -- both touch-screen models and devices
with RIM’s trademark keyboards.  The company had originally planned to release the
BlackBerry 10 phones in the first quarter of 2012. Then it
pushed back the introduction to the “latter part” of the year.  In the meantime, BlackBerry customers may hold off on
buying older models in anticipation of the new products -- a
phenomenon known as the Osborne Effect. The term stems from
early personal-computer maker Osborne Computer, which filed for
bankruptcy after a premature product announcement cannibalized
sales of its existing lineup.  In Limbo  For now, RIM is stuck in limbo, said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New York . There’s no new product
to upgrade to -- or even a release date -- and it’s difficult to
get customers excited about the older phones.  “Until you have a new product, there’s nothing to
transition to,” said Gillis, who advises selling RIM’s stock.
“It’s still very much in the early stages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  