-- Roach Says Euro Leaders Will Keep Greece in Currency: Tom Keene
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-29T14:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/roach-says-euro-leaders-will-keep-greece-in-currency-tom-keene.html
Stephen Roach , a professor at  Yale
University  and former non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley
in  Asia , said euro-area authorities will do all they can to
prevent a breakup of the 17-nation currency bloc.  “While you could make the case that Greece should leave
because it gets its currency flexibility back, the ultimate
arbiter will be political considerations,” Roach said in an
interview with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” today. “On that basis, Greece will stay in and
European leaders will do everything in their power to keep the
monetary union intact.”  Greece is due to hold new elections next month after an
inconclusive May 6 ballot led to a political impasse and raised
speculation the country may leave the 17-nation currency zone.
At the same time, Spanish  borrowing costs  are rising as its
government tries to find a way to shore up Bankia without
overburdening the public finances.  “ Spain  is definitely too big to fail and it’s probably too
big to bail,” Roach said. He also said that if a country were
to exit the euro area, that could lead to a chain reaction where
the focus “immediately is on the next, the next and the next.”  “It’s a cascading contagion that would lead to something
well beyond even the most widely articulated disorderly breakup
scenarios,” he said. “This would be a disaster for  Europe , the
markets and I don’t think that will occur.”  China Outlook  On the outlook for the Chinese economy, Roach said it still
has capacity to “surprise.” A survey today showed  China ’s
rising labor costs and a deteriorating regulatory environment
are prompting almost a quarter of European Union companies to
consider shifting investments to other countries.  That presents additional challenges to leaders of the
world’s second-largest economy trying to sustain growth. China
is forecast to expand 8.2 percent this year, based on the median
estimate of analysts surveyed earlier this month by Bloomberg
News. That would be the least since 1999.  “While the Chinese economy is slowing, for the year as a
whole, I still am holding the view that it will be 8 percent or
even higher,” Roach said. “There is a lot of policy ammunition
that the Chinese have that I think will be deployed over the
course of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  