-- Romania to Double 2012 Wind-Power Capacity on Incentives
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-05-29T13:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/romania-to-double-2012-wind-power-capacity-on-incentives.html
Romania will probably double its
wind-power capacity this year, as investors tap European Union-
approved incentives for investment in renewable industry, said
 Ion Lungu , head of  CEZ AS (CEZ) ’s Romanian trading unit.  Wind-power installed capacity will probably increase to
2,100 megawatts by the end of 2012 in Romania from about 1,000
megawatts at the end of last year, said Lungu, who is also
president of the  Association of Electricity Suppliers in
Romania . The Black Sea country now has an installed capacity of
1,541 megawatts of wind power, Lungu said.  “Romania can support an installed capacity of about 3,500
megawatts of wind power, considering its current infrastructure
and backup capacity,” Lungu said in an interview in Bucharest
today. “That may increase if additional investments are made
and new generation units become operational.”  Romania has attracted investors in its renewable  energy
industry , including  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,  Portugal ’s biggest utility
 EDP (EDP) ,  Germany ’s biggest utility EON AG and  Italy ’s Enel SA with
an incentive plan for wind investments. It wants to attract 5
billion euros ($6.3 billion) in wind-power investments through
2020 under the incentive program.  CEZ, the Czech Republic’s largest power producer, is one of
the biggest investors in  wind energy  in Romania. It is building
a 1.1 billion-euro wind farm in the Constanta region near the
Black Sea and so far has 388 megawatts operational, Lungu said.
The utility plans to finish building the entire 600 megawatts by
the end of this year, he said.  Green Certificates  The country is offering two so-called green certificates
with a value of 28 euros to 57 euros for each megawatt-hour of
energy produced from wind. State-owned power-grid operator
 Transelectrica SA (TEL)  plans to invest 782 million lei ($219 million)
this year to expand and upgrade its outdated grid to accommodate
the rising wind-farm output.  Romania’s energy-market regulator is now monitoring wind-
energy producers, who receive green certificates, to avoid
overcompensation. This may lead to a reduction in the number of
certificates granted under the program for new investors,
Competition Council President Bogdan Chiritoiu said today during
an energy conference in Bucharest.  “If we estimated that producers need two certificates for
the wind power industry, but in reality the companies reported a
higher profit than a reasonable profitability of 11 percent or
12 percent, then the support may be reduced for future
investors,” Chiritoiu said.  The monitoring and potential reduction in the number of
certificates before 2014 may hamper investments in the industry
and jeopardize project funding, Dana Duica, head of the Romanian
Wind Association, said on Nov. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  