-- Romney Finesses Republican Differences With Hill Consultation
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-29T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/romney-finesses-republican-differences-with-hill-consultation.html
When  Mitt Romney  announced last month
that he agreed with President Barack Obama’s effort to keep
federal student loan interest rates from doubling this summer,
he broke with many congressional Republicans who say the
government shouldn’t subsidize such borrowing.  Yet there was little public grumbling among Republicans on
Capitol Hill, who had received a private heads-up just hours
before Romney’s statement. Within days, members of his party in
the U.S. House introduced legislation matching his stance. It
passed by week’s end.  It’s an example of how the presumed Republican presidential
nominee has been able to overcome rifts within his party that
might otherwise undermine his chances of winning the White House
in November. So far, Romney has harnessed an intense hunger to
beat Obama among congressional Republicans willing to paper over
their policy differences in pursuit of the presidency.  “I’m opposed to doing this,” Senator  Jim DeMint , a South
Carolina Republican, said of the student-loan rate freeze.  “But frankly, I’m glad Romney was smart enough not to take
the bait on it, because he’s got to pick his battles and not try
to jump on everything the Democrats are throwing out there to
try to trip him up,” said DeMint, known for his penchant to
grind the Senate to a halt to block initiatives with which he
disagrees. “Fortunately, I think Romney’s going to be smart
enough to navigate that and try to keep the focus on the big
issues, and I’m not going to stand in his way.”  Close Coordination  With close message coordination and consultation with
lawmakers and their staff on  Capitol Hill  in twice-daily
conference calls and sit-downs with party leaders, Romney and
his team are succeeding where past presidential campaigns have
sometimes failed to disastrous effect.  “There’s an understanding on our part: this time we’ve got
to coordinate,” said Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican
who is a prospective vice presidential running mate for Romney
and is helping collaborate on policy proposals with the
campaign. “There’s just better coordination on everything --
fundraising, as well as policy, as well as politics. People are
really interested in being seamless.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, started with an
advantage in relations with congressional Republicans because
many of his top advisers have ties to Capitol Hill.  His political director,  Rich Beeson , worked with House
Speaker  John Boehner ’s political chief at the  Republican
National Committee  four years ago.  Kevin Madden , who is
coordinating with the RNC for Romney and was a spokesman for his
failed 2008 presidential campaign, is a former aide to Boehner,
an Ohio Republican.  Tea Party Link  The links extend to those affiliated with the anti-
government  Tea Party  movement. Romney’s campaign manager, Matt Rhoades, not only worked at the RNC with Tim Griffin, now a
first-term congressman from  Arkansas  elected with Tea Party
support, he was a member of Griffin’s wedding.  The dynamic is different than four years ago, when
relations between  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , the party’s
presidential nominee, and congressional Republicans hovered
between frosty and dysfunctional. The result was a muddled party
message culminating in a White House meeting convened by then-
President  George W. Bush , a Republican, and including McCain
that vividly displayed party divisions over a $700 billion
financial rescue plan.  By contrast, Romney’s operation is concentrating on honing
an economy-focused message for the candidate and Republican
lawmakers to promote -- while avoiding social issues that can
divide them internally and turn off independent voters -- and in
finding ways for each to amplify the other.  Full-Time Liaison  Days after the student loan episode, the campaign tapped
J.T. Jezierski, a former congressional aide who was in charge of
courting elected officials for Romney during the 2008 race, to
be its full-time liaison to Capitol Hill.  Jezierski, who runs a weekly political look-ahead call and
splits his time between Romney’s Boston campaign headquarters
and Capitol Hill, spent part of his first three weeks on the job
phoning each of the 289 Republican congressional chiefs of
staff. “I didn’t want anyone to say they never heard from me,”
he said.  “The biggest thing is really information sharing -- it’s a
combination of making sure that the Hill knows what we’re doing,
but also conveying to the campaign what the Hill is doing and
what members are thinking,” Jezierski said in an interview.  Republicans’ shared concern about the economy “has made it
a lot easier not to lose focus,” he said. “We’re hanging
everything on that message.”  Divisions Exist  It’s not always likely to be easy. As Romney works to flesh
out policies on issues including immigration, financial
regulation and health care, divides among Republicans are likely
to surface, and both the campaign and congressional leaders are
aware they won’t necessarily agree.  Still, Senate Majority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky,
who met with Romney on Capitol Hill May 23 after he delivered an
education speech across town, Boehner and House Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of Virginia are all working to ensure the Republican
congressional agenda doesn’t detract from the presidential
campaign’s message, aides say.  Romney has returned the favor; he came out March 21 in
support of House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan’s spending
blueprint -- which incorporated Romney’s idea to give seniors an
option of staying in the traditional Medicare program rather
than switching to federally subsidized private health insurance.  Romney’s policy director, Lanhee Chen, visited Capitol Hill
earlier this month to consult with senior Republicans on an
array of issues, including health care, in the office of House
Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy of  California .  Gun Probe  Government Reform and Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa of California briefed Chen on his panel’s probe of the
“Fast and Furious” federal gun investigation that went awry
with the 2010 murder of a U.S. Border Patrol agent. Chen also
consulted with Representatives Tom Price of Georgia, who heads
 House Republicans ’ policy operation, and Jim Jordan of  Ohio ,
chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee.  “Even if they don’t agree with him on everything, every
member of Congress shares something in common with the governor
-- they’re both going to be on the ballot -- so I don’t think
there’s going to be much difficulty staying together,” said
Representative  Jason Chaffetz  of  Utah , who acts as an informal
liaison between Romney’s campaign and House Republicans. “In
principle, everybody wants to beat Barack Obama.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  