-- Rubber Climbs as China Stimulus Hope Outweighs European Concerns
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-05-29T09:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/rubber-falls-set-for-biggest-monthly-drop-in-8-on-europe-crisis.html
Rubber advanced, reversing earlier
losses after Chinese policy makers pledged new spending,
boosting speculation that demand from the world’s largest
consumer may weather  Europe ’s debt crisis and keep expanding.  November-delivery rubber gained 0.6 percent to settle at
271.9 yen a kilogram ($3,421 a metric ton) on the  Tokyo 
Commodity Exchange after earlier dropping to 265.5 yen. The
most-active contract has lost 13 percent this month, the largest
drop since November, paring this year’s advance to 3.2 percent.  Asian stocks and oil increased as  China ’s finance ministry
announced subsidies for energy-saving products and an official
said the government would revive incentives for car buying,
adding to stimulus Credit Suisse Group AG said may total as much
as 2 trillion yuan ($315 billion).  “The market was buoyed by expectations for additional
stimulus from China,” said Makiko Tsugata, an analysts at
research company Market Risk Advisory in Tokyo.  Gains were limited as concerns grew that Spanish lenders
will need more financial support to weather Europe’s debt crisis
as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to avoid tapping
markets to fund a bailout of its third-biggest lender.  Thai rubber exporters will continue buying on overseas
bourses until local prices climb to 120 baht ($3.79) a kilogram,
the level the government would like to see, Prapas Euanontat,
the president of the Thai Rubber Association, said May 24.  Thailand  announced plans this month to buy more than 10,000
tons in Tokyo and  Shanghai  and to continue purchases from local
farmers at above-market rates to drive prices higher.  Thai rubber on a  free-on-board  basis was unchanged at
116.05 baht a kilogram today, according to the Rubber Institute
of Thailand. The September-delivery contract on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange added 0.8 percent to close at 24,670  yuan  a ton.  Thailand’s Rubber Estate Organization kept the price at
which it will buy from farmers unchanged at 110 baht per
kilogram, the agency said on its website today. It didn’t
provide the average auctioned price in three local markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  