-- Rubber Inventory Rising in China as Slowdown Cuts Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-30T11:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/rubber-inventories-climbing-at-chinese-port-as-tire-demand-slows.html
Rubber stockpiles in  China ’s Qingdao
port, the main shipment hub for the commodity used in tires, are
starting to expand as demand slows in the world’s largest
consumer, said the Qingdao International Rubber Exchange Market.  “Demand from downstream tire makers seems to be weak at
the current stage, so destocking has slowed down,” said
exchange chairman Li Xiangou, who correctly forecast in March
that high inventories may pressure prices.  Futures have plunged 50 percent from a record in February
2011, cutting costs for tire makers such as  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) ,
 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  and Michelin & Cie. Prices slumped as
China, the biggest car market, expanded last quarter at its
slowest pace in almost three years and  Europe  struggled to
contain its debt crisis. Chinese  vehicle sales  dropped 1.3
percent in the first four months, the worst performance since
1998, says the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  The market “has yet to come to terms with a scenario where
Chinese demand is diminishing faster than anticipated,” said
 Wang Chen , head of research at commodity hedge-fund Hangzhou
Dunhe Investment Co. “Weak auto sales in China, especially
falling sales of trucks, coincide with a lackluster market in
the U.S. and Europe, and may lead to a glut of the commodity
that hasn’t yet been reflected in prices.”  Futures were little changed at 271.70 yen a kilogram
($3,420 a metric ton) at today’s close in  Tokyo , after falling
as much as 2.2 percent, the most in a week. The most-active
contract in  Shanghai  fell 1.3 percent.  Worst Performance  Rubber was the worst-performing commodity in the past year
in the Bloomberg China Futures List index, falling about 30
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Inventories in bonded warehouses at Qingdao port have
stayed above 200,000 tons since November when they exceeded that
level for the first time, Li said. Destocking occurred briefly
in March and early April, but has slowed down since the
beginning of this month, Li said. Inventories monitored by the
SHFE fell 1,030 tons to 18,322 tons, the bourse said May 25.  The Chinese  economy  may grow 8.2 percent this year, the
slowest pace since 1999, a Bloomberg survey showed, as Europe’s
debt crisis curbs exports and manufacturing. The country has no
plan to introduce stimulus measures on the scale unleashed
during the global credit crisis, according to the nation’s
state-run Xinhua News Agency. In 2008, policy makers unveiled a
fiscal stimulus of 4 trillion  yuan  ($586 billion at the time).  Financing Deals  Increasing stockpiles in Qingdao add to supply concerns as
inventories in  Japan  are also climbing, said Gu Jiong, analyst
at Yutaka Shoji Co. in Tokyo. Stores of crude material held at
Japanese warehouses gained 2.9 percent to 15,198 tons as of May
10, according to the Rubber Trade Association of Japan.  About half of the Qingdao inventories may be tied up in
funding deals, said Li.  “Some  companies  are using rubber imports as collateral to
bypass loan restrictions to get access to bank credit, which has
led to persistently high port inventories,” Li said. “Such
practices exaggerate demand because these importers haul in
shipments from  Southeast Asia  for which they don’t have ready
buyers.” Thailand,  Indonesia  and Malaysia represent about 70
percent of global supply.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  