-- Romney Joins Trump in Las Vegas, Avoids Obama Birth Talk
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-30T16:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/trump-fundraiser-tonight-carries-political-risk-for-mitt-romney.html
As billionaire  Donald Trump  put his
celebrity status behind a  Las Vegas  fundraiser for Mitt Romney
last night, neither man addressed questions the real estate
developer and reality television star raised in the past week
about President  Barack Obama ’s birthplace.  The fundraiser at the Trump International Hotel was
designed to yield about $2 million, occurring on the night
Romney sealed the Republican presidential nomination by winning
the  Texas  primary. He now has more than the required 1,144
delegates.  The president called Romney today to congratulate him on
securing the nomination, saying he looked forward to “an
important and healthy debate about America’s future,” Obama’s
re-election campaign said in an e-mail.  The Las Vegas fundraiser included former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich , who ended his own White House bid on May 2.  “He’s going to be an absolutely great president,” Trump
said of Romney. “He’s going to turn this country around. He’s
going to create jobs like you haven’t seen for many, many years,
since we were great. We were a great country. Soon we won’t be a
great country at all. We have to do it now. Mitt Romney will
make us a great country again.”  Trump said the nation is struggling to recover from the
worst recession since the Great Depression because consumers and
businesses are uncertain about their prospects. The Conference
Board’s index of  consumer confidence   fell in May  to 64.9, the
lowest level in four months, according to data released
yesterday by the New York-based research group.  Lack of Confidence  “The country has no confidence,” Trump told several
hundred people gathered at the fundraiser. “Business leaders
have no confidence. We are in very, very big trouble.”  Trump also said he is backing Romney because of the former
Massachusetts governor’s aggressive rhetoric about dealing with
 China .  “They look at us, they laugh at us, they think we’re
stupid,” Trump said of the Chinese. “When he’s president, they
will no longer think we’re stupid.”  Romney thanked Trump for the boost as he took note of
securing the nomination through yesterday’s vote in Texas.  “We finally got there,” he said, calling the moment an
“honor and a privilege and a great responsibility.”  Trump persists in pressing doubts on whether Obama was born
in the U.S. While saying he hasn’t discussed the matter with
Romney, Trump expressed skepticism in an interview yesterday
about the long-form birth certificate Obama, 50, released in
April 2011 that showed his birthplace as Honolulu.  Many Questions  “There are many, many questions from different sides as to
the authenticity of the birth certificate,” Trump said on CNN.  He also dismissed a birth announcement for Obama in August
1961 in a Honolulu newspaper, saying it could have been
falsified to get the benefits of U.S. citizenship.  “It was something done by many people even though they
weren’t born in the country,” he said of the placement of birth
announcements.  In a May 24  interview  with the Daily Beast website, Trump
touted biographical information prepared by a literary agency
that once worked with Obama that said he was born in  Kenya . A
former employee has  said  she made the error.  “He didn’t know he was running for president, so he told
the truth,” Trump said of that information.  Romney, 65, declined on May 28 to condemn such statements
by Trump, 65, when asked about them.  ‘Disgraceful’ Theories  “I don’t agree with all the people who support me, and my
guess is they don’t all agree with everything I believe in,”
Romney told reporters.  His aides have said the candidate doesn’t question that
Obama was born in Honolulu.  Obama’s re-election campaign has responded by seeking to
depict Romney as lacking leadership for not being more critical
of Trump’s statements.  “ Mitt Romney ’s continued embrace of Donald Trump and
refusal to condemn his disgraceful conspiracy theories
demonstrates his complete lack of moral leadership,”  Stephanie Cutter , Obama’s deputy campaign manager, said in a statement.  “If Mitt Romney lacks the backbone to stand up to a
charlatan like Donald Trump because he’s so concerned about
lining his campaign’s pockets, what does that say about the kind
of president he would be?” Cutter said.  Obama’s campaign also released a web video yesterday
contrasting Romney’s response to Trump with the reaction of
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the 2008 Republican presidential
nominee, at a campaign event when a supporter of his called
Obama “an Arab.”  Family Man  “No, ma’am,” McCain replied, calling Obama “a decent
family man” and a “citizen.”  Romney’s campaign is also raffling off a meal in June with
Trump, the host of “The Celebrity Apprentice” on NBC, as a
fundraising pitch.  Trump endorsed Romney on Feb. 2, with the two men making a
joint appearance at the same hotel that hosted yesterday’s
fundraiser. Romney at the time was in a battle for front-runner
status in the Republican race.  Gingrich told reporters at yesterday’s event that he
doesn’t think Trump’s comments about Obama’s birthplace are
creating a disruption for Romney.  “ Governor Romney ’s not distracted,” he said. “The
 Republican Party ’s not distracted. We believe that this is an
American-born, job-killing president. Other people may believe
that he was born somewhere else and still kills jobs.”  No Suggestions  Gingrich said it isn’t his place to tell Trump what to say.  “Far be it for me to suggest to the Donald what he should
do,” Gingrich said. “I just know it’s hopeless to suggest
anything to him about what he should do.”  Romney has more fundraisers in  California  this week. He had
raised $100 million through April 30, according to Federal
Election Commission reports, less than half the $222 million
collected by Obama’s campaign. The president also had 12 times
as much in his campaign account as Romney, $115.2 million to
$9.2 million.  Some Democrats, though, have expressed concern about the
impact of super political action committees that are backing
Romney, which can take in unlimited donations from corporations
and individuals, and pro-Republican nonprofits that keep their
donors secret, such as Crossroads GPS, which is spending $25
million on anti-Obama ads.  As part of his Nevada visit, Romney also met with  Las Vegas
Sands Corp. (LVS)  Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson  at the
Venetian hotel, a Romney aide not authorized to publicly discuss
the matter said in confirming an earlier report by  CBS News .  Viable Run  Adelson helped keep Gingrich’s presidential run viable by
funding a super-PAC that backed him. He and family members
contributed $21.5 million to the group, Winning Our Future,
according to FEC records.  None of those family members had given money to Romney or
the super-PAC backing him as of the end of April. Adelson and
his wife, Miriam, each have given $30,800 this year, the maximum
allowed per calendar year, to the  Republican National Committee ,
which is helping Romney in his general election bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  