-- Rupee to Help Bharat Heavy Beat Chinese Rivals: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-05-29T18:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/rupee-to-help-bharat-heavy-beat-chinese-rivals-corporate-india.html
The Indian rupee’s tumble to a record
low may help  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the nation’s biggest
power-equipment maker, regain market share from Chinese rivals 
as the weaker currency pushes up import costs for generators.  The rupee has declined 19 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
and 21 percent against the  yuan  in the past year, the worst
performance in  Asia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The depreciation means companies such as billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance Power Ltd. are paying more for foreign loans
taken to purchase parts from  China .  “This is a positive indicator and it certainly improves
our cost competitiveness,” P.K. Bajpai, finance director at New
Delhi-based BHEL, said in an interview.  Orders won by BHEL for boilers, turbines and generators
fell to the least since 2007 as of March 31 as suppliers 
including  Shanghai Electric Group Co. (601727)  and  Dongfang Electric 
Corp. (600875)  won business by offering discounts and quicker 
implementation schedules. A sliding currency will favor the 
Indian state-owned company’s bids for contracts and reverse the 
 stock’s plunge  to a five-year low, said Rohit Singh, an analyst 
at IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd. in Mumbai.  Negative Sentiment  Shares of BHEL have slumped 44 percent in the past year,
compared with a 10 percent drop in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX) , as Chinese suppliers expanded their market share in India
while a shortage of coal stalled some projects. The stock,
headed for its third annual loss, closed at 200.75 rupees on May
18, its lowest level since March 16, 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at 217.95 rupees yesterday.  “The negative sentiment on the stock reflects the overall
challenges faced by the power sector in  India ,” Bajpai said.
“Power is something that can’t be ignored, and we are confident
of bouncing back.”  Most analysts don’t share his optimism. The stock has 12 
buy  ratings  versus 26 who grade it a sell, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The local currency’s weakness is temporary and many
producers aren’t in a hurry to place orders because of the fuel-
supply bottleneck, said Lakshminarayana Ganti, a Mumbai-based
analyst at the brokerage unit of Standard Chartered Plc.  “BHEL should brace for a long winter, a lull of at least a
year for orders,” he said in a telephone interview.  Expanding Market  Chinese equipment makers controlled 29 percent of the
Indian market in the five years ended March 31, according to a
presentation on BHEL’s  website , versus almost nothing in the
previous period. Two calls to Shanghai Electric seeking comments
weren’t answered, while two to the office of Dongfang’s Board
Secretary Zhang Linchao went unanswered.  Reliance Power (RPWR)  ordered $10 billion of equipment in October
2010 for its coal-fired plants and signed agreements for $12
billion of loans from Chinese banks.  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI)  said
in September it was considering raising yuan loans to fund $3.8
billion of projects, while  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  ordered
equipment from Shanghai Electric about three years ago for its
generation units in the states of Orissa and Chhattisgarh.  The rupee’s drop is making banks “more cautious” in
lending to new projects as capital and hedging costs increase
for producers that have borrowed in dollars and yuan, Sushil Maroo, chief financial officer at Jindal Steel & Power, said in
a telephone interview.  “The volatility in foreign-exchange rates will not be
short-lived and the answer is more and more indigenization,” he
said. “Bharat Heavy is well poised to make big leads in the
next plan orders.”  Boosting Generation  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to spend as much as
$300 billion in the five years to March 2017 to boost generation
capacity and reduce blackouts to accelerate  economic growth  from
the slowest pace in three years. After failing to meet its
targets dating back to 1951, the government’s goal for the five-
year period is to add  76 gigawatts . About one in four Indians
lives without electricity as supplies aren’t enough for the
entire population.  “The concern with BHEL is the slowing pace of order intake
and if that is fixed, the stock could rebound,” said IDBI
Capital’s Singh, who has a buy rating on the stock. “If the
rupee continues to slide for a longer time, it may turn things
in favor of domestic manufacturers.”  BHEL’s orders in the financial year ended March 31 declined
63 percent to 221 billion rupees ($4 billion), the least in five
years, according to Hitesh Kuvelkar, an analyst at First Global
Stockbroking in Mumbai. The company expects a jump in contracts
in the current year to about 600 billion rupees, he wrote in a
report dated May 24.  Capacity Glut  Net income in the quarter to March 31 rose 21 percent to a
record 33.8 billion rupees, beating estimates, according to a
statement from the company last week. BHEL plans to double
revenue in five years, with a target of $20 billion, Chairman B. Prasada Rao said on April 3.  India’s total power-equipment capacity is 24 gigawatts
annually, compared with a demand of about 22 gigawatts. BHEL and
leading local rivals including  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  and  BGR
Energy Systems Ltd. (BGRL)  plan to increase that to 36 gigawatts in the
next three to four years, in what could lead to a glut, IDBI
Capital’s Singh said.  Overcapacity in the local market and a weakening rupee may
diminish interest in Chinese makers, according to Jindal Steel &
Power’s Maroo.  Adani Power’s Chief Executive Officer Ravi Sharma didn’t
respond to questions sent by e-mail, while Reliance Power’s CEO
Jayaram P. Chalasani and Lanco’s spokesman V. Sreenivas didn’t
answer two calls each made to their cell phones.  “What the weakening of the rupee means is that cash flow
requirements from projects will become critical,” Mehul P. Sukkawala, a Mumbai-based credit analyst at  Standard & Poor’s .
“The preference for local equipment manufacturers will rise,
provided they are able to meet the demand and the desired
technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  