-- Russia Said to Plan Sale of 7.6% Sberbank Stake in September
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e ,   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-05-29T10:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/russia-said-to-plan-sale-of-7-6-sberbank-stake-in-september.html
Russia plans to sell 7.6 percent of
 OAO Sberbank (SBER) , eastern  Europe ’s largest lender, by as early as
September as Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  expedites the
government’s privatization program, a person with knowledge of
the matter said.  The time line for state asset sales may be approved at a
Cabinet meeting May 31, the person, who declined to be
identified until the government makes an official announcement,
said today.  The government owns 57.6 percent of Moscow-based Sberbank
through the central bank, or Bank Rossii, and has postponed
selling part of that stake several times since the original
September 2011 target date, citing market turmoil.  Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in
January the government wanted Sberbank’s stock price to get
“closer to 100 rubles” ($3) before it offered shares. Sberbank
shares have tumbled by almost 20 percent after hitting the 100-
ruble mark in February for the first time in seven months.  “I don’t think the window earlier this year has been
missed,” Anton Karamzin, Sberbank’s deputy chairman, said in a
Moscow interview on May 25. “While some of the ingredients of a
successful deal may have been in place from time to time, some
of the other ingredients have not been there.” Karamzin said
Sberbank, as the country’s “proxy stock” had been
“unfortunate” to drop as much as it has due to risk aversion
for Russian equities.  The  stock  rose 0.5 percent to 80.72 rubles in Moscow by
1:52 p.m. today.  New Schedule  “Market conditions have not really improved, quite the
contrary, but I guess we all hope that by September things will
be different,” Peter Westin, chief strategist at Aton Capital,
wrote in e-emailed comments today.  Medvedev, who swapped jobs with now-President  Vladimir Putin  this month, told First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov 
to draft a new schedule to sell all major state assets outside
the oil and gas industry by 2015, the person said, confirming a
report earlier today in the Vedomosti newspaper.  Alexander Baziyan, a spokesman for Sberbank, declined to
comment on the government’s privatization schedule and nobody
authorized to comment at the central bank could be reached by
phone immediately.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  