-- Russian Stocks Surge Most in 3 Months on Crude; Lukoil Rallies
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-29T15:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/russian-stocks-gain-for-second-day-as-oil-rises-on-u-s-outlook.html
Russian stocks rose for a second day,
pushing the benchmark gauge to its strongest advance in three
months, as crude climbed and OAO Lukoil jumped on a plan to list
in  Hong Kong .  The Micex Index added 2.8 percent to 1,327.08 by the close
in Moscow, the biggest gain since Feb. 24. Lukoil, Russia’s
second-biggest oil producer, increased 3.6 percent on the plan
to list more than $1 billion of its existing shares within a
year. The  oil company  has the largest  weighting  on the Micex at
16 percent. Federal Grid Co. and OAO MRSK Holding sank more than
1.8 percent after Kommersant reported Rosneftegaz may take
control of the utilities.  Crude for July delivery climbed as much $1.35 to $92.21 a
barrel in  New York . U.S. home values fell in the 12 months ended
in March at the slowest pace in more than a year, signaling that
the housing market is stabilizing.  Russia , the world’s biggest
energy exporter, received almost 50 percent of budget revenue
from oil and gas sales last year.  “This growth may last until the end of May,” Dmitry Mikhailov, who manages $130 million in assets at  Renaissance
Capital  in Moscow, said by phone. “Right now investors are
buying back excessively cheap shares of Sberbank and Lukoil,
which got completely sold off in the past two weeks.”  The nation’s benchmark stock gauge dropped more than 20
percent from a March 14 high, and sank to 1,287.79 on May 17.
The retreat below 1,260 sets the stage for a retracement level
of 61 percent to 1,485,  Richard Ross , a technical strategist at
Auerbach Grayson & Co., said by e-mail from New York on May 25.  MRSK, Federal Grid Fall  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) , the first of the largest emerging
markets to enter a  bear market  in 2012, will gain 15 percent by
the end of the year, Ross said.  “We’re seeing the market bounce back a little and oil is
rising,”  Mark Rubinstein , an analyst at IFC Metropol in Moscow,
said by phone. “The Micex will remain in the 1,300 area, we
might see a drop by the end of the week.”   MRSK Holding, the country’s largest electricity
distribution company, fell to 1.71 rubles, the lowest level
since August 2009. Federal Grid, Russia’s monopoly for high-
voltage power transmission lines, dropped to 19.15 kopeks.  The government plans to propose a single team of directors
for the two companies’ boards, Kommersant reported, citing
people familiar with the situation. At the same time, stakes in
MRSK and Federal Grid will be transferred to a unit of
Rosneftegaz, the state company chaired by former Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Sechin , the paper said.  OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, rose 4.7 percent to
84.11 rubles, the most since Nov. 30. Bank Rossii may sell its
7.6 percent stake in the state-controlled lender as early as
September after the goverment approves the timeline on May 31, a
person familiar with the matter said.  State Stakes  The Russian government’s updated state asset sales plan has
been approved and will be signed by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  before May 30, Interfax reported, citing an
unidentified person in the government. The government will
proceed with the asset sales, adjusting the timing of the deals,
even as markets remain volatile, Medvedev said at a government
meeting in Moscow on May 21.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  added state stakes in OAO
RusHydro, Federal Grid and MRSK and one share of OAO Rosneft, to
a list of strategic assets that precludes their sale, Interfax
reported on May 22, citing a government decree.  Russia’s energy companies added to the list of strategic
assets may be prepared for privatization by the government as
there are no legal obstacles to their sale, Interfax reported
today, citing Elvira Nabiullina, President Vladimir Putin’s
chief economic aide.  Strategic List  “The inclusion of companies in the strategic assets list
is Putin’s way of maintaining his control over which companies
get privatized,” Mikhailov said.  Russian stocks trade at 4.5 times  estimated earnings ,
having lost 5.4 percent this year. That compares with a 0.7
percent gain for the MSCI Emerging-Market Index which trades at
9.4 times projected earnings.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 1.5 percent to 922.79
today, while the MSCI BRIC Index of shares traded in  India ,
Brazil, Russia and  China , gained 1.1 percent, the highest level
since May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  