-- Russia, Qatar World Cups Bids May Face Probe, FIFA Adviser Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-29T01:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/russia-qatar-world-cups-bids-may-face-probe-fifa-adviser-says.html
Soccer’s new investigative body will
probably examine the bids that won  Russia  and Qatar  World Cup 
hosting rights once a head is appointed for the independent
committee, according to the former U.K. attorney general
advising FIFA on reform.  The race to stage the 2018 and 2022 editions of the $5
billion World Cup drew attention to weaknesses in FIFA’s
internal governance procedures after several members of its
decision-making board were accused of wrongdoing.  “It does need to be looked into,” Peter Goldsmith, a
partner at law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, said in an
interview. “The point is if you have a proper investigative
body with a professional, independent head, that person could
look at these things. That’s what I expect to happen.”  Goldsmith is a member of 13-person panel assembled and
headed by Swiss law professor  Mark Pieth . FIFA president Sepp Blatter asked the group to find ways that his 108-year-old
organization could modernize. The call came following rebukes
from governments and sponsors who pay millions of dollars to the
Zurich-based body.  Russia beat  England  and joint bids from Spain/Portugal and
 Belgium /the Netherlands to host soccer’s four-yearly
championship in 2018. Qatar, a country smaller than  Connecticut ,
was chosen ahead of bids from the U.S.,  Australia ,  South Korea 
and  Japan  to host the following World Cup. The decisions came
six months before Blatter was re-elected to a fourth, four-year
term after his only challenger withdrew a day before being
investigated for allegedly bribing Caribbean voters.  Decisions Deferred   FIFA last week agreed to some changes, including the
appointment of the first woman on its board and establishing
investigative and adjudicatory bodies to tackle wrongdoing, at
its annual congress in Budapest. Pieth asked the group not to
“cherry pick” the easiest moves.  Issues including the introduction of  term limits  and
integrity checks for officials, publication of executive pay and
the creation of a whistle-blower hot line have been deferred to
next year’s congress in Mauritius.  FIFA was also unable to name the first independent chairmen
of its two new ethics bodies because one of the nominees chosen
by Pieth’s group was ill. The announcement will be made in July
when the board next meets.  Pressure must be put on FIFA to ensure it chooses suitable
candidates as soon as possible and they should be be globally
known and respected, Goldsmith said.  Reputation Risk  “Put someone in place who has an international reputation
to lose if people can see they’re not doing their job,” he
said.  Only 22 of FIFA’s 24 board members voted for the award of
World Cup hosting rights because two were suspended after
offering their votes to undercover reporters. Allegations of
malfeasance have since been leveled at other officials. A former
vice president accused of setting up a meeting where Blatter’s
presidential rival Mohamed Bin Hammam was accused of offering
bribes quit, and FIFA stopped an investigation into his role.  FIFA said it made nearly $1 billion in sales last year and
has the same amount in its cash reserves, while television and
marketing deals for the 2018 World Cup already amount to $2.3
billion. The financial success led some members of Blatter’s
board like Spaniard Angel Maria Villar Llona to accuse FIFA’s
critics of jealousy.  “We met with  Sepp Blatter , saying to him: ‘Look you’ve
done fantastically financially, it’s a fantastically successful
organization financially but is that what you want your legacy
to be, just to make more money?,’” Goldsmith said. “‘You leave
behind all this scandal.’”  Final Term  Blatter, 76, has said his current term will be his last.  By the time he leaves office in 2015, FIFA will be a
different place whether Blatter and his board embrace reform or
not, Goldsmith said.  “If FIFA doesn’t do this now I cannot believe there will
not be huge pressure for it to be done from outside,” he said.
“That will be much worse from FIFA’s point of view.”  Goldsmith called for countries to demand better oversight
from the Swiss government on organizations located in the
country and suggested U.K. and U.S. anti-corruption legislation
could be brought to bear on the soccer body.  Goldsmith said he expects investigations into allegations
stretching back as long as a decade ago.  “Everyone knows there’s been corruption inside FIFA,” he
said. “There’s a statute of limitations of 10 years for most
things but otherwise there shouldn’t be any impediment for a new
investigative body to look at things which happened in the past
and properly get into them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  