-- Saint-Gobain Rebuffed by Top U.S. Court on Siemens Patent
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-05-29T14:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/saint-gobain-rebuffed-by-top-u-s-court-on-siemens-patent.html
The U.S. Supreme Court let stand a
jury verdict that will cost  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA ’s ceramics
and plastics business more than $44 million in a patent fight
with a  Siemens AG (SIE)  unit.  Rejecting a Saint-Gobain appeal in a dispute over a crystal
used in medical-imaging devices, the justices today refused to
question a federal appeals court ruling that upheld the verdict.
The appeals court also told a trial judge to consider increasing
the $44.9 million award to account for additional products that
infringed the patent.  The Supreme Court rebuff came at the urging of the Obama
administration, which told the justices that the appeals court
reached the right conclusion.  The dispute was over the composition of crystals that
convert gamma rays into light to produce a three-dimensional
image of the body to test for diseases. Siemens, based in
Munich, makes crystals for its positron emission tomography, or
PET, tests. Saint-Gobain, based in Courbevoie,  France , produces
the crystals for products made by  Royal Philips Electronics NV. (PHG)   Siemens Medical Solutions USA was awarded $44.9 million
after it sued in 2007 over the sale of crystals for 61 scanners
made by Philips Medical Systems. The U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit in Washington said the trial court should
have included a royalty award on 18 additional scanners. Philips
wasn’t named in the lawsuit.  Saint-Gobain is  Europe ’s biggest supplier of building
materials and Siemens is Europe’s largest engineering company.  The case is Saint-Gobain Ceramics & Plastics v. Siemens
Medical Solutions USA, 11-301.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  