-- Sandvik Says Greek Crisis Spreads Concern to European Industry
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-05-29T13:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/sandvik-says-greek-crisis-spreads-concern-to-european-industry.html
Sandvik AB (SAND) , the world’s biggest maker
of metal-cutting tools, is barely affected by  Greece ’s economic
turmoil though the crisis is radiating “some worry” to
European customers, Chief Executive Officer Olof Faxander said.  “Greece has very little industry, so there’s tiny direct
effect on us there, but it’s spreading some worry to others in
 Europe , which is affecting investments,” Faxander said in an
interview today during the company’s capital markets day in
Sandviken, Sweden, where it’s based. “Our sales in Europe are
mildly affected by Greece.”  Sandvik’s  revenue  in Greece was 79 million kronor ($11
million) in 2011, less than 0.1 percent of the total, Faxander
said. About 5 percent of the manufacturer’s sales are generated
in the troubled economies of Portugal,  Italy , Greece and  Spain ,
he said.  Sandvik began a review last year aimed at boosting
profitability under Faxander, who joined from Swedish steelmaker
SSAB AB in February 2011. Raising the portion of Sandvik’s sales
from  emerging markets  is part of the strategy, he said.  Sandvik closed its Greek sales office early this year and
uses independent distributors there, he said. The closure
resulted from the market’s small size and wasn’t directly
related to the country’s debt crisis, he said.  In Spain, the “very weak” construction market will
probably take several years to recover, he said. Italy has a
“stagnated situation,” with little recovery in sight, he said.  Unit Repair  Sandvik’s main focus now is to raise  earnings  in the
construction and materials technology units, its least
profitable businesses, Faxander said today. The CEO reiterated
that he may sell the units.  The operating margin in the construction unit was 8.7
percent in the first quarter, while it was 8.5 percent in the
materials technology business, which makes furnace and heating
materials. The machining solutions and mining units generated
operating margins of 24.6 percent and 17.3 percent,
respectively, Sandvik said April 27.  “We have two parts that are super performers and we have
two that have some big challenges,” the CEO said. The
turnaround programs in both areas are “off to a good start”
and Sandvik hasn’t yet held talks with potential buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  