-- Secret Court Rulings Kept Out of Public View After U.S. Review
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-05-29T21:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/secret-court-rulings-kept-out-of-public-view-after-u-s-review.html
The U.S. hasn’t declassified any
opinions by the court that approves surveillance of foreigners
under a review process begun two years ago to determine whether
any could be made public.  The  Justice Department  said in a May 8 response to a public
records request that no rulings by the court, which was set up
under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, had
been cleared for release.  The Obama administration created a process to consider
declassifying court opinions starting in 2010, after lawmakers
called for greater transparency. The FISA court considers
government requests for electronic surveillance and physical
searches of foreigners in the U.S. suspected of engaging in
espionage or terrorism.  The court, which operates in secret, approved all 1,674
applications by the U.S. government to conduct electronic
surveillance in 2011, according to an April 30 Justice
Department report to Congressional leaders.  The review process was set up to determine whether opinions
containing “significant” legal opinions could be released,
said  Lisa Monaco , the assistant attorney general who oversees
the Justice Department’s National Security Division, in 2011
answers to questions from a Senate panel.  The records request, made under the Freedom of Information
Act, came from the Federation of American Scientists, a
Washington-based research group.  The “unique characteristics” of the FISA process
complicate declassification, Dean Boyd, a Justice Department
spokesman, said in a statement. Making FISA court opinions
publicly available, even in edited form, “may enable a
sophisticated adversary to deduce particular sources and methods
or take effective countermeasures that deprive the  United States 
of intelligence,” Boyd said.  Three FISA court rulings with “substantial legal opinions
that could be severed from the sensitive facts of the underlying
applications,” had been released prior to the establishment of
the new review process, Boyd said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  