-- Sentiment Signals S&P 500 Retreat May Not Be Over
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-05-29T18:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/sentiment-signals-s-p-500-retreat-may-not-be-over.html
Sentiment indicators have yet to show
signs of extreme pessimism during the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX) ’s retreat since April, suggesting there is still room for
bears to push the market lower, according to UBS AG.  While the proportion of newsletter writers who said they
are bearish on equities rose to a two-month high of 26.6 percent
last week, it’s still below the peak of 46.3 percent reached in
October, when the S&P 500 hit its 2011 low, according to data
from Investors Intelligence compiled by Bloomberg. The New York
Stock Exchange Short-Term Trading Index, a volume-based market
breadth indicator, reached a 2012 peak of 2.52 last month,
failing to break 3.0, a level that Michael Riesner and Marc
Mueller of UBS consider a sign of capitulation.  “The missing panic sell-off and the low levels of
bearishness are suggesting that we still have a high level of
complacency in the market,” the Zurich-based analysts wrote in
a note today. “With the current sentiment mix we can clearly
say that the U.S. market is still far away from a contrarian
bull call, which is one reason why it is likely to see more near
term pain into June/July.”  A lack of pessimism is considered a contrarian indicator by
some analysts who follow charts to make market predictions,
because investors who haven’t sold stocks may have the power to
drive the market lower.  The  S&P 500  has dropped 6.5 percent since its April peak
amid signs the world’s economy may be slowing and concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening. The benchmark measure for
U.S. equities last week rose the most since April after the
cheapest  valuation  since November lured buyers. The index added
0.6 percent to 1,326.02 at 2:04 p.m. New York time today, after
data showed stabilization in the U.S. housing market and Greek
opinion polls eased concern the country will leave the euro.  About 38.3 percent of forecasters said they’re bullish on
equities, down from 39.4 percent in the previous week, according
to  New Rochelle , New York-based Investors Intelligence.  “We are currently in a phase where definitely the
bullishness has been deteriorating across the board,” Riesner
and Mueller wrote. “On the other hand, the sentiment is yet not
bearish enough to suggest that we are near an important market
bottom.” The analysts said they expect the S&P 500 to fall
toward 1,250 once the decline resumes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  