-- Serena Williams Exits French Open With Earliest Grand Slam Loss
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-29T23:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/serena-williams-exits-french-open-with-earliest-grand-slam-loss.html
Serena Williams  was two points away
from extending her perfect record on clay this year. An hour
later, she was out of the  French Open , her earliest career loss
in a Grand Slam tennis tournament.  Williams, a 13-time major singles champion and the fifth
seed this year at Roland Garros, was leading by a set and 5-1 in
the second-set tiebreaker against Virginie Razzano of  France , a
player ranked 106 places below the American.  Razzano won the next six points to even yesterday’s match,
swept five straight games in the final set and then held off a
comeback by Williams to win 4-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3 on her eighth
match point.  “The whole match, I just didn’t play at all the way I have
been practicing,” Williams said at a news conference. “I don’t
know how many errors I ended up making, but I haven’t been
playing like that in the past.”  Williams, 30, entered the year’s second major tournament
with a 17-0 record on clay in 2012, and U.K. bookmaker  William
Hill Plc (WMH)  made her a 5-2 favorite to win her first French Open
title since 2002.  Instead, she lost in the opening round for the first time
in her 47 Grand Slam appearances. Her earliest previous defeat
at one of the four majors was in the second round by sister
Venus at the 1998 Australian Open when Serena was 16 years old.  “I kept going for my shots, which always works for me,”
Williams said. “It didn’t work out today. You know, that’s it.
That’s life.”  Dramatic Final Game  Trailing 5-3 in the final set, Williams failed to convert
five break points against a player struggling with cramps in her
right leg. The final game also had eight match points, 12 deuces
and two point penalties against the 29-year-old Razzano for
screaming out in pain during rallies, before Williams hit a
backhand long for her 47th unforced error of the match.  “It’s incredible, it’s the most beautiful victory of my
career,” Razzano, who double faulted on her first match point,
told reporters. “When I was up 5-0, I was getting cramp on my
legs. Couldn’t go on my quadriceps. I told myself not to think
about what I was feeling. Don’t think about the pain. Just focus
on the ball.”  Today at Roland Garros, 16-time major winner  Roger Federer 
of  Switzerland  plays Romania’s Adrian Ungur, and top seed Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  faces  Slovenia ’s Blaz Kavcic.  Williams has not won a Grand Slam title since 2010
Wimbledon, after which she nearly missed a year because of foot
surgery and a blood clot in her lung.  ‘Kind of Odd’  “I never really felt anything slipping away or anything,”
said Williams, who beat top-ranked Victoria Azarenka 6-1, 6-3
earlier this month in the final of a clay-court tournament in
 Madrid . “I just felt I couldn’t get a ball in play. I just felt
like I was hitting late and, I mean, how can you hit late on a
clay court? It was kind of odd.”  Razzano lost in the first round in Paris last year, a week
after her fiance and coach died of a brain tumor. She said she
felt her victory against Williams was meant to be.  “I felt I was ready to go ahead and live my life
professionally and personally,” she said. “Was it destiny? Was
it fate? I don’t know. I wanted to win that match.”  Williams said she will stay at her apartment in Paris to
prepare for a mixed-doubles match at  Roland Garros  with fellow
American  Bob Bryan .  “Hopefully I can do better, win a match in that event,”
Williams said.  After that, she’ll regroup and start preparing for the
grass courts of Wimbledon, a Grand Slam event she’s won four
times. The Olympic tennis tournament will be held there this
year as well.  “Just figure out what I did wrong and not do it again,
learn from it,” Williams said. “That’s the best thing I can
do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros
through the London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  