-- Serena Williams Beaten by Razzano in French Open First Round
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-29T19:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/serena-williams-beaten-by-razzano-in-first-round-of-french-open.html
Serena Williams  lost to Virginie Razzano at the  French Open , her first opening-round defeat in 47
appearances at a Grand Slam tennis tournament.  The fifth-seeded American was defeated 4-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3
at  Roland Garros  in Paris. Her earliest previous loss at one of
the four majors was a second-round defeat by her sister Venus at
the 1998 Australian Open.  France ’s Razzano, ranked 106 places below Williams,
clinched the victory on her eighth match point. She had trailed
5-1 in the second-set tiebreaker before winning the final six
points and then taking the first five games of the last set.  “The crowd helped me so much today,” Razzano, who
struggled with leg cramps, told French television after the
match that lasted three hours and three minutes. “I played
aggressive. It’s the best win of my career.”  Williams, a 13-time Grand Slam champion, had won three
straight games in the third set before sending a backhand shot
long to end a final game that featured eight match points, five
break points and 12 deuces. Razzano raised her arms and the
crowd roared after the final point.  “I started making a lot of errors,” Williams told a news
conference. “I tried, I kept going for my shots. It always
works out for me, but not today,” said the American, who
produced 47 unforced errors and struck 39 winners. Razzano had
36 unforced errors and 30 winners.  Williams’s Clay Streak  Before today, Williams had a 17-0 record on clay this year,
the longest women’s run on the surface since Belgium’s Justine Henin won 27 straight over the 2005 and 2006 seasons. Williams
had beaten top-ranked  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus in the finals
of Madrid earlier this month, which made her the 5-2 favorite to
win her first French Open title in a decade at U.K. bookmaker
 William Hill Plc. (WMH)   Williams last won a major title at 2010 Wimbledon. After
that, she missed almost a year because of illness including a
blood clot in her lungs. She returned at Wimbledon last year,
losing in the fourth round. She was beaten in the final of the
 U.S. Open  last year by Sam Stosur of  Australia  and lost in the
fourth round of the Australian Open in January.  Williams, who had pulled out of the semifinals of Rome two
weeks before Paris with a back problem, refused to blame any
injuries for her loss.  “I’m 100 percent healthy,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  