-- Shipwrecked China Worth $43 Million to Be Fished From Sea
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-05-29T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/shipwrecked-china-worth-43-million-to-be-fished-from-sea.html
At the bottom of the ocean off
 Indonesia , a cargo of blue-and-white Chinese porcelain worth
about $43 million has lain submerged for more than 400 years.  The 700,000 pieces -- fine bowls, dishes and cups made
during the reign of the Ming dynasty Emperor Wanli -- were on a
gigantic wooden junk that sank, possibly while en route for what
is now Jakarta. Stacked 8 meters high in places, they are strewn
over an area the size of an ice-hockey rink, 60 meters below the
surface and 150 kilometers from the coast.  Nikolaus Graf Sandizell, chairman and chief executive of
the Portugal-based marine-archaeology company  Arqueonautas
Worldwide SA (QOW) , plans to retrieve them next year, pending
clearance by the Indonesian government, before they are lost to
one of the many threats to ocean treasures: dragnet fishing,
offshore oil exploration, pipeline and cable installation and,
above all, plunderers.  He is one of the instigators of an exhibition at
 Leuchtenburg , a medieval castle near the eastern German city of
Jena. It describes the shipwrecked treasures and the task that
lies ahead in retrieving them, an expedition Sandizell estimates
will cost 5 million euros ($6.3 million) and require the
construction of a floating platform to avoid frequent trips back
to land. He hopes the show will help save underwater artifacts.  Disappearing Treasure  “We want to draw attention to the crazy speed at which
these treasures are vanishing,” he said over Indonesian soup
and chicken satay, served in a grand hall of Leuchtenburg castle
with views of the vast Thuringian Forest in the distance. “In
10 years it will be too late.”  Two delicate bowls from the same era as the Chinese wreck,
one decorated with peonies, the other with a rock garden, are
displayed in glass vitrines. About a third of the underwater
pieces are intact, said Sandizell, who is 53. Only gold and
porcelain can survive centuries in salt water unscathed, he
said. The wreck was discovered in 2008, and 38,000 pieces of
porcelain were recovered during an initial operation in 2010.  Chinese merchant ships were plying the seas with cargoes of
silk and porcelain 200 years before the Portuguese led  Europe 
into an era of flourishing maritime trade.  Super Junks  The nine-masted junks were several times bigger than
European ships -- the supertankers of their time, still the
biggest wooden ships ever built. Crews comprised interpreters,
astronomers, astrologists and doctors. The ships sailed home
laden with spices, ivory, jewels and rare wood. Even giraffes
made the voyage from  Africa  to the Chinese imperial court.  UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization, estimates that there are 3 million wrecks
at the bottom of the world’s oceans, of which as many as 50,000
contain valuable treasures and some are thousands of years old.  “A shipwreck is a time capsule, a window onto history and
can be a way of recovering history that has been lost,”
Sandizell said. “The history that is brought to light should be
accessible to everyone.”  In 2001, a UNESCO convention stipulated that protection
 “in situ”  is the preferred means of preserving shipwrecks,
meaning the creation of underwater museums, rather than bringing
objects to the surface and to museums on land.  Water Police  Yet Sandizell says it is sometimes impossible to protect
shipwrecks in situ, which requires water police to prevent
looting. The Leuchtenburg exhibition shows some Chinese coins
retrieved from the ocean -- probably by fishermen -- bundled on
a string and sold to tourists. Where they were found and the
history of the shipwreck can no longer be traced.  “We want UNESCO to jump over its own shadow and get
proactive in protecting shipwrecks,” Sandizell said.  Arqueonautas focuses on the coasts of countries such as
Mozambique and Indonesia, which lack the means to protect
shipwrecks on site. Sandizell’s company raises some funding for
expeditions through royalties on its  clothing brand , owned by
the Hamburg-based Otto Group. He favors a financing model for
recovery missions that entails selling some of the numerous
reclaimed artifacts that are of the same design.  The company and its partners are awaiting a green light
from the Indonesian government, the legal owner of the wreck, to
begin the Chinese porcelain expedition next year.  “The Wanli wreck is in serious danger from pillagers, who
risk destroying it entirely,” Sandizell said. “Due to earlier
operations on the wreck site, the exact location is no longer a
secret. Rescue recovery is the only option left.  The enormous number of artifacts expected on this wreck and
the steep investment required mean heritage and commercial
aspects must be carefully weighed.”  For more information on “The Wanli Expedition. White Gold
From the Bottom of the Sea,” go to:  http://www.leuchtenburg.de/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include:  Mark Beech  on music,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris art, and  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley, in Berlin, at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 