-- Shui On Land Plans IPO for Xintiandi Redevelopment Unit
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-05-29T09:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/shui-on-land-plans-to-spin-off-xintiandi-project-unit-correct-.html
Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , the developer
controlled by billionaire Vincent Lo, plans to sell shares in
its Xintiandi entertainment complex unit to investors in a
separate listing in Hong Kong.  The Shanghai-based company has submitted the proposal to
the Hong Kong stock exchange, Shui On said in a statement late
yesterday. The company didn’t say how much it plans to raise and
when the listing, which is subject to the stock exchange’s
approval, will be completed.  The company’s first  Xintiandi  project is a residential and
commercial complex in  Shanghai  built through the redevelopment
of houses dating back to the 19th and 20th centuries. The
complex, whose name means New Heaven and Earth in Chinese,
attracted local and international chains including Paulaner
Brahaus and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   Shui On subsequently used the concept to build similar
projects in other Chinese cities including Chongqing and Wuhan.
The company last year said it will spend about 8 billion  yuan 
($1.3 billion) to develop an office and restaurant precinct,
Hongqiao Tiandi, near Shanghai’s smaller airport and high-speed
rail station.  Money raised from the share sale will be used to fund the
company’s existing developments and for acquisitions and
investments in other commercial properties, Shui On said in the
statement.  Shares of Shui On, which trade in Hong Kong, rose 7.3
percent to HK$3.08 at the close of trading in Hong Kong today,
the most since February. They have gained 31 percent this year
compared with a 4.4 percent advance in the Hang Seng Property
Index, which doesn’t track the company’s stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  