-- Sony, Apple, ‘Linsanity,’ RGIII, WWE: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-29T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/sony-apple-linsanity-rgiii-wwe-intellectual-property.html
PlayStation users may be subjected to
a barrage of advertising if a patent application filed by  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s Sony Computer Entertainment America unit is any
indication.  Application  20110274409 , which was filed in July 2011,
covers what Tokyo-based Sony calls an “advertisement scheme for
interactive content.”  The technology covered by the patent would put the game on
hold in a variety of ways until the advertisement is viewed,
after which the user can resume the game, according to the
application.  Apple Applies for Patent on User-Input Stylus Device  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone and iPad, has applied
for a patent for a stylus-like device that will deliver
information to a user through a sense of touch.  According to application  20120127088 , published in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office May 24, the
device would give the user more tactile feedback than could be
experienced by simply moving a finger across a touch screen.  This feedback could be communicated through “forces,
vibrations, and/or motions that may be sensed by the user,”
according to the application.  Cupertino, California-based Apple filed this application in
November 2010. No outside counsel is listed on the application.  Cot’n Wash Sued Henkel Unit Over Detergent-Packaging Patent  Cot’n Wash Inc., the maker of Dropps liquid-dose laundry
detergent, sued Henkel AG’s Dial unit for patent infringement.  The suit, filed May 23 in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware , accuses Dial of infringing patent 6,037,319, which
covers water-soluble packets containing liquid cleaning
concentrates.  At issue are the water-soluble laundry packets Henkel sells
under the Purex label. Cot’n Wash said that there had been
fruitless discussions between the two companies about licensing
the technology covered by the patent. Officials from Dusseldorf,
Germany-based Henkel had said they weren’t interested in such a
product, according to court papers.  Cot’n Wash claims Henkel went ahead and developed its own
product incorporating the patented technology without
permission. The Ardmore, Pennsylvania-based company said it’s
damaged by Henkel’s actions and asked the court to bar further
infringement of the patent.  Additionally, Cot’n Wash asked for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Henkel’s Dial unit didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment.  The case is Cot’n Wash Inc. v. Henkel Corp., 1:12-cv-00650-
UNA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Linsanity Belongs to Jeremy Lin After Point Guard Wins Trademark  ‘Linsanity’ belongs to Jeremy Lin.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has registered the
term for Lin, the point guard for the  New York  Knicks who, in
February, moved to take control of the catch phrase that
encapsulated his meteoric rise from undrafted player to starter.  “It’s not only Linsanity, but all Lin-related
trademarks,” Pamela M. Deese, a partner in the law firm Arent
Fox LLP who is working on the player’s behalf, said in a
telephone interview. “Having a clean plate with rights in place
makes it a lot easier to negotiate licenses and endorsements
deals.”  The player’s filing on Feb. 13 came six days after a
 California  man with no ties to the 23-year-old Harvard-educated
Lin became the first to apply for a Linsanity trademark. A
second filing was made on Feb. 9 and another on Feb. 14.  Lin, the first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in
the  National Basketball Association , drew widespread attention
coming off the bench Feb. 4 to score 25 points in a win over the
 New Jersey Nets . He then joined the starters and led the Knicks
to six consecutive wins, boosting television ratings, ticket
prices and global interest in his game.  Lin had surgery last month to repair a meniscus tear in his
left knee. He missed the Knicks’ opening-round playoff series
with the  Miami Heat , which New York lost 4-1.  Robert Griffin III Seeks ‘Unbelievably Believable’ Trademark  Robert Griffin III , a player for the  National Football
League ’s  Washington Redskins  team, has applied to register the
phrase “unbelievably believable” as a trademark.  The application, published in the database of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, is for the use of the phrase for
“promoting the goods and services of others, sponsorship of
sports and athletic events and activities.”  It is one of five applications related to the athlete. He
also has pending applications to register “Dream Big, Live
Bigger,” “Robert Griffin III,” “RG3,” and “RGIII.”
Griffin is referred to as “RGIII” in a television
 advertisement  for  Adidas AG (ADS)  athletic products.  According to  the ESPN website , Griffin is the first NFL
player to be permitted to use a Roman numeral on the back of his
football jersey. Above his number his name will be listed as
“Griffin III.”  WWE Applies to Register ‘Raw Active’ Trademarks for Fan Chat  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. (WWE) , the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based sports-entertainment company, has filed three
applications to register “Raw Active,” and “#Raw Active” as
trademarks.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, WWE plans to use the marks in connection with fan-
oriented online chat rooms and social networking.  The applications were filed May 17.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Fox, NBC, CBS Sue Dish Over Ad-Free Video-on-Demand Service  News Corp.’s Fox Broadcasting Co.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBCUniversal and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  sued  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , alleging
that their copyrights are infringed by Dish’s PrimeTime Anytime
video-on-demand service that allows viewers to watch network
programs commercial-free.  Dish created a “bootleg video-on-demand service,” which,
if not stopped “will ultimately destroy the advertising-
supported ecosystem that provides consumers with the choice to
enjoy free over-the-air, varied, high-quality primetime
broadcast programming,” Fox said in a complaint filed May 24 in
federal court in  Los Angeles .  CBS and NBC sued Dish separately in the same court. The
networks accuse Dish of copyright infringement, and ask for
unspecified damages as well as court orders preventing
unauthorized distribution of their programs by Dish. Fox also is
suing Dish for breach of contract.  Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, filed a separate
complaint in federal court in New York against Fox, CBS, NBC and
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC May 24. Dish seeks a court ruling that it
isn’t infringing copyrights.  “Consumers should be able to fairly choose for themselves
what they do and do not want to watch,” David Shull, Dish
senior vice president of programming, said in a statement.  Aaron Johnson, a spokesman for Dish, didn’t immediately
respond yesterday to a request seeking comment on the complaint
filed by Fox.  In March, Dish introduced its Hopper set-top box, which
contains, in addition to a subscriber-controlled digital video
recorder, a Dish-controlled section of the hard drive that
records the entire primetime broadcast schedule of the four
major networks every night, according to the Fox complaint.  Dish operates the PrimeTime Anytime service so that the
copied shows can be watched commercial-free with its Auto Hop
feature, Fox said.  “We were given no choice but to file suit against one of
our largest distributors, Dish Network, because of their
surprising move to market a product with the clear goal of
violating copyrights and destroying the fundamental
underpinnings of the broadcast television ecosystem,”  Scott Grogin , a Fox spokesman, said in a statement.  Grogin declined to comment on Dish’s lawsuit in New York,
where  News Corp. (NWSA)  is based.  The Los Angeles cases are Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network
LLC, 12-4529; NBC Studios LLC v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4536;
and CBS Broadcasting Inc. v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4551, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).
The New York case is Dish Network LLC v. American Broadcasting
Cos., 12-04155, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 