-- SouFun Leads Rally on New Stimulus Speculation: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-05-29T21:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/soufun-leads-rally-on-new-stimulus-speculation-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in the U.S.
jumped the most in four months, led by  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , on
prospects the government will take additional measures to
counter a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 3.2 percent to 93.50
yesterday in  New York , the biggest gain since Jan. 3. SouFun,
owner of  China ’s biggest real estate website, climbed 16
percent, the steepest advance in seven months.  Spreadtrum
Communications Inc. (SPRD)  surged to the strongest level in 16 weeks
after Nomura Holdings Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended
buying shares of the mobile-phone chipmaker.  The Chinese government may spend as much as 2 trillion  yuan 
($315 billion) to stimulate the economy through infrastructure
projects, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a May 28 report. The
bank’s comments come a week after Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for
a greater focus on growth as economic indicators signaled slower
expansion in China at a time concerns  Greece  may leave the euro
are mounting.  Chinese stocks “are reacting to the potential for more
stimulus and more easing,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at
Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which manages $700 million, said
by phone yesterday from Lisle, Illinois. China still has the
ability to control the situation if there is “some kind of
external shock that slows down their economy more than what they
want,” he said.  China has no plans to introduce stimulus measures on the
scale deployed during the global financial crisis to counter
this year’s economic slowdown, the official Xinhua News Agency
said yesterday. The Asian nation rolled out a 4 trillion yuan
spending package in 2009 to help the economy battle the global
financial crisis.  China ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., surged 4 percent to $33.88,
posting the biggest gain this year. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
of mainland stocks added 1.2 percent to a two-week high of
2,389.64. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares gained
1.1 percent to 1,332.42 as data showing stabilization in the
housing market bolstered optimism the economy will withstand
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  The People’s Bank of China cut reserve-requirement ratios
for lenders by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, on May
12, the third reduction in six months. It has kept  interest
rates  on hold since July.  Beijing Home Sales  Beijing-based SouFun advanced 16 percent to $16.26, the
biggest daily increase since Oct. 12.  New home transactions by unit in Beijing this month as of
May 26 had risen to a 16-month high, before the government
imposed property curbs, China News Service reported May 28,
citing online official data.  American depositary receipts of Shanghai-based Spreadtrum
jumped 10 percent to $18.20, the highest level since Feb. 3.  Spreadtrum was the biggest winner in a handset tender at
 China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest phone company by users,
news portal NetEase’s website reported on May 25, citing
unidentified sources. The results prompted Nomura to raise its
recommendation on Spreadtrum shares to buy from neutral and
JPMorgan to boost its rating to overweight from neutral.  Spreadtrum’s stock jumped because the result of the tender
was better than expectations, Mike Walkley, a communications
technology analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in  Minneapolis ,
said by phone yesterday.  Sales Outlook  The tender will help Spreadtrum’s sales in the second
quarter and “increase investors’ confidence that Spreadtrum’s
chips for China Mobile’s handsets will ship in larger volumes in
the third and fourth quarter,” Walkley said, recommending to
buy the stock with a 12-month price target of $21.  ADRs of  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s largest
maker of the lightweight metal also known as Chalco, soared 8.3
percent to $10.91, the biggest jump since Nov. 2. The ADRs, each
representing 25 underlying shares of Chalco, traded 0.05 percent
below its Hong Kong stock, the smallest discount in a week.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a digital advertising company
based in Shanghai, climbed 4.4 percent to a two-week high of
$22.33.  The company’s first-quarter net income surged 85 percent
from a year ago to $37.9 million,  Focus Media  said in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire May 28. Sales rose 36
percent to $199.6 million, beating the $193.6 million average
forecast of five analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  