-- South Korean Current-Account Surplus Falls on Europe
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-05-29T23:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/south-korean-current-account-surplus-falls-on-europe.html
South Korea ’s current-account surplus
fell in April as demand for the nation’s electronics and cars
was capped by a deepening euro region crisis.  The  surplus  was $1.8 billion, compared with a revised $2.97
billion in March, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement in Seoul
today. The current account is the broadest measure of trade,
tracking goods, services and investment income.  Manufacturers’ confidence has retreated in Asia’s fourth-
largest economy as a slowdown in  China  and the debt crisis
in  Europe  constrain export demand. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development last week cut South Korea’s growth
outlook for this year to 3.3 percent, down from a 3.5 percent.  “Trade figures are likely to worsen given the worsening
 European debt crisis  and a slowdown in China,” Kim Hyeon Wook,
an economist at SK Research Institute, said before the release.
“The won is set to weaken against the dollar should export
deteriorate further in May.”  The Korean currency fell to a seven-month low last week
amid doubts Europe will succeed in containing its debt crisis.
The currency gained 0.9 percent to close at 1,174.82 per dollar
in Seoul yesterday, snapping three consecutive weeks of losses,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exports  The surplus on traded goods was $1.8 billion last month
compared with a revised $2.9 billion surplus in March, today’s
report showed.  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis fell to $46.2
billion in April from $47.4 billion in March, according to
today’s statement. Imports were at $44.1 billion, compared with
$45 billion in March.  Overseas shipments fell 1.1 percent in May from a year
earlier, the third straight decline, according to the median
estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  