-- South Africa Sees Generalized Price Pressures ‘Contained’
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-29T17:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/south-africa-sees-generalized-price-pressures-contained-.html
South Africa ’s central bank said the
potential of price pressures spreading in Africa’s biggest
economy is “contained” because of slower growth.  That contrasts with comments from  Reserve Bank  Governor
 Gill Marcus , who said in a March 15 speech that inflation was
becoming “more generalized” as demand picks up.  “ Core inflation  has trended higher but remains relatively
moderate, with the potential for more generalized price
pressures contained,” the Reserve Bank said in its twice-yearly
Monetary Policy Review released in Pretoria today. “Demand
pressures are muted.”  The Monetary Policy Committee has kept the  repurchase rate 
at 5.5 percent for 18 months to support the economy’s recovery,
even as higher  oil prices  and a weaker rand keep inflation near
the top of the 3 percent to 6 percent target range. The outlook
for inflation has improved, giving the central bank room to
leave borrowing costs at the lowest level in more than 30 years.  “Although headline CPI remains high and just outside the
target band, the inflation outlook has improved in terms of both
the projected peak and profile of returning sustainably to the
target,” the bank said in its report.  Slower Growth  Inflation probably peaked in the first quarter at an
average of 6.1 percent and will probably ease to below 6 percent
after the second quarter, the MPC said on May 24. In March, the
MPC had forecast a 6.5 percent peak in inflation. Consumer
prices rose 6.1 percent in April, compared with 6 percent in the
previous month.  Slower economic growth is evidence of muted demand
pressures in the economy, the central bank said. Growth slowed
to an annualized 2.7 percent in the first quarter from 3.2
percent in the previous three months, the statistics office said
today. The central bank expects the economy to grow 2.9 percent
in 2012.  “The demand is not there” from  Europe  because of a
worsening debt crisis in the region, the bank’s Chief Economist
 Monde Mnyande  said in Pretoria today. “We are going to suffer
the consequences.” The bank expects a “slow pace” of growth
in the medium term, he said.  The Reserve Bank has limited options to stimulate economic
growth, while the government has less fiscal room to offset a
further slowdown in the global economy than when Europe went
into recession in 2008, MPC member Brian Kahn said. The Treasury
hopes to narrow the  budget deficit  to 3 percent of GDP in the
year through March 2015 from 4.5 percent this year.  “Our mandate is to keep  price stability ,” Kahn said.
“Stable prices provide a more predictable environment for
economic growth to take place. That will ultimately benefit
those who are out of work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  