-- South Africa GDP Growth Slows as Mining Production Slumps
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-29T12:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/south-africa-gdp-growth-slows-as-mining-production-slumps.html
Growth in South Africa, which has the
continent’s biggest economy, slowed less than expected in the
first quarter as a rebound in manufacturing compensated for a
slump in mining output.  Gross domestic product  expanded an annualized 2.7 percent
from 3.2 percent in the previous three months, Pretoria-based
Statistics South Africa said on its website today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 16 economists was 2.3 percent.  “We expected growth to be a little weaker, largely because
of manufacturing, but that seems to have come through a little
bit better than expected,” Adenaan Hardien, an economist at
 Cadiz Holdings Ltd. (CDZ) , said by telephone from  Cape Town . “The
weak recovery is continuing.”  Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
expanded an annualized 7.7 percent in the first quarter compared
with a 4.2 percent gain in the previous three months. Mining
production contracted an annualized 16.8 percent after
increasing 0.7 percent in the previous three months. Safety
stoppages, maintenance halts, and labor action slowed mining
output, Gerhardt Bouwer, the agency’s executive
manager of national accounts, told reporters in  Pretoria .  Slower growth in  Europe , where a debt crisis that began
more than two years ago may lead to  Greece  leaving the monetary
union, is curbing demand from a region that buys about a fifth
of South African exports. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  in
February cut his growth forecast this year to 2.7 percent from
an earlier estimate of 3.4 percent.  Not Denting Unemployment  “Global uncertainty is weighing on the economy,” Madalet
Sessions, an economist at Cape Town-based wealth manager, BoE
Private Clients, said in a telephone interview today. “ South
Africa  is dependent on global growth and needs things to go well
offshore, and they are clearly not going as well as we would
like them to. You are not going to make a dent in unemployment
numbers with growth like this.”  The rand pared gains to trade little changed at 8.3446 as
of 2:12 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the R157 bond due
2015 was unchanged at 6.39 percent.  The economy is growing at less than half the 7 percent pace
the government estimates is needed to meet a target of creating
5 million new jobs by 2020. The jobless rate of 25.2 percent is
the highest of more than 60 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  The  Reserve Bank  has kept the benchmark lending  rate  at 5.5
percent, the lowest in more than three decades, since 2010 to
help stimulate the economy.  Rates on Hold  “The risks posed to the global and domestic economy from
the crisis in Europe have intensified,” central bank Governor
Gill Marcus said on May 24, when the bank cut its growth
forecast for this year to 2.9 percent from 3 percent. The
central bank was prepared to move rates either up or down,
depending on the prevailing circumstances, she said.  Today’s growth data won’t have any major bearing on the
direction of  interest rates , which will probably remain
unchanged until the fourth quarter of next year, said Hardien.  “A combination of relatively weak domestic growth, ongoing
concerns about downside risks to global activity and a more
favorable local inflation outcome would continue to weigh on
monetary policy,” he said in e-mailed comments.  Growth in the retail industry slowed to 3 percent from 5.2
percent in the period, while financial services increased 4.1
percent, compared with 2.3 percent.  “GDP growth is still forecast to grow by 2.8 percent in
2012, assuming no further significant weakening in the global
economy,”  Kevin Lings , a Johannesburg-based economist at
Stanlib, the money management unit of Standard Bank Group Ltd.
and  Liberty Holdings Ltd. (LBH) , said in e-mailed comments. Greece’s
possible exit from the euro area “poses a significant downside
risk for South Africa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  