-- Soybeans Gain as Dry Weather Threatens to Reduce U.S. Crop
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-29T19:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/soybeans-gain-as-dry-weather-threatens-u-s-crop-corn-declines.html
Soybeans rose for a third straight
session on speculation that unusually hot, dry weather may
prompt U.S. farmers to reduce the number of acres planted in
fields where winter wheat has been harvested.  Record heat, little rain and windy conditions eroded soil
moisture in much of the southern Midwest and Mississippi River
Valley during the past three days, World Weather Inc. said in a
report. Rains beginning May 31 may not provide enough coverage
to prevent increased crop stress from warmer temperatures next
week, the private forecaster said.  “There are several areas of the Midwest that missed
weekend rains, and crop stress is already evident,” Greg Grow,
the director of agribusiness for Archer Financial Services Inc.
in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “People are starting
to dial back ideas that farmers will sharply increase double-
crop soybeans because of the dry soils.”  Soybean futures for July delivery climbed 0.3 percent to
close at $13.8675 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, after rising 1.4 percent the prior two sessions. The
most-active contract has dropped 7.9 percent this month,
trimming this year’s gain to 15 percent after hot, dry weather
cut output in  South America  and boosted demand for U.S. supply.  Futures for delivery in November, after the harvest, added
0.3 percent to $12.935 a bushel.  Farmers had planted about 76 percent of the soybean crop as
of May 20, ahead of the previous five-year average of 42
percent, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said last week.
About 35 percent of the plants had emerged from the soil, up
from 10 percent a year earlier. The USDA is scheduled to revise
the estimates for planting progress at 4 p.m. in  Washington .  The U.S. was the world’s largest producer and exporter of
soybeans last year. Soybeans are the second-biggest U.S. crop
after corn, valued at $35.8 billion in 2011, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  