-- SP Setia Eyeing Other London Sites in Case Battersea Bid Fails
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-05-29T09:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/sp-setia-eyeing-other-london-sites-in-case-battersea-bid-fails.html
SP Setia Bhd., (SPSB)  Malaysia’s biggest
publicly traded property developer by sales, will seek to buy
other London development sites if its bid for Battersea Power
Station fails, Chief Executive Officer Liew Kee Sin said.  SP Setia is one of three remaining bidders for the landmark
power station, Europe’s largest brick building, Liew told
reporters at the Invest Malaysia conference in Kuala Lumpur
today. The defunct station, featured on the cover of the 1977
Pink Floyd album “Animals,” is about 2.2 miles (3.5
kilometers) from the Houses of Parliament and has been vacant
for almost 30 years.  “Win or lose, it doesn’t matter,” Liew said. “If we win,
we have a project in London. If we lose, we start all over again
and look for another.”  The derelict 38-acre (15-hectare) site on the south bank of
the  River Thames  was put on sale in February after its owners
failed to pay lenders owed more than 500 million pounds ($785
million). At least 10 offers were made to buy the site,
including one from Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich’s
Chelsea Football Club Ltd., a person familiar with the matter
said earlier this month.  Planning permission was granted to  Real Estate
Opportunities Plc (REO) , controlled by Irish developer Treasury
Holdings Ltd., last year for a 5.5 billion-pound redevelopment
of the station. SP Setia tried to buy the debt related to the
power station in November for 262 million pounds and the offer
was rejected.  Creditors led by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Ireland’s
National Asset Management Agency put the REO units that owned
the site into administration, a U.K. type of bankruptcy
reorganization, in December after they failed to pay lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 