-- Spain Ejects Clean-Power Industry With Europe Precedent: Energy
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-05-30T14:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/spain-ejects-clean-power-industry-with-europe-precedent-energy.html
Spanish renewable-energy companies
that once got Europe’s biggest subsidies are deserting the
nation after the government shut off aid, pushing project
developers and equipment-makers to work abroad or perish.  From wind-turbine maker  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM)  to
solar park developer T-Solar Global SA, companies are locked out
of their home market for new business. These are the same
suppliers that spearheaded more than $69 billion of wind and
solar projects since 2004 that today supply more than 50 percent
of Spain’s power demand on the most breezy and sunny days.  Saddled with a  budget deficit  more than twice the European
Union limit and a ballooning gap between income and costs in its
power system, Spain halted subsidies for new renewable-energy
projects in January. The surprise move by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  one month after taking office helped pierce investor
confidence in stable aid for clean energy across Europe.  “They destroyed the Spanish market overnight with the
moratorium,” European Wind Energy Association Chief Executive
Officer Christian Kjaer said in an interview. “The wider
implication of this is that if Spanish politicians can do that,
probably most European politicians can do that.”  Spain ’s $69 billion of investment in power capacity from
2004 to 2011 was about triple the spending per capita in the
U.S. in that period, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance
data and U.S. Census Bureau population estimates. Most of the
2012-2013 spending will be for the legacy of projects approved
before the aid cuts to wind, solar, biomass and co-generation.  Next Step  Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria, who is preparing a
wholesale redesign of the pricing for Spain’s regulated energy
industry, described the January move as a “first step.” The
nation’s energy regulator in March suggested scaling back
incentives for solar thermal plants. The government also may
impose temporary taxes or caps on renewable plants,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in February. Soria’s plan may be released by the end
of June.  Investment in solar photovoltaic alone is headed to skid to
as little as $107 million in 2013 from $879 million this year
and $1.5 billion last year, New Energy Finance estimated. For
new wind projects, investment should plunge to $963 million in
2013 and $244 million in 2014 from $2 billion this year.  T-Solar’s Experience  T-Solar, which became the world’s biggest solar-farm
operator by leveraging its Spanish business, currently has more
than 40 running in Spain, Italy and  India . While it still makes
solar panels in Orense, Spain, they’re bound for  Peru .  “We have an important pipeline of projects, and it’s 100
percent outside Spain right now,” T-Solar Managing Director
Juan Laso, who also heads the country’s photovoltaic power
association, said in a telephone interview. “If you take such a
brutal measure, what you do is oblige the industry to move
out,” he said of the January moratorium.  Solaria Energia y Medio Ambiente SA (SLR) , a Madrid-based solar
panel maker, slumped as much as 19 percent today and traded 11
percent lower at 33 euro cents a share at 3:13 p.m. in Madrid
after restating its 2011 earnings. The company lost 96 million
euros last year compared with a 6.5 million-euro profit in 2010.  Gamesa, the world’s fourth-biggest wind-turbine maker by
market share according to  Navigant Consulting Inc. (NCI) ’s BTM Consult
unit, plans to reduce the factory output of its Spanish plants
to 1,000 megawatts by 2013 from 1,200 megawatts at the end of
last year.  Gamesa’s Loss  Instead, Zamudio-based Gamesa is adding capacity in India
where it plans to open a third factory this year. In 2011, the
company got less than 9 percent of its revenue in its home
nation, down from almost 33 percent in 2009. Former CEO Jorge Calvet didn’t mention Spain on a May 10 call with analysts after
announcing the company’s first quarterly loss.  “The future is outside of Spain,” said Sean McLoughlin,
clean energy analyst at HSBC Bank Plc in  London . “Gamesa
already moved most of their business out of Spain and the
moratorium only helps to accelerate and complete that process.”  Thirty-one years ago, Spain erected its first wind turbine
at Tarifa, a city on the peninsula’s southern tip that juts into
the gusty Straits of Gibraltar which divide Spain from  Morocco .  German Model  In the 2000s, Spain copied the German clean-power aid
model, as did nations from Portugal to Israel and  Japan ,
increasing subsidies to a pinnacle in 2007. That’s when a law
granted 444 euros ($556) a megawatt-hour for home rooftop solar
panels feeding the  power grid , compared with an average 39 euros
paid to competing coal- or gas-fired  power plants .  By 2009, the consumer bill for clean-energy aid had risen
to 6 billion euros a year, ahead of the 5.6 billion euros in
 Germany , whose economy is almost four times bigger, according to
the Council of European Energy Regulators.  After four successive reductions in subsidies since then,
the government on Jan. 27 this year announced the moratorium on
aid for new projects. The next month Spain saw itself drop out
of the 10 most attractive markets for renewable-energy investors
for the first time, due to reduced aid, on an Ernst & Young
ranking. Spain led the list from October 2003 through July 2006.  Start of Decline  “What happened in Spain is that abruptly, they changed the
industry by changing the policy, and that doesn’t help build a
sustainable industry,” said Stephan Ritter, general manager of
General Electric Co.’s European renewables unit.  “The history of Spanish wind  energy policy  is ‘We’re going
to keep it stable’ and suddenly out of the blue this comes, and
it’s a bomb,” the EWEA’s Kjaer said.  The decline started before this year. The 75,466 renewable
energy jobs that existed in Spain at the industry’s peak in 2008
shrank to 54,925 in 2010, according to the Renewable Energy
Producers Association’s most recent data. Including indirect
jobs, the tally slumped from 131,229 to 111,455.  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , based in Bilbao, became the world’s biggest
owner of wind farms, taking its Spanish experience abroad over
the past decade. It campaigned for solar subsidies to be ended,
because much of the power-tariff deficit sits on the utilities’
balance sheets straining their finances. Iberdrola, which also
runs gas, hydro and nuclear plants, is Spain’s biggest utility.  Solar Drag  Solar energy was the biggest drag on the system, accounting
for almost half of the annual 6 billion euros of liabilities and
producing just above 2 percent of the power, said Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst in London at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  With peak electricity demand at less than half of capacity,
the country doesn’t need more power plants, he said. Spain has a
capacity of 99 gigawatts, and peak demand of 44 gigawatts.  Spain’s power-system debt swelled to 23 billion euros as
successive governments set electricity prices for consumers that
didn’t cover the revenue utilities booked. Even with January’s
moratorium, the electricity system racked up another 762 million
euros of debt in the first two months of the year, according to
the energy regulator.  “You’re making renewables a scapegoat for a problem that
was created as a result of incredibly bad policies,” said
Kjaer.  World Ranking  Spain is the world’s fourth-biggest wind energy market by
cumulative installed capacity, and in solar photovoltaic power,
it ties the U.S. for fourth, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The nation installed at least a gigawatt of wind
power capacity every year since 2001, peaking at 3.5 gigawatts
in 2007, according to the  Spanish Wind Energy Association .  “At the moment there’s not a single project planned for
2013,” Heikki Willstedt, director of energy policy at the
Spanish Wind Energy Association, said in an interview. “We have
to keep a rhythm of installation over the next two or three
years to keep the industry here in Spain.”  Solar power installations have been bumpier, totaling 550
megawatts, 2,760 megawatts, 70 megawatts, 390 megawatts and 430
megawatts for the five years through 2011, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Even before the moratorium was established, opportunities
were dimming for renewable power in Spain. The so-called pre-
registry of wind projects, which had been approved to receive
above-market electricity prices, was set to expire at the end of
2012. And a retroactive cap was set on the number of hours when
solar generators can earn higher rates.  Acciona, Abengoa  Acciona SA (ANA) , a developer of wind and solar projects that in
2011 derived more than three quarters of electricity sales in
Spain, has less than half of its pipeline of new projects for
2012 in Spain. Energias de Portugal SA’s renewables division,
based in Spain, has less than a fifth of its pipeline there.  At  Abengoa SA (ABG) , the portion of revenue from Spain fell to 27
percent last year from 39 percent in 2007. Abengoa has 1,210
megawatts of solar thermal plants either in construction or in a
pre-construction phase, a third of it in Spain.  “It reaches a point where if more interesting markets open
up and you have to export to those markets, many times it’s
better to take the factories there,” said Willstedt. “All of
this know-how could be lost quickly, or it’ll move away, or it
could be bought by competitors.”  In a country where unemployment in April rose to 24.4
percent, the subsidy moratorium puts more positions at stake,
according to Willstedt.  ’Five Years on Ice’  In its March 30 budget, Spanish Premier Rajoy’s government
gave no sign of when it would bring back subsidies, and the
National Energy Commission, an advisory body, has published
scenarios including a suspension until 2017.  “I don’t know any sector that can be put on ice for 5
years and then be taken out intact,” said T-Solar’s Laso.  Abengoa Chief Executive Officer Manuel Sanchez Ortega said
Feb. 28 in an interview he thought the moratorium would last 18
months at the most.  “Then the industry will pick up the pace again,” Ortega
said. “If it lasts more than 18 months we are running the
serious risk of driving all this industry out of the country.”  To be sure, Spain is headed to meet its European Union
target of getting 20 percent of all its energy from renewables
by 2020. The country generated 23 percent of its electricity
from renewable sources in 2010.  Spain’s wind association says wind power in April covered
25 percent of electricity demand, a record that saved 270
million euros in fossil fuel imports. At one point on April 19,
wind covered 61 percent of power demand.  The loss of subsidies has diminished the appetite of banks
to finance renewables projects, said Laso and Kjaer. Even as
Spanish companies seek markets abroad, Spain’s policy may now
weigh on the viability of projects in other parts of  Europe ,
said Kjaer.  “Banks will think ‘maybe we should attach more  risk
premium  if we lend to projects in other parts of Europe’ and
that’s the devastating effect of the way it has been done,”
said Kjaer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  