-- Spain Said to Consider Backing Regional Bonds With Taxes
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-29T12:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/spain-said-to-consider-backing-regional-bonds-with-taxes-1-.html
Spain is considering guaranteeing
joint regional bond issues with  tax revenue , three people
familiar with the plans said, as the government seeks to help
regions access markets without overburdening the central
administration.  Under the plan, regions would set aside tax revenue in a
deposit account to guarantee that holders of the bonds issued
for regions get paid first, said the people, who declined to be
identified as the proposal isn’t public.  Spain is weighing how to help regions regain access to
markets as the rate on its 10-year debt approaches the 7 percent
level that led  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek aid from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The
government is trying to avoid allowing the regions, which owe a
combined 140 billion euros ($175 billion), to add that burden as
its liabilities swell following the bailout of Bankia group,
owner of  Spain ’s third-biggest lender.  “It would provide some comfort to investors at a time when
a guarantee from the Spanish sovereign is not exactly gold
plated,” said Harpreet Parhar, a London-based strategist at
Credit Agricole SA in  London . “It’s an interesting idea.”  Spokesmen at the Economy Ministry and the Budget Ministry
in Madrid declined to comment. Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
said on May 21 any support mechanism used to help regional
governments access capital markets won’t jeopardize Spain’s
credit rating.  Redemptions Looming  Montoro and Economy Minister Luis de Guindos have said the
government will help regions raise funds, without saying how.
Regions face about 15 billion euros of redemptions in the second
half of the year, according to data on the Budget Ministry’s
website.  The government will take whatever measures are necessary
for the regions while it is up to Spain’s Cabinet to decide
about so-called hispabonds, Deputy Budget Minister Marta Fernandez Curras said during a news conference in  Madrid  today.  Spain’s regions control about a third of the nation’s
public spending, including health and education, making them
crucial to the nation’s efforts to rein in the euro region’s
third-largest budget deficit. Part of regional revenue comes
from their share of personal income and sales taxes transfers
from the central government.  Deficit Widens  The budget deficit of the central government in the first
four months widened to 2.39 percent of gross domestic product
from 1.57 percent a year earlier after it provided more than 5
billion euros of liquidity support to the regions, Curras said
today.  Without the measures, the shortfall would have been 1.43
percent of GDP. The central government will still meet its
target of 3.5 percent GDP for the full year, which is part of
the nation’s overall goal approved by the European Union of 5.3
percent of GDP, Curras said.  On May 16, the government finalized a rescue to help
regions and town halls settle their unpaid bills with lending
backed by the local administrations’ revenue, the  Economy
Ministry  said. The government organized a 30 billion-euro
syndicated loan from banks, guaranteed by the Treasury, which in
turn is backed by regions’ and town halls’ receipts from the
central government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Esteban Duarte at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  