-- Spanish Recession Seen Deepening Amid Crisis Contagion: Economy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-05-29T12:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/spanish-recession-seen-deepening-amid-crisis-contagion-economy.html
Spain  will sink deeper into a
 recession  in the second quarter, the Bank of Spain said, as data
showed retail sales fell by a record annual rate in April.  Indicators suggest output will keep falling in the quarter
through June, the central bank in Madrid said in its monthly
economic bulletin today. The National Statistics Institute INE
said retail sales dropped 9.8 percent on a calendar-adjusted
basis last month, the most since the series began in 2004.  Spain has succumbed to its second recession since 2009 as
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  cuts spending and raises taxes to
rein in the euro area’s  third-largest budget deficit  and curb
borrowing costs. The premium investors charge to hold the
nation’s 10-year debt rather than the German equivalent widened
to a euro-era record this week amid concern the nation’s lenders
will need additional financial support.  “The intensification of the debt crisis and growing
banking-sector difficulties are sapping  consumer confidence ,”
said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in
 London . “Consumers are postponing purchases of discretionary
items and investment goods like cars.”  Rajoy’s People’s Party government forecasts domestic demand
will shrink 4 percent this year, more than four times last
year’s rate, as nearly a quarter of the workforce is jobless.  Budget Plans  Budget Ministry data today showed the central government’s
deficit for the first four months of the year widened to 2.39
percent of gross domestic product from 1.57 percent a year
earlier as tax receipts fell and the government provided more
than 5 billion euros of liquidity support to Spanish regions.  Deputy Budget Minister Marta Fernandez Curras said the
central government will still meet its deficit target of 3.5
percent of GDP for the full year, which is part of the overall
goal approved by the European Union of 5.3 percent of GDP.  Rajoy is aiming to cut the budget gap by the equivalent of
3.6 percent of gross domestic product in one year to convince
investors the nation won’t default as its borrowing costs
approach the 7 percent level that heralded bailouts in  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland. The yield on 10-year bonds was at 6.43
percent today, up from 5.88 percent a month ago.  ECB Measures  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said today the bank isn’t considering restarting its
bond-purchase program to stem rising borrowing costs for
governments in the euro area.  “This for the time being is not a matter of discussion,”
Nowotny told reporters in Belgrade, when asked if bond purchases
are something the ECB is contemplating. ‘The ECB has done a
number of measures that were very helpful and efficient for the
economy. We are now in a situation where we have to see how
these measures have worked in the economy, especially in long-
term operations.’’  Elsewhere in  Europe , German  inflation  calculated using a
harmonized European Union method unexpectedly slowed in May to
2.1 percent from 2.2 percent. Economists forecast the rate to
hold steady, the median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  U.S.  consumer confidence  was probably little changed in
May. The Conference Board’s index rose to 69.5 from 69.2 in
April, according to the median of 64 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey ahead of a report due today.  China Outlook  Separately today, a survey showed  China ’s rising labor
costs and a deteriorating regulatory environment are prompting
almost a quarter of European Union companies to consider
shifting investments to other countries.  Twenty-two percent of 557 respondents said they may move
investment to developing economies including those in  Southeast
Asia  and  South America , where doing business is easier,
according to a survey conducted in February by the EU Chamber of
Commerce in China and Roland Berger Strategy Consultants.  Those views present additional challenges to leaders of the
world’s second-largest economy trying to sustain growth.  China’s
economy  is forecast to expand 8.2 percent this year, based on
the median estimate of analysts surveyed earlier this month by
Bloomberg News. That would be the least since 1999.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Japan ’s  jobless rate 
unexpectedly rose in April and retail sales fell for a second
month. Unemployment increased to 4.6 percent from 4.5 percent in
March, the statistics bureau said in  Tokyo . Retail sales fell
0.3 percent from March, the Trade Ministry said.  A South Korean index of manufacturers’ confidence for June
fell from a nine-month high, according to the Bank of  Korea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  