-- Spanish Futures Risk Weighing on Bonds Amid Funding Concern
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-29T13:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/spanish-bond-futures-risk-weighing-on-debt-amid-funding-concern.html
Spanish 10-year bond futures began
trading today and risk weighing on the nation’s sovereign debt
amid concern the government will struggle to redress the
finances of the country’s banks and regions.  “On the one hand it helps liquidity, which has to be a
good thing for Spanish debt,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London . “On the
other, it provides a vehicle for more easily” betting the bond
price will decline, which “could lead to the futures contract
dragging cash bonds cheaper,” he said.  The contract expiring in September traded at a price of
95.50 at 2:40 p.m. London time, within a range of 94.98 to
95.59. Spanish bonds fell yesterday on concern the nation’s
lenders will need additional support to weather  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The difference in yield, or spread, between the 10-year
securities and similar-maturity benchmark German bunds increased
to 514 basis points, or 5.14 percentage points, the most since
the euro was created in 1999. The Spanish spread over 10-year
Italian debt jumped to 74 basis points, the most since June 17.  Demand for alternatives to German bond futures has
increased as sovereign spreads widen amid the worsening debt
crisis. That’s because the securities based on bunds no longer
reflect the price movements of some euro-area peers. The Spanish
10-year yield jumped 17 basis points yesterday to 6.48 percent,
while the yield on the German bund slipped almost one basis
point to 1.36 percent.  Liquidity Providers  Spain ’s 10-year yield fell five basis points to 6.43
percent today and the bund yield was little changed at 1.37
percent.  “Given how disconnected Spanish bonds trade, there is some
theoretical reasoning for introducing” futures contracts, said
 David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “It’s another example of how ‘domestic’ markets are
becoming these days.”  Six institutions have committed to act as liquidity
providers for the contracts, starting with Banco Popular Espanol
SA,  Bankia SA (BKIA) , Bankinter SA and Confederacion Espanola de Cajas
de Ahorros, according to Spanish derivatives market Mercado
Espanol de Futuros Financieros, or MEFF.  Trading Declines  Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Spain’s two largest lenders, will commence trading at a later
date, MEFF said in a statement on its website.  “This sends a bit of a mixed message,” saidPeter Chatwell, a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate
& Investment Bank in London. “What looks like a cautious
approach from the bigger banks might provide an opportunity for
short-term investors to take some aggressive positions, given
the smaller pool of liquidity and still volatile cash market.”  Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on May 16 there
was a risk investors would stop lending to Spain or charge
“astronomical prices” as Europe’s debt crisis deepened.
Nationalized lender  Bankia group  said on May 25 it will seek 19
billion euros ($23.8 billion) of state support. The government
is also devising a plan to help its cash-strapped regions regain
access to financial markets.  Spanish government bond trading fell 9.4 percent to an
average 46.2 billion euros a day in April, from 51 billion euros
a day the previous month, according to a document published on
the website of Spain’s Treasury on May 25.  Eurex Futures  The nation’s debt lost 2.9 percent this month, compared
with a 0.9 percent decline for Italian bonds and a 2.1 percent
return for German securities, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  Eurex, Europe’s largest derivatives exchange, introduced
futures for 10-year French bonds last month to help investors
hedge their holdings of the nation’s securities. Trading in
Italian 10-year futures started on Eurex in September 2009.  “For some time now, the German bund contract hasn’t been
working as a way of managing Spanish debt,” Manuel Andrade,
commercial director of MEFF in  Madrid , said in a telephone
interview. “Before, there was a very small spread so the bund
contract worked for all the European bonds. Now the  risk premium 
is extremely volatile so we need a contract for Spanish debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 