-- Sprint Nextel Gets $1 Billion Loan to Finance Equipment Purchase
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-29T17:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/sprint-nextel-gets-1-billion-loan-to-finance-equipment-purchase.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless operator, received a $1 billion credit
facility to finance the purchase of equipment from Sweden’s
 Ericsson AB.. (ERIC)   Deutsche Bank AG helped arrange the secured loan, which
will expire in March 2017, Sprint said today in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  The deal with Ericsson is part of the “Network Vision”
project, which may be backed by as much as another $2 billion of
equipment financing.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , based in Paris, and South
Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. are Sprint’s two other equipment
vendors assigned to the long-term evolution, or LTE, network
construction plan, as Sprint tries to catch up with  AT&T Inc. (T) 
and Verizon Wireless in the faster network technology.  “We are still in discussions with the other vendors and we
have nothing to announce at this time,” said  Scott Sloat , a
Sprint spokesman.  Joe Euteneuer, chief financial officer at the Overland
Park, Kansas-based company, said on an April 25 earnings call
that Sprint’s equipment financing would be between $1 billion to
$3 billion.  The LTE push leaves Sprint coping with rising expenses that
include a four-year, $15.5 billion contract to sell the iPhone
and $10 billion for network expansion over the next two years.
Capital spending increased 44 percent to $800 million in the
first quarter from the first three months of 2011.  The company expects to have LTE service in six major
cities, including Dallas and Baltimore, by mid-year.  In a separate statement today, Sprint said it plans to
redeem a portion of its 6.875 percent notes that expire next
year.  Sprint rose 2 cents to $2.64 at 12:32 p.m. in  New York .
That compares with a 52-week high of $6.45 per share and a 52-
week low of $2.10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  