-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Sudan (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-29T14:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-sudan-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Sudan :  An International Monetary Fund (IMF) mission visited Sudan during
May 13-25, 2012, to conduct the 2012 Article IV Consultation.
  At the conclusion of the visit, the mission chief Mr. Edward Gemayel
issued the following statement:  “The IMF team met with Minister of Finance Ali Mahmood Abdulrasool,
Minister of Oil Awad AlJaaz, Minister of Mining Kamal Abdelateef,
State Minister of Finance Megdi Yasin, Deputy Governor of the Central
Bank Badreddin Mahmood Abbas, Under Secretary of Ministry of Finance
Yousif AlHussein, members of parliament, representatives of the private
sector, civil society organizations, the diplomatic community, and
development partners.  “The mission discussed the appropriate policies to address the economic
challenges faced by Sudan as result of  South Sudan ’s secession.
The mission’s preliminary assessment is that economic conditions in
Sudan deteriorated in 2011. Economic growth is estimated to have slowed
down to 2.7 percent, end-year inflation reached 19 percent, the overall
fiscal deficit was about 4 percent of GDP, and the current account
registered a surplus of 2 percent of GDP. Preliminary information for
2012 indicates that economic conditions have not improved.  “The mission and the authorities agree that the challenges confronting
Sudan are daunting and require appropriate reforms to stabilize the
economy. More work is needed to improve prospects for inclusive growth
and job creation.  “To address these challenges, the mission recommends a two-pronged reform
strategy: short-term emergency measures to regain control of, and
stabilize, the economy, including fiscal consolidation, and in the
medium-term, a comprehensive structural reform program to recalibrate
the economy in line with the country’s economic and financial potential.  “The mission welcomes the government’s reform efforts. It encourages the
authorities to expeditiously implement the appropriate policies to address
the challenges ahead.  “The mission wishes to thank the authorities for their cooperation and
constructive dialogue.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  