-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Ghana (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-29T19:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-ghana-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Ghana :  A mission from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), led by
Christina Daseking, visited Accra during May 16-29, 2012, to conduct
discussions for the sixth and seventh review under the IMF’s
Extended Credit Facility. The mission met with President John Evans
Atta Mills, Finance Minister  Kwabena Duffuor ,  Bank of Ghana  Governor
Kwesi Amissah-Arthur, other senior officials, members of the Economic
Advisory Council, and representatives of the private sector and civil
society.  At the end of the mission, Ms. Daseking issued the following statement:  “After Ghana’s very successful economic performance in 2011, with growth
of 14½ percent and inflation in single digits, risks to macroeconomic
stability are rising. Despite buoyant exports, the current account
deficit exceeded 9 percent of GDP in 2011 on account of high import
growth. A rapid depreciation of the cedi in the first five months of
this year has begun to feed into domestic prices, while adding to
short-term balance of payments pressures through higher cost of imports.
With economic growth fueled by strong domestic demand, policies will
need to be tightened to safeguard macroeconomic stability and keep
inflation within the target band of 5.7-11.7 percent. This should still
allow the economy to expand at a robust pace of more than 8 percent in
2012. The main external risk is that of a deeper global slowdown with its
negative impact on economic growth and the balance of payments from weaker
commodity prices and foreign inflows.  “Discussions with the Bank of Ghana (BoG) focused on policies to stem
the recent decline in the cedi to defend the inflation target. There was
broad agreement that a cedi depreciation was consistent with underlying
economic factors, such as inflation differentials and a high current
account deficit, but that the pace of the depreciation in recent months
created challenges for anchoring expectations. Contributing factors
included seasonally strong demand for foreign exchange, but also high
domestic liquidity. In this environment, the large interventions by the
Bank of Ghana in January provided only temporary relief. More recent
actions to tighten liquidity and hike domestic  interest rates  appear to
have been more effective in halting the cedi’s slide. The mission encouraged
the Bank of Ghana to maintain a tight policy stance to help stabilize the
currency and achieve its inflation target, while gradually rebuilding its
stock of foreign reserves. It further suggested measures to improve the
liquidity and functioning of the foreign exchange market as a way to
reduce excessive exchange rate volatility.  “The otherwise strong fiscal performance in 2011, supported by an
impressive improvement in revenue collection, met some challenges toward
the end of the year and in early 2012. The cash deficit in 2011 of 4.3
percent of non-oil GDP was below the program ceiling by 0.7 percentage
points of non-oil GDP. The government also made strong progress in
reducing its previous stock of domestic payment arrears by GH¢ 1.5 billion.
However, some spending obligations from 2011 were carried over into 2012,
and new spending pressures have emerged from the agreed 18 percent public
sector wage hike and the rising cost of fuel subsidies.  “Discussions focused on preserving fiscal discipline in the context of
elevated macroeconomic risks and new spending demands. The mission
encouraged the government to accelerate the ongoing public payroll audit
and discontinue payments to those not eligible, as quickly as possible.
It further urged an elimination of costly subsidies on fuel and energy
consumption, which benefit predominantly the higher income groups. Both
measures together could generate monthly savings of about GH¢160 million
which are needed to protect more productive expenditure and allow for an
expansion of well-targeted social programs to help the most vulnerable
groups cope with the higher cost of living.  “At the end of the mission, agreement was reached on a wide range of
policies, and discussions will continue over the coming week on a few
pending issues. Subject to agreement on these issues, the mission will
recommend to the IMF Executive Board the completion of the sixth and
seventh review, with the Board meeting expected to take place in
mid-July.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  