-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Slovakia (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-29T14:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-slovakia-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to Slovakia:  Slovakia enjoyed one of the strongest recoveries in the region,
reflecting its sound economic fundamentals and prudent policies.
However, the economic outlook is clouded by spillovers from the euro
area crisis. Policies should focus on mitigating risks and promoting
growth. The government’s commitment to fiscal consolidation is welcome,
but durable adjustment will require complementary reforms. Continued
strong financial oversight is essential. Boosting employment is a top
priority. The government’s economic program now being elaborated
provides an opportunity to put in place the needed reforms to promote
vibrant and inclusive growth.  1. The economy is expected to continue growing at a healthy pace.
Buttressed by strong external demand, real GDP expanded by 3.3 percent
in 2011--among the highest growth rates in the region--despite a sizable
fiscal consolidation. Strong growth continued into the first quarter on
the back of expanded auto production. Amid a worsened external environment,
growth in 2012 is projected to slow to 2.6 percent. This relatively
benign slowdown reflects strong trade linkages with  Germany , continued
external competitiveness, a still-moderate government debt ratio, and
a sound banking system. Growth is projected to pick up to about 3½
percent over the medium term as the external environment strengthens
and rising domestic demand closes the output gap.  2. However, risks to this outlook are mostly to the downside.
Externally, an intensification of the euro area crisis would reduce
demand for Slovak exports and increase bond spreads, reducing growth
and weakening banks’ balance sheets. Working together with European
partners in creating a more complete monetary union would help allay
this risk. Domestically, a loss of market confidence in government’s
commitment to fiscal consolidation would increase funding costs and
result in tighter credit conditions. An early parliamentary approval
of durable deficit reduction measures would reassure markets.  3. Policies should focus on mitigating risks and building a foundation
for a strong and inclusive growth. Durable fiscal consolidation would
put public finances on a sustainable footing. Continued strong oversight
of the financial sector and close cross-border supervisory cooperation
would maintain financial stability. Mutually reinforcing structural
reforms to the labor market, education, and the business climate would
boost employment and promote more inclusive growth.  Durable fiscal consolidation to promote sound public finances  4. The significant fiscal retrenchment in 2011 is welcome, but further
adjustment will be needed to ensure debt sustainability. In 2012,
adjustment stalled amid the election cycle and expenditure overruns,
and the deficit is expected to remain broadly unchanged at 4¾ percent
of GDP. In the absence of further fiscal consolidation, public debt
ratio will remain on a rising trajectory and become increasingly
vulnerable to shocks. Stabilizing the debt at 40 percent of GDP in the
long run--a level that would leave room for the expected increase in
ageing-related costs and other priority spending--would require a
structural fiscal effort of about 2½ percent of GDP relative to 2011.  5. While the government’s deficit reduction plans are appropriate,
policies should be prepared to let automatic stabilizers work fully.
Though the details are still being worked out, it appears that the
planned measures would be sufficient to lower the deficit to below 3
percent of GDP in 2013, while not unduly constraining growth.
If growth turns out lower than expected, policies do not need to
counterbalance the resulting revenue shortages, but should instead
be allowed to operate automatically (for example, through higher
unemployment compensation and social assistance), thereby limiting
the effects on the economy. At the same time, if growth surprises on
the upside, the higher revenue should be saved to facilitate the
adjustment.  6. The focus of the planned adjustment mainly on boosting revenues
is broadly appropriate. Following a sizable expenditure-based
consolidation in 2011, the room for additional spending cuts without
fundamental public sector reforms is limited, necessitating focus on
revenue measures in the short run. These include shifting pension
contributions from the second to the first pillar, introducing a
progressive personal income tax, increasing the corporate income tax
rate, extending the bank levy on corporate deposits to retail deposits,
as well as broadening social insurance and income tax bases.  7. However, complementary reforms are essential to ensure a durable
fiscal consolidation. The planned shift of pension contributions
brings with it increased future government pension obligations.
We therefore welcome the authorities’ plans to combine it with a
parametric reform of the first pillar. The reform should be
underpinned by an actuarial analysis to ensure the system’s financial
solvency. The proposed increase in direct taxes may reduce incentives
to invest, underscoring the need for a more welcoming investment
climate. The envisaged numerous changes to the tax system could raise
collection risks, while the bank levy could discourage financial
intermediation.  8. In the medium term, considerable savings could be achieved by
improving tax administration and expenditure efficiency. Removing
nonstandard exemptions and strengthening VAT administration could
generate some 1½ percent of GDP in additional revenue. The planned
unification of revenue collections would aid in this regard.
International comparisons suggest that increasing efficiency in
health spending could generate some 1¾ percent of GDP in savings.
The planned reform of public administration could result in additional
efficiency gains. The generated savings could be used to further
reduce debt, to improve the quality of public sector outcomes, and
to finance improvements to public infrastructure in less developed
regions of the country.  9. The recently adopted fiscal responsibility legislation (FRL) is
welcome, but there is scope to further strengthen the fiscal framework.
The Slovak FRL is broadly in line with best international practices:
it enhances transparency and accountability, covers a broad definition
of government, and includes appropriate enforcement mechanisms.
However, making the FRL fully operational requires anchoring the budget
in a sound medium-term fiscal framework. Moreover, collecting and
publishing in the budget financial information of public entities,
including hospitals, would improve the monitoring of fiscal risks.  Strong oversight and cross-border cooperation to maintain financial stability  10. Slovakia’s banking system is sound. Strong fundamentals and
effective supervision have helped the sector weather the crisis
well. Banks are liquid, well-capitalized, and largely funded by
domestic deposits.  11. Nevertheless, risks call for continued supervisory vigilance.
The largely foreign-owned banking system is exposed to risks
stemming from potential renewed stress in  Europe  and deleveraging
by parent banks. Sizable holdings of Slovak government bonds leave
banks’ balance sheets vulnerable to a widening of bond spreads.
Close cooperation with home supervisors is essential to mitigate
cross-border risks. Recent steps by the National Bank of Slovakia
to strengthen bank capital and liquidity buffers are welcome.  12. A speedy resolution of nonperforming loans (NPLs) would support
an expansion of credit. NPLs have been slow to come down, particularly
in the corporate sector. Removing tax obstacles--such as allowing loan
losses to be tax deductible in the year they were incurred--would reduce
delays in loan write-offs and free up capital. In this regard, recent
amendments to the Act on Bankruptcy and Restructuring would encourage
timely restructuring and speed up NPL resolution by allowing creditors
to take a more proactive role in bankruptcy proceedings.  13. Curtailing risks in housing lending would further strengthen banks’
balance sheets. The less-stringently regulated “other housing loans”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ainhoa Goyeneche in Washington at   agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  