-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Ukraine (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-29T14:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-ukraine-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to Ukraine:  A team from the International Monetary Fund visited Kiev during
May 21-28, 2012 to hold discussions for the 2012 Article IV
consultation. The team met with Prime Minister Azarov, National
Bank of Ukraine Governor Arbuzov, Minister of Finance Kolobov,
other senior officials, and representatives from the private sector
and civil society. At the conclusion of the visit, the mission chief
Mr.  Chris Jarvis  issued the following statement:
“The government and the National Bank of Ukraine have made progress
in their efforts to support economic stability. We welcome the
government’s recent pension reform and the new customs code.
The public is benefiting from lower inflation supported by the
NBU’s monetary policy. Progress has been made in deregulation and
simplifying the tax laws.
“To ensure sustainable growth and reduce financial risks, Ukraine
still needs to resolve a range of important issues and deal with
external and internal challenges.
“Economic growth is expected to slow this year, hurt by weaker demand
for Ukraine’s exports. We project that annual growth will be 3 percent.
Inflation is projected at around 7 percent for the year. We expect the
current account deficit to widen to 6½ percent of GDP on current policies,
though if policies are tightened the deficit could be lower.
“ Ukraine  has considerable external financing needs that leave it
vulnerable to changes in investor sentiment. Persuading investors to
support Ukraine requires policies consistent with economic stability
and steady progress in implementing a reform agenda in key reform areas.
“Strengthening the fiscal position is a key government objective.
The supplementary budget has increased wage and pension expenditures,
and targets higher revenue collection to finance this. In order to
meet the government’s 1.8 percent of GDP deficit target new measures
will be needed. These could include raising tax rates for high earners,
ending tax exemptions, or reducing expenditures.
“The government has set an ambitious goal to achieve energy independence.
Raising gas and heating tariffs for households is an essential component
of any strategy to achieve this. We recommend significant upfront tariff
increases and regular increases thereafter as part of a time-bound plan
to eliminate subsidies. We also recommend giving more money to the poorest
households to offset their increased costs. Raising prices will lower
Naftogaz’s deficit, reduce imports, and free up resources for investment
in domestic production and energy efficiency.
“The monetary policy stance should continue to focus on maintaining  price
stability . The current monetary stance is appropriate given heightened
external risks. We continue to believe greater exchange rate flexibility
can better serve Ukraine in adapting to changing economic circumstances
and can provide a buffer for external shocks.
“The financial sector needs to be strengthened further to help revive
lending and support economic growth. The banking system appears well
capitalized, but further reforms are necessary to reinforce bank balance
sheets, including measures to help reduce large non-performing loans.
“We recommend ambitious reforms to improve  living standards  and help
realize Ukraine’s economic potential. These should include building
stronger public institutions and creating a better and more predictable
business climate to support investment and growth.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  