-- Sugar Falls on World Surplus; Cocoa Rise; Coffee Drops
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-05-29T17:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/sugar-falls-on-world-surplus-cocoa-rise-coffee-drops.html
Raw-sugar futures fell for the first
time in three sessions on renewed concern that global output
will exceed demand as exports expand from  Brazil , the world’s
biggest producer. Cocoa rose and coffee declined.  Sugar exports from Brazil are more profitable than sales in
the domestic market after the real weakened against the dollar
over the past three months, according to Cepea, a University of
Sao Paulo research group. The advance in Brazil’s center south’s
harvest “should weaken prices” as weak demand in the Northern
Hemisphere “prompts a global  trade surplus  into the third
quarter,”  Hussein Allidina , Morgan Stanley’s head of
commodities research, wrote in a report e-mailed today.  “The real is probably putting pressure on the market,”
Michael K Smith, the president of T&K Futures and Options, said
in a telephone interview from  Port St. Lucie ,  Florida .  Raw sugar for July delivery declined 0.6 percent to 19.51
cents a pound at 1:08 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York ,
after rising 0.6 percent in the previous two sessions. Before
today, the commodity tumbled 7.1 percent in May, heading for the
third consecutive monthly drop and the longest slide since April
2011.  The Brazilian real touched a three-year low of 2.1062 per
dollar on May 23.  “Of all soft commodities, sugar has the most bearish
fundamentals right now,” Smith said. The sweetener “could fall
another two to three cents from here,” especially if gasoline
prices continue to drop, encouraging growers to “produce more
food stuff,” rather than ethanol, he said.  Gasoline prices have plunged 9.2 percent this month on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange .  Cocoa futures for July delivery rose 0.3 percent to $2,116
a metric ton in New York.  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery fell 0.4 percent
to $1.6715 a pound on ICE.  In London futures trading, refined sugar, cocoa and robusta
coffee also slid on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  