-- Sweden’s Borg Will Be ‘Very Happy’ for Krona to Weaken Further
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-05-29T09:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/sweden-s-borg-will-be-very-happy-for-krona-to-weaken-further.html
Europe ’s debt crisis will probably
keep up pressure on Sweden’s currency to weaken further, helping
support the largest Nordic economy amid slumping demand, Swedish
Finance Minister Anders Borg said  Further krona depreciation is “a good stabilizer” and
acts “as a buffer” when global demand is slowing, Borg said
today in an interview in  Pretoria . “I’m very happy when the
krona is depreciating and weakening when we have weakness in
world demand. If we should see further weakness in the euro area
I’m presuming that the krona would weaken further.”  The krona has slumped against the dollar and the euro as
investors dumped less liquid currencies amid deepening concern
over Spanish banks and growing speculation  Greece  will leave the
euro area. The currency plunged 6.1 percent against the dollar
this month, the worst performance since September, and traded at
7.1496 at 11:05 a.m. in  Stockholm . It has lost 0.8 percent
against euro this month, trading at 8.9726.  Swedish  economic growth  will slow to 0.4 percent this year
from 3.9 percent in 2011, the government predicted on April 16.
Sweden relies on exports for about half its economic output.
About 70 percent of its sales abroad go to Europe.  “We’re now in a very uncertain spot,” Borg said. “We
will have to see how the Greek election pans out. There are some
uncertainties concerning the Spanish banks.”  Still, Borg said the economy may come out of the crisis in
good shape because the country is “pro cyclical when it comes
to our composition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  