-- Swiss Stocks Rise on U.S. Home Price Report; Swatch Gains
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-29T16:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/swiss-stocks-rise-on-u-s-home-price-report-swatch-gains.html
Swiss stocks  rose, extending their
first weekly advance this month, after a report showed U.S. home
prices fell in the 12 months ended March at the slowest pace in
more than a year.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s largest watchmaker, and  Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the owner of the Cartier brand, climbed
at least 4 percent each.  Clariant AG (CLN)  and Syngenta AG gained more
than 2 percent, following European chemical shares higher.  Dufry
AG (DUFN) , an operator of duty-free shops, jumped 3.2 percent as CA
Cheuvreux recommended buying the stock.  The  Swiss Market Inded (SMI)  added 0.8 percent to 5,914.73 at the
close in Zurich. The Swiss market was closed yesterday. The
volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies was 25
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The broader Swiss Performance Index
rose 0.9 percent today.  “There’s hope that there’s an improvement on the U.S.
real-estate market front,” said John Plassard, a director at
Louis Capital Markets LP in Geneva. “Despite some news that
denies economic stimulus in  China , the hope and expectations for
such stimulus are being given much more weight. At the same
time, volatility remains high with respect to  Spain , which
markets see as taking over Greece’s case.”  U.S. Property Market  Home values in 20 U.S. cities fell in the 12 months ended
March at the slowest pace in more than a year as lower borrowing
costs and an improving job market gave sales a boost.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values fell 2.6
percent from a year earlier after a 3.5 percent drop in
February, the group reported today in  New York . The decline
matched the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The index rose from the prior month on a seasonally
adjusted basis.  A separate report showed the Conference Board’s  consumer
confidence index  unexpectedly fell in May to 64.9 from a revised
68.7 in the previous month, the lowest level in four months. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a reading of 69.6.  Swiss stocks briefly pared gains after Xinhua News Agency
reported China has no intention of introducing a large-scale
stimulus plan in response to this year’s economic slowdown like
it did during the global financial crisis.  The stimulus will probably range from 1 trillion  yuan  ($158
billion) to 2 trillion yuan, half the size of 2008’s package,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said yesterday.  In Switzerland, a gauge of consumer demand rose to the
highest since June last year, UBS AG said. The consumption
indicator, which signals developments about three months ahead,
advanced to 1.41 points from a revised 1.20 points in March.  Swatch, Richemont  Swatch climbed 5 percent to 384.40 Swiss francs. The
company will forgo price increases in the short term as it wants
to win market share and increase volumes, Finanz und Wirtschaft
reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek.  Richemont climbed 4.2 percent to 57.75 francs.  Clariant AG, the world’s largest maker of printing-ink
chemicals, rose 2.1 percent to 10.41 francs after Berenberg Bank
said the company may see an upside surprise on the divestment of
its non-core business.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest supplier of agricultural
chemicals, gained 3.6 percent to 315.20 francs as a gauge of
European chemical companies was among the best performers of the
19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Dufry rose 3.2 percent to 113.70 francs after Cheuvreux
raised the stock to outperform, the equivalent of buy, from
underperform.  Kudelski SA, the world’s largest maker of security cards
for  pay television , gained 3.2 percent to 7.42 francs after Reto Amstalden, an analyst at Helvea AG, upgraded the company’s
shares to accumulate from neutral.  Swissmetal Holding AG (SMET)  rallied 31 percent to 1.52 francs
after it said it’s in talks with several parties over a sale.
Chinese privately owned industrial group Baoshida Holding is
interested in buying the company, Basler Zeitung reported,
citing unnamed staff members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  