-- Syria’s Assad Talks to UN’s Annan Following Houla Massacre
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-05-29T10:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/syria-s-assad-talks-to-un-s-annan-following-houla-massacre.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and
United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan  met for talks in Damascus today
following the massacre of more than 100 people in Houla.  The two men spoke as the Syrian army continued attacks on
Houla, Homs and Idlib, according to the Doha-based al Jazeera
news channel. The Houla killings on May 25 left at least 34
children dead and was condemned by the UN Security Council.  “These atrocities may amount to crimes against humanity or
other forms of international crime or violations of
international law,” UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said on May 27. “The information I’ve received indicates
indiscriminate and possibly deliberate targeting of civilians.”  The UN estimates that as many as 10,000 people have died
during more than 14 months of violence in  Syria , which began
with peaceful protests and has since degenerated into fighting
involving heavy weaponry. Britain’s Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told the  British Broadcasting Corp.  on May 27 that as many
as 15,000 may have died.  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Moallem said in a letter
to the UN Security Council that the Houla killings were the work
of militant fighters, SANA reported yesterday. Al-Moallem
yesterday told Annan of his country’s determination to adhere to
the cease-fire agreement brokered by the UN envoy last month.  Meanwhile,  Australia  expelled Syria’s Charge d’Affaires
Jawdat Ali and another diplomat in response to the Houla
massacre. The diplomats have 72 hours to leave Australia.  “The Syrian Chargé has again been advised to convey a
clear message to Damascus that Australians are appalled by this
massacre and we will pursue a unified international response to
hold those responsible to account,” Foreign Minister Bob Carr
said in a  statement  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  