-- U.K. Stocks Rise for a Fourth Day; Mining Companies Climb
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-29T15:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/u-k-stocks-climb-as-mining-companies-greggs-shares-rise.html
U.K. stocks  rose for a fourth day as
a report showed U.S. house prices fell at a slower rate and
speculation mounted that China’s government will increase
stimulus to support the world’s second-largest economy.  Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  advanced.  Greggs Plc (GRG) ,
a maker of Cornish pasties, jumped the most in 15 years after
the U.K.’s government reversed a plan to tax hot baked food.
 Wolseley Plc (WOS)  declined after the seller of plumbing supplies
reported that third-quarter revenue fell.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  increased 0.7 percent to 5,391.14 at the
close in London, its longest streak of gains this month. The
volume of shares changing hands was 13 percent lower than the
average of the last 30 days, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The FTSE All-Share Index also rose 0.7 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 1.1 percent.  “There are expectations that the  U.S. economy  continues to
be an outlier, and European markets are being pulled up in its
slip stream,” said  Michael Hewson , a market analyst at CMC
Markets in London.  House prices in 20 U.S. cities  fell in the 12 months ended
March at the slowest pace in more than a year as lower borrowing
costs and an improving job market gave sales a boost.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property prices slipped 2.6
percent from a year earlier, the group reported today in  New
York . The decline matched  the median forecast  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. A measure of  consumer confidence  in
the country for May missed economists’ expectations.  FTSE 100’s Performance  The FTSE 100 has  retreated 9.6 percent from its 2012 high 
on March 16 as Greece failed to form a government and borrowing
costs for Spain surged. The gauge posted its first weekly gain
in a month last week as China pledged to support growth. A
selloff from the start of May left the benchmark at  its cheapest
valuation  since November.  China’s finance ministry announced subsidies for energy-
saving products yesterday. Separately, an official said that the
government has agreed to revive incentives for car buying. That
added to stimulus Credit Suisse Group AG said may total as much
as 2 trillion  yuan  ($315 billion).  “The stimulus programs can hold the slide in growth and
investment demand, but they are probably not enough to stage a
2009-style rebound,” wrote Dong Tao, an economist at Credit
Suisse in Hong Kong, in a report dated yesterday. He reiterated
a forecast that China’s gross domestic product will expand by 8
percent this year.  China Stimulus Intentions  China has no intention of introducing large-scale stimulus
like it did during the global financial crisis, the Xinhua News
Agency said today. The Chinese government announced a package of
4 trillion yuan in 2008.  Spain reported today that  retail sales  in the country
slumped 11 percent in April from a year earlier.  Rio Tinto , the  world’s third-biggest mining company ,
climbed 2.3 percent to 2,922 pence.  BHP Billiton , the largest,
rose 2 percent to 1,751.5 pence.  Greggs rallied 8.1 percent to 504.5 pence, the biggest
advance since March 1997. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne reversed a plan to make pasties subject to value-
added tax, one of the most controversial measures in his March
21 budget. The government had intended to tax the snacks at the
same rate as other hot takeaway food.  Wolseley declined 1 percent to 2,277 pence, after earlier
tumbling 5 percent. The distributor of bathroom materials,
heating and plumbing supplies reported that third-quarter
revenue dropped to 3.2 billion pounds ($5 billion) from 3.27
billion pounds in the year-earlier period.  Johnson Matthey Rises  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT) , the pollution control specialist that
makes a third of all autocatalysts, added 2.4 percent to 2,221
pence. Credit Suisse today advised buying the shares before the
company reports its fiscal annual results in June. The brokerage
has a price estimate of 2,400 pence per share.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  gained 4.1
percent to 142.7 pence, paring its  decline since April 2 to 25
percent . Analysts at UBS AG advised buying shares in the owner
of British Airways, saying investors have already priced in
concern that Spanish shareholder Bankia SA may sell its stake.  Volex Plc (VLX) , the London-based maker of power products, surged
12 percent to 247.75 pence for the largest rally on the  FTSE
All-Share. (ASX)  The company reported an increase in annual profit and
forecast growth in revenue and profitability over its next
fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  