-- U.K. Retail-Sales Index Rises to Highest in 13 Months
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-29T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/u-k-retail-sales-index-rises-to-highest-in-13-months.html
An index of U.K.  retail sales  rose to
its highest level in more than a year in May, rebounding after
wet weather damped demand the previous month, the  Confederation
of British Industry  said.  The gauge of annual sales growth jumped to 21, the highest
reading since April 2011, from minus 6 the previous month, the
London-based business lobby said in a report today. The measure
of expected sales for June was at 25, indicating retailers
expect faster expansion, the CBI said.  Official data showed  retail sales  dropped the most in more
than two years in April as record rainfall reduced demand for
clothing and fuel sales plunged. Any recovery in  consumer
spending  may be kept in check as  inflation  continues to outpace
wage growth, squeezing Britons’ finances. The CBI said today
that retail-price inflation accelerated over the past quarter
and will remain “elevated” in June.  “It’s encouraging to see high-street sales up,” said
Judith McKenna, chief operating officer of  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit and head of the CBI’s distributive trades
panel. However, “the combination of high unemployment, slow
wage growth and weak  consumer confidence  means that the retail
sector is likely to remain under pressure in the short term.”  A separate quarterly index showed the rate of selling-price
inflation rose to 54 this month from 49 in February and a
quarterly measure of retailers’ business situation gained 15
points to 3.  Within the monthly CBI survey, the gauge of orders placed
on suppliers climbed to 7 in May from minus 7 in April and the
volume of stocks surged to 23 from 5. Overall retail sales were
still below their average for the time of year in May, the lobby
group said. The survey of 67 retailers was conducted between
April 26 and May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  