-- U.S. Envoy Ignites Russia Controversy With Bribe Accusation
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-29T11:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/u-s-ambassador-ignites-russia-controversy-with-bribe-accusation.html
Russia  accused U.S. Ambassador
Michael McFaul of breaching diplomatic protocol by saying his
host country bribed Kyrgyzstan to close an American air base.  McFaul in a May 25 lecture at the Moscow Higher School of
Economics said Russia bought off the impoverished Central Asian
state in 2009 as part of geopolitical rivalry with the U.S.,
according to the Russian state news service RIA Novosti. The
remarks were “unprofessional” and went “far beyond the limits
of diplomatic etiquette,” the Russian Foreign Ministry said in
a  statement  on its website late yesterday.  “This is not the first time that statements and actions by
Mr. McFaul, who holds an important position, have been a cause
for concern,” the ministry said. “Our understanding is that an
ambassador’s role is to promote bilateral ties and not to spread
blatant falsehoods through the media.”  Ties between Russia and the U.S. have become strained over
Western efforts to oust Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, a bid
by U.S. lawmakers to sanction Russian officials for human rights
abuses and a planned U.S. missile-defense shield in  Europe .  President  Vladimir Putin , who was re-elected to a third
Kremlin term in March, stepped up anti-American rhetoric during
the campaign, when he was facing down protests by tens of
thousands of people over alleged fraud in December parliamentary
elections.  Stirring Up Unrest  McFaul, a former adviser to President  Barack Obama  on
Russian affairs, was accused by state television and pro-
government lawmakers in January of seeking to stir up revolution
after hosting opposition activists during the mass unrest.  In March, McFaul apologized for calling Russia a “wild
country” after journalists from state-run NTV channel followed
him to a meeting with a human-rights activist in Moscow.  A former Stanford University professor and non-career
diplomat, McFaul has been using Twitter Inc. and the blog-
hosting site LiveJournal to broadcast his message, and posted
links to the online account of opposition leader Alexei Navalny.  The ministry also criticized McFaul for questioning the
professionalism of state English-language satellite broadcaster
RT’s reporting in the U.S.  In response to the statement, McFaul said on his Twitter
Inc. account that he is “still learning the craft of speaking
more diplomatically.”  Kyrgyz ‘Bribe’  Kyrgyzstan, the only country in the world that hosts
Russian and U.S. military installations, decided in 2009 to
evict the U.S. from its Manas air base after receiving a $2
billion aid package from Russia. The Kyrgyz government later
that year reversed the decision when the U.S. raised the rent to
$60 million a year from $17.4 million to keep the facility, used
to supply troops in  Afghanistan .  “I won’t be diplomatic, I’ll say openly that your country
paid off Kyrgyzstan to kick the Americans out of Manas,” McFaul
was quoted as telling the students by RIA Novosti. He added that
the U.S. also “offered a bribe” to Kyrgyzstan, “but 10 times
less.”  The U.S Embassy in Moscow, which e-mailed a slide show used
by McFaul at his May 25 speech, couldn’t be reached immediately
for comment.  Putin’s foreign policy aide, Yuri Ushakov, told reporters
today that McFaul should be more diplomatic if he wants to
defend U.S. interests.  Be Diplomatic  “He himself said when he was speaking about Kyrgyzstan
that ‘I won’t be diplomatic,’ but it seems to me that
ambassadors actually should be diplomatic,” Ushakov said.
“When ambassadors are defending their countries’ interests,
they should focus on being positive.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  last month said
comments by McFaul that his country won’t accept any
restrictions on its missile defense plans were “arrogant,”
according to RIA Novosti.  “The Russians can be pretty rough on ambassadors they
disapprove of, as I know,” said Tony Brenton, U.K. ambassador
to Russia from 2004 to 2008, who was hounded by pro-Kremlin
youth activists after attending an opposition conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  