-- S&P 500 Rises on Greece as Home Data Signal Stability
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-29T20:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-before-confidence-report.html
U.S. stocks rose, after the first
weekly gain since April in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
Greek opinion polls eased concern the country will leave the
euro and data signaled the American housing market stabilized.  All 10 industries in the S&P 500 advanced as commodity and
technology companies had the biggest gains. Builders  D.R. Horton 
Inc. and  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  increased at least 2 percent as data
showed that home values in 20 U.S. cities declined at a slower
pace.  Caterpillar (CAT)  Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA) 
climbed more than 2.8 percent.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  tumbled 9.6
percent, extending losses from the worst-performing large
initial public offering during the past decade to 24 percent.  The S&P 500 advanced 1.1 percent to 1,332.42 at 4 p.m. New
York time. The gauge added 1.7 percent last week. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  increased 125.86 points, or 1 percent, to
12,580.69 today. About 6.2 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, or 8.6 percent  below  the three-month average.  “We’re definitely seeing signs of stabilization on the
housing front,” said Brad Sorensen, director of market and
sector analysis at San Francisco-based Charles Schwab Corp. His
firm has $1.83 trillion in client assets. “The economy is
looking decent. There’s also a bit of relief that we won’t have
any imminent kicking out or defaulting of  Greece .”  American equities joined a global rally. Greece’s New
Democracy, which supports the austerity plan negotiated with
international lenders, placed first in all six polls published
on May 26 as campaigning continued for June’s election. The U.S.
market was closed yesterday for a holiday. Home values in 20
U.S. cities fell in the 12 months ended March at the slowest
pace in more than a year.  Spain’s Downgrade  Benchmark gauges briefly pared gains as the euro weakened
to the lowest level versus the dollar in almost two years on
concern that Spain’s financial crisis is worsening. Egan-Jones
Ratings Co. reduced its  credit rating  for Spain to B from Bb-.
The 17-nation currency fell against most of its major
counterparts as Spanish officials debated how to fund a
recapitalization of the Bankia group.  Today’s rally trimmed this month’s  slump  in the  S&P 500  to
4.7 percent. The benchmark gauge is heading for its biggest
monthly retreat since September, amid concern global economic
growth is slowing and Greece may leave the euro area.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy increased 2 percent. A gauge of homebuilders in S&P
indexes added 1.9 percent. D.R. Horton gained 2.5 percent to
$17.43. PulteGroup advanced 2 percent to $9.52. Caterpillar, the
biggest maker of construction equipment, added 2.9 percent to
$92.52. Bank of America added 4.1 percent to $7.44. Alcoa
increased 3 percent to $8.89.  Coal Companies  Coal producers gained after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised
its recommendation for the industry to attractive from neutral.
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer, jumped 5.6
percent to $25.22 as Goldman recommended buying the shares.
Consol Energy Inc. added 1.8 percent to $30.13.  Facebook lost 9.6 percent to $28.84. The company’s  options 
trading began today. Facebook debuted on May 18 after
underwriters sold shares at $38.  “People are disillusioned,” said  Matt McCormick , who
helps oversee $6.2 billion at Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati.
He doesn’t own shares of Facebook. “A lot of investors believed
the hype,” he said. “In this type of volatile market
environment, people are not going to take chances.”  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  tumbled 11 percent, the most
since 2008, to $57.80. The company revised results reported
three weeks ago from a study of two cystic fibrosis drugs,
saying the combination showed less of a benefit.  Western Digital  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  slumped 3 percent, the most in the
S&P 500, to $33.17. The maker of disk drives was downgraded at
Barclays Plc. The share price  estimate  is $37.  Seagate
Technology Plc (STX) , also cut at Barclays, dropped 4.4 percent to
$25.03.  Stock buybacks are falling to a three-year low just as U.S.
chief executive officers boost spending on plants and equipment
to a record.  Companies announced $1.1 billion of repurchases a day on
average during the earnings season in April and May, the lowest
level since mid-2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and TrimTabs Investment Research Inc. Capital spending in the
U.S. has risen since 2010 and reached $63.6 billion in March.
 Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  eliminated buybacks and boosted exploration
and production spending 18 percent. United Parcel Service Inc.
cut repurchases in order to buy TNT Express NV.  After the biggest first-quarter gain for the S&P 500 since
1998, bears say the 58 percent decline in buybacks removes key
support for equities amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and a weakening
U.S. recovery.  More Optimistic  While orders for capital equipment fell last month, bulls
say the two-year gain in business investment shows CEOs are
growing more optimistic, spending to raise profits instead of
reducing stock to boost per-share earnings.  “Investors and corporations themselves are best served
when the cash is applied to improving capital investment, as
opposed to buying stock back,” Bruce Bittles, chief investment
strategist at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co., which
oversees $85 billion, said in a May 22 phone interview. “That
would be much more bullish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  