-- U.S. May Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-05-29T14:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/u-s-may-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the Texas manufacturing
activity from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas .  Texas factory activity continued to increase in May, according to business
executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production
index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, held steady at 5.5,
suggesting growth continued at about the same pace as last month.  Other measures of current manufacturing conditions indicated flat or increased
activity in May. The new orders index posted a near-zero reading for the third
consecutive month, suggesting order volumes have stagnated since February. Shipment
volumes were flat again in May, with the index near zero for the second month in a
row. The capacity utilization index came in at 5, up from 1.4 in April, with one-
quarter of respondents noting increases.  Perceptions of broader economic conditions were mixed in May. The general
business activity index remained negative for the second consecutive month and edged
down from -3.4 to -5.1. Fifteen percent of firms noted improvement in the level of
business activity, while 20 percent noted a worsening. The company outlook index
rebounded into positive territory after turning negative last month, coming in at a
reading of 4.7. Twenty-one percent of manufacturers noted an improved outlook, up
markedly from 11 percent in April.  Labor market indicators reflected slightly slower labor demand growth and
shorter workweeks. Employment grew again in May, but the pace continued to slow; the
index receded from 11.8 to 8.5. Eighteen percent of firms reported hiring new
workers, while 10 percent reported layoffs. The hours worked index remained negative
but edged up from -4.6 to -2.2.  Input prices and wages continued to increase in May, but selling prices were
flat. The raw materials price index was 20.2, down slightly from 21.2 in April. The
wages and benefits index moved up from 15.2 to 20, suggesting stronger upward
pressure on compensation costs. Selling prices were roughly unchanged in May, as the
finished goods price index was near zero. Looking ahead, 41 percent of respondents
anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while
23 percent expect higher finished goods prices.  Expectations regarding future business conditions were less optimistic in May.
The index of future general business activity dropped from 15.7 to 4.3. The index of
future company outlook came in at 11.4, down slightly from 14.4 in April. Other
indexes for future manufacturing activity also decreased, although all remained in
strong positive territory.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to
obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected May
15-23, and 86 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether
output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or
remained unchanged over the previous month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index
is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from
the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase
exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero,
suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be
below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index
will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number
of firms reporting a decrease.  Next release: June 25, 2012 