-- UBS’s Friedman Says Spanish Banks in Dire State Need More Funds
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-05-29T14:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/ubs-s-friedman-says-spanish-banks-in-dire-state-need-more-funds.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  Chief Investment Officer
 Alexander Friedman  said the situation for Spanish banks is
“more dire” than the government has said and may worsen before
the  European Central Bank  lends its support.  “The ECB would expect first an admission by the government
in  Spain , and by obviously the banking sector, that it needs to
recapitalize probably in excess of 100 billion euros ($125.4
billion),” Friedman said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee . The
 International Monetary Fund  would also need to “step in with a
series of conditions that would give the ECB comfort enough to
play its part. We’re not there yet.”  Spain is seeking to clean up banks and help its cash-
strapped regions just as its own access to  capital markets  has
narrowed and depends increasingly on domestic lenders. The
nation’s bank-rescue fund has 5 billion euros in cash, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said this month, leaving its ability to
bail out lenders dependent on Spain’s access to markets.  De Guindos said May 11 that a law tightening provisioning
rules would require public funds of less than 15 billion euros.
BFA-Bankia said on May 25 it was taking 8.5 billion euros of
provisions on top of those demanded by the government as it
sought a 19 billion-euro state bailout.  Spain today backtracked on a plan to use debt issued by the
government or its bank-rescue fund instead of cash to prop up
the Bankia group. A spokesman for the economy ministry said the
idea had become a “marginal” option.  Too Expensive  Providing banks with Spanish debt so they can get cash from
the ECB “in a sense is another kind of LTRO,” Friedman said,
referring to the ECB’s longer-term refinancing operation, which
provided three-year loans in December and February. It’s not
clear whether the ECB would approve of such a plan.  Friedman said in his monthly letter to UBS client advisers
last week that there is a “material risk” of a run on banks in
peripheral countries even before Greek elections in June.  The euro region needs economic growth and structural reform
to resolve the crisis, Friedman said today. Pledging euro-wide
deposit insurance may not be enough, while there’s a risk of
countries exiting the currency, he said.  Deposit insurance may “have to come from each of the
national banks, and in turn the ECB could provide some kind of
insurance against the collateral for each of those national
banks,” he said. “But if you’re a citizen of a country where
you think there is a possibility that country exits the euro
zone, then that guarantee won’t mean anything. And that’s the
real risk around the structural issue of does the euro zone hold
together or not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  