-- Hungary to Hold EU’s Highest Rate on IMF Delay, Forint
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-05-29T08:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/hungary-to-hold-eu-s-highest-rate-on-imf-delay-forint-correct-.html
(Corrects number of months in second paragraph.)  Hungary’s central bank will probably
keep the European Union’s highest benchmark interest rate
unchanged because of a delay in obtaining  International Monetary
Fund  aid and a weak forint amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will leave the  two-week deposit
rate  at 7 percent for a fifth month today, according to all 22
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A decision is due at 2
p.m. in Budapest, with central bank President Andras Simor to
hold a news conference an hour later.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , battling to avert a recession,
asked for a bailout from the European Union and the IMF in
November as the forint fell to a record low against the euro and
the country’s credit grade was cut to junk. The government is
delaying the start of talks by “dragging” its feet on changing
a disputed central bank law to address IMF concerns, Citigroup
Inc. said on May 17.  “The difficult euro-zone backdrop and rather slow progress
on the EU-IMF loan negotiations corner the Monetary Policy
Council into keeping rates on hold despite evidence of rising
downside risks to gross domestic product prospects,” London-
based Bank of America economist Raffaella Tenconi said in an e-
mail.  Greek Exit  The forint is headed for its biggest monthly slide against
the euro since September on speculation about a potential Greek
exit from the euro area, which Citigroup economists consider now
to be their “base case.” BofA Merrill Lynch strategists
estimate that the gross domestic product of the currency area,
 Hungary ’s main export market, would contract 4 percent in the
recession that follows, similar to the decline suffered after
Lehman’s 2008 collapse.  The forint rose 0.2 percent to 298.75 per euro at 8:35 a.m.
in Budapest, paring its drop in May to 4.3 percent. The
benchmark BUX stock index has declined 10 percent in the month.  The cost of protecting Hungarian debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps declined to 593.66
today from a month-high of 599 basis points at the end of last
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Risk Perceptions  Monetary policy makers agreed last month that factors
affecting risk perceptions were “of key importance,” according
to minutes from the April 24 meeting. They urged an agreement
with the IMF and EU “as soon as possible” to cut financing
risks and stem the withdrawal of foreign funding from local
banks.  The European Commission last month approved the start of
bailout talks after Orban pledged to change a central bank
regulation to ensure monetary-policy independence. Parliament
will vote on government amendments today, which fall short of
meeting IMF requirements of redressing an “excessive” transfer
of power from the central bank governor to the rate-setting
Monetary Council, Citigroup said this month after meeting the
IMF’s representative in Hungary.  Hungary is refusing to amend disputed parts of the law
despite pressure from the  European Central Bank  and the IMF,
 Magyar Nemzet  reported on May 26, citing unidentified people at
the  Economy Ministry .  Third Vice President  The government wants the Monetary Council, and not the
president of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, to have authority over
foreign-currency reserves despite objections from international
institutions, according to the Budapest-based newspaper. The
Cabinet also wants to nominate a third vice president at the
bank, it said.  Talks may start next month after lawmakers approve
amendments to the central bank law, a condition set by the bloc,
the Economy Ministry said on May 24.  Forward-rate agreements used to bet on three-month  interest
rates  in nine months traded at 7.08 percent today, 11 basis
points below the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, indicating
expectations for no change in borrowing costs in the next three
quarters.  The official start of negotiations may bring about a split
in the monetary council, Tim Ash, head of the emerging-market
research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in
an e-mail. “The forint will be key and given the  European debt
crisis , we might see more forint weakness which may persuade the
doves to hold fire on rates.”  The government approved taxes on banking, energy,
telecommunications and insurance companies this month to allay
EU concerns that its budget was unsustainable and to unfreeze
grants from the 27-member bloc. The new taxes will boost
inflation this year and next, Simor said on April 24, adding
that he wasn’t sure the central bank could meet its 3 percent
inflation target in 2013.  Inflation Acceleration  Hungary’s  inflation , the fastest in the EU, unexpectedly
accelerated to 5.7 percent in April on surging fuel and tobacco
costs. The central bank in March raised its forecast for this
year’s average inflation rate to 5.6 percent from 5 percent, and
for 2013 to 3 percent from 2.6 percent.  Hungary’s delay in cutting interest rates contrasts with
other emerging-market central banks in eastern Europe.  The  Czech Republic  has kept the benchmark two-week
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent, a quarter-point
less than the ECB’s main rate, since May 2010. Romania cut its
main rate four times since November to 5.25 percent, the lowest
ever, as policy makers seek to buoy the economy as Europe
grapples with a debt crisis.  Hungary’s deteriorating growth outlook has turned policy
makers more dovish and there may be some who want to cut rates
before a final bailout agreement is reached, Eszter Gargyan,
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Budapest said in an e-mailed note
to clients.  GDP plunged in the first quarter from the previous three
months after stagnating in the October-December period.
Hungary’s economy may contract 1.5 percent this year, according
to a May 22 projection by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. That contrasts with the
government’s forecast for a 0.1 percent expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  