-- UniCredit Said to Scale Down Eastern Europe Equity Business
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-05-30T14:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/unicredit-said-to-scale-down-eastern-europe-equity-business.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
is shrinking its cash equity division in central and eastern
Europe as part of a plan to increase profitability and cut
costs, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The lender is closing its securities units in Russia and
 Romania , and is scaling down the business in  Turkey  and  Poland ,
said one of the people, who asked not be identified because the
plan isn’t public. The plan involves about 60 of 80 people
working at its equity brokerage in the region, including sales
and derivatives, said the person. A spokesman for Milan-based
UniCredit declined to comment.  “This is good news for the bank,” said Angelo Drusiani,
who manages about 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) at Banca
Albertini Syz & C. in Milan. “It goes in the right direction,
focusing on its core business and cutting activities with low
margins.”  UniCredit’s corporate and investment-banking chief, Jean- Pierre Mustier, who previously ran Societe Generale SA’s
investment bank, is reviewing the unit to reduce risks and boost
profit. The bank has already closed its equity brokerage in
western  Europe , cutting jobs in London and Milan last October.  UniCredit, which operates in 22 countries, including
Germany, Austria and Poland, gets about 57 percent of its
revenue outside Italy. The bank’s profit rose 13 percent to 914
million euros in the first quarter.  Goodwill Writedown  The lender last year wrote down to zero the goodwill on the
Russian brokerage it bought for four times book value in 2006,
doubting the business can make money in an area increasingly
targeted by state-owned banks. Sergei Sidorov, the head of
UniCredit’s securities unit, left at the end of last year and
was replaced by Alexander Cheporov.  “UniCredit has been a victim of the debt crisis in the
southern rim of Europe, and as we have seen in the past, when
banks are looking to scale down  Russia  tends to be in the firing
line,” Peter Westin, chief strategist at Aton Capital, wrote in
e-mailed comments. Westin worked at Aton before it was sold to
UniCredit in 2006 for $424 million. The founder restarted the
brokerage using the same name in 2009.  The decision to shrink or close the cash equity units in
the four countries was taken because they were too expensive and
the same activity can be outsourced or done by the parent
company, the people said.  UniCredit’s shares rose 0.1 percent to 2.46 euros by 4:47
p.m. in Milan trading, paring an earlier gain of as much as 3.4
percent.  UniCredit, the biggest lender in the former communist part
of Europe, has already reined in its growth plans for the region
and focused investments on its most promising markets, Russia,
Turkey, Poland and the  Czech Republic , while shelving branch
expansion plans in Hungary and Romania.  The lender has dismissed the idea that it was pulling out
of the region, which contributed half of its recurring operating
profit in the first quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  