-- United Continental Sued by Black Pilots Alleging Bias
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-29T23:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/united-continental-sued-by-black-pilots-alleging-bias.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the
world’s largest airline, was sued for racial discrimination by
22 black pilots who allege the company offers minority employees
fewer promotions to upper management than whites.  The company’s “highly subjective decision making” about
promotions discriminates against minority captains and
operations supervisors, according to a complaint filed today in
federal court in  San Francisco . Minority captains are subject to
a “dual employment track” and relegated to part-time jobs with
less job security and opportunity for promotions, while non-
minority employees get full-time, higher wage positions, the
pilots said in the complaint.  Virtually all black employees at the Chicago-based company
are in non-management positions, according to the complaint. The
few blacks in management are promoted to give the appearance of
diversity and then excluded from “informal” e-mails and social
gatherings where operating procedures, managerial issues and
corporate advancement opportunities are discussed, the pilots
allege.  The employees are seeking an end to discriminatory
practices, back pay and unspecified punitive damages.  “United does not tolerate harassment or discrimination of
any kind,”  Megan McCarthy , a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
The company believes the lawsuit is without merit and will
defend against it, she said.  The company was formed in 2010 when United Airlines parent
UAL Corp. merged with Continental Airlines Inc.  The case is Johnson v. United Continental, 12-2730, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  