-- Turkey May Ban Abortion as Erdogan Won’t Allow ‘Murder’
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-05-29T14:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/turkey-may-ban-abortion-as-erdogan-won-t-allow-murder-.html
Turkey’s Cabinet will debate a Health
Ministry report on abortion that may include a ban, less than a
week after Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  likened the
procedure to murder.  Women’s rights are unrelated to abortion and Turkey must
prevent its use as a means of  birth control , Health Minister
Recep Akdag told reporters in the Ankara parliament today.
“The thought that a live being is destroyed has been completely
missing from all the commentary” by opponents of a ban, said
Akdag, adding that health reasons will be excluded from the
government’s abortion discussions.  Erdogan sparked the row last week when he told the women’s
arm of the governing  Justice and Development Party  that abortion
is murder and its proponents are trying to cripple Turkey’s
economic success by curbing  population growth . The premier said
today that  Turkey  is seeking to follow in the steps of anti-
abortion movements in the U.S. and the West.  “There’s no difference between killing a fetus in the
mother’s womb and killing someone after birth,” he said at a
hospital opening in Istanbul. “This cannot be allowed.”  Erdogan said the government will push through legislation
on abortion, without elaborating.  Opposition parties say the prime minister is seeking to
divert attention from a debate on the killing of 34 civilians
who were misidentified as terrorists in a December airstrike.
Erdogan said each abortion is akin to that bombing.  Akdag declined to directly answer questions on whether
Turkey would move to ban the procedure. He said the Cabinet will
discuss issues such as abortion in the first 10 weeks of
pregnancy, when the likelihood of health complications for women
is lower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  