-- Turkish Central Bank Keeps Rate Band Unchanged to Slow Inflation
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-05-29T11:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/turkish-central-bank-keeps-rate-band-unchanged-to-slow-inflation.html
Turkey ’s central bank kept its so-
called interest-rate corridor unchanged as it seeks to support
the lira and slow inflation.  The bank left the  benchmark  one-week repo rate at 5.75
percent, it said on its website today, matching forecasts by all
10 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. It also kept the maximum
rate on overnight loans at 11.5 percent, in line with
predictions by banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci varies  interest rates 
daily within those boundaries. He tightened policy last week
after the lira dropped to a four-month low against the dollar on
concern about the impact of the euro-zone debt crisis. Basci is
also seeking to curb  loan growth , which combined with the lira’s
decline has pushed inflation to a 3 1/2-year high.  The central bank’s “passionate devotion to the lower bound
of the corridor” and its ability to tighten within that range
makes an increase in the benchmark rate unlikely “for the
foreseeable future,” Nilufer Sezgin, chief economist at
Istanbul-based brokerage Ekspres Invest, said in an e-mailed
report before the decision.  The central bank charged banks the maximum rate all last
week, pushing average  funding costs  as high as 10.83 percent,
the most since mid-January. It declined to 10.43 percent
yesterday with the resumption of lending at the 5.75 percent
one-week repo rate.  Inflation climbed to 11.1 percent in April, the highest
since October 2008. Basci said it will drop to 8 percent in May
and the central bank forecasts a year-end rate of 6.5 percent.  The lira’s 18 percent drop against the dollar last year
helped push prices higher. The currency has rebounded this year,
gaining more than 3 percent. It was little changed at 1.8363 per
dollar at 1 p.m. in Istanbul.  Two-year benchmark bond  yields
declined 3 basis points to 9.42 percent.  Annual growth in  consumer lending  has slowed to 16 percent
from 30 percent at the start of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 