-- Vatican Case Raises Questions on Whether Papal Butler Did It
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-05-29T14:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/vatican-case-raises-questions-over-whether-butler-really-did-it.html
The Vatican is conducting a widening
probe into leaked documents that prompted the arrest of Pope
Benedict XVI’s butler last week in a case local media have
compared to an Agatha Christie novel.  The  Vatican  yesterday ruled out any involvement in the
investigation of a cardinal or a woman, after newspapers
Corriere della Sera and La Stampa reported that the butler
hadn’t acted alone and that a cardinal, the Roman Catholic
Church’s highest rank after the pope, was also among the
suspects.  The pope is “aware of the delicate situation going on
inside the Curia,” or the Holy See’s government, spokesman
Federico Lombardi told reporters at the Vatican yesterday. “No
cardinal or woman is under investigation.”  Italian media have offered contradictory versions of the
events behind the May 25 arrest of Paolo Gabriele, the butler
found in possession of classified documents. The case has often
been portrayed as part of a palace intrigue pitting loyalists of
an increasingly isolated Benedict, 85, against Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, the Vatican’s de facto prime minister.  “It’s right out of an Agatha Christie novel,” Rome daily
Il Foglio said.  Vatican Bank  The story began last week when Ettore Gotti Tedeschi was
ousted as head of the Vatican bank, formally known as the
Institute for Works of Religion, or IOR. Gotti Tedeschi, who had
been trying to bring the bank into line with global-transparency
standards, was removed in a no-confidence vote by the IOR board
for having failed “to carry out various duties of primary
importance,” Lombardi said in a statement on May 24.  The next day, Gabriele was arrested in a case Lombardi said
had nothing to do with Gotti Tedeschi, a former executive with
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  who also teaches financial ethics at Milan’s
 Catholic University .  Gabriele has so far been charged with “aggravated theft,”
Lombardi said yesterday. Many classified Vatican documents came
to light this month with the publication in  Italy  of “The
Secret Papers of Benedict XVI” by Gianluigi Nuzzi, a book that
aimed to expose Bertone’s growing influence.  Not Alone  The butler wasn’t acting alone and high-ranking clerics
were also involved in the leaking operation as part of an
attempt to protect the pope from Bertone’s machinations, daily
Repubblica reported yesterday, citing an unidentified person
involved in the effort. Gotti Tedeschi’s removal was also
orchestrated by Bertone, the person  was cited  as saying.  The group began to act after Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano,
then-secretary general of  Vatican City , was made papal envoy to
 Washington  last year, the person told Repubblica. In his book,
Nuzzi published a letter in which Vigano tells the pope that his
transfer would undermine his efforts to root out corruption
inside the Vatican.  “What to say?” Lombardi said with a chuckle when asked by
reporters at a briefing today whether the leak case stemmed from
Vatican intrigue. “I don’t have a global vision of the
situation,” he said, adding that he couldn’t give a
“credible” answer to the question.  Hanged in London  Under Gotti Tedeschi, the Holy See sought to improve the
IOR’s image after scandals that included the $1.3 billion
collapse of partly Vatican-owned Banco Ambrosiano, once Italy’s
largest private bank. Its former chairman, Roberto Calvi, dubbed
“God’s banker,” was found hanged under  London ’s Blackfriars
Bridge in June 1982.  After the IOR came under investigation for allegedly
flouting Italy’s  money-laundering  laws in September 2010, Gotti
Tedeschi helped lead a Vatican effort to bring the bank into
line with the European Union’s financial-transparency rules. New
Holy See legislation binding the Vatican to EU norms went into
effect last year.  Vatican officials have been divided over how to interpret
the new regulations, according to Holy See documents published
in February on the website of Il Fatto Quotidiano newspaper. One
group including Bertone argued the rules weren’t retroactive,
while Gotti Tedeschi and others believed the Vatican must turn
over all relevant information to the Vatican’s new financial
authority and Italian prosecutors, the newspaper reported.  Closed Account  In March,  Il Sole 24 Ore , Italy’s main financial daily,
reported that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was closing an account held
by the IOR to comply with Italy’s anti-money-laundering rules.
The biggest  U.S. bank , in a Feb. 15 letter to the IOR, cited a
lack of transparency on payments through the IOR’s account in
Milan, the newspaper said.  A  Bank of Italy  inspection last year resulted in a request
for information on money transfers at the Vatican bank’s account
at JPMorgan’s Italian unit, Il Sole reported. The U.S. State
Department on March 7 added the Holy See for the first time to
its  watch list  of nations at risk for money laundering.  Nuzzi, the author, said Gotti Tedeschi had introduced a
system of checks on clerical bank accounts that was “unheard
of” in the Vatican, with alarms going off on accounts with any
movements that exceeded the norm.  “When you try to transform an offshore bank into a more
normal bank, naturally you’ll run into resistance,” Nuzzi said
by phone yesterday. “Gotti Tedeschi was a victim of his efforts
to implement anti-money-laundering norms.”  Shortcomings  According to the IOR’s Supervisory Board, Gotti Tedeschi
exhibited shortcomings including not attending board meetings
and poor communication with its members, lack of prudence in
comments about the bank, failure to explain the
“dissemination” of documents in his possession and
“progressively erratic behavior.” The board made public its
criticism in a  nine-point statement  on May 24.  Carl Anderson, who’s secretary of the board, has denied
that Gotti Tedeschi’s dismissal had anything to do with the
bank’s transparency efforts. “We confirm our decisive
commitment to transparency, which isn’t under discussion,” he
told La Stampa in an interview on May 26.  Moneyval, a Council of Europe committee that evaluates
anti-money-laundering measures, is due to meet with Vatican
officials in July to determine whether the city-state should be
put on the EU’s financial-transparency “white list.”  The pope has so far not directly commented on the events of
the last week. Buffeted by other crises including a global
priestly pedophilia scandal, the pope told faithful in St.
Peter’s Square on May 26 that “a wind is shaking the House of
God” even as it’s “built on a rock.”  The investigation of the butler and the leaked papers is
being overseen by a panel of cardinals “who are continuing
their work, carrying out talks within the time required by the
investigation,” Lombardi said yesterday. “They won’t let
themselves be pressured by the media.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in  Rome  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  