-- Vertex Revises CF Combo Data Showing Less Benefit
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-05-29T20:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/vertex-revises-cystic-fibrosis-combo-data.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  sank the
most in three years after the company revised results reported
three weeks ago from a study of two cystic fibrosis drugs,
saying the combination showed less of a benefit.  A misinterpretation between Vertex and an outside data-
analysis firm led to the revision, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based biotechnology company said today. It doesn’t affect
Vertex’s plans to start final-stage trials for U.S. marketing
approval, Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Leiden said on a
conference call.  The revised data show the drugs improved lung function by
at least 5 percentage points in 35 percent of patients after 56
days, and by at least 10 percentage points in 19 percent of
people, Vertex said. Previously, the company said 46 percent of
patients gained at least 5 percentage points, and 30 percent
improved at least 10 percentage points.  “This is a downward revision, but is still good data, in
our opinion,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group,
wrote in a note to clients today.  Vertex fell 11 percent to $57.80 at 4 p.m. New York time
for the biggest decline since December 2008. The  shares  had
risen the most in their history after the earlier results were
reported on May 7, and are up 8 percent in the last 12 months.  The medicines studied were Kalydeco, which received U.S.
marketing approval in January, and the experimental drug VX-809.  Study Results  Patients on the combination therapy had an average
improvement of 4 percentage points, while those taking a placebo
worsened by 4.6 percentage points, the company said today.  The decline in breathing ability for those taking a placebo
was greater than in other trials, raising the question of
whether the medicines will show as great a comparative benefit
in the next phase of studies, Schoenebaum said.  The revision was due to a misinterpretation between Vertex
and a third-party statistical analysis vendor over whether the
data showed an absolute change in lung function or a relative
one, Vertex said.  “This is an unacceptable error and we’re taking steps to
fix it and make sure it doesn’t happen again,” Leiden told
analysts and investors on a conference call today. The company
is still confident “we have an active drug here, and therefore
we are continuing to plan movement to phase 3.”  Lung Function  Vertex originally told analysts not to expect a benefit for
lung function in the trial, Schoenebaum wrote in a May 7 note to
investors. The company indicated it would decide whether to
proceed to the next phase of trials based on sweat chloride
levels, a different metric, said  Jason Kantor , an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets , in an April 26 note.  Vertex said earlier this month the sweat chloride results
weren’t statistically significant for the combination therapy at
this stage in the trial. Improvements in breathing in the study
were measured by a metric called forced expiratory volume, or
FEV-1. It’s a gauge of how much air a patient can exhale in one
second.  The results were from an interim review of 48 patients, and
showed safety of the combined medicines was similar for those
receiving the treatment and those on a placebo, Vertex said.
Full results from the study are expected mid-year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  