-- Wells Fargo Pledges Investments to End Memphis Lawsuit
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-30T03:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/wells-fargo-promises-more-than-435-million-to-end-memphis-suit.html
(Corrects tally of pledged amounts in headline and first
two paragraphs.)  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, pledged more than $432 million in mortgage credit
and investments as it resolved a discrimination lawsuit brought
by  Memphis ,  Tennessee .  The bank will invest $7.5 million in the city and the
surrounding Shelby County, including $4.5 million in home-
renovation and down-payment grants, and will seek to make $425
million in mortgages available over the next five years,
according to a statement from the San Francisco-based company.
The sum includes $125 million in loans for low- and moderate-
income borrowers.  Wells Fargo is battling U.S. Justice Department allegations
that it singles out minority homeowners for worse treatment, and
it’s facing scrutiny by the Department of Housing and Urban
Development over claims that it neglects bank-owned homes in
minority communities. Today’s accord ends a  suit  filed more than
two years ago alleging the firm mistreated black homeowners
since at least 2000.  “We agreed that it was in the best interests of everyone
involved to work together rather than to continue to be involved
in a protracted legal fight,” Leigh Collier, Wells Fargo’s
regional president for the Mid-South, said in a statement.  The lawsuit, citing former employees, claimed that Wells
Fargo steered nonwhites toward loans with higher rates and fees
and terms that were less advantageous. Memphis also alleged the
bank pushed homeowners into bigger loans than they needed.  Wells Fargo said this month that federal prosecutors may
seek damages and penalties after investigating whether it
violated anti-discrimination laws while financing homeowners.
The company didn’t elaborate on the complaint, adding that the
bank is trying to show the agency that it’s following the law.
Wells Fargo also still faces a 2008 lawsuit by Baltimore
alleging “illegal and discriminatory mortgage lending” that
caused foreclosures in minority neighborhoods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  