-- Red Cross Finds 5,000 Syrian Refugees Near Massacre Site
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-30T11:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/west-expels-syria-diplomats-as-annan-meets-on-houla-massacre-1-.html
More than 5,000 displaced Syrians,
mostly women and children without food or water, have been found
by a joint Red Cross-Red Crescent team close to the site of the
weekend massacre in Houla.  “Being freshly displaced from their homes, the people had
almost nothing to sustain themselves” when found in the village
of Burj al-Qa’i, Sean Maguire, spokesman for the  International
Committee of the Red Cross , said in an e-mailed statement today.
“People were worried, uncertain of their future and felt
unsafe.”  The ICRC and the Syrian Red Crescent workers left food,
water, mattresses and some medical supplies before leaving the
refugees yesterday “in schools, or with local families, or
wherever they can find shelter.”  The news came as  Japan  and Turkey today joined allies
around the world in expelling Syrian diplomats and expressing
revulsion at events in Houla.  While Assad and opposition forces last month agreed to the
peace plan proposed by United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan  and the
deployment of 300 UN cease-fire monitors, violence in the 14
month-old conflict has continued. Russia and China, long-
standing allies of Assad’s, today said they continued to oppose
military intervention.  According to UN estimates, the killings in Houla, western
Syria, left 108 people dead including 49 children. Most of the
victims died in their homes and entire families were killed
together, shot at close range, the UN Office of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights said yesterday, citing witnesses
and survivors. The UN said it was an “appalling massacre.”  Symbolic Measures  The announcements by Turkey and Japan followed similar
decisions yesterday by the U.S., U.K.,  Germany ,  France ,  Italy ,
 Australia ,  Canada ,  Spain , the Netherlands and Switzerland to
employ one of the strongest symbolic measures remaining in the
diplomatic armory.  “Japan resolutely condemns such inhumane violence,”
Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  told a news conference,
referring to last week’s massacre. It’s clear the Assad
government bears “the main responsibility” for the deaths,
Gemba said.  “The foreign community is raising the rhetorical bar once
again in order to avoid direct military intervention,”  Joshua Landis , a former resident of Damascus who’s director of the
Middle East program at the University of Oklahoma in Norman,
said yesterday.  ‘Tipping Point’  “We are at a tipping point,” Annan said in Damascus
yesterday after meeting Assad. “The killings continue and the
abuses are still with us today. As I reminded the President, the
international community will soon be reviewing the situation.”
Annan said he received no new commitments from Assad.  The massacre, which the U.S. and UN attributed to pro-
government shabiha militiamen, was “absolutely indefensible,
vile, despicable,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday. The victims were “innocent children,
women, shot at point-blank range by regime thugs, the shabiha,
aided and abetted by the Iranians, who were actually bragging
about it over the weekend,” she said.  The Syrian government blames the deaths on foreign-backed
terrorist groups, according to  Syria ’s state-run SANA news
agency.  ‘What’s the Point?’  “What’s the point of carrying out investigations if those
countries know in advance the identity of the criminal?” the
pro-government Al-Watan newspaper said in an editorial today,
referring to the diplomatic expulsions. “Following yesterday’s
decisions, it has become clearer to Syrians that there’s no
value in the Security Council’s resolutions and statements that
are meant only for media consumption while countries work behind
the scene to destroy Syria.”  Syria has expelled the Dutch charge d’affaires and has
given her 72 hours to leave the country, Syrian Foreign Ministry
spokesman Jihad Makdissi said on the Twitter social media
website. The U.S. suspended embassy operations in Damascus and
recalled Ambassador  Robert Ford  and the rest of its staff in
February. Several EU embassies have closed down, including the
German and French embassies.  China  said today that what it termed the “incident” in
Houla should be investigated at once and the perpetrators held
accountable.  “The fundamental way out for the Syrian issue is that all
parties concerned should support and cooperate with Annan’s
mediation efforts and push for the different factions in Syria
to solve their crisis through negotiation and consultation,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman  Liu Weimin  told a regular briefing in
Beijing today.  UN Veto  Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov said his
country will use its veto in the Security Council to block any
military intervention in Syria, Interfax reported.  Nuland said the U.S. and its allies are considering a bid
for further sanctions against Syria by the  Security Council .
French President  Francois Hollande , speaking on France2
television, said he will try to persuade Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  to agree when they meet June 1 in Paris.  The  Security Council  condemned the killings on May 27. The
UN estimates that as many as 10,000 people have died during the
violence, which began with peaceful protests and has degenerated
into a conflict involving heavy weaponry. U.K. Foreign Secretary
William Hague told the  British Broadcasting Corp.  on May 27 that
the total may be as many as 15,000.  At least 62 people were killed yesterday, according to the
website of the Local Coordination Committees, an activist group.
Some 13 corpses, hands tied behind their backs, were found in
Deir al-Zour, the Al Arabiya news channel reported, citing local
activists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  