-- Western Australia to Get Rain This Week, Boosting Crop Prospects
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-29T05:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/western-australia-to-get-rain-this-week-boosting-crop-prospects.html
Grain regions in  Western Australia ,
the nation’s biggest wheat grower, may receive rain this week,
easing concerns that dry weather may curb planting.  Most of the main grain-growing areas will get as much as 5
millimeters (0.2 inches) in the four days to June 1, according
to the  Bureau of Meteorology.  Some regions may get as much as 10
millimeters of rainfall during the period, it said.  Growers need rain to boost winter crops, including wheat,
barley and canola. Western  Australia  had below-average rainfall
in April and further dry conditions may curb planting, CBH
Group, the state’s largest grain handler, said May 14. The
country’s wheat production is set to drop 13 percent to 25.7
million metric tons as farmers switch to barley and canola, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences said March 6.  The rain forecast “means many producers will have enough
moisture to complete their seeding programs,”  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , wrote in
a note today. “Early-seeded crops in Western Australia will
benefit greatly from any moisture” though the state “remains
unfavorably dry”, he said.  Wheat has advanced 3.3 percent this year amid concerns that
droughts from the U.S. to  Russia  may reduce output. The July-
delivery contract fell as much as 1.1 percent to $6.7225 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade today and was at $6.745 at
10:58 a.m. in  Singapore .  Eastern Australia  Between 10 millimeters and 50 millimeters of rain  fell  in
Australia’s eastern grain-growing regions in the week ended May
28, according to the weather bureau.  “Last week’s rainfall will allow favorable early crop
development across much of eastern Australia’s grain belt,”
Mathews wrote. A forecast for more rain in the first week of
June will maintain a favorable production environment, he said.  Most of New South Wales, the country’s second-biggest wheat
producer, will get between 15 millimeters and 50 millimeters in
the eight days to June 5, the weather bureau said. Some areas
may get as much as 100 millimeters, it said.  Australia is the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter
after the U.S., according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  