-- Witkin’s Surreal Fetishists Lure Parisians: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-05-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/witkin-s-surreal-fetishists-lure-parisians-review.html
Joel-Peter Witkin’s photographs
aren’t for everybody. His many detractors accuse him of
tasteless horror effects and an unhealthy obsession with death,
mutilation and sexual perversion.  Yet no one denies his technical virtuosity and his talent
to resuscitate a bygone era, the world of 19th-century
daguerreotypes.  “Heaven or Hell,” an exhibition at the old  National
Library  in Paris, displays about 70 of Witkin’s photographs
alongside an equal number of more or less related prints from
its own holdings.  Heaven is represented by Renaissance and Baroque images of
the Crucifixion, “Vanitas” skulls and the martyrdom of saints
such as the flaying of St. Bartholomew or the shearing of St.
Agatha’s breasts.  Hell appears in the guise of Francisco de Goya, Felicien
Rops and other experts on the dark side of human life.  Witkin, who was born in 1939 in  Brooklyn , claims to have
been marked by two childhood memories -- the religious clashes
between his Jewish father and his Catholic mother, who
eventually divorced, and an accident he witnessed in which a
little girl was decapitated.  Surreal Provocation  The sumptuous catalog makes much of Witkin’s religious
background and calls him a “postmodern Catholic.” Witkin
himself likens his photographs to prayers and proclaims: “What
I create are the most perfect images I can make of the
Providential graces I receive.”  It’s hard to take such pompous talk seriously.  The most obvious tradition on whose shoulders Witkin stands
is Surrealism. The Surrealists, too, were fond of photomontages
and loved to confuse and shock the viewer.  They, too, were fascinated with crime, perversion and
religion, the latter as a subject of blasphemy, not reverence.  One of the photos in the show openly quotes a Surrealist
masterwork, Man Ray’s “Le Violon d’Ingres.” The F-holes in
Kiki de Montparnasse’s back have morphed into deep wounds, and
the waist is grotesquely compressed by an elaborate belt: The
model, Witkin tells us in the newsletter of the National
Library, is a leather fetishist.  Red-Light District  Another of Witkin’s inspirations is E.J. Bellocq’s
Storyville Portraits, images of prostitutes from the red-light
district in  New Orleans . Shot before World War I and forgotten
for many decades, they created a sensation in 1970 when New
York’s  Museum of Modern Art  exhibited prints -- possibly the
first -- made from the battered glass-plate negatives.  Their old-fashioned gold tone combined with the blemishes
on the plates gave them a mysterious, almost poetic aura.  Witkin achieves similar effects by scratching, retouching
and chemically altering the negatives. Thanks to his archaic
printing technique, his surreal montages often look more like
paintings than photographs.  There are many erotic oddities in the show, misshapen
dwarves and obese nudes, an armless “Bacchus” and a “Woman
Masturbating on the Moon.” The severed head of a handsome young
man was shot in Mexico City, presumably because the laws there
are less restrictive than in the U.S.  Even if you don’t care for bondage scenes or masked men
driving nails into their nostrils, Witkin’s technically
brilliant “Little Shop of Horrors” is well worth a visit.  “Joel-Peter Witkin: Enfer ou Ciel” is at the Bibliotheque
Nationale (Site Richelieu), Paris, through July 1.  Information:  http://www.bnf.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Mark Beech on music and  Ryan Sutton 
on  New York  dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 