-- Xstrata Says Peru Copper Deliveries Unaffected by Protest
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-05-29T22:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/xstrata-says-peru-copper-deliveries-unaffected-by-protest.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s fourth-
largest copper producer, said its Tintaya mine in Peru is
running normally after community protests that led to four
deaths and prompted authorities to declare a state of emergency.  “Production from our Tintaya operation has not been
impacted by recent protest action,” a unit of the Zug,
Switzerland-based company said today in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Tintaya is able to deliver to port.”  The state of emergency in the southern Andean community of
Espinar will last 30 days as authorities seek talks with
residents demanding compensation for alleged pollution, Cabinet
Chief Oscar Valdes said last night on state television.
Environmental protests in Peru have halted mining projects by
companies including  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and
 Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)  during the past year.  Protesters in Espinar near Cuzco burned company offices and
took a local official hostage yesterday, while 76 police
officers were injured, according to Valdes’ office. Four
protesters were shot dead and 20 others were wounded in clashes
with police, who arrested about six local leaders, Espinar
Municipality spokesman Hugo Maquera said.  Riot Police  Several hundred riot police patrolled streets and highways
in the area today, according to footage broadcast by Lima-based
television Canal N. Some shops reopened today after the nine-day
protest, while schools remained closed, Maquera said.  “The community has been demanding an investigation into
pollution of their water sources for a long time,” he said
today by telephone. “We trust a government delegation will be
able to set an agenda for dialogue on Thursday.”  The protests, which followed attacks that suspended
Newmont’s $4.8 billion Minas Conga gold project in November, may
deter $50 billion in mining investment projects if President
Ollanta Humala fails to solve the dispute quickly, said Cesar Perez-Novoa, a managing director at Celfin Capital.  “We expect harsh political consequences from the
unfortunate events that led to the death of the protesters,”
Perez-Novoa said today in a note to clients. “Social unrest
will cause investors to think twice before investing in mining
districts that have a history of social discontent.”  ‘Less Optimistic’  Peru ’s main risks are social unrest and the euro-zone
crisis, central bank President Julio Velarde said today at a
seminar in  Lima . Investments are unlikely to continue without
peace, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla told the same event.  “We’re probably less optimistic than we would have been
six weeks ago” as the central bank evaluates growth prospects
this year, Velarde said.  Tintaya, Peru’s third-largest copper mine, produces 90,000
metric tons a year and is scheduled to start a $1.5 billion
expansion by the end of the August that will lift capacity by
78 percent, according to the company. The mine is meeting all
environmental obligations and is willing to improve social
programs, Xstrata said.  “We are committed to constructive engagement with all our
stakeholders to address their concerns and we are working with
national and provincial authorities to establish a dialogue with
those involved in the protests,” Xstrata said.  Xstrata rose 1.9 percent to 957.8 pence in  London  today.  Peru’s benchmark  stock index  gained 0.8 percent while the
yield on the government’s benchmark sol-denominated bond due
August 2020 fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 5.26 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  