-- Yahoo’s Yamli Deal to Spur Arab Startups as Facebook Expands
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-05-31T09:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/yahoo-s-yamli-deal-may-spur-mideast-venture-capital-investments.html
(Corrects website address in 16th paragraph of story first
published yesterday.)  Habib Haddad says when he needed
money three years ago to fund Yamli, an online Arabic
transliteration service, he had to sell his furniture. His deal
with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  this week is a sign investors are more willing
to put money into  Middle East  startups.  “I had $100 left in my account and my credit cards were
maxed out” after initial investments from two Google Inc.
executives ran out, Haddad, 31, said in an interview in Dubai
May 28. That day, Haddad, who also runs a fund investing in
startups, announced an agreement making Yahoo the latest company
to use the technology he developed with fellow Lebanese
entrepreneur Imad Jureidini.  Deals like this may encourage a growing breed of early-
stage investors and venture capital funds in the Middle East to
boost investments to lure global companies, say investors such
as Con O’Donnell, a Cairo-based entrepreneur. O’Donnell sold his
stake in the digital media company he co-founded to  Vodafone
Egypt (VODE) , a unit of  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Funds run by entrepreneurs such as Haddad are investing in
 Egypt , Lebanon, Jordan and Bahrain, extending a lifeline to
struggling startups and defying an economic slowdown in
countries hit by political unrest. Bank lending to small
businesses in the region is the lowest in the world, according
to a World Bank study. Policy makers across the Middle East say
the growth of small companies is critical to lower the world’s
highest youth unemployment rate.  More Investment  “Activity is picking up,” Tarek Assaad, managing partner
at Ideavelopers, a unit of Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE,
the biggest publicly traded Arab investment bank, said in a
telephone interview. “More money is going into  venture capital 
funds and these funds are investing more.”  Haddad’s fund, Wamda, is backed by Dubai-based Abraaj
Capital, the biggest private equity fund in the Middle East.
Wamda has invested in seven companies since the end of 2011, he
said. Tenmou, a Bahrain-based fund that counts the government’s
Bahrain Development Board among its partners, is in the “final
stage of making five more investments” after concluding
agreements with four startups since July last year, Chief
Executive Officer Hasan Haider said by phone May 28.  Ideavelopers focuses exclusively on technology companies,
Assaad said, taking advantage of a “phenomenal growth” in
Internet traffic in Egypt after last year’s uprising. Activists
used social networks such as Facebook and Twitter to mobilize
anti-regime protesters.  Facebook Expands  Facebook Inc (FB) , which raised $16 billion this month in the
biggest initial share sale for a technology company in history,
today started a sales office in Dubai to serve the Middle East
and North  Africa . The social-networking company has 45 million
users in the region, Joanna Shields, the company’s vice
president and managing director of  Europe , Middle East and
Africa, told a news conference in Dubai.  Six months after the January 2011 uprising, Ideavelopers
invested in Nefsak, an Egyptian version of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
offering more than 22,000 products online ranging from books to
clothes and electronics. Like Haddad, Nefsak’s 39 year-old
founder Sherif Nassar had a rough time seeking funds when he
started the company in 2008. Banks “told me I need to be
operational for three years” to qualify for a loan, he said.
“I had to sell personal stuff.”  Unemployment Concerns  Nefsak expanded from three people sharing a borrowed office
with one telephone to a staff of 30, and Nassar forecast on May
28 the business will grow “by double-digit factor every month
on average for the next four years.”  This compares with Egypt’s economy, which grew at the
slowest rate in at least a decade, causing almost one million
people to lose their jobs, official data show. In  Tunisia , where
a street vendor set himself ablaze and kicked off a wave of
uprisings that spread to countries such Egypt,  Libya , Yemen and
Bahrain, the economy contracted 1.8 percent. Unemployment surged
to more than 18 percent.  Lowering unemployment requires private businesses to invest
in entrepreneurs, Haddad said in Dubai. Yahoo’s purchase of
Yamli’s technology license, which enables users to convert words
typed in Latin characters into their Arabic equivalent, is the
company’s latest investment in the Middle East after buying the
Arabic-language portal Maktoob Inc. in 2009.  Still in Infancy  Still, venture capital remains in its infancy in the
region. Such investments in the U.S., the world’s largest
economy, reached $29.1 billion in 2011, the highest in three
years, according to data posted on the website of the Arlington,
Virginia-based  National Venture Capital Association .  Middle East stock markets are struggling to recover to pre-
financial crisis levels, making it harder for venture capitalist
to cash in on their investments by selling shares to the public
along the lines of Facebook Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Google’s IPO
raised $1.9 billion in 2004.  While Dubai’s  benchmark stock index  gained 9 percent this
year, it’s still 75 percent below the level it reached at the
end of 2007, according to data on Bloomberg. Egypt’s  EGX 30
Index (EGX30)  is 34 percent below the pre-uprising level.  The potential for entrepreneurship in the region is also
being “oversold,” said O’Donnell, who has invested in
 books.com.eg , a website that sells mainly Arabic books.  Not Just Technology  “People are being told ‘be an entrepreneur and you will be
the next  Mark Zuckerberg ’,” O’Donnell, 46, said by phone May
28, referring to Facebook’s co-founder. “The reality is that
they should be told ’one or two of you will be lucky if they
made it to the next round of funding’.”  Still, O’Donnell notes a growing interest of investors in
startup companies. As he offered advice to 12 teams of
entrepreneurs in Egypt in the last eight months, he found
himself thinking of them as “really lucky. People are mentoring
you for free, putting you in touch with investors. None of this
was there when I started,” he said.  While most funds lean toward technology companies, some,
like Bahrain’s Tenmou, don’t share the bias. Among the fund’s
investments is a company that set up the first weight-loss
center in the island-kingdom, said Haider, Tenmou’s 27-year-old
chief executive. Wamda is investing in restaurants run by a
Lebanese couple in Tunisia and a parenting website run by three
Egyptian women, Haddad said.  The fund also invested in a company started by two Lebanese
in Byblos, a coastal resort town north of  Beirut . Woopra, which
now has an office in Silicon Valley, offers real-time analysis
of  Internet traffic , competing with researcher Omniture Inc.  “We invested in them because we think they have a huge
international potential,” Haddad said. For the time being, he
says he’s not worried about exit opportunities.  “We focus on making the companies we invest in very solid,
to make revenue and sustain themselves, and if you follow that
mentality you will not be that itched to exit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  