-- Yoma Jumps Most in 4 Months on Myanmar Outlook: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-05-29T09:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/yoma-jumps-most-in-4-months-on-myanmar-outlook-singapore-mover.html
Yoma Strategic Holdings Ltd., (YOMA)  a
developer of properties in Myanmar, posted its biggest gain in
almost four months in Singapore trading on expectations that
housing demand will boost earnings.  Yoma climbed 18 percent to 45 Singapore cents at the close
in local trading, the biggest gain since Feb. 13. The company,
which gets almost all of its sales from Myanmar, may benefit
from the 64 million people and reserves of natural gas and
lumber as Myanmar reconnects with the global economy following
five decades of isolation during military rule.  “Property is a very attractive business to be in, in an
emerging, frontier market like this,” Andrew Rickards, chief
executive officer of the company, said in an interview with
Bloomberg television in  Singapore  today. Property “tends to be
one of the areas that goes up first as people get increasing
wealth, the first thing they want to do is buy a property.”  Singapore-based Yoma has been increasing its investments in
Myanmar. Profit more than doubled to S$6 million ($4.7 million)
in the year ended March 31, it said on May 25. The developer got
shareholder approval to buy a 70 percent stake in Star City, a
property in Yangon, from its unit Serge Pun & Associates for
S$91 million. The project involves the construction of 9,000
residential units as well as shopping and commercial
developments. The company expects sales from this project will
span out over the next six to eight years.  India  will provide $500 million in credit to Myanmar under
one of a dozen pacts signed during the first visit by an Indian
prime minister to the country’s eastern neighbor in a quarter of
a century, according to a statement issued by India’s foreign
ministry in  New Delhi . Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
arrived in Myanmar on May 27 for a three-day visit.  Yoma’s shares have risen more than sixfold in the past year
following political and economic changes in Myanmar since
President Thein Sein took over last year. His biggest financial
market policy shift so far is an attempt to unify the multiple
exchange rates in the Asian nation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  