-- ‘Avengers’ Sets Second-Weekend Record With $103.2 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-05-14T22:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/-avengers-sets-second-weekend-record-with-103-2-million-1-.html
“Marvel’s The Avengers” broke
another box-office record, taking in $103.1 million for  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  in its second weekend in U.S. and Canadian theaters.  The film surpassed the $75.6 million benchmark for a
second-weekend performance, set in 2009 by “Avatar,”
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement. Last week, “The Avengers” smashed the opening-
weekend record with $207.4 million in domestic receipts. The
vampire comedy “Dark Shadows,” starring  Johnny Depp , opened in
second place with $29.7 million.  The records raise the prospect studios will top their
previous best yearly sales of $10.6 billion set in 2009,  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com Box-Office, said in an
interview. Sales for 2012 are up 18 percent over 2011 and
attendance is ahead 20 percent, according to Hollywood.com.
Opening May 25 is  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Men in Black 3,” forecast by
Boxoffice.com to generate $205 million in domestic sales.  “‘Avengers’ still remains the must-see movie of the
weekend,” said Phil Contrino, editor at Boxoffice.com “There
is a great deal of positive word of mouth surrounding the film
and the must-see factor is definitely there.”  “Avengers” is the first movie ever to post back-to-back
weekends of $100 million-plus sales, Hollywood.com said. The
film topped $1 billion in sales worldwide yesterday, 19 days
after its U.S. release, Hollywood.com said.  ‘Dark Shadows’  Disney Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  told investors
on a conference call last week the company will turn “The
Avengers” into a franchise. The studio also will continue to
draw individually from the characters for more films, he said.
Disney is developing a third “ Iron Man ” movie and a sequel to
“Thor,” the hammer-wielding Norse demigod also featured in
“The Avengers.”  In “The Avengers,” several Marvel heroes band together to
fight an army of aliens led by Loki, also a character from Norse
mythology. The movie stars Robert Downey Jr. as Iron Man, Chris
Hemsworth as Thor and  Scarlett Johansson  as Black Widow.  “Dark Shadows,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., is
inspired by the 1960s daytime television show about a New
England family entangled with vampires, ghosts and werewolves.
Director Tim Burton’s tongue-in-cheek interpretation also
features  Michelle Pfeiffer , Helena Bonham Carter and Eva Green.  Contrino said he was expecting “Dark Shadows” to open
with about $35 million in receipts, though the popularity of
“Avengers” weighed on that number.  “Dark Shadows” was the only film to open in wide release.  ‘The Hunger Games’  Among returning movies, Sony’s romantic comedy “Think Like
a Man” dropped to third place from second with $5.8 million.  “The Hunger Games” was fourth with $4.5 million. The
movie, based on the Suzanne Collins novel, has generated $387
million in domestic ticket sales for  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. (LGF)  since it was released on March 23.  Warner Bros.’s romantic drama, “The Lucky One,” finished
fifth with $4.1 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 26 percent to
$162.3 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. The
amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May 11, May
12 and yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  