-- ‘Trigger-Happy’ Investors Boost IPO Insurance Through Litigation
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-05-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/-trigger-happy-investors-boost-ipo-insurance-through-litigation.html
Investor lawsuits filed in the wake
of share sales by  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and Deutsche Telekom AG are
boosting the appeal of insurance for public offerings.  Almost 19 percent of the 3,510 initial public offerings on
a U.S. stock exchange between 1996 and 2009 were defendants in
at least one U.S. securities class-action, according to
 Cornerstone Research . Groupon, the biggest online coupon company
that has slumped by more than half since its November IPO, is
being sued by an investor after the firm reported a “material
weakness” in its financial controls on March 30.  “Shareholders have been getting more trigger-happy in
suing companies for damage claims,” said Niels Joehnk, who
heads financial lines at German insurance broker Schunck Group
in Munich. “Therefore lawyers that help prepare an IPO are
typically recommending IPO insurance to their clients.”  While the IPO market hasn’t returned to 2007 levels, this
month’s landmark offering by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  may kick-start sales
shelved amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. That may boost the $1 billion
IPO insurance market as insurers, including Allianz SE,  Zurich
Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  and  Chubb Corp. (CB) , sell more protection to
firms, their executives and bankers against claims relating to
mistakes in prospectuses and marketing presentations.  “Demand for IPO insurance is on the rise again,” said
Hamburg-based Dennis Sander, who is responsible for the coverage
at Chubb in  Germany . “A successful major IPO, such as Facebook,
could open the door for other share sales, if the  European debt
crisis  remains under control.”  Biggest Internet IPO  Facebook CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  met with would-be investors on
May 7 ahead of an IPO planned for later this month. The social
networking site plans to raise as much as $11.8 billion, the
biggest ever IPO for an  Internet company .  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for the  Menlo Park , California-
based company, declined to comment on whether Facebook has
purchased IPO insurance.  The “vast majority” of share sales have prospectus
liability insurance, said Jochen Koerner, a member of the
executive board in Germany and  Austria  at  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC) ,
the world’s second-biggest insurance broker.  “Sellers as well as other parties involved need to make
sure they are covered for more litigious shareholders and a
higher complexity of risks that need to be addressed in the IPO
prospectus,” he said. “We are getting an increasing number of
requests for information on IPO insurance.”  The market for IPO insurance is “$1 billion globally or
even more,” said Markus English, a European financial lines
manager at Zurich-based insurer Ace Ltd.  Policy Prices  As with directors and officers insurance, Public Offering
of Securities Insurance doesn’t cover fraudulent behavior. The
price of the typically three to six-year policies ranges from
0.4 percent to 10 percent of the amount covered, depending on
the assessed risk, according to insurers surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sky Deutschland AG expects its prospectus and D&O policies
will cover shareholder damage claims relating to offering
documents for its 2005 IPO and 2007 capital increase, according
to the German Pay-TV broadcaster’s 2011  annual report . The firm
controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. also expects “any
associated cost, in particular legal costs,” to be covered by
insurers, Sky said in the report.  Sky agreed to a 14.5 million-euro ($19 million) settlement
with institutional investors in October 2010. Joerg Allgaeuer, a
spokesman for Sky Deutschland, declined to comment further.  Exposed Moment  About 50 insurers offer IPO coverage with five or six
market leaders, said Carsten Wiesenthal, who is responsible for
financial lines coverage in Germany at Munich-based  Allianz SE (ALV) ’s
industrial insurance unit. Since most companies limit their
individual IPO coverage to 25 million euros, larger share sales
are covered by a group of insurers for as much as 300 million
euros, he said.  “An IPO is a highly exposed moment in the life of a
company and that needs to be covered,” said Wiesenthal. “A lot
of IPOs that were put on hold over the last years are now being
revisited, which could boost demand for IPO insurance.”  RAG Stiftung, majority owner of Evonik Industries AG, said
on March 23 it plans an IPO of the chemical maker in the first
half, after shelving the offering last year.  Rheinmetall AG, the maker of KS Kolbenschmidt engine
pistons and a partner in Germany’s Puma battle tank, will sell
shares in its automotive division in the first half of this year
to focus on its defense business. Rheinmetall declined to
comment on whether the company will buy IPO insurance.  Deutsche Telekom Case  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Europe’s second-largest phone company,
is being sued by about 17,000 investors over its sale of  200
million shares  in a third public offering in 2000.  Investors are seeking about 80 million euros as they claim
that Deutsche Telekom’s share sale prospectus contained dozens
of mistakes. They allege Deutsche Telekom improperly reported
the value of real estate and didn’t in a timely way disclose its
intention to acquire U.S. phone company VoiceStream in 2000.  The Frankfurt Higher Regional Court has scheduled a ruling
for May 16. Deutsche Telekom declined to comment.  Groupon was sued on April 3 by investor Fan Zhang, who
alleged that the deal-of-the-day coupon company’s officers,
directors and underwriters misled investors about its business
performance prior to its IPO.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon,
declined to comment while Zhang’s lawyers didn’t reply to emails
and phone calls from Bloomberg News.  “Every company involved with the public offering of
securities is liable for the information it discloses and
provides to potential investors,” said Christoph Leuzinger,
global chief underwriting officer for Management Liability at
Zurich Insurance Group AG. “It is a cyclical product, when the
economy recovers, you see more IPOs which will automatically
lead to more IPO insurance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  