-- Formula 1 Racetrack Fire Hurts 31 as Williams Celebrates Win
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-05-13T23:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/maldonado-takes-first-formula-1-win-for-williams-since-2004-1-.html
Thirty-one people required medical
attention after a fire engulfed the Williams Formula One team’s
garage as staff celebrated Pastor Maldonado’s breakthrough
victory at the  Spanish Grand Prix .  The blaze broke out an hour after yesterday’s race at the
Circuit de Catalunya in Montmelo, a police official said by
telephone from Barcelona. Seven people were transferred to a
variety of local hospitals where they are receiving treatment,
according to Formula One’s governing body, the  Federation
Internationale de l’Automobile .  The incident marred what was Grove, England-based
Williams’s first race victory since Juan Pablo Montoya took the
checkered flag at the Brazilian Grand Prix in 2004.  “The team, the fire services and the police are working to
determine the root cause of the fire,” Williams said in a
 statement . The fire began in the area where fuel was stored,
Williams added.  Mechanics from the Caterham and Force India teams helped
Williams staff put out the flames, the FIA said. Press
photographs showed the burnt-out racing car of Maldonado’s
teammate  Bruno Senna .  Earlier, the 27-year-old Maldonado had held off Ferrari’s
 Fernando Alonso  to win by 3.2 seconds and become the first
Venezuelan to win a Formula One race.  Kimi Raikkonen  of Lotus
was third, 0.7 seconds further back.  Alonso pulled even with Red Bull’s defending world champion
Sebastian Vettel on 61 points atop the standings after five of
20 races. For the first time in 29 years, five different drivers
have won the first five races.  500-1 Outsider  Maldonado, who is in his second Formula One season and had
never finished higher than eighth, was rated a 500-1 outsider by
 William Hill Plc (WMH)  before yesterday’s qualifying session,
according to a news release by the U.K. bookmaker.  Maldonado, who started in pole position, lost the lead to
Alonso on the first bend, although he kept within 2 seconds of
the Spaniard and regained the lead during a round of pit stops
after 25 laps.  Alonso moved to within half a second of Maldonado with
eight of the 66 laps remaining, although he didn’t begin a
concerted attack to pass him.  After climbing out of his Williams car, which has
sponsorship from Caracas-based state oil company  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA , Maldonado raised his hands in the air to
celebrate. Unfamiliar with protocol after taking a top-3 place,
he had to be reminded to shake hands with Alonso and Raikkonen
and celebrate with Williams mechanics. He then bumped into a
television camera tailing him.  ‘Unforgettable Race’  It was the 114th win race win for Williams, the third-
oldest team which has the highest number of victories after
Ferrari and McLaren.  “We had a great rhythm and could control Ferrari and
Lotus,” Maldonado said. “It was an unforgettable race.”  Romain Grosjean finished fourth for Lotus and Kamui Kobayashi was fifth for Sauber. Vettel, who won 11 of 19 races
last season, had to rally to take sixth after serving a drive-
through penalty for not slowing sufficiently under yellow
warning flags.  Nico Rosberg  was seventh for Mercedes and
McLaren’s Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button finished eighth and
ninth, respectively.  Hamilton was stripped of pole position two days ago and
started last of 24 drivers after his McLaren car didn’t have
enough fuel to return to the pits and provide the required one-
liter sample for testing.  Record seven-time champion  Michael Schumacher  crashed out
after his Mercedes hit the back of Senna’s Williams on lap 13.
After running into a gravel trap, Schumacher unscrewed his
steering wheel and threw it out of the cockpit in disgust.  Schumacher, 43, said in a televised interview that Senna
drove dangerously by veering right and then left in front of
him. Senna said the German “probably misjudged me a little.”  Race officials who reviewed the crash ordered Schumacher to
start five places further back than his qualifying position at
the next race, the Monaco Grand Prix, on May 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  