-- Apple Co-Founder Wozniak Would Buy Facebook at Any
-- B y   S h r a y s i   T a n d o n   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-05-14T05:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/apple-founder-wozniak-to-buy-facebook-regardless-of-price.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder  Steve Wozniak 
said investors looking to make money should buy  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
shares when the social networking site sells stock in what may
be a record initial public offering for an Internet business.  Wozniak, who built the first  Apple computer  with  Steve Jobs 
and co-founded the company with him in 1976, said he would
consider buying the stock regardless of its valuation this week.
 Mark Zuckerberg , who  started  Facebook while a student at  Harvard
University  in 2004, combines Wozniak and Jobs’s talents, he said
in an interview yesterday.  Facebook’s IPO, scheduled for May 17, plans to raise as
much as $11.8 billion and values the operator of the world’s
most popular social networking site at as much as $96 billion.
Investors in the sale are betting the company’s database of 526
million daily active users makes it worth about 99 times the  net
income  earned in the 12 months through March 31.  “I would invest in Facebook,” Wozniak said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Sydney. “I don’t care
what the opening price is.”  A Bloomberg poll of investors conducted May 8 found 79
percent thought the valuation implied by the IPO was too high.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company is offering 337.4
million shares at $28 to $35.  “It’s a bit of a gamble,”  Paul Budde , an independent
telecommunications analyst, said by phone from Bucketty,
 Australia  today. “There are plenty of risks along the line.”  Technical Ability  Zuckerberg is a “real acute” businessman who mixes
technical ability with the vision and corporate acumen of Steve Jobs, Wozniak said.  “I was thankful to have a partnership with Steve Jobs and
I see Mark Zuckerberg closer to the combination of us,” he
said. “When he speaks he speaks with a lot of idealism for the
users and a lot of good ideas for the product overall.”  Wozniak is chief scientist at  Fusion-io Inc. (FIO) , a maker of
flash-memory technology. The Salt Lake City-based company counts
Facebook as its biggest customer.  Facebook contributes 36 percent of Fusion-io’s revenue,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg, followed by 24 percent
coming from Apple and 14 percent from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Holding Out  Wozniak said Zuckerberg’s decision to hold out as long as
possible before selling shares to the public was the right
strategy for the social networking company.  “I’m glad they held out so long,” he said. “You don’t
have to think that your only goal can be an IPO.”  Facebook announced last January that it would start filing
public financial reports this year because it expected to breach
a regulatory threshold on the number of its shareholders.  U.S. companies with more than 500 shareholders have
historically had to publish their financial data under investor-
protection laws, removing many of the attractions of being
structured as a closely-held company. The 500-shareholder limit
was raised to 2,000 under an act which passed the U.S. Senate
March 22.  Describing himself as a “laboratory scientist” more than
a businessman, Wozniak said he had mixed feelings about a
potential takeover of Fusion-io amid speculation the company may
become a target.  Rajesh Ghai, a San Francisco-based analyst for ThinkEquity,
describes the company as a “strong acquisition candidate” and
estimates its shares could fetch as much as $40 in a takeover.  Fusion-io  shares  closed May 11 at $21.41 and have risen 13
percent since the company first sold shares to the public in
June. The stock has declined 47 percent from its Nov. 17 peak of
$40.34.  “Once you have an IPO like Fusion-io did, oh my gosh
you’ve now got to look at targets that you can add to your
base,” he said. “You’ve also got to worry about who might
acquire you. And is that good or bad? It’s sort of a sell-out in
my mind.”  After the IPO, Facebook shares will trade on the Nasdaq
Stock Market under the symbol FB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Shraysi Tandon in Sydney at 
 standon14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  