-- Argentina as No Claims-Nation Revealed in Repsol Losses: Energy
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-05-14T15:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/argentina-as-no-claims-nation-revealed-in-repsol-losses-energy.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP) , the Spanish oil
explorer seeking $10.5 billion from Argentina for seizing its
assets, will line up behind companies from Exxon Mobil Corp. to
 Unisys Corp. (UIS)  yet to be repaid by the most-sued nation on earth.  There are 26  cases pending  against Argentina, more than any
other country, at the  World Bank ’s International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes in  Washington , the principal
arbitration court for claims against sovereign countries. So
far, it has refused to pay any of the tribunal’s judgments,
according to a  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch economists’ report.  The prospects of compensation are dim for Madrid-based
Repsol, the worst-performing oil stock this year, because of
Argentina’s resistance to pay existing judgments and because
Repsol’s case will be behind those of hedge funds, utilities and
energy companies already pursuing reimbursement for currency
devaluations, nationalizations and rate freezes after
 Argentina ’s $95 billion default a decade ago.  “You end up in a conga line of people holding unsatisfied
claims, and that’s not a good place to be,”  Michael Nolan , a
partner in the Washington office of international  law firm 
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, said in a phone interview.  Repsol said after the April 16 expropriation of a 51
percent stake of its YPF unit that it’s seeking $10.5 billion in
compensation. The company is planning to file for arbitration
and will defend its shareholders rights, spokesman Kristian Rix
said in a telephone interview on May 10 without specifying where
the company would pursue its claim for compensation.  Repsol shares fell to a three-year low in Madrid on April
23 after the newspaper La Nacion reported that Argentina would
seek to pay Repsol nothing for its majority stake in  YPF SA (YPFD) ,
seized by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  last month.  Local Appraisal Ordered  Fernandez said on April 16 that compensation for the
seizure will be determined by Argentina’s National Appraisal
Tribunal, the government-chartered tribunal established in 1944
to help determine the value of contested goods involving
companies or government agencies.  “It’s not just that they will try to not pay Repsol
anything,” said Arturo Porzecanski, an international finance
professor at American University in Washington. “Even if they
agree to pay something or are required to pay something, the
likely scenario is that they will drag it out for as long as
possible with appeals and annulments and reviews.”  The South American nation fights arbitration judgments,
concerned that any payment could increase its overall liability
and expose it to damages worth hundreds of billions of dollars,
Eric David Kasenetz  wrote  in the George Washington International
Law Review in 2010.  “They don’t mind spending hundreds of millions of dollars
on the best lawyers just to buy time,” Porzecanski said in a
telephone interview.  Government Goal  Cases seen by the World Bank’s panel, known by its initials
ICSID, can typically last four years or longer, said Abby Cohen Smutny, a partner with  White & Case  in Washington.  It is “safe to assume” that Repsol will be exploring its
options under bilateral investment treaties to bring an
arbitration case against Argentina that could be filed at the
ICSID, Smutny said.  In an effort to enforce existing arbitration judgments, the
U.S. in March suspended Argentina’s participation in a trade
program that allows certain goods from  developing countries  to
be imported duty-free. That was because of its refusal to pay
$300 million of ICSID arbitration awards to U.S. firms Azurix
Corp., a Houston-based wastewater service company, and Blue
Ridge Investments LLC.  Active on the Hill  “They are really encountering problems in Washington
now,” Carolyn Lamm, a partner with White & Case in Washington,
said in a phone interview from Istanbul. “Many of the judgment
creditors are very active on the Hill. I don’t think that they
will ultimately escape payment obligations.”  Venezuela, which has the second-most number of cases before
the ICSID after Argentina, requested to leave the arbitration
court on Jan. 24 as demands pile up from abroad for compensation
following a decade of nationalizations under President  Hugo Chavez , who said on Jan. 8 that Venezuela would not accept any
rulings from the court.  Chavez’s government has negotiated compensation for some
nationalized assets with steelmaker  Ternium SA (TX)  and settled out
of the ICSID with Mexican cement maker Cemex SAB for $600
million, about half of what the company was seeking in
arbitration, for seizing its local unit in 2008.  “It’s much easier to deal with Chavez. He has actually
paid fair compensation to those he expropriated and has honored
all of his country’s debts,” said Porzecanski. “His attitude
has been much more respectful of international treaties and even
domestic law than that of the Kirchners,” he said, referring
also to Fernandez’s deceased husband and former Argentine
president, Nestor Kirchner.  Enforcement Mechanisms  ICSID awards are enforceable in all 158 countries that are
signatories to the ICSID convention, said Lamm. Argentina faces
current pending cases from companies including  AES Corp. (AES) ,  Total
SA (FP)  and EDF International SA, according to the ICSID. Since
taking office in December 2007, Fernandez has taken over
Aerolineas Argentinas SA and seized $24 billion in private
pension funds.  “If Argentina loses most, or even a good portion, of the
claims pending in the ICSID, Argentina likely will face damages
amounting to tens, possibly hundreds, of billions of dollars,”
Kasenetz wrote  in the law review paper .  The ICSID’s ‘enforcement mechanisms are strong and most
effective with respect to assets that the country holds abroad
that may already be subject to existing judgments, said Nolan.
Arbitration courts use a rule to value expropriated assets based
on the amount the company was worth before the nationalization
was announced, said Lamm.  “Sooner or later, Argentina is going to have to deal with
its obligations if it ever wants to go to international  capital
markets  again,” she said. “Argentina will fight about every
comma, repeatedly, because it prolongs judgment day.”  Shale Play  Repsol’s threat to sue any company that invests in YPF
following the seizure is unlikely to deter investment in the
Vaca Muerta field that contains more then 20 billion barrels of
oil equivalent, said  Daniel Kerner , a Buenos Aires-based analyst
at the Eurasia Group.  “If they are unable to attract any investment whatsoever,
then they may change their strategy. If anything, they will
offer better terms to other companies rather than pay
compensation,” Kerner said in a telephone interview.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is seeking guarantees from Argentina for
its joint venture with YPF to develop the Vaca Muerta field,
newspaper Clarin reported on May 11. The negotiations are being
watched by  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Total SA, which may also be
interested in joint ventures with YPF, the Buenos Aires-based
newspaper reported.  “The thinking that they have is that companies will come
anyways, and the interest is very strong,” said Kerner.
“Companies are trying to find ways to come in. I think the
government may have a point.”  Repsol fell 2.3 percent to 13.72 euros today in Madrid. YPF
SA fell 7 percent to 83.00 pesos at 12:14 p.m. today in  Buenos
Aires .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  