-- As European Austerity Ends, So Could the Euro
-- B y   P e t e r   B o o n e   a n d   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-05-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/as-european-austerity-ends-so-could-the-euro.html
The euro currency is a malady that
condemns at least a generation of Greeks, Italians, Spaniards,
Portuguese and Irish to the economic infirmary.  In these nations,  unemployment rates  are now at their
highest levels in recent decades, and there are few prospects
for recovery in sight. The economists and politicians who
created the system still proclaim it can survive. Their time
would be better spent recognizing they made a bad mistake and
preparing for an orderly dismantling of the euro before the
damage spreads and further undermines European unity.  The problem isn’t just the region’s lack of competitiveness
or its budget deficits or the high stock of existing government
debt, which the  International Monetary Fund  now puts at 90
percent of the euro area’s gross domestic product (see Table 5
 in this report ). It is all of the above, compounded by five
years of complete political denial.  For three years, capital has been fleeing Europe’s
periphery for  Germany . That country’s liquid banks, competitive
labor markets and sound fiscal policies have made it the ideal
location in Europe for investment. The periphery’s illiquid
banks are sharply contracting credit to the productive sector,
even as their governments are cutting back and political
protests are mounting. Wages are too slow to adjust to dent
these powerful forces: Germany looks ever more attractive for
investors, further exacerbating the imbalances that brought us
to this point.  Fiscal Union  Is there any hope for the euro dream?  One potential way forward would be to create a European-
level fiscal union that assumes all national debt, much like
what  Alexander Hamilton  did as first U.S. secretary of the
Treasury. That isn’t going to happen in modern Europe. Why would
German taxpayers and savers agree to pay for the good times
previously enjoyed in Greece,  Italy  or  Spain ? Who could even ask
them to do so?  As a result, all eyes are turning to the  European Central
Bank , because some in the euro policy elite still hope loose
monetary policy and higher inflation rates will provide an
escape hatch. But addressing fiscal issues through monetary
means generally doesn’t work, and it does nothing to improve the
competitiveness of the struggling euro-area periphery.  It appears that the euro-area politicians and the ECB
agreed to a pact last year whereby banks bought government debt,
and the central bank provided the financing. In return, the ECB
got national governments to sign on to fiscal austerity. So far,
the results are disturbing.  Employment levels and leading indicators in Spain and Italy
imply the economic decline has accelerated. Greece continues to
fall. Ireland is held up as a success story, but its  debt levels 
are enormous, a great deal of fiscal adjustment remains to be
done, and the domestic economy declined over the past six
months.  Voters are already tired of what they perceive as austerity
-- see  Greece , Spain and now  France  -- and the policy debate has
begun to shift. The changed tone of the discussion is gradual
but it would be a mistake to overlook this development:
Austerity programs have been huge social and political failures,
removing one more hope for saving the euro area.  The ECB surely has more “firepower” to deploy. And it
probably will, not least because the institution itself could
disappear if the euro area fails. Its natural reaction will be
to double or quadruple its bets, issuing potentially limitless
credits to banks to keep sovereign-debt markets afloat (and bond
yields down).  Allowing Inflation  The ECB will also lobby for austerity, which would reduce
the amount of credit it needs to create. But democratically
chosen governments will simply refuse to comply. The central
bank will jettison its inflation-fighting credentials, and
instead pray that the monetary issuance needed to keep troubled
nations afloat isn’t too large and that inflation expectations
don’t start to increase.  But here’s the problem: Pursuing such a monetary policy is
a recipe for a dangerous loss of confidence in the euro system.  So far, this confidence has survived. A 10-year German
bund, priced in euros, yields only 1.5 percent, showing that
investors believe that credit risk, rather than inflation risk,
is all that matters.  Bund investors should beware. At the moment, most attention
is focused on Greece as the trigger for a euro-area collapse.
There are good reasons to believe Greece would be better off
leaving the euro area (although the exit could well be traumatic
initially), but the same logic also applies to many more
nations. And there are other triggers: Germany might become fed
up, Italy will eventually turn against Prime Minister  Mario Monti , and Spain’s woes are escalating.  Europe’s highly leveraged financial system may prove too
fragile to suffer even modest increases in the perceived risk of
a euro collapse. For example, what interest rate would you want
on a euro-denominated 10-year bond if you believed the euro
could turn into a basket of currencies, some of which would be
high-inflation -- the Greek drachma or Italian lira, at, say, 15
percent inflation per year -- and others, such as a new deutsche
mark, would be low-inflation, with perhaps 2 percent inflation?
Perhaps that bond would need to yield 8 percent. That is far
higher than current pricing.  Today, there are about 8.5 trillion euros ($11 trillion) of
sovereign bonds outstanding in the euro area, and more than $180
trillion in derivatives linked to  interest rates  (looking at the
notional value of those contracts and keeping in mind that “net”
derivative positions tend to understate true losses in a full-
blown crisis). These interest-rate derivatives -- known as swaps
-- are held by large leveraged financial institutions (banks,
 hedge funds ), or by pension and insurance companies with large,
long-term liabilities. If interest rates rise, bond prices fall,
and derivative contracts change in value (good news for people
who have hedged into fixed interest rates and a potential
disaster for those exposed to rising interest rates).  Interest Rates  Anyone who has bet heavily on interest rates staying low --
for example, an investor with a great deal of leverage -- would
be at risk of failure.  This type of shock could produce instability at least as
extensive as the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008. It would lead to massive
redistribution of capital and wealth, forcing some leveraged
institutions into instant insolvency. Investors would flee first
and check the details later.  Until recently, whenever troubles worsened in the euro
area, investors ran to German, Dutch and French bonds. Since
capital flight stayed within the currency area, the value of the
euro didn’t fall. During the last week, however, the number of
troubled nations increased. French bonds weakened alongside
those of Italy and Spain as concerns over Greece intensified.  External investors are also showing signs of impatience.
The Norwegian sovereign-wealth fund recently declared that it
would continue to reduce its holdings of euro-area assets due to
the long-term uncertainty in the region. It also cited what it
said was unfair treatment of national wealth funds, which were
involuntarily forced to accept Greek write-downs, while the ECB
and  European Investment Bank  made profits from their purchases
of that debt.  Here’s what happens next: The euro becomes cheaper, prodded
by the ECB taking extreme credit risk and the popular revolt
against austerity.  A cheap currency won’t solve  Europe ’s deeper problems.
Depreciation amounts to a nontransparent way for the Germans to
bear more of the costs of the failed euro experiment as their
purchasing power falls, but investors will still prefer Germany
to Greece. It also increases the risk that European and
international investors may simply lose confidence in the euro,
leading to mayhem in the area’s leveraged financial markets.  For European politicians, the most important task now is to
cover their tracks and blame others. Inflation is confusing. It
also is an unfair tax on savers and a transfer of wealth to
borrowers (assuming that interest rates can be held down or
otherwise controlled, probably through nonmarket means). The ECB
will now be under great pressure to take actions that create
inflation. This may bring the end of the euro.  ( Peter Boone  is a non-resident senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics, a visiting
senior fellow at the  London School  of Economics and an
adviser at Salute Capital Management.  Simon Johnson , a professor
at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  as well as a senior fellow
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, is  co-
author  of “White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our
National Debt, and Why It Matters to You.” The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  better cookstoves for
the developing world ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  next Kennedy
superstar ; David Aaker on  marketing brands ; Edward Conard on
 what drives the U.S. economy ;  Aaron David Miller  on  safe zones
in Syria ; Rachelle Bergstein on  wedges and World War I .  To contact the writers of this article:
Peter Boone at  pb@effint.org ;
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  