-- Matt Kuchar Wins Golf’s Players Championship for Fourth Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-14T04:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/matt-kuchar-wins-golf-s-players-championship-by-two-strokes.html
Matt Kuchar captured his fourth U.S.
PGA Tour title with a two-shot win at the Players championship,
golf’s richest tournament with a $9.5 million purse.  Kuchar, 33, shot a 2-under-par 70 yesterday and finished
with a four-round score of 13-under 275 at TPC Sawgrass in Ponte
Vedra Beach, Florida. Rickie Fowler, Zach Johnson, Ben Curtis
and Martin Laird tied for second place at 11 under.  Kuchar received $1.71 million for his first win since the
2010 Barclays tournament, the first event of the FedEx Cup
playoff series. He said the latest victory was the biggest of
his career, coming against a field that included nine of the top
10 players in the Official World Ranking.  “It’s exciting to win tournaments, to be in this position,
to have this trophy,” Kuchar said. “This tournament, you had
to have had the strongest field in the world, and to come out on
top is just an amazing feeling.”  Kuchar shot rounds of 68 the first two days and then had a
third-round 69 to start the final round one shot behind 54-hole
leader Kevin Na. Kuchar had four birdies and two bogeys
yesterday to become the first American to win the tournament
since Phil Mickelson in 2007. He celebrated the win with his
family -- including his wife, two sons and mother -- on the 18th
green.  “I’m very happy with where my game is and with what I’ve
become as a golfer,” Kuchar said at a news conference. “I try
not to think too much about being an elite player, being
considered a top-10 player in the world rankings, that sort of
thing. I just try to go out and play the best I can.”  Birdie Miss  Fowler, who got his first PGA Tour win the previous week in
Charlotte, North Carolina, missed a birdie putt at the final
hole to finish tied with Johnson, Curtis and Laird. They
received $627,000 apiece.  Luke Donald was 9 under par, one better than Na, Bo Van Pelt and Jhonattan Vegas. Na shot a 4-over-par 76 during the
final round.  Tiger Woods tied for 40th place at 1 under par, 12 shots
behind Kuchar, after a final-round 73. He shot below par once in
four rounds, with a second-round 68.  The PGA Tour next heads to Irving, Texas, for the Byron
Nelson Championship, which is scheduled for May 17-20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  