-- Aussie Falls Below Parity Versus Greenback on Greece
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-14T07:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/aussie-falls-toward-parity-versus-greenback-on-greece.html
The Australian dollar declined below
parity with its U.S. counterpart for the first time this year
amid concern that  Greece  will leave the euro bloc, curbing
demand for higher-yielding currencies.  Australia’s bond yields fell to records as Greek President
Karolos Papoulias is set to continue talks with political party
leaders today on forming a national unity government and Asian
stocks dropped for a fourth day. Demand for the Australian and
 New Zealand  currencies was supported after China cut the amount
of cash banks must set aside as reserves to stimulate growth,
brightening the export outlook for the South Pacific nations.  “Greece’s exit from the euro is becoming more and more a
mainstream discussion, and this is potentially destabilizing for
markets,” said Emma Lawson, a currency strategist in Sydney at
National  Australia  Bank Ltd. “In this generally risk-off
environment the risk is to the downside in the Aussie,”  Australia’s dollar fell to 99.80 U.S. cents, the lowest
since Dec. 20, before trading at 99.87 cents as of 5:42 p.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0020 on May 11. It slid 0.2 percent to 79.95 yen
from last week, when it lost 1.5 percent. New Zealand’s currency
declined 0.5 percent to 77.91 U.S. cents and dropped 0.3 percent
to 62.35 yen.  Australia’s bonds rose, pushing 10-, 15- and three-year
yields to record lows. The 10-year rate dropped as much as five
basis points to 3.238 percent, while the 15-year yield touched
3.573 percent and the three-year rate fell to 2.586 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 0.6 percent.  Greek Politics  Meetings brokered by Greece’s Papoulias are set to continue
after Syriza, the largest anti-bailout party, rejected a unity
government following last week’s inconclusive elections. Greece
may face new national elections unless a government is formed.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Australian
dollar will gain against the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was
25,104 on May 8, the least since November, and compared with net
longs of 52,280 a week earlier.  The Aussie has lost 5 percent in the past three months, the
worst performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  New Zealand
dollar  is second worst, with a 4.9 percent slide.  Worst Performers  Australia’s dollar halted three weeks of declines versus
the yen after the  People’s Bank of China  said May 12 that
reserve ratios will fall 50 basis points, effective May 18. That
was the third reduction in six months.  China  is Australia’s
biggest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export
destination.  China’s reserve ratio cut “provided some support to the
Aussie,” said Lawson. “But I think broader global concerns
around  Europe  are probably a stronger driver for today.”  Losses in the Aussie were also limited after data showed
the nation’s home approvals unexpectedly rebounded in March,
rising for the first time in three months.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 0.3 percent from February, when they fell 2.5
percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for a 2
percent decline in approvals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  