-- Avon Says Board Will Respond to Coty’s New Offer Within Week
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-05-14T15:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/avon-says-its-board-will-respond-to-coty-offer-in-a-week-1-.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  said it will
respond within a week to Coty Inc., the perfume-maker that last
week boosted its takeover offer for Avon to $10.7 billion.  Avon and its board and advisers will consider Coty’s latest
offer, the world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics seller said
yesterday in a statement. Today is the deadline for Coty’s
latest bid. Coty and its advisers will meet today to discuss
whether to let the offer lapse, a person familiar with the
matter said yesterday.  Last month Avon rejected Coty’s original bid of about $10
billion, saying the offer undervalued the company. New York-
based Avon has since appointed former  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
executive Sherilyn McCoy as chief executive officer and has said
it’s focused on turning around its operations after three years
of declining profit.  “They are taking care to look at the new offer and figure
out whether they need to respond to it in a different way than
the first offer,” Gregg Fatzinger, head of the consumer banking
group at Nomura Securities International in  New York , said today
in a telephone interview. “I think it’s the right dance to go
through.”  Avon rose 4.2 percent to $21.04 at 11:04 a.m. in New York.
The shares gained 16 percent this year before today.  Acquiring Avon would give Coty Chairman Bart Becht a strong
presence in  Brazil  and other  emerging markets  and add a new
door-to-door distribution channel for the New York-based
company’s cosmetics that would more than double its $4.5 billion
in annual sales.  Berkshire Backing  Coty’s latest offer is $24.75 a share, up from a previous
bid of $23.25. To add firepower to the bid, Coty secured equity
financing from  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
Berkshire will provide $2.5 billion of the more than $5 billion
in equity from BDT Capital Partners, which is backing the bid, a
person familiar with the matter said last week.  Avon’s board has been evaluating a due-diligence request
from Coty that seeks information on future products, global
expenses and headcount as the board decides whether to start
merger talks, people familiar with the matter said last week.  Coty, which makes perfumes by Heidi Klum and  Beyonce
Knowles , also wants information on possible legal liabilities,
said the people. Avon and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission are probing whether executives bribed foreign
officials in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Some Avon  board  members are telling investors they are
reluctant to turn over all of the information Coty is seeking,
especially the future-product details, said another person
familiar with the matter.  Richmont Bid  Richmont Holdings, a closely held company that invests in
consumer brands, has been working on its own bid for Avon,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  There have been about 280 takeovers in the cosmetics and
toiletries industry in the past decade, the largest being
 Procter & Gamble’s (PG)  $57.3 billion takeover of Gillette Co.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median price to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
paid in almost 30 of those deals was 10.8 times, in line with
Coty’s new offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  