-- Lawmakers Call for Investigation of Yemen Bomb Plot Leaks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-13T18:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/lawmakers-call-for-investigation-of-yemen-bomb-plot-leaks.html
Lawmakers from both political parties
called for investigations -- and possible prosecutions -- of
leaks about the intelligence operation that thwarted a terrorist
attack by Yemen-based al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.  “The FBI has to do a full and complete investigation,
because this really is criminal in the literal sense of the word
to leak out this type of sensitive, classified information on
really almost unparalleled penetration of the enemy,”
Representative Peter King, a  New York  Republican who is chairman
of the House Homeland Security Committee, said in an interview
today on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” television program.  King said reports provided to some news organizations on
counterterrorism measures that included use of a double agent
and disrupted a plot to build a potentially undetectable airline
bomb “caused the operation to be cut short before it could get
all the information that could have been gotten.”  Representative Mike Rogers, a Republican from  Michigan  who
heads the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence,
said his panel is conducting a “preliminary review” into what
he termed “a damaging leak.”  “We will make a determination -- either a full-blown
committee investigation or we’ll refer it to criminal charges to
the FBI,” he said on the CBS program “Face the Nation.”  ‘Chest-Thumping’  Rogers criticized “premature chest-thumping in this whole
thing” by some U.S. government officials.  “No national security operation ever should be used for a
headline under any circumstances” when lives are jeopardized,
he said.  As part of the plot’s disruption, U.S. intelligence
agencies seized the bomb and are working to update security
procedures to account for the threat. The plot and seizure were
first reported by the  Associated Press . The AP reported that the
CIA seized the device before a would-be bomber based in Yemen
had chosen a target or purchased airplane tickets.  President Barack Obama’s counterterrorism adviser,  John Brennan , who has called al-Qaeda a weakened force, visited Yemen
today to discuss “extremist groups”  and U.S. assistance with
Yemeni officials, the American Embassy in the Mideast nation
said. Brennan has said the U.S. must keep tabs on al-Qaeda’s
most active branch in the Yemen area.  Those efforts may have been harmed by disclosures about the
case, Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and
chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said on “Fox
News Sunday.”  ‘Tip Off’  “This leak was serious,” she said. “It certainly
jeopardizes our ability to relate to other countries and for
other countries to help us, and it gives a tip off” to al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula “to be more careful about who they use
as their couriers, as their bombers.”  Feinstein said “the leak did endanger sources and methods,
and the leak I think has to be prosecuted.”  Senator  Joseph Lieberman  of  Connecticut , chairman of the
Senate  Homeland Security  and Governmental Affairs Committee,
said on CNN that “one of the amazing results of this courageous
and brilliant counterterrorism operation was that we not only
stopped a planned terrorist attack on a U.S. airplane, but we
got the device.”  Lieberman, an independent from Connecticut who caucuses
with the Democrats, also said his committee would conduct a
public hearing May 23 into the prostitution scandal involving
the U.S. Secret Service.  “We’re going to have Director  Mark Sullivan  of the Secret
Service and the acting inspector general of the Department of
Homeland Security, Charles Edwards,” appear before the panel,
Lieberman said.  The secret service has come under scrutiny after 12
employees were accused of misconduct involving prostitutes
Cartagena,  Colombia , before a visit by President  Barack Obama 
last month. Nine of those employees are leaving the agency or
are being forced out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  