-- Billionaire Godrej Sees Property Beating Retail
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-05-13T18:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/billionaire-godrej-sees-growth-in-india-with-real-estate-retail.html
Indian billionaire Adi Godrej said
real estate will deliver his company’s fastest growth over the
next five years as foreign rivals such as  Unilever Plc (ULVR)  and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  constrain his flagship consumer-goods unit.  “The strongest growth potential we see is in our property-
development business,” Godrej, chairman of the Godrej Group,
said in an interview at his office campus on the outskirts of
Mumbai. “No one has any significant market share. It is divided
among a large number of players.”  Godrej Consumer Products Ltd. (GCPL) , in which Temasek Holdings
Pte. bought a 5 percent stake in January, has faced “tremendous
competition” in recent years from international companies eager
to tap India’s booming consumer market, said Godrej, 70. That
trend is set to continue, he said.  Unilever, the world’s second-biggest maker of consumer
goods, has almost a third of the beauty and personal-care market
in  India  after more than a century operating in the country. In
real estate, where investment rules constrain some global
operators, Godrej said he mainly contends with smaller, domestic
rivals. India’s property market is forecast to grow to $180
billion by the end of this decade from $66.8 billion in 2011,
according to the India Brand Equity Foundation.  Godrej’s optimism isn’t shared by some investors and
analysts.  Godrej Properties Ltd. (GPL)  has slumped 18 percent in the
past year, the worst performance among the group’s three
publicly traded units. Fifteen of the 22  analysts  that cover
Godrej Properties have a sell recommendation on the stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Not Positive  “If you compare the consumer business of Godrej with the
property business, yes, property will grow faster, but overall
we’re not very positive on Godrej Properties,” said Anubhav Gupta, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pvt. in Mumbai, who
recommends selling the shares.  The BSE India Realty Index tumbled 28 percent in the last
year as India’s central bank raised  interest rates  a record 13
times from March 2010 to rein in inflation. That cooled economic
growth to 6.9 percent in the 12 months to March 31, the slowest
pace in three years, and damped demand for homes and offices.
The bank cut its benchmark repurchase rate to 8 percent from 8.5
percent on April 17, the first reduction in three years.  $3.3 Billion Revenue  Adi Godrej’s son and youngest child Pirojsha Godrej, 31,
heads the property arm that plans developments spanning 74
million square feet. Eldest daughter Tanya Dubash, 43, is on the
boards of group companies Godrej Consumer and Godrej Industries.
Daughter Nisaba, 34, is president, human capital and innovation,
for Godrej Industries and associate companies. The group, which
started in 1897 as a maker of locks, has seven units with
combined annual revenue of $3.3 billion, according to its
website.  Godrej Consumer, which makes Cinthol deodorant and HIT home
insecticide,  surged  33 percent in the past year, compared with a
12 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Godrej
Industries Ltd. (GDSP) , a maker of chemicals and edible oils, rallied
25 percent.  Godrej Properties posted sales growth of 69 percent in the 
year ended March, while revenue at Godrej Consumer expanded 33
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Godrej 
Properties’ profit fell to 398 million rupees ($7.4 million) in 
the quarter ended March 31, compared with 600 million rupees a 
year earlier. Godrej Consumer’s net income rose to 1.93 billion 
rupees in the period from 1.42 billion rupees.  Treble Profit  Godrej consumer had 4.6 percent of the Indian beauty and
personal-care market in 2011, compared with 32.2 percent for
 Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the local unit of the maker of
Hellmann’s mayonnaise, and 5.4 percent for Cincinnati-based
Procter & Gamble, the world’s biggest  consumer-goods  company,
according to data from the Euromonitor Group. Godrej holds the
lead in home insecticides, with 33.9 percent of the market,
followed by Reckitt Benckiser Plc with 23.5 percent.  “For Godrej Properties to treble its profit in six years
is something that can happen,” said  Arun Kejriwal , director of
Kejriwal Research & Investment Services Pvt in Mumbai. “For
Godrej Consumer to do half of that, that is, one-and-a-half
times profit in six years, the sales would have to more than
double.” That can’t happen unless the company undertakes large
acquisitions, he said.  Eight Acquisitions  Godrej Consumer, India’s third-largest maker of personal-
care products by market value, has acquired companies in  Asia ,
 Africa  and  Latin America  to expand its presence overseas. It has
announced at least eight purchases since January 2010, including
the most recent acquisition of  Chile ’s Cosmetica Nacional. As
much as 38 percent of the company’s sales came from outside
India in the year ended March.  Asia, Africa and  South America  hold the most promise for
buyouts in areas including hair care and household products,
according to Godrej. “We wouldn’t look at the developed world
for acquisitions,” he said.  Indian companies will continue to look for overseas
acquisitions even after the rupee weakened 17 percent against
the dollar in the past 12 months, he said. The currency dropped
to a record low of 54.30 per dollar in December.  “Usually the earning potential of our acquisitions in the
developing world are dollar based,” Godrej said. “So if the
rupee depreciates, the earnings also go up in rupee terms.”  Godrej, whose hobbies include waterskiing and climbing
mountains, also took over as president of the  Confederation of
Indian Industry , the country’s largest business lobby group, in
April.  With foreign investors pulling money out of India amid
corruption scandals, tax disputes and a political stalemate that
has prompted  Standard & Poor’s  warn of a downgrade of the
country’s credit rating to junk status, Godrej said his aim will
be to push for better interaction between business and the
government to open up the economy and boost expansion.  “The main objective is to revive growth in India through
reforms and governance,” Godrej said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  