-- Bullish Wagers Plunge Most This Year on Greek Impasse
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-05-14T16:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/bullish-wagers-plunge-most-in-2012-on-greek-impasse-commodities.html
Speculators cut bets on a rally in
commodities by the most since November as Greece’s struggle to
form a new government and weaker-than-expected industrial output
in China erased this year’s gains in  raw materials .  Money managers reduced net-long positions across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 19 percent to 723,239  contracts  in the
week ended May 8, the biggest decline since Nov. 22, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 raw materials dropped 6.5 percent in eight
sessions through May 11, the longest slide since December 2008.  The euro plunged to its lowest level in more than three
months after inconclusive May 6 elections left Greece at a
political impasse, threatening the implementation of austerity
pledges and reigniting concerns that the country will have to
leave the currency union. More than $1 trillion was wiped from
the value of global equities last week as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
reported a $2 billion trading loss, adding to speculation that
global growth will falter and company earnings will slow.  “The market isn’t believing the global growth story,”
said  Jeffrey Sherman , who helps manage $34 billion of assets for
DoubleLine Capital in  Los Angeles . “You have this struggle in
 Europe , and most economists are forecasting a recession, and
that’s dominating headlines.”  The S&P GSCI fell 1.7 percent last week. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities dropped 2.1 percent, and the
dollar rose 1 percent against a basket of six major currencies.
Treasuries returned 0.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows. The GSCI gauge extended losses for a ninth session today,
falling as much as 1.8 percent to the lowest level since Dec.
20.  Cotton Tumbles  Eighteen of the materials tracked by the S&P GSCI declined
last week. Losses were led by corn, which plunged 6.3 percent,
the most since mid-January. Cotton tumbled to a 21-month low on
May 11 after a U.S. government report showed global inventories
will climb. Gold and silver retreated to four-month lows.  Gross domestic product in the euro area will drop 0.3
percent this year, the European Commission forecast May 11.
 Greece  will have the deepest contraction, with GDP shrinking 4.7
percent. Fifty-seven percent of investors said at least one
country will abandon the euro by year-end, according to the
Bloomberg Global Poll published May 10.  Industrial Output  China’s industrial output expanded 9.3 percent in April,
the slowest pace since 2009 and missing analysts’ forecasts for
growth of 12.2 percent, government data showed May 11.
Production at Indian factories, utilities and mines unexpectedly
declined 3.5 percent from a year earlier, the  Central
Statistical Office  said May 11. The median of 32 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 1.7 percent gain.  Commodities may rebound because producers of raw materials
are unable to keep up with increasing demand, said Adrian Day,
the president of Adrian Day Asset Management in Annapolis,
 Maryland , who oversees about $170 million of assets.  Palladium supply will lag behind demand through at least
2016, UBS AG said on May 11. Barclays Plc is forecasting
shortages in copper and tin this year. U.S. soybean stockpiles
at the end of August 2013 will be 31 percent lower than a year
earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said May 10.  “Commodities remain a good longer-term investment given
the backdrop of a dovish central bank and continued unexpected
supply disruptions,”  Mihir Worah , who manages Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s $22 billion Commodity Real Return
Strategy Fund from  Newport Beach ,  California , said in an e-mail.  Money Flows  Investors pulled $815 million from commodity funds in the
week ended May 9, according to data from Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.
That’s the biggest outflow this year, said  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research for EPFR. Gold and precious-metals funds
lost $467 million.  Gold is 1.3 percent lower today at $1,564.10 an ounce at
12:12 p.m. on the Comex in  New York  after erasing gains for this
year. The metal will rally to $1,840 in the next six months
because it remains the “currency of last resort,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s commodity analysts said in a May 9 report.  Bullish gold bets plunged 20 percent to 92,498 contracts,
the lowest since December 2008, CFTC data show. Wagers on a
silver rally tumbled 32 percent to 7,159, the biggest decline
since late December.  Gold prices  dropped 3.7 percent last week,
the most in two months, as the dollar rose, curbing demand for
the precious metal as an alternative investment. Silver declined
5.1 percent to $28.89 an ounce.  Fortress Shutters  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the first publicly traded
private-equity and hedge fund manager in the U.S., said it will
liquidate its $500 million commodities fund run by William Callanan after losing almost 13 percent in the past four months.  Fortress is the third commodities hedge fund to shutter in
the past six weeks. Billionaire trader  John Arnold  said in a
letter obtained by Bloomberg on May 2 that he plans to close the
Centaurus Energy Master Fund in Houston, and  Pierre Andurand ,
who co-runs BlueGold Capital Management LLP, a $1 billion fund
in  London , said last month that client money will be returned.  A  measure  of net-longs for 11 U.S. farm goods fell 15
percent to 435,801 contracts, the CFTC said. That’s the lowest
since January. Investors increased their net-short position in
wheat, or bets on a price decline, to 46,187 contracts from
25,027 a week earlier. The grain declined 2.1 percent last week
as favorable weather boosted the prospect for crops.  Money managers boosted their net-short position in  cotton 
more than fivefold to 7,306 contracts, the CFTC data show.
Prices tumbled 10 percent last week, the most since July, and
reached a 21-month low on May 11.  Raw Materials  World stockpiles will climb 10 percent in the season that
starts Aug. 1, the USDA said May 10. Cotton imports into  China 
may tumble 35 percent from the current season to 14 million
bales, the agency said.  “There’s a slowdown in China, so there’s been a glut of
several essential raw materials,” said Chad Morganlander, a
 Florham Park , New Jersey-based money manager at Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., which oversees more than $115 billion of assets. “Couple
that with an increased amount of political uncertainty as well
as economic uncertainty in Europe, and that leads speculators to
de-risk their portfolios.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  