-- Cameron Suffers Setbacks in U.K. Opinion Polls
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-05-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/cameron-suffers-setbacks-in-u-k-opinion-polls.html
British opinion polls showed Prime
Minister David Cameron losing ground to his Labour opponent  Ed Miliband  after weeks of setbacks took their toll on a coalition
government seeking to refocus on deficit cutting.  A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey in the Sunday Times yesterday showed
the Labour Party leader with a higher approval rating than the
Conservative premier for the first time in a year. A separate
poll by the same company for the Labour-linked Fabian Society
research group published in the Observer showed Miliband’s
opposition with an eight-point lead.  The results signal the backdrop of voter disquiet faced by
Cameron after more than a month of discomfort that began with a
poorly received budget on March 21 and culminated in losses in
local elections on May 3. Last week, the government unveiled 31
legislative proposals for the next year ranging from a new
banking law to labor market measures as it sought to regroup.  “Bad polling is something that party chairmen don’t like
and we’ve had a local election recently which hasn’t been the
best of results,” Sayeeda Warsi, co-chairwoman of the
Conservatives, said on  Sky News . “We never formed this
coalition because it was going to be in the best interests of us
as a party. We knew there was a tough job to be done.”  The Sunday Times poll showed 32 percent of those questioned
said Miliband is doing well and 55 percent said he is doing
badly, giving a net approval rating of minus 23. That beat
Cameron’s score of minus 29. YouGov sought responses from 1,663
adults on May 10 and May 11.  Midterm Blues  The Observer said that the YouGov poll of 2,000 people for
the Fabians, taken in April before Cameron’s local election
setback, showed Labour with 41 percent support, compared with 33
percent for the Conservatives and 10 percent for their Liberal
Democrat coalition partners.  “The idea that a government enjoys popularity in the
midterm when it’s doing tough things, especially the things
we’re having to do in the present economic crisis as a result of
world events and also the mess the last government left us, the
idea that we’re going to be popular at this stage is cloud
cuckoo land,” Paddy Ashdown, a former leader of the Liberal
Democrats, told Sky News.  Labour lawmaker  Jim Murphy , who speaks for the party on
defense issues, said that there has been a “dramatic collapse”
in government support, and added to criticism that the
legislative program lacks measures to aid growth.  “There isn’t an austerity way out of what this country
faces at the moment,” he told Sky News. “Of course there needs
to be cuts, of course there needs to be savings, but it’s also
about growth.”  House of Lords  The program of legislation includes a proposal to alter the
make-up of the House of Lords, Parliament’s upper house,
reflecting concerns of the Liberal Democrats. Ashdown insisted
that this should be a priority, contrasting with the
Conservatives’ approach that deficit cutting should take
precedence.  On the continent of  Europe , “what you see very clearly
there is a crisis of the economy, but also a crisis of
democracy,” he said. “Unless you can put our government and
politicians in touch with people they simply don’t have any
trust that you’ll make the decisions about tackling the economy
effectively. You can’t separate these two.”  Defense Secretary Philip Hammond, a Conservative, said that
changing the composition of the House of Lords isn’t a big
priority for the electorate, and said that proposals to legalize
gay marriage shouldn’t be pushed through for now because of the
controversy they would provoke.  “The government has got to show over the next couple of
years that it is focused on the things that matter to people in
this country,” he told the  BBC ’s Andrew Marr show. “Things
that will affect the long-term competitiveness of this country
and, thus, the long-term prosperity of our people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  