-- Cancer Tools Help Roche Push Ahead With Alzheimer’s Drug
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-05-14T18:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/cancer-tools-help-roche-push-ahead-with-alzheimer-s-drug.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  is focusing part of
its pipeline on the riskiest area of  drug development : the human
brain.  The Swiss drugmaker had its last top-selling brain therapy
when Valium revolutionized anxiety treatment in the 1960s. Now
Roche is betting it can use the tools that have since made it
the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs to penetrate the
“black box” of Alzheimer’s and autism, Chief Executive Officer
Severin Schwan said.  “If you think back 15 years, a cancer tumor was like a
black box,” Schwan said in an interview at the company’s Basel
headquarters. “The brain has been a black box until recently.
And now we start to understand what is happening on a molecular
basis in the brain.”  The stakes are different now than when Valium inventor Leo
Sternbach was cooking up his new class of medicines. Roche’s
brain drugs are just one component in a late-stage pipeline
packed with risky projects, said Karl Heinz Koch, a Helvea SA
analyst. Treatments for central nervous system diseases also
have an “enormous” potential payoff, said  Andrew Baum , a
London-based analyst for Citigroup Inc.  “The central nervous system will remain the highest of the
high-hanging fruit,” Baum said in an interview.  A hint of whether the gamble may pay off is due in the
second half of this year.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  plan
to announce results for Alzheimer’s drugs that attack the same
protein as Roche’s experimental drug, called gantenerumab. If
the therapy from Indianapolis-based Lilly succeeds, its sales
may exceed $9 billion a year by 2020, according to analysts at
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  Path to Approval  The path to patients may be rockier than Valium’s.
Sternbach’s anxiety drug took just five years to progress from
the test tube to its approval in 1963. That’s less than half as
long as the process is likely to take under current testing
standards, which are more stringent, according to  Tufts Center
for the Study of Drug Development  research.  Roche needs new pipeline prospects after the failure this
month of a good-cholesterol pill that UBS AG analysts estimated
might have had peak sales of $6.8 billion.  “For the company to create value medium- to longer-term,
you need the ex-oncology business to take shape,” Koch said in
an interview. Yet investors have even lower expectations for
Roche’s central nervous system pipeline than they did for the
cholesterol drug, he said. “That pipeline is just very risky.”  Schizophrenia Drug  The Roche brain drug furthest along in the patient testing
process, a schizophrenia medicine, didn’t have statistically
significant results in an earlier trial if all patients who
entered the trial were measured, Koch said. The compound had an
effect on patients who stuck with it and who followed study
protocols perfectly.  The Swiss drugmaker is also running clinical trials on
treatments for  depression and autism . Meanwhile, the field of
Alzheimer’s, where four of Roche’s 10 brain drugs in patient
testing are concentrated, is littered with failures.  The last new therapy for Alzheimer’s was Namenda, a
medicine from New York-based  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  approved
in 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Namenda, like
all other Alzheimer’s drugs on the market, addresses symptoms
without slowing the disease’s march through the brain.  Lilly’s solanezumab, which is similar to Roche’s
Alzheimer’s drug, has at most a one-in-five chance of success,
according to Bernstein’s Anderson. Lilly said on April 25 that
one final-stage trial of the drug had finished that month, with
a second slated to complete in June. The first look at the
results could come in July, Anderson said in a note to clients.  Brain Protein  Both the Lilly and Roche medicines target a reduction in
beta amyloid, a protein that accumulates in the brains of
Alzheimer’s patients. New York-based Pfizer,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , and Dublin-based  Elan Corp. (ELN) 
are also expecting to release results in the third quarter for a
drug to target beta amyloid, bapineuzumab, and have said they’ll
seek regulators’ approval by the end of the year if it’s
successful.  The cloud hanging over all three drugs is the earlier
failure of a Lilly drug called semagacestat, which tried to zap
beta amyloid by inhibiting an enzyme called gamma secretase
that’s tied to the production of the protein. The pill actually
worsened patients’ ability to do day-to-day activities, Lilly
said in 2010. The U.S. company gave up on the medicine that
year.  Lilly has said that semagacestat failed not because beta
amyloid isn’t the right target, but because gamma secretase
wasn’t the right way to go after the protein.  Failure Expected  Still, investors expect both the new Lilly and Pfizer drugs
to fail just as the older Lilly compound did. Two-thirds of 209
analysts and fund managers in a survey conducted last month by
New York-based ISI Group thought neither would succeed in this
year’s trials.  “There was a lot of hope riding on these types of
approaches,” said Cord Dohrmann, chief scientific officer of
 Evotec AG (EVT) , a German biotech working with Roche on another
therapy for the disease. “There was no obvious success. People
are wondering, are we really on the right track.”  The Evotec-partnered drug started out with Roche, which
licensed the compound to Evotec in 2006. The Hamburg, Germany-
based biotech tested it unsuccessfully as an anti-smoking drug.
After it failed to help smokers quit, Roche signed a deal last
September to finish developing the drug in Alzheimer’s instead.  Original Plan  “The original plan was always Alzheimer’s,” Dohrmann
said. Smoking was an easier indication for a small biotech to
pursue, with shorter, less expensive clinical trials, he said.
And the drug did show itself to be safe -- an important
characteristic, he said.  By taking the drug back, Roche gave itself a candidate that
doesn’t go after beta amyloid, he said. Instead it targets
monoamine oxidase type B, or MAO-B, an enzyme that breaks down
dopamine in the brain and contributes to the production of free
radicals.  “It is such a wide-open market,” Dohrmann said. “People
have made estimates that just slowing progression for a year
would have a huge economic impact. That is saying a lot for a
disease that people have for many, many years.”  Roche is forging ahead with beta amyloid as well.
Gantenerumab isn’t as far along in the testing process as the
Lilly and Pfizer drugs -- it’s in the second of the three stages
of clinical trials usually required for regulatory approval in
the U.S. Roche is recruiting patients for a two-year, 360-person
trial. If that’s successful, the company will test the compound
in a larger patient group, with the aim of having it on the
market after 2016.  Genetic Tests  One thing that may give Roche an advantage is its
experience in drugs that work alongside genetic tests to show
doctors which patients are most likely to benefit, said Luca Santarelli, the company’s head of neuroscience. About half the
Roche brain drugs in human testing have some sort of
personalized health-care strategy, Santarelli said. Roche has
identified a genetic marker and is working on a companion
diagnostic for its schizophrenia drug, he said.  “We think like oncologists do, in terms of pathways,
mechanisms, targets,” the chain of events that have led to the
disease itself, Santarelli said in an interview in Basel. “It
still is a leap of faith. In science, there’s always a point
where you take a risk on the biology because the biology is not
fully understood.”  Not From Genentech  Still, Roche’s top-selling cancer medicines came from
Genentech Inc., the  California  biotech it first invested in when
the company was a startup and acquired fully in 2009. The
central nervous system pipeline will be a test for the Swiss
company’s own labs.  Investors could see a payoff as soon as 2013. That’s when
bitopertin, the experimental schizophrenia treatment, would
reach the market if it succeeds in its final trial.  “Wait until the end of the year or early next year for
bapineuzumab,” Santarelli said. “Then they’ll start paying
attention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  