-- Chevron Sells 80% of Wheatstone Gas After Deal With Tohoku
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-05-13T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/chevron-says-80-of-wheatstone-gas-sold-after-tohoku-deal-1-.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S.
oil company, said it sold more than 80 percent of the gas from
its Wheatstone project in Western  Australia  after reaching an
agreement with Tohoku Electric Power Co.  The Japanese electricity supplier will buy as much as 1
million tons of liquefied natural gas per year under a 20-year
agreement, Roy Krzywosinski, managing director of Chevron’s
Australian unit, said yesterday in Adelaide.  Wheatstone is off to a “flying start,” Krzywosinski said.
“The Asian LNG market is certainly growing and we continue to
see demand.”  Chevron decided in September to go ahead with the A$29
billion ($29 billion) Wheatstone project, with the first
shipment of the fuel scheduled to begin in 2016. The venture,
along with the company’s A$43 billion Gorgon project, are among
seven LNG developments under way in the country to meet rising
Asian demand for the fuel.  San Ramon , California-based Chevron
has said that Gorgon and Wheatstone are at the center of its
global expansion plans.  Thirteen out of 14 wells drilled in Australia since 2009
have been successful, adding resources to underpin potential LNG
plant expansions, Chevron said in March.  Chevron said in April it signed an accord with Chubu
Electric Power Co. to buy gas from Wheatstone. Shipments are
scheduled to begin in 2016, with the project initially producing
8.9 million tons of LNG a year from two processing units.  The company owns about 72 percent of Wheatstone, while
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Apache Corp., Kuwait Foreign Petroleum
Exploration Co. and Kyushu Electric Power Co. hold the rest.  Shipments to Start  Chevron plans to reach agreements to sell 85 percent to 90
percent of its Wheatstone LNG before shipments start, the
company told analysts in March, according to a transcript.
Chevron agreed last year to sell as much as 700,000 tons of LNG
a year from Wheatstone to Kyushu following a deal in July to
sell 3.1 million tons a year to Tokyo Electric Power Co.  Wheatstone may have as many as six units and produce as
much as 25 million tons of LNG a year, Chevron said in 2010.  Gorgon, located on  Barrow Island  off Australia’s northwest
coast, remains on schedule to produce its first gas in 2014 and
Chevron may add a fourth train to the project, Krzywosinski said
yesterday. Chevron’s partners include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Adelaide at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  