-- Dimon Says JPMorgan Loss Gives Ammunition to Regulators
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-13T19:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/dimon-says-jpmorgan-loss-gives-ammunition-to-regulators.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said he was “dead wrong” in initially
dismissing news reports scrutinizing trades that led to a $2
billion loss and that it gives ammunition to proponents of
tighter regulations.  “This is a very unfortunate and inopportune time to have
this kind of mistake,” Dimon said in an interview broadcast
today on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” After news broke on the
magnitude of the bank’s bets, “we got very defensive, and
people started justifying everything we did,” he said.  Dimon announced the loss May 10, almost four weeks after
referring to articles about the trades as “a complete tempest
in a teapot.” Positions taken by the firm’s chief investment
office on synthetic credit securities remain volatile and may
cost an additional $1 billion this quarter or next, Dimon told
analysts last week.  JPMorgan was “sloppy” and “stupid,” Dimon told “Meet
the Press.” He said he didn’t know if his firm broke any laws
or U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. “You always
make mistakes,” he said.  The loss, which fueled a 9 percent loss in JPMorgan shares
on May 11, will embolden those who want greater oversight, said
Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and co-author of the
so-called Volcker rule. The cost to JPMorgan, in addition to the
financial loss, now will include the lender’s inability to roll
back regulations, Levin said.  ‘Real Problem’  “The real problem here is the battle is not just between
 Washington  and Wall Street,” Levin said on “Meet the Press”
today. “The battle is inside of Washington.”  Dimon has been a critic of Dodd-Frank provisions including
the Volcker rule, which is meant to restrict proprietary trading
by banks with federally insured deposits.  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts candidate for  U.S.
Senate , called on Dimon to step down as a director at the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York .  “He advises the Federal Reserve on the oversight of the
financial industry,” Warren said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “Dimon should resign from his post at the New York
Fed to send a signal to the American people that Wall Street
bankers get it, and to show that they understand the need for
responsibility and accountability.”  Fed officials are gathering more information about the
trading position, which they have known about for several weeks,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Derivatives Rules  Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who
co-wrote the regulatory overhaul, criticized Republicans for
cutting funding for financial regulation. With parts of the
Volcker rule still being formed, Frank said he hopes derivatives
rules won’t be slowed.  “We are very much still in the process of trying to decide
whether or not we will have the rules in place,” Frank said on
ABC’s “This Week” program. Lawmakers have tried to stop banks
“from losing money in ways that would cause damage to the rest
of the system.”  The SEC is looking into JPMorgan’s disclosures related to
the trades, according to a person familiar with the situation.  “Of course regulators should look at something like
this,” Dimon told “Meet the Press.” “It’s their job.”  The firm will still “ earn a lot  of money this quarter,”
he said.  Dimon described himself as “barely a Democrat,” and said
he was frustrated with “anti-business behavior” coming from
the party.  Without regulations,  Wall Street  will lead the  U.S. economy 
“off a cliff,” AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “It says that financial regulation is more needed now than
it ever was,” Trumka said. “The lack of Wall Street regulation
is what got us to the mess that we came to, and almost totally
disrupted our economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  