-- ‘Avengers’ Sets 2nd-Weekend Record With $103 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-13T18:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/disney-s-avengers-sets-2nd-weekend-record-with-103-million.html
(Corrects “Avatar” number in second paragraph.)  “Marvel’s The Avengers,” broke
another box-office record, taking in $103.2 million for  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  in its second weekend in U.S. and Canadian theaters.  The film surpassed the $75.6 million benchmark for a second
weekend in 2009 by “Avatar,” researcher  Hollywood.com Box-
Office  said today in an e-mailed statement. Last week “The
Avengers” smashed the opening-weekend record with $207.4
million in domestic receipts. The vampire comedy “Dark
Shadows,” starring  Johnny Depp  and directed by Tim Burton,
opened in second place with $28.8 million.  The records raise the prospect studios will top their
previous best yearly sales of $10.6 billion set in 2009,  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com Box-Office, said in an
interview. Sales and attendance for 2012 are both up over 2011,
according to Hollywood.com. Opening May 25 is  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Men
in Black 3,” forecast by Boxoffice.com to generate $205 million
in domestic sales.  Disney Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  told investors
on a conference call last week the company will turn “The
Avengers” into a franchise. The studio also will continue to
draw individually from the characters for more films, he said.
Disney is developing a third “ Iron Man ” movie and a sequel to
“Thor,” the hammer-wielding Norse demigod also featured in
“The Avengers.”  In “The Avengers,” several Marvel heroes band together to
fight an army of aliens led by Loki, also a character from Norse
mythology. The movie stars Robert Downey Jr. as Iron Man, Chris
Hemsworth as Thor and  Scarlett Johansson  as Black Widow.  “Dark Shadows,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., is
inspired by the daytime television show about a New England
family entangled with vampires, ghosts and werewolves. Burton’s
tongue-in-cheek interpretation also features  Michelle Pfeiffer ,
Helena Bonham Carter and Eva Green.  “Dark Shadows” was the only film to open in wide release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  