-- Dubai Shares Slump to Lowest in Three Months on Greece, Oil Drop
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-05-13T13:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/dubai-shares-set-for-lowest-close-in-three-months-on-europe-oil.html
Dubai stocks led a drop in the
Persian Gulf, sinking to the lowest in three months, after oil
slumped on concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen and on
speculation  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  may de-list its shares.  Arabtec fell 5.8 percent after Alrroya reported Aabar
Investments PJSC and its units bought 53 percent of the United
Arab Emirates’ biggest builder by market value.  Emaar Properties
PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper, dropped for
the eighth time in nine days. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 1.8
percent to 1,488.24, the lowest since Feb. 9, at the 2 p.m.
close in the emirate. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  slipped 0.5
percent, while  Egypt ’s benchmark gained.  “Investors have shifted their focus from corporate
earnings to other issues such as  oil prices  falling quickly and
sharply to the lows of the year and the turmoil in the  euro
zone ,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer
Securities. “There is also some speculation Arabtec will be
taken off the market like its parent company.”  Crude for June delivery retreated 2.4 percent last week to
$96.13 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, a 2012 low,
after Chinese factory output in April missed estimates. Gulf
Arab oil exporters, including  Saudi Arabia  and the U.A.E. supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil. About 89 million shares  traded 
in Dubai today, compared with this year’s peak of 835 million.  Abu Dhabi ’s  benchmark index  lost 0.2 percent in its seventh
day of declines, the longest stretch of losses since December.  U.S. Stocks Fall  Global equities declined last week as an inconclusive
election in Greece left political parties struggling to form a
government. The impasse reignited concern over Greece’s ability
to meet terms of its two bailouts and the possibility the
country will leave the euro. U.S. stocks also tumbled, with the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slumping 1.2 percent in its second
weekly retreat after U.S. banks sank following  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion trading loss.  Arabtec tumbled to 2.78 dirhams, the lowest close since
March 27. Abu Dhabi government-controlled Aabar directly owns 23
percent of Arabtec and affiliates have 30 percent, Alrroya said,
citing Aabar Chairman Khadem Al Qubaisi. Aabar dropped a $1.74
billion offer for Arabtec two years ago and took its business
private in the same year.  Calls to Kamal’s cellular phone weren’t answered and Aabar
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg news.  Emaar slid 1.3 percent to 2.94 dirhams, the lowest close
since March 8.  Egypt’s Gain  Elsewhere in the Gulf Cooperation Council, Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
retreated 0.1 percent and Oman’s benchmark stock  index  slipped
0.2 percent. Bahrain’s  measure  and Kuwait’s  gauge  were little
changed. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  lost 0.7
percent.  In North Africa, the  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  rallied 1.4 percent to
5,083.26, the highest close since March 22, after the country
televised its first presidential debate and voting abroad
started.  “Positivity from the political scene is the main driver,
over the weekend Egyptians abroad started voting, that’s in
addition to the presidential debate,” said Wafik Dawood,
director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments
Securities. “The outcome of the debate is not significant, but
there’s the fact that most Egyptians didn’t expect to live to
see that day.”  Egypt’s presidential election must start as scheduled on
May 23, the country’s highest administrative court said
yesterday. The Supreme Administrative Court made the ruling,
overturning a lower-court decision that had suspended procedures
for the vote.  In Israel, the  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  fell 0.6 percent. The yield on
the country’s 5.5 percent notes due January 2022 dropped one
basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.53 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  