-- James, Wade Lead Heat to Game 1 Win as Clippers Oust Grizzlies
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-14T04:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/heat-defeat-pacers-to-open-nba-series-as-clippers-oust-grizzlies.html
LeBron James  and  Dwyane Wade  combined
for 22 of Miami’s 25 fourth-quarter points as the Heat pulled
away for a 95-86 win against the  Indiana Pacers  in Game 1 of
their National Basketball Association playoff series.  A day after capturing his third NBA Most Valuable Player
award, James had 32 points and 15 rebounds, with 16 points
coming in the final 12 minutes. Wade had six of his 29 points in
the fourth quarter as the Heat snapped a 70-70 tie yesterday at
AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami.  “We did have a good flow,” James said at a news
conference. “We both were attacking and weren’t waiting on one
another. It felt good.”  Miami’s win came after the  Los Angeles Clippers  completed
the second-round lineup with an 82-72 defeat of the Memphis
Grizzlies in Game 7 of their Western Conference series.  Chris Paul  scored 19 points to lead the Clippers, who
advance to face the West’s top-seeded San Antonio Spurs after
the third playoff series victory in franchise history.  The Heat, the second seed in the East, might be without
center  Chris Bosh  when they host Game 2 in the best-of-seven
series tomorrow. Bosh had 13 points before suffering a lower
abdominal injury during the second quarter. He didn’t return and
will have tests to determine the severity of the injury.  “It’s unfortunate Chris went down, but we told him, ‘Just
get healthy, we got it,’” Wade said.  James and Wade combined to outscore the Pacers 42-38 after
halftime. Miami didn’t lead by more than two points until James
made a layup with 9:20 left to push its lead to 76-72. The Heat
held the Pacers to 16 points in the fourth quarter.  MVP Plays  “He made MVP plays on both ends of the court,” Heat coach
Erik Spoelstra said of James. “The rebounding, defending and he
made a lot of offensive plays, particularly in the fourth
quarter when we needed it.”  David West  and Roy Hibbert each had 17 points for the
third-seeded Pacers, who are in the second round for the first
time since 2005 after eliminating the Orlando Magic.  The Clippers got past the Grizzlies in Memphis after losing
the previous two games, including blowing an eight-point fourth-
quarter lead in Game 6. The Clippers’ bench players outscored
the Grizzlies’ reserves 41-11.  “Our bench was huge that fourth quarter,” said Paul,
whose team will visit the Spurs in Game 1 tomorrow. “Let’s go
to San Antonio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  