-- Hedge Funds Are Shadow Banks in Need of Regulation, Bafin Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-05-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/hedge-funds-are-shadow-banks-in-need-of-regulation-bafin-says.html
Hedge funds act as shadow banks and
should be added to the list of organizations in need of
regulation, according to Raimund Roeseler, head of banking
supervision at  Germany ’s financial regulator Bafin.  Shadow-banking definitions by the Financial Stability Board
and the Basel Committee are too narrow, Roeseler said. Bafin is
working on its own proposals to regulate the sector and will
provide them for the discussion at the FSB, he said.  “We probably won’t be able to fix every loophole, but
we’ll get a good chunk -- and make dodging rules more tedious
and expensive,” Roeseler, 50, said in an interview at his Bonn-
based office last week. “Anything already calling itself a
hedge fund should be covered, that’s for sure.”  So-called shadow banking that takes place outside the scope
of regulators is being targeted by financial watchdogs on
concern that it may be used to evade a global clampdown on
excessive risk-taking. Financial rules have become more
stringent since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. led to a global credit crunch and lender bailouts.  The FSB, which brings together regulators, Group of 20
central bankers and finance ministry officials, established a
list of shadow-banking activities that may warrant tougher
oversight and said it will seek agreement on the rules by the
end of 2012. The list doesn’t name hedge funds, while leaving
open the possibility that they could be regulated.  Offshore financial transactions should also be reviewed
when discussing shadow-banking regulations, Roeseler said.
Authorities should know why money is deposited offshore and what
kinds of activities lenders have there, he said.  ‘Bug Them More’  “I’ve already talked to banks about those issues,” said
Roeseler. “And I am planning to bug them even more.”  Bafin has set up a working group to review the need for
additional rules for derivatives, including credit-default
swaps. It is considering who should be allowed to sell CDS and
whether purchase of the instruments should be restricted to
those who actually need default protection, said Roeseler.  Despite some improvements “within the last few years, the
CDS market still isn’t transparent and at times sends signals
that aren’t supported by the numbers of trades actually done,”
he said.  Since Lehman’s collapse, global regulators have approved
new rules known as Basel III, more than tripling how much core
capital lenders must hold to at least 7 percent of assets,
weighted for risk. European Union governments and lawmakers are
debating how to meet a January deadline to implement the rules
set out in 2010 by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .
Roeseler, who is a member of that group, said he is worried
about whether the deadline will be met.  Flexibility Package  The crucial issue in the negotiations over how to implement
Basel III in  Europe  is the flexibility package, which determines
how much freedom national regulators should have to go beyond
minimum EU capital rules, said Roeseler. The EU should opt for a
level playing field, imposing the same capital rules everywhere,
he said.  “What we want to avoid is stigmatizing banks which for
good reason don’t need more capital just because other countries
want more capital due to specific risk their banks have,” said
Roeseler.  Finance ministers are set to discuss the rules again at a
meeting in Brussels tomorrow.  German banks that lend to local economies dominated by
medium-sized companies are seeking to loosen standards for risk
weighting of these loans. Roeseler said easements can be granted
only if evidence justifies it. A European Banking Authority
group is looking into the matter.  Looking at Evidence  “Sometimes I have the impression there are market
participants who want easements regardless what empirical
evidence tells us,” said Roeseler. “Why should I privilege a
business area without such a justification?”  “The current crises were caused by subprime and government
bonds,” Roeseler said. “Who tells us that we won’t get a
crisis caused by loans to medium-sized companies?”  EU governments have clashed over plans agreed on by the
Basel committee to impose a so-called  leverage ratio  on banks
that would limit the extent to which they can finance their
activities through debt.  The measure, published in 2010 as part of Basel III, would
force banks to hold Tier 1 capital equivalent to 3 percent of
their total assets. That would prevent lenders from accumulating
assets worth more than 33 times their reserves.  3 Percent  “I don’t think a 3 percent ratio is too much,” said
Roeseler. Regulators “should be allowed to ask for 30 million
euros ($38.8 million) of capital from a bank that has a balance
sheet with 1 billion euros of assets.”  The measure is needed to stop banks from evading other
capital rules requiring lenders to base the amount of reserves
they must hold against the riskiness of their activities,
according to the Basel committee.  The committee is also debating draft liquidity rules. The
issue is on the agenda for when the Basel group meets in June in
 Stockholm , Roeseler said.  The group is considering how to expand the range of assets
that qualify as highly liquid so lenders can count them toward
their requirements, amid concerns that the current list is too
narrowly focused on government debt.  “There is a broad spectrum of positions on what should
count as liquid assets -- starting from  government bonds  to
assets accepted by central banks as collateral,” said Roeseler.  30-Day Squeeze  The aim of the liquid-assets measure is to ensure that
lenders hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day
credit squeeze. That requirement is set to take effect in 2015.  Governments and lawmakers in the European Parliament are
working on a list of assets for the EBA to consider. One version
under discussion includes oil and equities, as well as covered
bonds and other securities backed by retail mortgages.  “Because the situation is so diverse in the various
countries, we are doing an observation period now,” said
Roeseler. “We, for example, have a huge government bond market;
others don’t. We use covered bonds a lot; others rely on ABS
structures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  