-- Competition Will Cut Bank Loan Margins, NAB CEO Clyne Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-05-14T01:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/lending-profits-to-keep-falling-on-competition-nab-s-clyne-says.html
Australian home-loan margins will
narrow as competition among banks crimps profits,  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne said.  Margins will continue to contract by about 5 basis points a
quarter, the head of the nation’s fourth-biggest bank said in an
Australian Broadcasting Corp. television interview yesterday.  “We’re all trying to chase asset growth in a weak credit
environment and we’re all trying to raise more deposits to
strengthen the balance sheet,” Clyne said. “It’s a very
competitive environment.”  National Australia Bank and rivals  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  reported slimmer
profit margins for the six months ended March 31 as they paid
more to attract deposits and demand for credit dwindled. The
nation’s four biggest lenders this month withheld some of the
central bank’s 50 basis-point interest rate cut as funding costs
rise. National  Australia  Bank has pledged to offer the lowest
standard-variable mortgage rate among the top four banks as it
seeks a larger slice of the nation’s A$1.1 trillion ($1.1
trillion) home-loan market.  The lender’s net interest margin, a gauge of the
profitability of its mortgages, narrowed 6 basis points to 2.17
percent as of March 31, it said May 10. The bank reported a 15
percent decline in first-half profit after booking charges to
shrink its unprofitable U.K. division.  Home Sales  Australian home-loan approvals unexpectedly rebounded in
March, rising for the first time in three months. The number of
loans granted to build or buy houses and apartments gained 0.3
percent from February, when they fell 2.5 percent, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists was for a 2 percent
decline in approvals.  Sales of new homes in Australia fell in March to a record
low, according to the Canberra-based Housing Industry
Association.  House prices  declined in the three months through
March in the longest losing streak in at least a decade,
Australian Bureau of Statistics data show.  Housing  credit growth  held at 5.3 percent in March, down
from 8.3 percent two years earlier and the least since central
bank data began in 1977.  National Australia Bank’s loan book is showing “quite good
performance,” Clyne said. While house prices may “fall
slightly,” they’re unlikely to collapse while unemployment
remains low, he said.  Absorbing Declines  Australia’s jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to a one-year
low of 4.9 percent in April as payrolls rose for a second
straight month, the statistics bureau said May 10.  “The economy’s been able to absorb the house price
declines to this point,” Clyne said. Still, the “decline does
have an impact on  consumer confidence .”  Australia’s central bank may reduce its benchmark borrowing
rate by another 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, in
2012, according to Clyne.  National Australia Bank  shares  climbed 1.1 percent to
A$24.82 at 11:40 a.m. in Sydney, taking the advance this year to
6.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  