-- Merkel Defeated in Worst Postwar Result in Biggest State
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-14T07:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/merkel-s-cdu-defeated-in-biggest-german-state-exit-polls-show.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party was
defeated in Germany’s most populous state in an election that
helped the Social Democrats tighten their grip on the country’s
regional governments.  The SPD, the main opposition party nationally, increased
its vote share in yesterday’s ballot in North Rhine-Westphalia,
enabling Prime Minister Hannelore Kraft to return to power at
the head of a government with the Greens in the state capital
Dusseldorf. Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  suffered its
worst score since World War II.  The result is a setback for Merkel after she headlined nine
campaign rallies in 27 days in North Rhine-Westphalia in a bid
to regain the state, the first her CDU lost in 2010 as the debt
crisis erupted and voters rebelled against bailing out  Greece .
The SPD is  now in power  in 11 of Germany’s 16 states.  “This is a massive loss in local prestige for the party,”
 Gerd Langguth , a Merkel biographer and professor of politics at
the University of Bonn, said by phone. Even so, Merkel “will do
her best to ignore the result. As long as her party is ahead in
federal voting patterns she can feel insulated from regional
elections.” Merkel is due to give a press conference on the
result at 1 p.m. in Berlin.  North Rhine-Westphalia, with almost a quarter of Germany’s
82 million people and an economy bigger than  Switzerland ’s, is
Merkel’s biggest electoral test this year before the federal
election in the fall 2013.  Anti-Debt Campaign  The chancellor began her campaign in April by attacking the
state government based in the capital Dusseldorf for running up
debt, contrasting that with her push to curb deficits in Germany
and across Europe. Yet she resisted turning the vote into a
referendum on her austerity drive, which polls indicate a
majority of Germans support.  “Sunday’s election is an important state election for
North Rhine-Westphalia, no more and no less,” she told the Ruhr
Nachrichten newspaper in comments published May 10.  For all her campaign efforts, Merkel’s CDU took 26.3
percent, more than 8 percentage points below its score at the
last election in May 2010, preliminary results showed. The
outcome “exceeded our worst fears,” said  Peter Altmaier , CDU
chief whip in the federal parliament in Berlin.  The Social Democrats won with 39.1 percent, an increase of
almost 5 points from 2010, while their Green Party allies took
11.3 percent, giving a majority to Kraft’s SPD-Greens coalition
that ruled for two years in a minority government in the state.  SPD Strengthened  The result came seven days after the CDU suffered its worst
showing in more than 50 years in elections in the northern state
of Schleswig-Holstein in a vote that put the SPD within reach of
forming a coalition. “This will naturally strengthen us in
Berlin,” Andrea Nahles, SPD general secretary, said on ZDF.  The Free Democratic Party, Merkel’s coalition partner at
federal level, took 8.6 percent and the Pirate Party that
campaigns for Internet transparency had 7.8 percent, gaining
seats in a fourth state assembly. The Left Party failed to reach
the 5 percent threshold.  The result may embolden the  Social Democrats  as they align
with French President-elect Francois Hollande in an anti-
austerity front pressing for steps to spur economic growth to
counter the crisis, according to Thomas Costerg, an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  The opposition exercised its clout last week when Social
Democratic and Green-run states used their majority in the upper
house to block her plans to cut income tax and solar-power
subsidies. Hollande is due in Berlin tomorrow for the first
meeting with Merkel hours after his inauguration.  ‘More Assertive’  The SPD have “the wind in their back to ask for more
concessions and more measures to stimulate growth,” Costerg
said in an e-mailed comment, adding that Merkel needs SPD
support to pass  Europe ’s debt-reducing fiscal pact in
parliament. The SPD “will probably become more assertive.”  North-Rhine Westphalia, home to nine of the 30 members of
the DAX Index including Metro AG and Bayer AG had a gross
domestic product last year of about 470 billion euros ($607
billion) in nominal terms, or about 20 percent of Germany’s
total GDP. That put its economy 19th in global terms, one rank
behind  Turkey  and ahead of Switzerland, World Bank data shows.  During the campaign, the CDU’s candidate Norbert Roettgen,
the federal environment minister mentioned in German media as a
possible successor to Merkel, declined to say whether he would
serve as opposition leader in the state if he lost. That cost
him support, with 59 percent of respondents to an FG Wahlen poll
saying his refusal to commit to the state “damaged the CDU.”  Left Cold  The gap between the CDU and SPD, as little as 5 percentage
points in the last poll of voting intentions published May 11,
was due to Kraft’s popularity with voters compared to Norbert,
who “left them cold,” said Langguth.  Bild,  Germany ’s most-read daily newspaper, blamed Roettgen
for the defeat.  “This is a predictable CDU disaster that will also make
things tough for Merkel,” Bild said in an editorial.  Merkel can still rely on “three pillars of strength,”
including her personal popularity and the fact that other
parties are divided,  Jan Techau , director of the Brussels-based
European Center of the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, said by phone. In addition, her CDU’s weakness at the
state level isn’t translating into a rise in SPD popularity
nationally, he said.  Kraft’s emphatic win might even cause “new turmoil” in
the SPD as former Finance Minister  Peer Steinbrueck , ex-Foreign
Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier and the party chairman,  Sigmar Gabriel , joust over who will face Merkel in 2013, Techau said.
“The Chancellor question might even get more complicated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  