-- Euro Officials Begin to Weigh Greek Exit as Euro Weakens
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-14T12:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/euro-officials-begin-to-weigh-greek-exit-from-common-currency.html
Greece ’s possible exit from the euro
moved to the center of Europe’s financial-crisis debate,
rattling markets as authorities in Athens struggled to form a
government.  Meetings brokered by Greek President Karolos Papoulias were
set to continue today after Syriza, the leading anti-bailout
party, rejected a unity government following inconclusive
elections May 6. That moved the country closer to a new vote,
with at least five European central bankers broaching the once-
taboo topic of its exit from the euro.  “We’re really getting to a denouement,” Michael O’Sullivan, head of portfolio strategy at Credit Suisse Private
Banking, said today in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We’re
getting to the part where a decision has to be made” on whether
Greece leaves the 17-nation currency union, he said.  Euro finance ministers meeting today in Brussels may
discuss the bailout for Greece, as well as the situation in
 Spain , where the government last week made a fourth attempt to
clean up banks. Getting German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to
weaken her demand that debt cutting be the core of the crisis
response will be a key objective of new French President
 Francois Hollande  when the two meet tomorrow in Berlin.  The euro fell for the 10th day in 11, weakening 0.4 percent
to $1.2872 at noon in Brussels, the lowest in three months.
Bonds in Italy and Spain tumbled, with Spanish 10-year yields
climbing to more than 6.2 percent today for the first time since
Dec. 1. Each country’s spread against German 10-year notes
jumped by more than 30 basis points.  Stocks Decline  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index declined as much as 2.7 percent to
its lowest in almost six months after European Central Bank
policy maker Christian Noyer today joined ECB officials Luc Coene, Jens Weidmann,  Patrick Honohan ,  Ewald Nowotny   and Joerg Asmussen in discussing a potential Greek exit from the euro.  “Whatever happens in Greece won’t be a problem for the
French financial sector,” Noyer told journalists today in
Paris. “I don’t know a single group that will be placed in
difficulty by an extreme scenario for Greece.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  urged the Greek
government to stay within the monetary union, saying that
departure would trigger a crippling devaluation, though he
signaled that such a scenario would be manageable.  “We can only hope that the Greeks make the right
decision,” Schaeuble told a group of students today at a Berlin
school. “If they make another decision, we’ll have to react in
such a way as to ensure that the consequences are as contained
as possible.”  No New Concessions  The euro finance ministers, known collectively as the
eurogroup, will convene in Brussels at 5 p.m. local time.  The European Commission isn’t considering easing the terms
of the joint bailout for Greece from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund , EU spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said,
denying a report by Athens-based Real News.  “I’m not aware of any discussions within the commission to
grant new provisions, new concessions in the program” for
Greece, Altafaj said by phone yesterday.  A Greek departure from the euro could trigger a default-
inducing surge in bond yields, capital flight that might spread
to other indebted states and a resultant series of bank runs.
Although Greece accounts for 2 percent of the euro-area’s
economic output, its exit would fragment a system of monetary
union designed to be irreversible and might cause investors to
raise the threat of withdrawal by other states.  ‘More Resilient’  Europe’s central bankers are discussing the possibility of
a Greek departure and how to handle the fallout, Swedish
Riksbank Deputy Governor Per Jansson said in an interview on May
11.  European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
said in Tallinn that the region is “certainly more resilient”
to a possible Greek exit than it was two years ago, when the
bloc would have been “massively underprepared.”  “I still believe that Greece can stay in the euro and find
the way to make sure that it respects its commitments,” Rehn
said. “It would be much worse for Greece and Greek citizens,
especially for the less well-off Greek citizens, if Greece did
leave the euro than for  Europe  as such. Europe also would
suffer, but Greece would suffer more.”  Under a story headlined “Akropolis Adieu, Why Greece Must
Leave the Euro”,  Germany ’s  Der Spiegel  magazine today reported
that the EU may provide funding for Greece even after a euro
exit, citing plans formulated by Schaeuble’s ministry.  Final Bid  After elections in Greece and  France  signaled a backlash
against the German-led agenda of scaling back spending to battle
the debt crisis, officials across the region have re-tuned their
rhetoric to emphasize growth and employment.  “Syriza won’t betray the Greek people,” party leader
Alexis Tsipras said in a statement yesterday as Papoulias began
a final bid to coax parties into a coalition. The failure to
form a government has prompted concern that Greece may backtrack
on pledges to cut spending as part of the bailout requirements
negotiated since May 2010, so foreshadowing a euro withdrawal.  The latest defeat was suffered by Merkel yesterday in
Germany’s largest state, North Rhine-Westphalia, where her
 Christian Democratic Union  suffered its worst defeat there since
World War II. The German  Social Democrats , the main opposition
party nationally, tightened their grip among German regional
governments.  ‘Open Arms’  Hollande, who defeated single-term President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on May 6 to become the first Socialist president of the
Fifth Republic in almost two decades, will take office tomorrow
and begin his campaign to shift the focus of crisis-fighting
away from austerity. Merkel said last week that she’ll welcome
Hollande for talks “with open arms.”  “I expect both of them to give a clear signal of
commitment to stability of the euro zone of overcoming the
sovereign debt crisis,”  Peter Altmaier , the deputy floor leader
of Merkel’s party, said yesterday on  Sky News .  With Hollande among leaders calling for a “growth pact”
alongside the German-championed fiscal treaty, euro leaders will
look toward a summit dinner in Brussels on May 23.  Investors will also be watching tomorrow when the Greek
government is scheduled to repay 436 million euros ($563
million) on a floating-rate note held by investors who shunned
its bond-loss accord. An EU official said May 10 that the
payment decision is up to the government in  Athens .  The government in Athens would run out of cash by early
July if creditors decided to withhold their next aid payment in
reaction to stalling progress in Greece, according to a report
last week by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  