-- Federer Regains No. 2 Ranking With Madrid Title; Williams Wins
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-14T04:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/federer-beats-berdych-to-win-in-madrid-returns-as-world-no-2.html
Roger Federer  will return to No. 2 in
the ATP rankings today after beating Tomas Berdych to win the
Madrid Open tennis tournament.  Serena Williams  won the women’s
final to seal back-to-back clay-court titles.  Federer beat Berdych of the Czech Republic 3-6, 7-5, 7-5 on
the blue clay yesterday to claim a 20th Masters 1000 trophy,
tying  Rafael Nadal  for the most titles in the tier below the
Grand Slams.  Federer, 30, will take the No. 2 ranking behind Novak Djokovic from Nadal, the ATP World Tour said. Since losing to
Djokovic in last year’s U.S. Open semifinals, Switzerland’s
Federer has a 45-3 record in a run that’s yielded seven titles.  “It’s been a great spell and I couldn’t be more happy
right now coming off a break winning right away,” Federer said
in comments released by the ATP.  Nadal and Djokovic complained about the color and bounce of
the blue clay in  Madrid  as they lost in earlier rounds.
Tournament organizers said they switched from red clay to boost
the event’s profile.  In the Madrid women’s final, Williams of the U.S. beat top-
ranked  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus 6-1, 6-3 to follow up her
success in Charleston, South Carolina, last month and claim her
41st career title.  Williams, whose WTA ranking rose three places to No. 6 with
the victory, improved her record on clay this year to 13-0,
having also won two Fed Cup matches on the surface.  The French Open, the only Grand Slam tournament played on
clay, starts May 27 in Paris.  “I actually love the clay but my results haven’t been
stellar,” Williams said after beating Azarenka. “I have won
the  French Open  and lots of clay-court tournaments, though. It’s
really a myth about me not liking clay. I like it more than
grass, which is weird. Hopefully I can start doing better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  