-- How Ferragamo’s Arch Remade the Shoe Industry
-- B y   R a c h e l l e   B e r g s t e i n
-- 2012-05-13T22:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/ferragamo-used-arch-to-build-shoe-business-rachelle-berg.html
In 1907, Bonito,  Italy , 9-year-old
Salvatore Ferragamo could often be found intently watching the
town cobbler tan leather skins, cut patterns, shape them around
a wooden foot-shaped “last” and stitch the pieces together.  This did not amuse his father: Respectable people did not
make shoes. Then fate changed the story.  Mariantonia, Salvatore’s mother, needed two pairs of white
shoes for her 6-year-old daughter’s First Holy Communion, one
pair for Giuseppina and another for the elder Rosina, the
attendant. Furtively, Salvatore scurried to the cobbler’s,
asking for white canvas, two child-size  lasts  and tools. The
next morning, Mariantonia woke to find four small pairs of
pristine white shoes. She gushed. The father relented. So begins
the tale of  Salvatore Ferragamo .  Two years later, Salvatore’s father suddenly died from an
infection and, at the age of 11, the boy announced he would go
to Naples to study his craft. After only a brief stay there,
though, he borrowed money from an uncle to open his own shop
back in Bonito.  At this juncture, the world, even Italy, thought little of
shoes. Colors were limited -- the dominant palette was black,
brown and white -- and styles, too, with low-heeled pumps,
spectators, oxfords and buttoned or laced-up Edwardian boots.
Poor families bought handmade shoes expected to weather a
lifetime. Only the privileged could choose shoes to match an
occasion or outfit.  Factory-Made Shoes  As World War I spread throughout  Europe , however, the U.S.
created methods of mass production, and cobbling became a
booming industry. Now, shoes were less expensive, so women could
afford to own more of them, and shorter skirts raised awareness
of what they wore on their feet. Manufacturers could turn out
shoes in various colors and styles.  Still, back in Bonito, where, by 1912, Salvatore Ferragamo
was working with six assistants, the shoemaker’s role remained
secure. Then his older brother, Alfonso, visited from the U.S.  “In America,” Alfonso reported, “nobody works by hand
anymore.” Alfonso described the shoe factories where soles
could be stitched to uppers, and heels were composed by stacking
layer upon layer of leather -- all in a matter of minutes. In
America, he said, Salvatore could earn much more for his custom-
made shoes. Salvatore resisted at first but, soon enough, he was
packing to move to the U.S.  In  Santa Barbara ,  California , Salvatore and his three
brothers opened a small shop, where the older Ferragamos
repaired shoes and 16-year-old Salvatore made new ones for the
movie studios. Quickly he developed a specialty: comfortable,
attractive, period-appropriate cowboy boots. “The West would
have been conquered earlier if they had had boots like these,”
said director  Cecil B. DeMille .  Salvatore Ferragamo grew into a successful, dapper artist
with rugged, Bogart-like good looks, speaking English with a
thick Italian accent that charmed his patrons. But he wanted to
improve his skills. He had mastered the practice of measuring
the foot and cutting, shaping and stitching to fit. Still, some
customers complained that his shoes hurt their feet. He enrolled
at the  University of Southern California , in  Los Angeles , to
study anatomy.  There, Ferragamo tested his theories about weight
distribution and the human skeleton. And he realized that he,
like everyone else, was making shoes wrong. By measuring the
foot while flat, they were creating shoes that supported the
ball and the heel only. But human feet, when they are wearing
shoes, need arch support. Ferragamo began building it into his
shoes, and suddenly his customers began telling him he made them
the most comfortable shoes they’d ever worn.  Hollywood Boot Shop  In 1923, he moved to Los Angeles and opened the  Hollywood
Boot Shop  on the corner of Hollywood and Las Palmas boulevards.
The  film industry  still kept him busy (among other jobs, he made
sandals for “ The Ten Commandments ”), and the store became a
destination spot for starlets. Ferragamo, it seemed, had
satisfied his dream of opening a store that mixed art, podiatric
science and commerce.  Nevertheless, four years later, he closed his LA shop in
pursuit of his next big idea. Over the years, to increase his
inventory, he had begun to sell some machine-made footwear --
made on his own arch-friendly lasts -- but had never been
satisfied with the quality of the shoes. He began to wonder why
the factory model couldn’t be applied to handmade shoes. In
Italy, where labor was cheaper than in America and shoemaking a
more widespread artisanal craft, he could hire other cobblers to
work for him, creating an assembly line on which every stage of
manufacture would be touched by human hands.  Italian shoemakers weren’t won over easily, however.
Ferragamo went first to Naples, where the cobblers laughed at
his proposal. He tried  Rome , Milan, Turin,  Venice  and Padua with
no luck. Finally, he settled in Florence, all but bribing
shoemakers to work for him by offering the highest wages around.
With 60 men in his employ, Salvatore designed an 18-shoe
collection. Then, after sailing back to  New York , he invited the
city’s top department-store buyers to his room at the Roosevelt
Hotel to see his new shoes.  George Miller  of the I. Miller department store was first
to arrive. “You have nothing, nothing!” he proclaimed. “Go
back to Hollywood.”  Ferragamo then called Manuel Gerton of  Saks Fifth Avenue 
and braced himself.  Gerton was in a rush, but Ferragamo could see that his eyes
were alight. “You have done something new, Salvatore,” he said.
“You keep these shoes away from everyone. I want them.”  And so Ferragamos became the first Italian shoes ever to be
exported and sold internationally.  Innovation in Shoemaking  The Great Depression decimated the stateside business and,
by 1933, Ferragamo faced bankruptcy. Then, another blow: After
Mussolini invaded  Ethiopia  in 1935, the League of Nations
imposed sanctions on Italy. To make matters worse, as World War
II gained traction, materials like leather, rubber and steel --
the staples of a shoemaker’s toolbox -- were diverted to
military use. Supplies were so limited, Ferragamo considered
trying to make shoes from glass.  Then, tinkering in his workshop early one morning, he
slipped out to buy a box of chocolates for his mother, who had a
sweet tooth. As he unwrapped a candy, he examined the
transparent paper foil, manipulating it to test its pliability.
He twisted it around his finger, gauging its strength. He bought
sheets of transparent paper, experimented with layering and
braiding them and found, to his delight, he could use them to
make attractive uppers.  To solve the next problem -- how to make an elevated shoe
without steel reinforcement -- Ferragamo thought of a design not
used since the wedged sandals of ancient  Greece : He would fill
in the space between the heel and the ball of the foot with cork.  To advertise his new invention, Salvatore relied on a
tried-and-true subset of consumers: wealthy, fashionable women.
Sure enough, cork-bottomed wedges -- “lifties” or “wedgies”
in the U.S. -- became enormously popular. By 1939, Ferragamo
estimated that 86 percent of American-made women’s shoes were
wedges, though he received disproportionately little financial
reward. He had patented the style, but it caught on so quickly
he couldn’t take legal action against every manufacturer that
knocked it off. So the coolheaded cobbler returned to his
drawing board to see what else he could create.  (Rachelle Bergstein is a writer and editor in New York.
This is the first of five excerpts from her new book, “ Women
From the Ankle Down: The Story of Shoes and How They Define
Us ,” which will be published on May 29 by HarperCollins. The
opinions expressed are her own. Read  Part 2 ,  Part 3 ,  Part 4 ,
 Part 5 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  better cookstoves for
the developing world ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  next Kennedy
superstar ; David Aaker on  marketing brands ; Edward Conard on
 what drives the U.S. economy ;  Aaron David Miller  on  safe zones
in Syria ;  Simon Johnson  and  Peter Boone  on  the euro and banks ;
Rachelle Bergstein on  wedges and World War I .  To contact the writer of this article:
Rachelle Bergstein at  rachellebergstein@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 