-- Gay-Marriage Position May Challenge Obama in Swing States
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/gay-marriage-position-may-challenge-obama-in-swing-states.html
President  Barack Obama ’s backing of
gay marriage poses potential political challenges for him in
many of the states that may decide this year’s election, though
his move is “the right thing to do,” said strategist  Mark McKinnon , a former adviser to President  George W. Bush .  “I give the president great credit for voting his
conscience, because when you net this all out, it’s not a
political winner,” McKinnon said yesterday on the CBS program
“Face the Nation.”  Offering an overview of some of the most competitive
battlegrounds in Democrat Obama’s re-election bid, McKinnon
said, “You net look at those states and think about where’s
that going to help him, probably just one --  Colorado . And maybe
New Hampshire.”  In other swing states -- including  Florida ,  Ohio ,  Virginia ,
 Iowa ,  Arizona ,  Missouri  and  North Carolina  -- “arguably, it’s a
net loser,” McKinnon said of Obama publicly expressing support
for same-sex marriage in an interview May 9 with ABC News.  Obama’s statement set off speculation about its political
effect and the contrast it creates with presumed Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who opposes gay marriage.
Romney reiterated his opposition in a commencement address May
12 at Lynchburg, Virginia-based Liberty University, an
evangelical school.  McKinnon, who helped orchestrate Republican Bush’s
successful White House campaigns in 2000 and 2004, in expressing
his own support for Obama’s gay-marriage position said the
president may gain some political benefit from it.  Leadership ‘Important’  “What’s important is we have a president who leads and
stands for what he believes in,” McKinnon said. “President
Bush won re-election in 2004 not because people liked him
necessarily, or even agreed with his policies, they voted for
him because they thought he had core principles and he’d fight
for them.”  Former Solicitor General Ted Olson, who held that job under
Bush and who McKinnon termed “a legend” among Republicans,
also said he supported Obama’s decision on “Face the Nation.”  “I don’t know about politics,” Olson said when asked
about the move’s possible impact on the election. “I do know
about human rights, and constitutional rights, and on that basis
I think the president did the right thing and I’m very glad he
did it.”  2000 Court Case  Olson, the lead counsel for Bush in the 2000 Supreme Court
case that decided that year’s election, has joined with  David Boies , the lead attorney for 2000 Democratic presidential
nominee  Al Gore  in that year’s battle for the White House, to
legally challenge  California ’s 2008 ballot measure known as
Proposition 8 that banned gay marriage.  Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a
group opposed to abortion rights and gay marriage, said on
“Face the Nation” that Obama’s gay-marriage position will
bolster Romney’s standing with evangelical voters who are part
of the Republican Party base.  “I think that Barack Obama has helped fit that missing
piece of intensity that  Mitt Romney ’s going to need,” Perkins
said.  In March, when the Republican race remained undecided,
Perkins said that many voters for whom opposition to gay
marriage and abortion are paramount issues “have not been
excited” by Romney.  “They just don’t think Romney’s conservative,” Perkins
said at the time.  Impact Questioned  Some doubt Obama’s announcement will have much impact on
the presidential race.  “I literally don’t think anybody’s vote was changed by
this one way or the other,” said Representative Barney Frank, a
Massachusetts Democrat.  “I can’t think there are many people who said, OK, well,
I’m going to vote for Obama even though he said that the Defense
of Marriage Act is unconstitutional and he said gay people can
serve in the military, but if he says marriage, that goes too
far,” Frank said on ABC’s “This Week” program.  Frank, who is openly gay and isn’t seeking re-election this
year after 16 terms in office, referred to the Obama
administration’s decision last year to no longer defend the law
that prohibits the federal government from recognizing same-sex
spouses and the president’s push for repeal of the “Don’t Ask
Don’t Tell” policy for gays in the military.  Poll Results  Polling shows the gay marriage issue deeply divides
Americans. Fifty percent of respondents said in a May 3-6 Gallup
 poll  that same-sex marriages should be recognized as legal, with
48 percent saying they shouldn’t.  Independents support same-sex marriage 57 percent to 40
percent, according to the Gallup Poll.  An April 2012  poll  by the Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press showed a 7-percentage-point drop in
opposition among independents over the last four years, and a
15-point drop over the last eight years.  Romney, though, could benefit with older people, as
opposition to gay marriage tends to increase by age, according
to polls. Just 30 percent of 18-to-29-year-olds were opposed to
gay marriage in the Pew survey, compared with 56 percent of
those over the age of 65.  -- Editors: Don Frederick, Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  