-- Goldman-Bred Neuroscientist Tracks Testosterone Trading
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-05-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/goldman-bred-neuroscientist-bares-secret-of-testosterone-trading.html
As a  Wall Street  trader named Scott
watched the mortgage market  crater  in late 2007, a switch buried
deep in his brain flipped.  What happened next is anatomized, tick by clinical tick, in
John Coates’s unsettling book, “The Hour Between Dog and Wolf.”  Scott’s heart rate sped up, to pump extra blood to his arms
and thighs, Coates writes. His pupils dilated, to absorb more
light. He began to sweat, his breathing accelerated and he got a
hit of adrenalin. Then, as his losses surged to $24 million, his
bowels liquefied.  Though Scott is a fictional representation, his symptoms
are all too real, judging from the observations of Coates, who
spent 12 years trading derivatives for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Merrill Lynch & Co. and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   “As losses mount on the trading floor, one observes anxious
traders marching briskly to the toilets, the men’s room starting
to exude the fear and stench of a slaughterhouse,” he writes.  If this book isn’t on  Jamie Dimon ’s reading list, it should
be following the $2 billion trading loss at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The biological side of financial markets struck Coates
during the dot-com bubble in the 1990s, as he watched normally
prudent tech-stock traders become overconfident, reckless and
euphoric. At the time, he had become fascinated with
breakthroughs in neuroscience, notably research into how
hormones affect the brain, influencing how we think and behave.  Could it be that testosterone was impairing the judgment of
traders, making them feel infallible and propelling markets to
unsustainable heights? Then, as tech stocks crashed, were
traders overwhelmed by a stress hormone, cortisol?  Fight or Flee  Was human biology, evolved over millennia to help us fight
or flee lions and bears, driving booms and busts?  Deciding to test his theory, Coates retired from Wall
Street and spent four years studying neuroscience and
endocrinology at the University of Cambridge, where he’s now a
 senior research fellow . He then conducted an experiment with 250
high-frequency traders in the City,  London ’s financial district.
Only three were women.  Over two weeks, he tracked the traders’ testosterone levels
and compared them to their daily profits and losses. The
conclusion: They scored above-average profits on days when their
testosterone was significantly elevated. The reason: The hormone
drove them to take more risk, he says.  Another experiment documented how volatile markets and
losses triggered traders’ stress hormones, which are sensitive
to uncontrollability and uncertainty.  Metamorphosis  Financial risk-taking, Coates argues, provokes the same
physiological responses we feel when taking other risks, be they
surfing a pipeline wave, gunning a Ferrari up a twisting
mountain road or staring down a grizzly.  As a trader’s testosterone rises, he is being primed like
an animal steeling for a fight, Coates says: His risk appetite
increases along with his confidence in a moment of metamorphosis
alluded to in the book’s title. He has reached what the French
call “ entre chien et loup ,” the hour between dog and wolf.  This is a highly speculative and profoundly unconventional
book. It’s also so absorbing that I wound up reading it twice
and taking copious notes.  Coates frames the book as the story of a floor of traders
caught in a  bull market  that transmogrifies into the great bear
of 2007 and 2008. He describes how they make and lose money, and
how their bodies influence their behavior.  Hubris and Nemesis  The narrative arc will be familiar to anyone who has read
“Macbeth”: It’s a tragedy tracing the relentless logic of hubris
and nemesis, overconfidence and downfall.  From the first page to the last, Coates challenges deep-
seated assumptions, arguing that we think with our bodies as
well as our brains. Recall that  George Soros  took the onset of
acute back pain as a signal that something was amiss in his
portfolio.  Coates also treats us to what he calls “Aha! moments.” Why
do you get butterflies in the stomach? Stress makes the blood
vessels in your stomach constrict. Goosebumps? That would be the
erector pili muscles in your skin trying to make you look bigger
by raising your fur, as a cat does when threatened.  If confirmed by more extensive research, Coates’s theory
carries profound implications for our understanding of economics
and financial market stability. It gives a whole new meaning to
John  Maynard Keynes ’s famous observation that human actions
often flow from “animal spirits,” from “a spontaneous urge to
action rather than inaction.”  The failure to study the physiology of traders marks “an
extraordinary omission,” says Coates. It’s analogous, he says,
“to studying animal behavior without looking at an animal in the
wild.”  Add Women  If a testosterone cocktail really does drive irrationally
exuberant risk-taking, what can be done about it? Change the
market’s biology, Coates suggests.  Banks could, for example, increase the number of women and
older men on the trading floor, he says. Women have about 10
percent to 20 percent of the testosterone found in males, he
says, while levels of the hormone in men decline as they mature.  Though trading is usually thought of as a young man’s game,
most legendary investors are much older, Coates says. Think of
 Warren Buffett  and his mentor,  Benjamin Graham .  Sometimes a master of the universe needs an old master
around.  “The Hour Between Dog and Wolf: Risk-Taking, Gut Feelings
and the Biology of Boom and Bust” is from  Fourth Estate  in the
U.K. and will be published by Penguin Press in the U.S. in June
(310 pages, 20 pounds, $27.95). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Greg Evans 
on television.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 