-- Greek Voters Shatter Myth of Two-Party System to Defy EU Rules
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-05-13T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/greek-voters-shatter-myth-of-two-party-system-to-defy-eu-rules.html
In a mountain village where Greeks
began their liberation from Ottoman Turks two centuries ago and
now go to ski, Dimitris Lourantakis says he’s proud to be among
voters pushing to throw out  Greece ’s political ruling class.  Lourantakis, who lives in Kalavryta, two hours’ drive west
of Athens, never voted for a party other than the Socialist
Pasok until May 6. He cast his ballot last week for an eight-
year-old party named Syriza that says it would renege on the
bailout agreements that have secured Greece’s place in the euro
until now.  “I wanted to send a message of change,” said Lourantakis,
who runs a restaurant in Kalavryta, where the first Greek flag
of independence from the Turks was raised at a nearby monastery
in 1821 and where the Nazis massacred the male population in
1943. “It can’t go on. The old politicians have to go.”  The surge in support for smaller parties such as Syriza has
blocked the formation of a new government, increasing the
chances of new elections and heightening risks the country will
exit the 17-nation euro. Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras said
yesterday that his party, which came in second nationwide with
17 percent of the vote, would not join a unity government as
Greek President Karolos Papoulias tried to broker a coalition.  In return for emergency-aid pledges of 240 billion euros
($310 billion) from Europe and the  International Monetary Fund 
over the past two years, Greece must keep narrowing its  budget
deficit  to be eligible for quarterly loan disbursements.  Golden Dawn  The new Greek political landscape also features the
nationalist  Golden Dawn , whose logo resembles a swastika; former
 New Democracy  members united as the Independent Greeks; and
left-of-center groups in Syriza’s shadow.  New Democracy, which came in first with 19 percent, and
Pasok, third with 13 percent, have no parliamentary majority
alone or together after uniting in November to back budget cuts
to keep aid flowing. Failure to form a coalition would lead to
new elections as soon as next month.  “The election this month was a political earthquake,”
said Janis Emmanouilidis, an analyst at the European Policy
Centre in Brussels. “If there is an election in June, voters
will protest again. They are protesting against the effects of
the economic crisis on their lives.”  Wage Cuts  New Democracy and Pasok have dominated Greek politics over
the past four decades because of the appeal of two multiple-
term prime ministers, Constantine Karamanlis and  Andreas Papandreou . New Democracy’s Karamanlis steered Greece into the
European Union after leading the country when it emerged from a
military dictatorship in 1974. Papandreou, who had been
imprisoned during the dictatorship, founded Pasok and brought it
into mainstream politics with a 1981 electoral victory.  The parties’ monopoly on power is now disintegrating as the
economy suffers a fifth year of recession, with record
unemployment of almost 22 percent and a minimum wage that was
cut 22 percent this year. Golden Dawn, which opposes immigration
and foreign aid, capitalized on the voter discontent to enter
parliament for the first time.  Panagiotis Plassaras, a 28-year-old Golden Dawn volunteer
from the town of Nemea in the electoral region of Corinth, an
ancient city about 80 kilometers (50 miles) west of  Athens , said
he was spurred to act because of disgust with the status quo.  “We believe we are at war -- at economic and political war
against the system that is selling our country to foreigners,”
Plassaras said while sitting with fellow activists in the Golden
Dawn office in Nemea. “We want the country back in our hands.
We want Greece to be run by Greeks again.”  Swastika-Like  Golden Dawn gained 12 percent of the vote in the Corinth
region compared to 7 percent nationwide. Near Corinth, the
party’s name has been sprayed on facades across the countryside.
The group’s logo resembles a disentangled swastika and a  video 
of its leader, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, shows him giving a
fascist salute.  Plassaras, who has a ponytail and beard, is married and
works in his family-run olive-oil business, said the fascist
image of Golden Dawn is unfair.  “We’re not Nazis,” he said. “We fought the Germans and
we would fight them again. We’re Greek nationalists.”  Nikos Bakopanos, a 55-year-old farmer from Nemea, a wine-
growing area, said he voted for Golden Dawn after supporting New
Democracy and Pasok in previous elections.  Married with two sons, both of whom are also farmers,
Bakopanos said they aren’t making money and one son is thinking
of going to  Australia  or the U.S. Drinking rose wine in a local
cafe, Bakopanos said the prices for his produce haven’t risen in
a decade, immigration and crime are rampant and the political
system under New Democracy and Pasok is broken.  Broken System  “The system doesn’t work at all,” he said. “The state
doesn’t care. It’s anarchy. Greeks need discipline.”  Back in Kalavryta,  the 42-year-old Lourantakis said what 
Greeks need is time. With a master’s degree in sports from the 
University of Bucharest and a Romanian wife who is a former 
Olympic biathlon skier, he said Greece wasn’t fit for the euro 
when joining in 2001 and will have to leave unless the terms 
for staying are loosened.  “With the euro, all of Greece has gone down,” he said
while seated at a table in his restaurant called “To Spitiko,”
or “The Household,” which is a 20-minute drive from the ski
lifts. “The question isn’t whether you want to stay in the euro.
It’s whether you can. There’s no money.”  If  Europe  offers no rescue concessions, said Lourantakis,
the nation should reintroduce its own currency. He said Greece,
dependent on tourism for about 17 percent of its economy, would
regain a comparative advantage when seeking to attract foreign
visitors instead of having to operate in a European framework
tailored to  Germany ’s high-technology businesses.  “I don’t have a Mercedes engine,” he said. “I have a
tourism engine.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Athens at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  