-- Greek Elections Loom as Key Bailout Opponent Defies Unity
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-14T17:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/greek-elections-loom-as-key-bailout-opponent-defies-unity.html
Greece ’s political deadlock went into
a second week as President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure
agreement on a unity government and avert new elections with the
country heading toward a possible exit from the euro area.  Greece’s biggest anti-bailout party, Syriza, defied
overtures to join the government yesterday, deepening the
impasse. Leader Alexis Tsipras won’t attend a meeting called by
Papoulias today at 7:30 p.m. Athens time, the party said in an
e-mailed statement.  “Syriza won’t betray the Greek people,” Tsipras said in
statements televised on NET TV after meeting with Papoulias and
the leaders of the New Democracy and Pasok parties. “We are
being asked to agree to the destruction of Greek society.”  Papoulias spent yesterday trying to coax the country’s
three biggest parties into a coalition after a week of talks
failed to deliver a government. If Papoulias’s efforts fail, new
elections will need to be called. Today’s meeting will be with
the leaders of two of the three biggest parties, and the head of
the smaller Democratic Left party, state-run NET TV said.  “We’re here to exhaust all the possibilities” to form a
government, Antonis Samaras, the leader of  New Democracy , said
as he arrived for the meeting.  Another Vote  Greece’s political impasse since the inconclusive May 6
election has raised the possibility another vote will have to be
held as early as next month, with polls showing that could boost
anti-bailout Syriza to the top spot. The standoff has reignited
concern the country will renege on pledges to cut spending as
required by the terms of its two bailouts negotiated since May
2010, and, ultimately, leave the euro area.  Pasok, New Democracy and Democratic Left agreed last week
on a government that would last until 2014 and be committed to
keeping the country in the euro region and renegotiating bailout
conditions from the  International Monetary Fund  and European
Union to boost growth. Syriza’s Tsipras turned down the approach
on May 11 as the first opinion polls since the elections showed
he was gaining support.  Democratic Left has said that Syriza, the second-biggest
party, must be part of its proposed unity government, or give it
tacit support at least, if the government is to succeed. The
position has been adopted by Pasok and New Democracy.  Shares Fall  The  ASE Index (ASE)  dropped 4.6 percent to 584.04 at the Athens
close today, its lowest level since November 1992. The benchmark
measure fell 11 percent last week. Opap SA, Europe’s largest
listed gambling company, plunged 12 percent to 5.15 euros, its
biggest drop in over seven months.  The euro dipped 0.2 percent to 1.2847 as of 12:42 p.m. in
 New York , its lowest level in four months, before euro-area
finance ministers convene in Brussels today.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Europe has
done the “utmost” to prop up the financially stricken country,
limiting any further room for leniency after about 240 billion
euros ($308 billion) of aid pledges.  “There’s no easy way for Greece, whatever the outcome will
be,” Schaeuble told reporters before a meeting of the ministers
in Brussels. “It’s not about the question of being more or less
generous toward Greece. It’s simply about what is still
economically justifiable, what can be done that’s still
convincing in economic terms, that still has credibility.”  Interview  Europe  must reexamine its policy of austerity and
acknowledge it has failed, Tsipras said today in an interview
broadcast live on state-run Athens News Agency’s website.  “We ask that our country remain in the euro without the
catastrophic policy of austerity and we have the solidarity of
Europe,” Tsipras said. “I can’t guarantee that the euro area
itself and the euro will be united and exist.”  Yesterday, Tsipras challenged the three pro-bailout parties
to go ahead with forming a government, saying they would lack
legitimacy.  “The three parties that have agreed on the policy
framework for a two-year government to implement the memorandum
have 168 lawmakers in the new parliament,” which has 300
deputies, he said. “They have the majority so let them proceed.
Their demand for Syriza to join their planned agreement is
illogical.”  Syriza Poll Lead  Opinion polls conducted since the elections suggest that
Syriza would come in first in a rerun, though short of an
outright majority. Syriza would have 20.5 percent of the vote if
elections were held again, according to a survey of 1,002 people
by Rass SA for the newspaper  Eleftheros Typos  on May 14, the
fourth poll to show the party with such a lead.  That survey showed support for New Democracy, which placed
first in the May 6 election, at 19.4 percent and Pasok dropping
to 11.8 percent from 13.2 percent in the election. More than
eight in 10 said they wanted Greece to remain in the euro area.
The poll was conducted on May 10 and May 11. No margin of error
was given.  The May 6 election resulted in New Democracy and Pasok, the
two parties that supported the international rescue in an
interim government this year, being two deputies short of the
151 seats needed for a majority in Parliament. Syriza came in
second, its best showing ever and a fourfold increase in support
from the 2009 elections. Five anti-bailout parties are now
represented in parliament.  No Agreement  Tsipras failed to reach an accord with other leaders after
giving them an ultimatum to renounce support for the  EU-led
rescue  in order to enter the government. Both Samaras and
 Evangelos Venizelos , the former finance minister, rejected the
request.  Party leaders said they were given a note on the state of
the economy by interim Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  during
their meetings with Papoulias yesterday. Ta Nea reported that
the letter said the state will find it difficult to cover
payments in June due to the political impasse and the holding
back of the 1 billion euros. The newspaper didn’t say how it got
the information.  Greece will run out of cash by early July if partners
decide to withhold their next aid payment. The European
Financial Stability Facility on May 9 confirmed that a 5.2
billion-euro tranche will be released by the end of June, with
4.2 billion euros already disbursed May 10. The remaining 1
billion euros will be released depending on Greece’s financing
needs.  Under the terms of the bailout, a new government will need
to spell out how it will save 11 billion euros next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  