-- Infineon Names Ploss to Succeed Bauer as CEO From October
-- B y   K e n n e t h   W o n g
-- 2012-05-14T07:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/infineon-names-ploss-to-succeed-bauer-as-ceo-from-october.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest semiconductor maker, said Chief Executive Officer
Peter Bauer will step down because of “severely worsening”
osteoporosis and appointed a board member as successor.  The supervisory board accepted the 51-year-old executive’s
resignation and named Reinhard Ploss, the management board
member responsible for production, development, technology and
personnel as CEO from Oct. 1, Infineon said yesterday.  Bauer, who took over in June 2008, helped pull Infineon out
of its worst crisis by refocusing on selling chips used in cars
and industrial applications such as lighting equipment. He ended
losses at the Neubiberg, Germany-based company in the first year
and has since helped Infineon post about 2 billion euros ($2.6
billion) in accumulated net income. The chipmaker this month
raised its full-year profit forecasts.  “ Peter Bauer  stands for the turnaround of Infineon,” said
 Sandeep Deshpande , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London .
“It is unlikely there will be radical changes in strategy”
especially as the new CEO comes from the board.  Infineon fell 2.4 percent to 6.73 euros at 9:02 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The stock has gained 16 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 7.3 billion euros.  Ploss, 56, has worked at Infineon and  Siemens AG (SIE) , from
which Infineon was carved out in 2000, for more than 25 years.
He led development and manufacturing before taking on
responsibilities for Infineon’s automotive and industrial units.
He was appointed to Infineon’s management board in 2007.  Shares Outperform  Ploss “has contributed significantly to the company’s
innovation and earnings power,” Infineon said in a statement.
“He also introduced a pioneering manufacturing strategy, which
will serve as the basis for further profitable growth.”  During Bauer’s tenure, Infineon’s stock gained 33 percent
before today, while  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s largest
chipmaker by revenue, lost 51 percent.  Germany ’s benchmark DAX
30 Index slipped 7.3 percent in the period.  Revenue will decline less in the fiscal year ending Sept.
30 than initially forecast and profitability will be higher,
Infineon said May 3. Operating profit rose 2.1 percent to 144
million euros in the fiscal second quarter, beating the 131.1
million-euro average estimate by analysts. Net cash stood at 1.9
billion euros at the end of March.  “Maybe people will try to pressure him to use some of the
company’s cash to make acquisitions or buy back shares,” said
Eerik Budarz, an analyst at Silvia Quandt Research GmbH in
Frankfurt.  M&A Chief  This year, Infineon split its industrial and multimarket
unit into two and elevated its chief, Arunjai Mittal, to the
management board with responsibility for sales, strategy,
mergers and acquisitions.  Infineon, whose customers include carmaker Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and consumer-electronics company  Royal Philips
Electronics NV (PHIA) , is benefiting from demand for chips that replace
mechanical parts in cars, manage power in home appliances and
windmills, and make passports and contactless payment cards
secure.  Growth in global revenue from semiconductors will probably
accelerate to between 6 percent and 7 percent this year, after a
3.7 percent increase to $301 billion in 2011, research company
IDC said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  