-- Infosys Seen Needing French Deal to Lift Value: Real M&A
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-05-14T10:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/infosys-seen-needing-french-deal-to-lift-value-real-m-a.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest
software-services exporter, is seeking European acquisitions as
it trades at its lowest valuation since the financial crisis.
That’s turning French companies from  Sword Group (SWP)  to GFI
Informatique into potential targets.  Infosys, whose  $4 billion  cash pile is the biggest among
India’s computer-services providers, said last month it’s
looking for a European deal after its annual sales forecast
trailed analysts’ estimates. With growth curbed by competition,
the Bangalore-based company is trading at 15.9 times earnings,
the  lowest  since the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  A European takeover would help Infosys add a local sales
force and new lines of business as it loses the ability to
command high prices for basic software development, Ambit
Capital Pvt. said. With French information technology companies
trading at a median price-to-sales multiple that’s 72 percent
cheaper than their western European rivals,  Sopra Group (SOP) , GFI
Informatique and Sword all offer Infosys the footprint it seeks
in the region, according to Talence Gestion.  “The need for an acquisition to compete more effectively
at the front end seems quite key for Infosys,” Ankur Rudra, a
Mumbai-based analyst at Ambit Capital, said. “Unless they are
ready to accept lower prices and hence possibly lower margins,
they’ll just have to do this. Otherwise, they’ll get competed
out of the market.”  Y2K Success  Founded in 1981 with $250 in capital and seven software
engineers, Infosys signed its first customer in the U.S. later
that year and opened its first overseas office in Boston in
1987, according to its  website . With its  shares  closing last
week at 2,311 rupees ($43.15), the 150,000-employee company had
a market value of $24.8 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Infosys rose 1.2 percent to 2339 rupees a share today.  Infosys’ sales growth surged as it helped companies tackle
the so-called Y2K bug that threatened to reset calendars on
computer systems to the year 1900. Annual  revenue  through March
2001 more than doubled to $416 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s early success made Infosys
the “flag-bearer of the Indian IT industry globally,” CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets analysts wrote in a note last month.  The company is now losing ground as Mumbai-based  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and  Cognizant Technology Solutions
Corp. (CTSH)  of Teaneck, New Jersey, chase customers with “new found
aggression,” CLSA’s Nimish Joshi wrote in the April 19 note.
Armonk, New York-based  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  is
also hiring in India to compete for low cost offshore services.  Sales Growth  Infosys’s sales will rise as much as 16 percent to 391.4
billion rupees in the year ending March 2013, the company
projected last month. That would be the slowest pace in two
decades, excluding fiscal 2010 when revenue growth slowed to 5
percent after the September 2008 bankruptcy of New York-based
Lehman spurred the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In contrast, Tata Consultancy said on April 24 that it has
seen “absolutely no problem” for growth this year.  Down  20 percent  in the past year, Infosys is trading at
 15.9 times  net income for the year ended in March. That’s the
lowest since May 2009, when  global equities  were recovering from
the  bear market  spurred by Lehman’s collapse, weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Describing outsourcing work as “commoditized,” the
company’s Chief Financial Officer V. Balakrisnan said in
February that Infosys is looking for acquisitions that will
expand its consulting offerings and intellectual property. That
would enable them to vie for higher value contracts with
companies from Dublin-incorporated  Accenture Plc (ACN)  to Paris-based
 Cap Gemini SA (CAP) , Ambit’s Rudra said.  ‘Retain Market Share’  “An acquisition that can help them compete more
successfully with the likes of global multinational IT services
houses such as Accenture, Cap Gemini, IBM, is something they
really need,” said Rudra, who has maintained a  sell rating  on
Infosys since January 2011. “Their visibility across the IT
services value chain will increase, their ability to gain and
retain market share will be enhanced.”  Consulting and systems integration work will be the fastest
growing area in information-technology services in the two years
to 2013, reaching a total of $465 billion in annual spending,
according to a Jan. 6 report by  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  The
adoption of cloud-based software that can be accessed via the
Internet is reducing the need for basic software customization,
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester said.  ‘Really Critical’  The western European information technology market, the
second-biggest after  North America , reached $211 billion last
year, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher
IDC. Although spending in western and central  Europe  will slow
this year as the region grapples with a sovereign debt crisis,
Forrester predicts it will rebound in 2013.  Infosys, with $4 billion in cash as of March, can spend as
much as $500 million on a single European purchase,
Chandrashekar Kakal, global head of business IT services, said
last month. Sarah Gideon, an Infosys spokeswoman in Bangalore,
declined to comment further on the company’s acquisition plans.  “Europe is really critical,” said Rod Bourgeois, a New
York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “Acquisitions
become very important when you try to expand there because you
often need local presence in order to be able to sell to
continental European companies.”  The declining value of French technology companies is
creating a buying opportunity for Infosys, according to Regis Lefort, who helps oversee more than 150 million euros ($194
million) in assets at Paris-based Talence Gestion.  ‘Really Cheap’  After falling 21 percent on average in the past year amid
concern that Europe’s debt crisis would spread from  Greece ,
Ireland and Portugal to  France , information technology services
and application software companies in France worth more than
$100 million are trading at a median of 0.5 times sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 1.8
times for rivals in the rest of western Europe, the data show.  “French IT is really cheap right now,” said Lefort, who
cited Sopra, Sword and  GFI Informatique (GFI)  as logical takeover
targets. Talence Gestion owns shares of Sword and GFI
Informatique. “They’re medium-sized companies with a strong
European presence and healthy finances,” Lefort said.  An acquisition of Sopra, which has  1.05 billion  euros in
annual sales and more than 14,000 employees, would double
Infosys’s revenue  from the continent , according to data from the
companies. The 44-year-old company, with a market value of 500
million euros, counts Societe Generale SA and  European
Aeronautic Defence and Space Co.  among its customers.  ‘Change of Control’  Paris-based Sopra’s sales may increase 13 percent this year
to a record and rise through at least 2014, analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. The company ended last week valued
at a  52 percent discount  to sales. Sopra fell 0.6 percent to
41.75 euros a share, as of 12:56 p.m. in Paris today.  Any buyer of Sopra would need the approval of Chairman
Pierre Pasquier, who owns  26 percent  of the company along with
co-founders and some managers. The 76-year-old Pasquier’s age
may create an opportunity for a takeover, said Fabrice Revol, a
 fund manager  at Paris-based Amplegest, which owns Sopra shares.  “There may well be a change of control when Pasquier
decides to leave the company,” Revol said. Virginie Legoupil, a
spokeswoman for Sopra, said Pasquier didn’t wish to comment.  A  26 percent retreat  in the past year has left GFI
Informatique with a market capitalization of 167 million euros.
GFI shares fell 1 percent to 3.05 euros a share.  The Paris-based company trades at  0.27 times  sales,
compared with the 0.72 times that  Japan ’s  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  offered
in a failed 419 million-euro takeover bid in 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Tokyo-based Fujitsu scrapped its
effort after meeting resistance from GFI Informatique’s  board 
and shareholders who considered the bid too low.  ‘Stay Forever’  Still, the opportunity to acquire GFI Informatique may come
as investment funds that own  more than half  the company
eventually seek to exit their positions, according to Emmanuel Parot, an analyst at Paris-based Gilbert Dupont.  “More than 50 percent of capital is in the hands of funds
which aren’t going to stay forever,” said Parot, who has an
“add” rating on the stock. GFI Informatique is targeting
revenue of 1 billion euros by 2015, an increase of 62 percent
from last year. The company didn’t respond to phone and e-mail
requests for comment.  Sword, the smallest of the three companies with a market
value of 106 million euros, is also the most expensive at a
valuation of  0.68 times  sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Sword sold 80 million euros of assets last year to focus on
higher-margin businesses such as software editing. Founder
Jacques Mottard, who owns  18 percent  of the 12-year-old company,
in 1999 sold Decan, an IT company he had managed for a decade.  ‘Key Positioning’  Sword has added cash to its balance sheet faster than any
of its French rivals over the past five years, ending 2011 with
 112 million euros  of cash and short-term investments. Its shares
fell 0.3 percent to 11.40 euros as of 12:56 p.m. today.  “Sword generates good levels of cash and has key
positioning on niche segments that generate high margins,” said
Benjamin Terdjman, Paris-based analyst at  Genesta Finance .
“They’ve got government contracts, contracts with European
institutions, basically high-value contracts.”  “Sword is not up for sale,” Stephanie Desmaris, a
spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail. “Mottard has no
exit strategy, as he is leading a new development plan for
Sword, which will include acquisitions.”  European companies have begun to adopt outsourcing in
greater numbers. They accounted for 51 percent of the world’s
outsourcing deals in the first quarter, versus 40 percent two
years ago, according to a May 10 report from Everest Group, a
Dallas-based consultant.  ‘Building a Presence’  “From geographic perspective, continental Europe is very
important,” said Sandip Kumar Agarwal, an analyst at Edelweiss
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Building a presence there
organically is difficult because of language differences and
also from the perspective of customers’ comfort. The acquisition
route makes more sense.”  Excluding a $28 million acquisition of three back-office
service centers in 2007, Infosys hasn’t closed a deal in Europe
after discussing the idea for at least a decade, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. In 2008, the company walked away from a plan
to acquire U.K.-based Axon Group Plc after its 407.1 million-
pound ($654 million) bid was trumped by  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)   “They’ve been looking at targets for several years,” said
Ambit Capital’s Rudra. “If they choose to go ahead with a
target, it would enable them to tell their clients that they’re
serious about their strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  