-- Iraq Oil Output Beating Iran Ends Saddam Legacy: Energy Markets
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-05-13T09:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/iraq-oil-output-beating-iran-ends-saddam-legacy-energy-markets.html
Iraq , seeking to more than double oil
output by 2015, is poised to overtake Iran as OPEC’s second-
largest producer by the end of the year as sanctions hobble
crude production in its Persian Gulf neighbor.  Iraq is pumping at the highest rate since Saddam Hussein
seized power in 1979, supported by foreign investors such as
Exxon Mobil Corp. and  BP Plc (BP/)  that are developing new fields and
reworking older deposits. The country produced 3.03 million
barrels a day in April, 7.7 percent more than in March, while
Iranian production declined to 3.2 million barrels a day,
according to an OPEC monthly report on May 10. Iraq’s output
last exceeded  Iran ’s in 1988, when the countries ended their
eight-year war, statistics compiled by BP show.  With oil supplies rising from  Libya  and Saudi Arabia, the
recovery of Iraq’s biggest foreign-currency earner is helping to
alleviate concern that a European Union embargo on Iranian crude
starting July 1 will squeeze global output. Tensions over  Iran’s
nuclear program  and the prospect of curbs on its oil sales
pushed  Brent crude  to a 3 1/2-year high of $128.40 a barrel on
March 1. Oil fell to as low as $111.40 on May 11.  “Iraq appears to be a steady and growing producer,”
 Victor Shum , managing director at consultant Purvin and Gertz
Inc. in  Singapore , said in a telephone interview on May 10.
“That’s certainly a positive for world supply as there have
been lingering concerns on output and spare capacity.”  Views on Prices  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries plans to
meet next month in Vienna to assess output after absorbing Iraq
into its quota system when the group raised its ceiling to 30
million barrels a day in December. Oil prices of $100 to $120 a
barrel are “acceptable” and won’t damage the world economy,
Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said in an interview
on May 10 in Baghdad.  Ali al-Naimi , oil minister of Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s biggest
producer, said today in  Adelaide ,  Australia , that prices are too
high. Global supply outweighs demand, and prices need to fall to
the equivalent of about $100 a barrel for Brent, al-Naimi said.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves,
according to data from BP that include Canadian oil sands.
Production has revived since the U.S.-led invasion of 2003 ended
more than two decades of stagnation caused by wars, sanctions
and underinvestment. Since Hussein’s ouster, the government has
awarded 15 oil and gas licenses to foreign companies, and 47
potential bidders have signed up for its next auction of
exploration rights scheduled for May 30.  Iraq ‘Upswing’  “Iraq is on the upswing,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of
commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said in
a May 10 telephone interview. “With all the investment coming
in, with people developing new areas or trying to expand output
at existing fields, it was a foregone conclusion that production
would rise. There was a question mark over stability and
security, but that’s been mostly OK.”  The country is targeting production of 3.4 million a day
this year and more than 4 million barrels in 2013, according to
Asim Jihad, a spokesman for the Oil Ministry in  Baghdad . Exports
will increase to 2.9 million barrels in 2013 from a current
level of 2.5 million barrels, al-Luaibi said May 10.  Export shipments from Iraq surpassed those of Iran during
the first quarter of the year,  David Fyfe , head of the
 International Energy Agency ’s market and industry division, said
on May 7 in Bahrain. Iranian sales dropped by 400,000 barrels a
day to 2.1 million barrels a day for the same period, Fyfe said,
while ministry data show Iraq shipped a daily average of 2.145
million barrels in the quarter and 2.5 million in April.  Floating Storage  Crude exports from Iran averaged 1.8 million barrels a day
in April, the agency said on May 11, citing traders it didn’t
identify. As much as 35 million barrels may be held in floating
storage, compared with 8 million in March, it said.  Iranian output may suffer further as tougher international
restrictions take effect, falling an additional 600,000 to
700,000 barrels a day once the new sanctions are in place, the
IEA’s Fyfe said in a May 11 telephone interview.  Bottlenecks for shipments from southern Iraq, where energy
companies are making most of their investments, have eased with
the construction of two offshore mooring facilities for
supertankers. Another two units will be built in coming months.
The country will generate $100 billion from oil sales this year,
according to al-Luaibi.  Exports to Asia  “Asian markets, chiefly China and  India , have become very
important for Iraq’s crude exports over the last few years,
making up 60 percent of Iraq’s total crude exports,” Jihad said
on May 10. “Crude exports to  Asia  are still on the rise.”  As sanctions have made it more difficult for importers to
buy Iranian petroleum, Iraq overtook Iran to become the second-
largest supplier of crude to India after  Saudi Arabia  in the 12
months through March, according to data from the Associated
Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India.  Iraq still faces hurdles to its re-emergence as a reliable
global supplier. As the U.S. withdrew the last of its troops
from the country in December, Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s
government reinforced security at energy installations,
including the use of army helicopters. Bombings, assassinations
and attacks on pipelines and refineries have persisted, though
their frequency and intensity has decreased.  Delayed Law  The government has failed to bridge sectarian and political
divisions, adopt an energy law after six years of effort, find
investors to upgrade the country’s refining capacity or prevent
electricity blackouts lasting an average of more than half of
every day. Crude exports this month won’t increase from April’s
level because Iraq needs to divert fuel to new  power plants , al-
Luaibi said May 9.  Although the two new mooring facilities helped boost
output from Basra in southern Iraq by 200,000 barrels a day last
month, they are operating well below capacity because of
pipeline and storage constraints, the IEA said. Exports from the
offshore units will be capped for now at 300,000 barrels,
compared with planned capacity of 1.8 million.  Politicians are also at loggerheads over how to share oil
revenue with the country’s semi-autonomous Kurdish region, a
dispute that threatens projects of Exxon Mobil and other foreign
investors. The Oil Ministry is in talks with “a number of
companies” that may result in cuts to targets for crude
production, al-Luaibi said. The government wants to pump 12
million barrels a day by 2017, he said.  Even with the Kurds halting shipments of crude on April 1
through a pipeline controlled by the central government, the
country’s progress in rebuilding its energy infrastructure
through investment and foreign expertise has allowed Iraq to
raise crude production by 45 percent since the end of 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The investment environment does look more robust in Iraq
than in Iran at the moment,” the IEA’s Fyfe said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ; or
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  