-- Japan to Experience Power Shortages This Summer, Panel Says
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-05-13T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/japan-to-experience-power-shortages-this-summer-panel-says.html
Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  and two
other Japanese utilities may have power shortages this summer
without supplies from nuclear reactors, a government panel said.  Kansai Electric, the utility most dependent on nuclear
power, may face the biggest shortage of 14.9 percent, the
independent committee  said  in a draft report published May 12.
Kyushu Electric Power Co. and Hokkaido Electric Power Co. may
have shortages of 2.2 percent and 1.9 percent, the report said.  Japan  is reviewing its electricity outlook as it heads
toward a nuclear-free summer while debating the first restart of
atomic reactors idled for regular safety checks since the
Fukushima disaster in March last year. Based on the conclusion
of the panel, the government will decide on power-saving
measures, which may include rolling blackouts.  Kansai Electric ’s service area may face a more severe power
shortage than the deficit forecast in  Tokyo Electric ’s region
last year, according to the report. In addition to the Kansai
region, power supply and demand are expected to be tight in
Hokkaido, Shikoku and Kyushu.  Utilities should have at least 3 percent surplus capacity
to deal with potential demand spikes or accidents at power
plants, the report said. Tokyo Electric Power Co. and four other
utilities were estimated to meet the target, it said.  Power Saving  As part of measures to get through the summer, the
government should set power-saving targets across the country,
and utilities with excess capacity should supply electricity to
others, the report said.  The government may ask western prefectures supplied by
Chubu Electric Power Co.,  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505) , Chugoku
Electric Power Co. and Shikoku Electric Power Co. to reduce
power consumption by 5 percent, the Yomiuri newspaper reported
May 12. Saved electricity may be supplied to the Kansai region,
it said. Kansai accounts for about a fifth of Japan’s economy.  Users there may be asked to cut electricity consumption by
as much as 20 percent, while those in Kyushu and Hokkaido may be
requested to reduce 12 percent and as much as 8 percent, the
Yomiuri said, without saying how it got the information.  All of Japan’s 50 reactors are now offline for maintenance
or safety checks and none have been approved for restarts due to
local opposition following the disaster. Utilities increased use
of gas and oil-fired  power plants  to make up for the loss.  Even if power shortages during peak summer hours are
averted, increased use of thermal power plants will drain
Japan’s national wealth, the panel said.  Fuel costs at the nine regional utilities that operate
nuclear plants may rise to as much as 7 trillion yen ($88
billion) in the year ending March 2013, from 5.9 trillion yen a
year earlier, it said. The utilities spent about 3.6 trillion
yen on fuel costs in the year ended March 2011, the report said.  The rising costs may mean households and companies end up
facing higher electricity bills, it said.  Tokyo Electric, known as Tepco, submitted a request to the
trade and industry ministry on May 11 to raise electricity rates
for households by an average of 10.28 percent from July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  