-- JPMorgan Unit’s London Staff May Go as Loss Prompts Exits
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-14T14:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/jpmorgan-executives-said-to-depart-this-week-after-trading-loss.html
The entire  London  staff of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief investment office is at risk of dismissal as
a $2 billion trading loss prompts the first executive departures
as soon as this week, a person familiar with the situation said.  Ina Drew, who oversees the unit, resigned today, the bank
said in a statement.  Joseph Evangelisti , a bank spokesman, said
before her departure was announced that Drew would have no
comment. While the firm is examining whether anyone in the unit,
which employs a few dozen people in London, sought to hide
risks, there isn’t yet evidence that’s the case, one of the
people said.  Chief Executive  Jamie Dimon , 56, announced the loss May 10,
assailing his firm’s handling of trading in synthetic credit
securities as “flawed, complex, poorly reviewed, poorly
executed and poorly monitored.” Initially, he resisted
accepting Drew’s resignation, the person said. The incident has
given ammunition to proponents of stricter  bank regulations .  Dimon “has to clarify the management changes that have to
take place to ensure that a firm line has been drawn under
this,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at
Mediobanca SpA.  Shares of the company have lost more than 11 percent since
the May 10 announcement of the loss. They dropped 1.9 percent in
New York at 10:40 a.m., to $36.24.  Drew, 55, is one of two women on the operating committee at
JPMorgan, the biggest and  most profitable  U.S. bank. Her office
oversees about $360 billion, the difference between money from
deposits and what the bank lends. Dimon had encouraged her unit
to boost earnings by buying higher-yielding assets, including
structured credit, equities and derivatives, in an expansion of
risk-taking led by Achilles Macris, ex-employees said in April.  Macris, 50, and a trader on his team, Javier Martin-Artajo,
also are leaving the New York-based firm with Drew, the Wall
Street Journal reported yesterday, citing the unidentified
people. Macris and Martin-Artajo didn’t respond to messages left
outside of regular business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  