-- Anish Kapoor Defends ‘Awkward’ London Tower
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/kapoor-defends-awkward-london-tower-more-eiffel-than-eyesore.html
On an overcast day in  London , the
city’s mayor, the chief executive officer of the world’s biggest
steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT) , and artist Anish Kapoor congregate at
the top of the U.K.’s tallest sculpture.  They’re inaugurating the ArcelorMittal Orbit: a spiraling
114.5-meter (376 foot) lattice of dark-red tubular steel
designed by Kapoor and engineer Cecil Balmond. The first view,
even on a cloudy morning, stretches from the London 2012 Olympic
Park across to the towers of  Canary Wharf  and of the City
financial district.  Taller than the Statue of Liberty and Big Ben, twice as
high as Nelson’s column in London’s  Trafalgar Square , the Orbit
has cost 22.7 million pounds ($36.5 million), of which
ArcelorMittal funded as much as 19.6 million pounds. Elevators
take reporters to a circular viewing platform at the top. The
structure has drawn mixed reviews for its twisted contours. It
is a third of the size of the Eiffel Tower in Paris.  “For ArcelorMittal, it clearly shows that we can
demonstrate how the steel can be used,” says  Lakshmi Mittal ,
whose company employs 260,000 people. “We have got the steel
from every steel manufacturing unit of ours, so every employee
feels they have participated in the London Olympics and
Paralympics.”  “ArcelorMittal would not have sponsored it if it was not
made of steel,” he says.  Davos Cloakroom  Moments later, Mittal joins Mayor  Boris Johnson  on the
balcony, a wrap-around walkway of steel mesh, for a combined
video interview. The two recall meeting in 2009 in the cloakroom
of the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , where the
mayor buttonholed the billionaire.  “Lakshmi and I were both getting our coat back,” says
Johnson, as Mittal stands smiling beside him, briefly resting a
hand on his shoulder. “In the space of 45 seconds, Lakshmi
agreed to fund the project: He said I will give you the steel.”  Did the mayor know the sculpture would be made of steel?
“I didn’t,” says Johnson, “but I saw Lakshmi Mittal in the
cloakroom, and I thought that steel would be a useful thing to
have.”  Mittal says the idea, at first, was for him to
“participate in a modest way” and “supply some steel” to the
Olympic and Paralympic Games.  “I never dreamt that this project will become such a large
project,” he says. “Boris was so smart, getting me into this
discussion and forcing me to make such a big piece of art.”  Eiffel Horror  Earlier, Kapoor and Balmond present the landmark to
reporters in a nearby hotel. Balmond says steel was not chosen
because of Mittal’s sponsorship offer: It was the most workable
material to create a tower that, rather than rest on four legs
like the Eiffel Tower, was supported by orbiting around itself.
Concrete would not have worked, he says.  Kapoor downplays the controversy around the tower’s look.
He says he has researched initial reactions to the Eiffel Tower,
and recalls the horror of observers such as author Victor Hugo.  “I think it’s awkward: It has its elbows sticking out, in
a way,” says Kapoor. “It refuses to be an emblem.”  “I wanted us to make a work that’s really about
experience,” he says. “It’s about going in, going up, being
part of.”  To put his mark on a tower that otherwise looks like a feat
of engineering, Kapoor has made it red -- a color he uses a lot
-- and built a rust-colored steel canopy shaped like an upside-
down cone that visitors have to stand underneath before going up
the tower. The experience is meant as “a moment of darkness, of
weight, perhaps even a little scary,” he explains.  Investment Area  The tower will cost 15 pounds to visit for non-
ticketholders during the 2012  Olympic Games . It will then reopen
in the first half of 2014 as a visitor attraction in a
regenerated area that is receiving another 500 million pounds in
investment.  Kapoor says he hopes the entrance ticket will be “as cheap
as possible” because 15 pounds is “a lot of money” and it’s
important “to make something properly democratic.”  The 2012 London Olympic Games run from July 27 to Aug. 12.
Information:  http://www.london2012.com/   Today’s Muse highlights include Scott Reyburn on  auctions ,
Lance Esplund on  art  and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at   farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 