-- This Kennedy May Renew the Family Franchise
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-05-13T15:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/newest-kennedy-on-stump-may-renew-family-s-franchise.html
For more than half a century, the
Kennedys were a force in U.S. politics. Their dominance began
with  John F. Kennedy ’s 1960 presidential run and lasted until
the death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy in 2009.  The family’s return as a major political presence isn’t
imminent; it may not be that far off, though. A candidate for a
Massachusetts seat in the U.S. House of Representatives is
Joseph P. Kennedy III, the grandson of Robert F. Kennedy and a
grandnephew of the president and the senator. He’s running in a
congressional district now largely represented by Democratic
Representative  Barney Frank , who’s retiring.  It’s not just the name; veteran politicians and Kennedy-
watchers say the 31-year-old is the real deal. He draws
comparisons to the young  Jack Kennedy , and especially to Ted
Kennedy in his first race for the Senate in 1962: Both were a
little beyond their 30th birthdays, and it was their first bid
for office after serving stints as county prosecutors.  An even more relevant analogy, longtime politicians say, is
that  Joseph Kennedy  is a natural, as were his illustrious great-
uncles.  “I have been around politics for a long time and only
occasionally you meet someone with special skills and ability
and genuine warmth,” says former Connecticut Senator
 Christopher Dodd , a Democrat. “I don’t care what his name is;
that’s Joe.”  Earning It  Despite these credentials, Kennedy doesn’t convey a sense
of entitlement. “I’m extremely proud of my family’s service to
the country,” he said in an interview in Milford last week.
“It creates a curiosity about my candidacy. But then I’ve got
to earn it.”  The next generation of Kennedys after the president and his
siblings have experienced their share of tragedies and
successes; Timothy Shriver, a nephew of JFK, is the chairman and
chief executive officer of the Special Olympics, one of the
world’s best nonprofits; Caroline Kennedy, a daughter of the
president, is an author, a First Amendment expert and president
of the  John F. Kennedy Presidential Library . (I am chairman of
the library’s Profiles in Courage Award committee.)  Their political participation, however, has been limited.
Several won office, including the father of the candidate,
Joseph P. Kennedy II, who served six terms in Congress. None
rose to the political prominence of their fathers or uncles.  Joseph P. Kennedy III is the first of his generation to
run. He graduated from  Stanford University  with a degree in
engineering, spent two years as a Peace Corps volunteer in the
 Dominican Republic , graduated from  Harvard Law School , while
doing pro-bono legal aide in poor Boston neighborhoods, and then
worked as a prosecutor in two district attorneys’ offices.  In 2006, with his twin brother,  Matt  (currently working in
the U.S. Commerce Department), he ran his great-uncle’s Senate
re-election campaign. That wasn’t heavy lifting; Ted Kennedy won
almost 70 percent of the vote.  Joseph Kennedy says that seeking political office was part
of an evolution that began at the family dinner table and is
driven by the desire to affect change. He’s not coasting or
cornering the office. In only a few months, he’s attended 100
events in the district, often working seven days a week. “No
one is going to say we didn’t work for it,” he says.  He comes across as, well, Kennedy-esque: trim, with a big
smile and thatch of red hair. Heads turn when he walks into a
room.  `Can’t Go Wrong’  On a recent night in Milford, his fourth trip to the town
of 27,000, voters made no secret of their reverence for the
 Massachusetts  dynasty. “Knowing the Kennedy family, I know
he’ll do something for us in Congress; the Kennedys listen to
the middle class,” says Elaine Nigro, a retired teacher. Marie
Romagnoli says simply: “You can’t go wrong with the Kennedys.”  Jim O’Day, a state legislator for Worcester, recalls the
speech the young Kennedy gave last year in the State House
commemorating the 50th anniversary of John F. Kennedy’s farewell
speech when he left Massachusetts to assume the presidency.  “The kid was fabulous,” O’Day says.  Kennedy works the crowd with ease. An attendee asks a
question in Spanish; Kennedy replies fluently in that language.  He doesn’t shy away from his legacy, citing his late uncle,
“the Lion of the Senate,” as a friend of the working class and
labor. Most of his remarks, and his still forming agenda, are
predictably drawn from progressive Democratic boilerplate. He’s
for creating “good” jobs, helping small business, a balanced
fiscal approach that includes both unspecific spending cuts and
tax increases and a  tax code  that ensures that every American
“is contributing his or her fair share.”  He raised $1.3 million in the first quarter, fueled by
celebrity-packed fundraisers hosted by his famous relatives. The
Republicans, meanwhile, are focused on retaining the seat of the
incumbent senator,  Scott Brown , and maybe winning the
congressional seat of Democratic Representative John Tierney.  This means that Frank’s district will almost surely be
represented in 2013 by a member of the next generation of the
state’s first political family.  That hasn’t stopped one Republican aspirant, Sean Bielat,
who lost to Frank two years ago, from blasting Kennedy: “When
you take Kennedy’s name out of the equation, he falls short,”
Bielat said.  This is deja vu for old-timers who remember events 50 years
ago, when the state’s attorney general who was running against
the young  Ted Kennedy  charged: “If your name was Edward Moore
your candidacy would be a joke. But it’s Edward Moore Kennedy.”  That “joke” went on to easily win the election, He served
almost 47 years in the Senate, and was one of the most
influential lawmakers of his age.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  better cookstoves for
the developing world ; David Aaker on  marketing brands ; Edward
Conard on  what drives the U.S. economy ;  Aaron David Miller  on
 safe zones in Syria ;  Simon Johnson  and  Peter Boone  on  the euro
and banks ; Rachelle Bergstein on  wedges and World War I .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 