-- Nordic Cost Cuts Create Baltic Jobs, Latvia Lures Samsung
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s ,   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-05-14T08:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/nordic-cost-cuts-create-baltic-jobs-as-latvia-attracts-samsung.html
Mattias Loov sought to cut costs for
his clients at Stockholm-based  H1 Communication AB  after the
global economic crisis hit the Nordic region. He found a
solution 760 kilometers (475 miles) across the  Baltic Sea .  H1 now has about 10 percent of its staff in Estonia, where
the hourly labor cost is a fifth of  Sweden ’s. Loov is looking to
add more workers to the call center and technical-support hub in
the capital, Tallinn.  “Everyone’s looking after their overheads and trying to
provide good services in a cost-effective way,” Loov, H1’s
chief executive, said in a phone interview. He sees outsourcing
to Baltic region, which also includes Latvia and  Lithuania , as
an emerging trend.  Searching for ways to boost profit margins as  Europe ’s debt
crisis weighs on  sales growth , companies have been lured to the
Baltic countries by lower wages, geographical proximity and
language skills. Unemployment in the three former Soviet nations
remains more than double pre-crisis rates and the jobs are
deterring some workers from seeking opportunities in countries
such as Ireland and  Finland .  After enduring the world’s deepest recessions following
 Lehman Brothers Inc .’s collapse, the Baltic region has boosted
exports of non-transportation services by about 20 percent since
2009 as foreign companies set up back offices.  Airlines, Banks  Finnish flag carrier  Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  moved its financial-
services division to Tartu in Estonia, bringing 100 jobs, while
Swedish lender  SEB AB (SEBA)  set up back offices in Latvia.  Among non-Nordic arrivals,  Western Union Co. (WU)  set up a
regional operations center with 460 jobs in the Lithuanian
capital, Vilnius, in 2011, while  Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (005930) 
created a call center in Latvia’s capital, Riga, after Prime
Minister Valdis Dombrovskis visited  South Korea  last June.  At 5.5 euros ($7.16) an hour, Lithuanian labor costs were
the second-lowest in Europe last year behind  Bulgaria , according
to Eurostat. That’s eight times less than in  Norway , Europe’s
most expensive at 44.2 euros. Finnish rates were the lowest
among the Nordic nations at 29.7 euros, while  Estonia ’s were the
highest in the Baltic region at 8.1 euros.  Employment costs, excluding expenses related to running a
remote office, such as business travel, can be from 50 percent
to several times lower in Lithuania than in Scandinavia, said
Donatas Ozelis, who manages an information-technology center in
Vilnius for Danish engineering consultants Cowi A/S.  On the Doorstep  In addition, workers in the region of 6.6 million people
often speak Nordic languages, hold strikes less often than those
in other European nations and, while separated by the Baltic
Sea, are close enough to integrate, according to Ivars Bergmanis, head of institutional markets at Estonia’s LHV Pank.  Baltic nations offer “highly skilled labor available on
more flexible terms right on one’s doorstep,” he said by e-mail
from Tallinn.  The yield on Lithuania’s 2022 dollar bond rose 0.02
percentage point today to 5.03 percent, the highest since May 2.
The yield on Latvia’s 2021 dollar bond fell 0.07 percentage
point to 5.14 percent. Estonia doesn’t have any outstanding
bonds.  Estonia’s benchmark OMX stock index has gained 16.6 percent
this year, while Lithuania’s is up 13.1 percent and Latvia’s has
advanced 4 percent. That compares with a 3.9 percent decline for
the Euro Stoxx 50.  Global Services Center  New Jersey-based  Cytec Industries Inc. (CYT) , the world’s second-
biggest maker of carbon-fiber composites for airplanes,
initially shifted some financial and human resources functions
to Latvia in 2010. Now it employs 130 people in Riga, having
found a university-educated workforce to handle accounts
payable, financial analysis and procurement.  “We were looking for people with multilanguage skills,
which we found readily available in Latvia,” said Cytec’s Chief
Financial Officer David Drillock. “What started out as a
shared-services center is quickly becoming a global business
services center.”  The Baltic nations re-calibrated their economies after a
debt-fueled property bubble burst, inflows of credit stopped and
export markets closed, erasing as much as a fifth of gross
domestic product. Exports now generate 75 percent of GDP in
Estonia, 78 percent in Lithuania and 55 percent in  Latvia .  Fastest EU Growth  Estonia’s economy outpaced the rest of the European Union
last year, expanding 7.6 percent, while Lithuania’s grew 5.9
percent and Latvia’s advanced 5.4 percent. Still, jobless rates
top 10 percent across the region, where governments cut spending
and raised taxes by as much as 15 percent of economic output in
2009-2010.  That’s pushed people to search for work elsewhere amid the
biggest wave of emigration since Soviet troops left 20 years
ago.  At 23.7 people per 1,000, Lithuania’s emigration rate is
the EU’s highest, according to Eurostat. About 80,000 Latvians
departed in 2009 and 2010, according to estimates by Mihails
Hazans, an economist at the University of Latvia. More than
14,350 Estonians sought new lives abroad from 2008 to 2010,
statistics office data show.  Eighty-two percent of those who departed Lithuania in 2011
were unemployed for a year or more before leaving, according to
the statistics office.  Stopping Workers Leaving  “It’s quite important for us to get jobs to get people to
stay here,” Latvian Premier Dombrovskis said in a March 21
interview. “The fundamental factor is the economy.”  While the lure of employment by foreign companies may
prevent qualified workers from leaving, more must be done to
improve the IT and foreign-language capabilities of those who
are less qualified, according to Rokas Bancevicius, a senior DnB
Bank analyst in Vilnius.  “The majority of the unemployed in the Baltic states is
unqualified,” Bancevicius said by e-mail. “It remains a strong
responsibility for the governments to promote learning new
skills.”  In the meantime, opportunities at foreign employers are
continuing to swell.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which opened an IT unit in Vilnius in 2010,
now employs 700 people in Lithuania, exceeding an initial plan
to hire 250 people within three years.  Konecranes Oyj (KCR1V) , the world’s biggest supplier of industrial
cranes, will set up a financial-services center in Estonia in
the second half of 2012, Mikael Wegmuller, a spokesman for the
company, said by e-mail.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic
lender, plans to expand its Tallinn call center, Jane-Liina
Liiv, the bank’s spokeswoman in Estonia, said by e-mail.  Projects like these may persuade some workers to stay at
home, according to Cowi’s Ozelis.  “I know for sure we’ve hired a few people who were
seriously considering leaving the country to look for a job,”
he said. “These are young people that couldn’t find such
opportunities in Lithuania.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  