-- NPCC Targets Abu Dhabi’s $7 Billion in Oil Projects This Year
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-05-13T05:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/npcc-targets-abu-dhabi-s-7-billion-in-oil-projects-this-year.html
National Petroleum Construction Co. ,
an  Abu Dhabi  government-controlled oil-services company, is
focusing on bidding for the $7 billion in energy projects being
tendered in the emirate this year, according to the company’s
chief executive officer.  “We are looking at Abu Dhabi for sure,” Chief Executive
Officer Aqeel Madhi told reporters in Abu Dhabi on May 9. “It’s
our biggest market.”  The company is bidding for two of the construction packages
being tendered by Zakum Development Co., which plans to raise
output from Upper Zakum, the world’s fourth-largest oil field,
Madhi said. It’s also bidding for projects offered by Abu Dhabi
Marine Operating Co., which plans to develop the offshore Umm
Lulu and Nasr fields.  Abu Dhabi, which holds more than 90 percent of the  United
Arab Emirates ’ oil reserves, is tendering energy projects as
Brent crude prices remained above $100 a barrel this year. The
emirate seeks to boost output to 3.5 million barrels a day by
2018 from about 2.8 million barrels a day now.  National Petroleum expects to hear this month whether it
won the Upper Zakum package to build platforms and pipelines,
valued at about $1 billion, Madhi said. A second construction
package, for facilities on artificial islands, is worth much
more and will be awarded at the end of the year, he said.  The company is targeting revenue of 5 billion dirhams
($1.36 billion) this year, compared with 4.2 billion dirhams in
2011, Madhi said. It is also looking for opportunities in Iraq,
Oman and South East Asia, he said.  Upgrading Equipment  National Petroleum is spending more than $500 million to
upgrade its offshore marine fleet, increase the capacity of its
yards and improve equipment, Madhi said.  General Holding Corp. , the Abu Dhabi government’s
industrial arm, owns 70 percent of National Petroleum and
Athens-based Consolidated Contractors Co. the remaining 30
percent.  Abu Dhabi holds most of the oil and gas reserves in the
United Arab Emirates, the fifth-largest member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The U.A.E.
produced 2.65 million barrels of oil a day last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  