-- Hollande Set to Travel to See Merkel, Obama After Being Sworn In
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/hollande-set-to-travel-to-see-merkel-obama-after-being-sworn-in.html
Francois Hollande will be sworn in
tomorrow as president of  France  and hit the road hours later to
confront issues from Afghanistan to the Greek crisis.  Hollande, 57, flies straight from his inauguration to a
dinner in Berlin with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He holds
his first cabinet meeting in Paris on May 16, before heading to
a get-together with President Barrack Obama at the White House,
a global leaders’ summit at Camp David, outside  Washington , and
a meeting of NATO chiefs in  Chicago .  “It’s going to be baptism by fire,” said  Antonio Barroso ,
an analyst at Eurasia Group. “This week will show how able
Hollande is to build consensus around certain issues.”  With Merkel, Hollande will try to overcome her skepticism
to stimulus spending to counter a contraction in the euro-area
economy this year. In the U.S., he’ll have to justify his plans
to withdraw French troops from  Afghanistan  a year earlier than
the schedule outgoing President  Nicolas Sarkozy  had agreed upon
with North Atlantic Treaty Organization partners.  Hollande said during the campaign that he wanted to
renegotiate the euro-area’s fiscal treaty, saying it puts too
much emphasis on  austerity  and not enough on growth. He also
called on the  European Central Bank  and the  European Investment
Bank  to play more active roles in stimulating demand. Merkel has
said the treaty can’t be touched, and has said she’s opposed to
using government money to boost the economy.  “The new French president has expressed the willingness to
complement the fiscal compact with growth-enhancing measures,
and it seems that some of his propositions could gain
traction,” according to Raphael Brun-Aguerre, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London . “ Angela Merkel  will likely not
concede ground with respect to the ECB, but a larger role for
the EIB and the EU structural funds could be a viable option.”  Treaty Talks  Pierre Moscovici , the head of Hollande’s transition team,
wouldn’t say in a May 7 press conference if Hollande would
insist on re-writing the treaty, or if he’d be satisfied with
separate statements about growth measures. Hollande last week
met with EU President Herman Van Rompuy and euro group head
Jean-Claude Juncker, and made no statements after the meetings.  Merkel’s spokesman Steffen Seibert said May 11 that Merkel
and Hollande won’t take any decisions tomorrow. The two leaders
will hold a joint press conference after their dinner.  The talks could be dominated by  Greece , whose elections on
May 6 -- the same day Hollande was elected -- produced a
political vacuum that puts in doubt the country’s ability to
stick to the cuts required to receive bailout aid.  Afghan Withdrawal  Bonds of at-risk countries have suffered since last week’s
Greek elections. Spain’s extra 10-year yield over German levels
widened to as much as 456 basis points last week from 415 at the
end of previous week. Italy’s widened to 408 basis points from
385 basis points.  Obama called Hollande the night of his victory to invite
him to the White House before the G-8 summit.  While NATO has agreed to pass on combat responsibility to
Afghan forces throughout 2013, Hollande has said he wants all
3,300 French troops -- out of  about 129,000  -- out by the end of
2012. Merkel said May 10 that NATO allies must respect the
principle of “we go in together, we leave together.”  French newspapers such as Le Figaro have said a pullout by
end 2012 may be impossible anyway, because the French military
lacks enough transport aircraft and  Pakistan  has closed overland
routes after disputes with the U.S. over drone attacks.  Hollande could find himself closer to the U.S. on economic
matters. Obama and his advisers have often criticized the 17-
country currency union for not doing enough to spur growth.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said April 25 the
U.S. faces risks from the slow growth in  Europe , even as he did
say the euro region had taken steps to calm the debt crisis.  Domestically, Hollande’s platform lists several steps he
plans to take even before the French return to the polls June 10
and 17 to elect a new parliament. They include a freeze on
retail gasoline prices and higher payments to parents for school
expenses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  