-- Hollande Jobs Pledge Faces Test as Corporate France Readies Cuts
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l ,   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-05-13T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/hollande-jobs-pledge-faces-test-as-corporate-france-readies-cuts.html
France  Inc. risks losing more than
15,000 jobs in the months ahead, testing Socialist President-
elect Francois Hollande’s resolve to block firings.  Companies from  Carrefour SA (CA)  and Peugeot SA to Air France-
KLM and  Vivendi SA (VIV)  are reorganizing operations to counter
shrinking growth as the economy at home and across  Europe  slows.
The presidential race prompted many companies to put job-cutting
plans on hold to avoid becoming a campaign subject. With the May
6 vote behind them, the wave of firings may start, unions say.  A 12-year high jobless rate led Hollande, who will be sworn
in tomorrow, to say he’ll do whatever it takes to prevent job
reductions. His commitment faces an early challenge after
Georges Plassat, chief executive officer-designate of Carrefour,
began talks last week with unions at the world’s second-largest
retailer. Carrefour forecast lower profit five times in the last
six quarters even after failing to replace the 3,000 people who
leave each year.  “The fear is that these losses will increase and be more
brutal,” Bruno Moutry, a Confederation Francaise Democratique
du Travail, or CFDT, union representative, said in an interview.
“We want to stop this hemorrhaging.”  Carmaker  Peugeot (UG)  has indicated job losses could come in the
months ahead, saying its plant in Aulnay-sous-Bois, near Paris,
which makes the 12,800-euro ($16,500) Citroen C3 compact and
employs about 3,300 workers, has a “competitiveness problem,”
calling into question its future beyond 2014.  No Magic Wand  In the phone industry, regulator Arcep said in March
companies may eliminate as many as 10,000 jobs to adapt to
competition from  Iliad SA (ILD) ’s new mobile service. Vivendi froze
hirings at phone unit SFR and may unveil plans before the end of
June for further cost-cutting.  France has lost more industrial jobs than any other
European country over the past decade. Its employment rate,
which measures the proportion of people with jobs, is lower than
 Germany ,  Austria , the Netherlands and  Portugal , according to
economic think-tank  Coe-Rexecode .  “France has very difficult structural problems, especially
the large number of young people without much qualification who
are looking for their first job,” said  Bruno Cautres , a
political analyst at Cevipof, a political research center in
Paris. “Francois Hollande won’t be able to erase these problems
with a magic wand.”  Hollande is getting requests for meetings from union
representatives worried about the future.  Union Relations  Petroplus Holdings AG workers from the Petit-Couronne
refinery in Normandy that was halted in January and is awaiting
an acquirer, have asked for a meeting with Hollande, a
Confederation Generale du Travail union representative said.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  had sought to encourage  job
creation  by eliminating employers’ social charges and pushing
companies to reach labor accords outside of national contracts.
That won him few friends at unions.  Hollande received support in the election from unions, with
 Bernard Thibault , the head of the CGT, breaching traditional
neutrality to endorse him.  “Despite a leftist president coming to power, our fight
continues,” said Nicolas Vincent, a CGT union representative at
Petroplus. “Our goal is getting an industrial acquirer for the
site as soon as possible to ease tensions.”  Energy workers are among the most unionized in France. Over
his tenure, Sarkozy faced two paralyzing refinery strikes and
one at nuclear operator  Electricite de France SA . Petit-Couronne
was the fourth refinery halted in France in two years.  Holding Pattern  “Relations with unions should be easier under Hollande,”
Cautres said. “They will be in a positive holding pattern, at
least for a little while.”  Almost immediately after he takes office, Hollande will be
in the midst of a labor conflict that has erupted at Corsica
ferry operator Societe Nationale Corse-Mediterranee, or SNCM,
which is 66 percent owned by water company  Veolia Environnement
SA. (VIE)  Workers at the unit have been on strike and have vowed to
continue to fight for job guarantees.  Another long-simmering conflict is at  ArcelorMittal (MT) , which
extended the idling of its Florange steel factory in
northeastern France, a move unions have said may spell the end
of the site. ArcelorMittal spokeswoman Lynn Robbroeckx couldn’t
be reached for comment.  Workers say Hollande will have to make decisions about the
plant’s future as soon as this month. The French state is paying
salaries to the more than 600 employees out of work since last
year when ArcelorMittal closed furnaces at the site, according
to Jean-Marc Vecrin, a representative of the CFDT union. The
salary deal is reaffirmed every three months.  High Hopes  “What is certain is that a lot of decisions about jobs
and factories were put on hold,” Vecrin said. “Hopes are high
for the new government.”  The list is long.  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  is halfway through negotiating with
unions on getting rid of about 5 percent of its 9,000-strong
workforce in France, mostly through reassignments, according to
the CFE-CGC union. The phone-equipment maker’s spokesman Simon Poulter declined to comment on the number of positions affected.  Vivendi wants to lower operating expenses at its SFR
mobile-phone unit by as much as 450 million euros this year
through firings and spending reductions, two people with
knowledge of the matter said. Nicolas Chatin, a spokesman for
SFR, declined to comment.  ST-Ericsson, the chip-making venture of STMicroelectronics
NV and Ericsson AB, plans to eliminate 1,700 jobs. The venture,
which employs 6,700 people, has one of its biggest sites in the
French city of Grenoble.  Air France-KLM (AF) ’s restructuring plan has studiously avoided
mentioning job cuts, although unions say there will be some.  Hollande’s Proposals  Hollande has said he will force companies to cap firings.
 His proposals include  an obligation for profit-making companies
that want to close their business to find a buyer to take over
operations and the jobs.  The 57-year-old president-elect, who said in 2011 that he
would deter profitable companies from cutting jobs, has watered
down his stance in recent months. He said in a letter to the
lawyers for a social-rights association that the current
legislation for jobs losses wouldn’t be modified.  Still, Hollande’s campaign promises have given hope to some
industries. Solar-power companies are looking to the Socialist
to reverse the more than 10,000 job eliminations since December
2010 as subsidies to the sector were reduced under Sarkozy,
according to trade group Enerplan.  Hollande has pledged “considerable” development of
renewable energies through measures that would also entice
companies to make equipment in France.  “Small and medium-sized companies were the worst-hit,”
Enerplan president Thierry Mueth said by telephone. “We are
confident these jobs can come back if  Francois Hollande  does
what he has promised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net 
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  