-- Investors Missing Rally Dump Bearish Bets Most Since 2008
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-05-14T20:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/money-managers-missing-rally-dump-bearish-bets-most-since-2008.html
As individuals bail out of U.S.
stocks at the fastest rate in three decades, professional
speculators have  cut bearish bets  by the most since 2008.  Money managers are net short 19,375 contracts on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, down 82 percent from a four-year
high in September even after the figure jumped from 3,584 last
week, data compiled by Bloomberg and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. U.S. equity  mutual funds  recorded $18
billion of outflows in April, the most since at least 1984,
according to preliminary data from the  Investment Company
Institute .  Hedge funds and other institutions are speculating the
index will extend its 23 percent rally since October after 69
percent of S&P 500 companies beat first-quarter earnings
estimates and economists projected accelerating U.S. growth this
year. Bears say last week’s addition to bets on declines show
short sellers have completed almost all of the buying they are
likely to do, depleting demand for equities.  “For the professional side, stocks look pretty
compelling,”  David Goerz , chief investment officer at Highmark
Capital Management Inc., said in a telephone interview from  San
Francisco  on May 9. His firm oversees about $17 billion.
“Underlying economic strength is much more resilient than
anybody expected it to be this year.”  Trading Loss  Equities fell last week, sending the  S&P 500  down 1.2
percent to 1,353.39, as JPMorgan Chase & Co. reported a $2
billion trading loss and investors speculated inconclusive Greek
elections will lead the country to exit the  euro zone . The loss
trimmed the 2012 gain in the benchmark gauge for American
equities to 7.6 percent and left it 16 percent from the all-time
high of 1,565.15 reached in October 2007.  The decline has been biggest in companies favored by short
sellers. A  basket of 50 stocks  compiled by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. with the highest short interest fell 8.5 percent since
April 2, while the S&P 500 has slumped 4.6 percent since peaking
that day. The S&P 500 dropped 1.1 percent to 1,338.35 today.  Equities have slumped even as U.S. chief executive officers
reported earnings that  exceeded analyst estimates . A total of
297 companies in the S&P 500 from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  to  Dean Foods
Co . have posted results topping forecasts by an average of 6.2
percent since April 10, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
failed to keep investors from pulling out of U.S. stock mutual
funds in April, according to data compiled by Washington-based
ICI.  ‘Still Carry Scars’  “Individual investors were so scared by the shock of the
financial crisis and still carry those scars,”  Neel Kashkari ,
who heads global equities at Newport Beach, California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., said by phone interview on
May 10. His firm manages about $1.77 trillion. “You’re seeing
professional investors get back into the equity market and
buying individual names for fundamental reasons.”  Hedge funds and other large speculators have been dumping
bearish bets on stocks since a month before the S&P 500 began a
rally that has restored  $3 trillion  to U.S. equity prices since
October. The last time they covered shorts on S&P 500 futures as
much was in 2008, three months before equities began one of the
biggest bull markets, data going back to 1997 show.  ‘Fundamental Improvement’  “We are not in the midst of a boom in flows into equity
funds, so where did the demand come from?” Kevin Caron, a
market strategist in Florham Park, New Jersey, at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., which has more than $116 billion in client
assets, said in a May 11 telephone interview. “To some extent,
the improvement in market values probably did reflect short
covering. But we also saw fundamental improvement and economic
data move in the right direction.”  Now,  hedge funds  are speculating on a rally driven by
additional stimulus by the  Federal Reserve , said  Kevin Shacknofsky , a  fund manager  at Alpine Mutual Funds, whose firm
manages $5 billion. Pimco’s Co-Chief Investment Officer  Bill Gross  and Jan Hatzius, the chief economist at Goldman Sachs,
said this month that investors should prepare for more bond
purchases by the Fed to combat a slowing economy.  “This whole crisis, the hedge funds have been very
bearish, and they’ve been squeezed every time by the policy
response,” Shacknofsky said in a telephone interview from
Purchase,  New York , on May 9. “They’ve been short like crazy,
like the world’s coming to an end, and then the policy response
has come in and they’ve got crushed. They’re trying to avoid
their previous experiences.”  Prescient Bets  Professional investors haven’t kept up with the rally in
stocks since October.  Hedge funds  declined 5.3 percent in 2011,
the third straight year they underperformed the S&P 500,
according to data from Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.
going back to 1990. They beat the index in April for the  first
time in seven months , the data show.  While speculators help fuel rallies by closing bearish
bets, their trading hasn’t always been prescient. They went from
being net long 82,670 S&P 500 futures contracts in December 2008
to the most bearish in four years in September 2011, according
to CFTC data. The index rallied 30 percent over that period.  Money managers reduced bearish bets  throughout 2000 ,
becoming net long as the index peaked at 1,527.46 in March of
that year, Bloomberg and CFTC data show. The gauge subsequently
tumbled 49 percent through October 2002.  Short Covering  “Short covering following the weakness last year
contributed to the rally,” Eric Teal, Raleigh, North Carolina-
based chief investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares
Inc., which oversees $4.5 billion, said in a telephone interview
on May 11. “The bearish investors have completed their trades
and pessimism can creep in.”  Stock market swings are getting bigger after  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the French presidency and elections in Greece
resulted in a divided parliament, heightening concern the euro
area will fail to keep all of its members. The S&P 500 posted a
decline of more than 1 percent only once in the first quarter,
on March 6. Since the start of April, the index has slipped at
least that much five times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Even the most sophisticated investors can’t time the
market,” Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at Los
Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., whose firm oversees about $120
billion, said by phone on May 10. “If you’re very nimble you
can say that you’re still going to do well banking on QE3 but
overall, there’ll be downward pressure on the markets.”  U.S. Growth  Predictions by economists that gross domestic product in
the U.S. will expand faster this year than the euro area, the
U.K., Japan and Canada have driven American companies to their
most expensive levels relative to the world since 2004. The S&P
500 trades at 2.14 times book value, or assets minus
liabilities. That compares with 1.64 for the  MSCI All-Country
World Index (MXWD) , the biggest spread in eight years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The withdrawal of individuals may be a sign to get back
into equities, according to Alpine’s Shacknofsky. While concern
over Europe may spur volatility during the second and third
quarters, investors should begin buying stocks with earnings
tied to economic growth because their valuations are below
historic levels, he said.  Companies that posted better-than-estimated earnings had
the biggest declines in short interest in the past month.
 TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  had the largest drop in bearish bets out of S&P
500 stocks that had a minimum short interest of 3 percent,
according to Data Explorers, a market research firm in New York.  TripAdvisor Revenue  The Newton, Massachusetts-based online travel-
recommendation service spun off from Expedia Inc. in December
has posted the  second-biggest gain  in the S&P 500 this year as
first-quarter sales and profit exceeded analysts’ projections.  Investors slashed bearish bets on Chipotle Mexican Grill
Inc. by 25 percent in the last month, the data show.  Short
interest (CMG)  in the burrito seller was 5.6 percent on April 20, one
day after the Denver-based company reported first-quarter profit
rose as U.S. consumers dined out more. Shares borrowed have
since fallen to 4 percent.  “Institutional investors are thinking more bottom up,”
 Leo Grohowski , the New York-based chief investment officer at
BNY Mellon Wealth Management, which oversees $172 billion, said
by phone on May 10. “Valuations are very reasonable. Earnings
have been so strong. There are some investors out there are
willing to say, ‘Now’s not the time to be exceedingly
bearish.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  