-- Oracle Chairman Gives $50 Million to UC Santa Barbara Amid Cuts
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-05-13T03:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/oracle-chairman-gives-50-million-to-uc-santa-barbara-amid-cuts.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chairman Jeff Henley is
giving $50 million to the University of  California , Santa
Barbara -- the largest donation in the school’s history -- to
promote scientific research and help overcome budget cuts.  Henley’s donation to his alma mater will go toward the
engineering college and the school’s  Institute for Energy
Efficiency , which conducts research in areas such as batteries,
lighting and computer data centers, the university said late
yesterday in a statement. The gift is also in the name of
Henley’s wife, Judy.  The funds will help pay for a new building to house the
institute and for hiring and retaining faculty members amid deep
budget cuts to the  University of California  system. The 10
schools, which include campuses in Berkeley,  Los Angeles  and  San
Diego , have turned to more private fundraising as state budget
cuts have sliced funding. The UC system’s budget was cut by $850
million last year alone, said Dianne Klein, a UC spokeswoman.  “The UC system is one of the crown jewels left in
California -- it’s a huge economic powerhouse for the state,”
Henley said in a telephone interview. “Donors need to keep
stepping up like they do in private schools.”  Henley, 67, joined Oracle in 1991 and has been chairman of
the company co-founded by Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison 
since 2004. A resident of  Santa Barbara , Henley graduated from
the university in 1966 with a bachelor’s degree in economics and
has an MBA from UCLA.  Better Labs Needed  UC Santa Barbara has raised $718 million since 2004 from
private donors as it pushes toward a $1 billion fundraising
campaign goal, said Shelly Leachman, a university spokeswoman.  A decade ago, state funds made up 46 percent of the
school’s annual budget; today it’s half that, UC Santa Barbara
Chancellor Henry T. Yang said in an e-mail.  “Private giving plays a critical role,” he said.  Henley said he hopes his donation spurs other university
benefactors to increase their giving as the school’s materials
science and engineering disciplines rise in quality.  “We need better world-class labs for science and
engineering” to help the U.S. compete with other nations in
areas like  energy efficiency , he said. “The state’s not in a
position to do it.”  The Henleys have previously donated more than $5 million to
UC Santa Barbara, which fronts the  Pacific Ocean  about 105 miles
northwest of Los Angeles. An economics chair and a gate at the
entrance of the campus are named for him, and he has endowed the
engineering college and athletics programs.  The new donation will fund $25 million of construction for
Henley Hall, a building that will house the Energy Efficiency
institute. The university will need to raise another $25 million
to complete the facility, Leachman said.  Five million dollars from the gift will pay for faculty
salaries and lab equipment. The remaining $20 million will be
bequeathed upon their deaths, Henley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  