-- U.K. Deficit Cuts May Need to Slow, Ex-BOE Officials Say
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-05-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/osborne-may-need-to-slow-deficit-squeeze-ex-boe-official.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may need to slow down his deficit squeeze to accommodate
the weakness of the British economy, two former  Bank of England 
officials said.  “If the growth rate turns out to be lower than the
government expected, then I think that they should accept that,
and accept that that means that the deficit is going to be
reduced in a longer time period,” former Bank of England Deputy
Governor  Howard Davies  told  Sky News  yesterday. “I think that
the markets will understand that.”  Osborne’s deficit-reduction program will ax 700,000
government jobs by 2017 as he pushes through the deepest cuts
since World War II on a country struggling to recover from the
financial crisis. Britain’s economy has succumbed to its first
double-dip recession since the 1970s, and may have shrunk in the
first quarter by more than the 0.2 percent initially estimated
because of a slump in construction.  “A slower fiscal consolidation” may help as U.K.
consumers repair balance sheets, Marian Bell, a former Bank of
England policy maker, said on the same program. “What matters
for the markets is that a medium term consolidation plan is in
place. I think the speed is perhaps less important.”  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service have warned
that any slippage in deficit reduction could cost Britain its
top  credit rating . The opposition  Labour Party  says the
government is going too fast and damaging the recovery.  Tightening ‘Madness’  “The markets recognize that if the economy turns out
weaker than expected and you try to compensate for that by
tightening even further, then that way madness lies,” said
Davies, who left the Bank of England in 1997 to lead the
Financial Services Authority until 2003.  Both Davies and Bell cautioned that any change in fiscal
policy should be limited.  “You could distinguish between Osborne saying, ‘look, the
growth rate’s not been as much as we expected so the deficit
reduction is going to take a bit longer,’” Davies said.
“Another thing would be to come out and say, ‘oh God, got it
wrong, turning on the tap, going to increase discretionary
spending.’’  Both economists also said that policy makers should look to
business investment as a driver of growth.  Investment is ‘‘the part of the economy that’s particularly
weak’’ and ‘‘perhaps it could be easily stronger,’’ Davies said.
‘‘ Consumer spending  is a bit held back’’ and ‘‘the big export
markets nearby are in pretty depressed condition, so really it’s
private investment that would be able to pick up the slack.’’  Capital Rules  Davies said that uncertainty on energy and transport policy
is discouraging business spending. Bell said that easing of bank
capital requirements might help encourage lending to businesses.  ‘‘If you look at the balance sheets in the U.K. economy,
where there is the possibility of expansion is the corporate
sector,’’ said Bell, who was a member of the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee from 2002 to 2005. ‘‘I would be
looking at ways of allowing banks to lend more by perhaps
relaxing some of the capital asset requirements.’’  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  will present the
central bank’s quarterly inflation and growth forecasts in
 London  on May 16. The central bank halted expansion of its
quantitative easing program last week after spending 325 billion
pounds ($522 billion) buying bonds to stimulate growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  