-- Rangers Top Capitals 2-1, Advance to Eastern Conference Finals
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/rangers-top-capitals-2-1-advance-to-eastern-conference-finals.html
Michael Del Zotto scored the game-
winning goal midway through the final period as the top-seeded
 New York Rangers  defeated the Washington Capitals 2-1 to advance
to the Eastern Conference finals for the first time since 1997.  The Rangers, who took the best-of-seven series 4-3, are 5-0
in Game 7s at Madison Square Garden in New York. This was the
seventh playoff series between the Capitals and Rangers, who
have now won three of them.  “It was awesome -- MSG, Game 7,” Rangers’ team captain
 Ryan Callahan  told reporters. “Right from the anthem and warm-
ups, it was loud. This is what you play for all year. To have
that home ice advantage to make sure that if you get to a game
seven, it’s in your barn.”  New York  will play the  New Jersey Devils  in the National
Hockey League’s conference finals, which begin tomorrow on the
Rangers’ home ice. The Phoenix Coyotes host the Los Angeles
Kings tonight in Game 1 of the Western Conference series in the
Stanley Cup playoffs.  “All four are great teams,” said  Brad Richards , who
scored the first goal last night for the Rangers. “Now everyone
has the same chance.”  The Rangers have played 14 games in the first two rounds of
the playoffs after needing seven contests to defeat the  Ottawa
Senators  in the first series. Since playoff expansion, no club
has played the maximum 14 games and gone on to win the  Stanley
Cup .  Richards scored the Rangers’ first goal with a 31-foot
slapshot one minute, 32 seconds into the first period.  After a scoreless second period, Del Zotto scored with a
21-foot snapshot at 10:05 for the Rangers, while Roman Hamrlik
got his first playoff goal with a 26-foot wristshot 38 seconds
later.  “This was a big matchup series,” Richards said in a
televised interview. “We did a good job with it. We’ve played
this way all year. It’s been tight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  