-- Guindos Rules Out Aid as Spain’s Bank Plan Seen Failing
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-05-15T14:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/santander-to-set-aside-eu2-7-billion-for-new-property-cleanup.html
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos ruled out requesting aid from the European Union for the
nation’s banks even as the fourth attempt in less than three
years to clean them up failed to rebuild confidence.  “There is nothing to hide,” de Guindos told reporters in
Brussels today. The government won’t need to tap EU rescue funds
for banks and the planned audit of banks’ loans will give
clarity on their solvency, he said.  Bank stocks extended their  decline  in Madrid trading today
and the yield on  Spain ’s benchmark 10-year bond rose to the
highest since Nov. 29 as lenders outlined the costs of the
government’s requirements and analysts said even those
provisions wouldn’t be enough.  Spain’s government said on May 11 it would require banks to
set aside about 30 billion euros ($38.5 billion) to cover
potential losses on real estate loans that are still performing.
That’s on top of 53.8 billion euros of charges and capital
ordered in February.  “I don’t know why they even bothered,” Olly Burrows, a
credit analyst at Rabobank International in  London , said in a
phone interview. “A lot of people were expecting a big
announcement on a bad bank and all we really got was additional
provisions to part of the real estate book.”  Disappointment centers on the latest plan’s failure to
acknowledge the risk of greater losses on non-real estate assets
as Spain’s recession deepens and  unemployment  exceeds 24
percent, said Burrows. It’s also unclear how and when real
estate assets can be removed from banks through the creation of
subsidiaries ordered by the decree, Daragh Quinn, an analyst at
Nomura International, said in a report. Spain will hire two
auditors, as yet unidentified, to value banks’ assets.  “We expect cleanup number five,” said Burrows.  Greek Concern  Bankia SA (BKIA) , which was taken under state control last week
and has the most Spanish assets of any of the nation’s banks,
plunged 5.6 percent to 1.78 euros as of 3:38 p.m. in Madrid.
 CaixaBank (CABK)  SA, set to overtake Bankia as the lender with the
biggest Spanish asset base when it completes its purchase of
 Banca Civica SA (BCIV) , fell 2.9 percent, while  Banco Popular Espanol
SA (POP)  fell 2.8 percent.  “Even though their intentions were good, the way they have
done this without a clear solution was bad,” said Jose Garcia
Montalvo, an economics professor at Barcelona’s Pompeu Fabra
University. “They’ve produced the opposite effect of what they
wanted. Now nobody wants to buy Spanish banks.”  The country’s largest banks,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)   and Banco
 Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , which are partially sheltered from
Spain’s woes by profitable businesses elsewhere, fell 1.5
percent and 1.6 percent, respectively.  Bank Index Declines  Most of Spain’s banks have been locked out of wholesale
funding markets because investors are concerned their books
don’t accurately reflect the deterioration in the quality of
their real estate and other loans. That’s forced them to rely on
the  European Central Bank  for financing, as figures from the
Bank of Spain show. Net average borrowing by Spanish banks from
the ECB jumped 16 percent to a record 263.5 billion euros in
April after lenders tapped three-year loans the central bank
provided.  The government plans for the review of bank balance sheets
to be completed within two months and will be conducted with the
ECB’s participation, de Guindos said today. The independent
valuation exercise announced by the government will be a  stress
test  and won’t include an asset-by-asset analysis, Economy
Ministry officials said after the announcement.  Spain said May 11 it would raise the provisioning levels on
real estate lending that hasn’t soured to 30 percent on average
from 7 percent. Provisions on still-good land assets will be
increased to 52 percent from 7 percent.  “Saying we have to clean up the clean loans makes no
sense,” Montalvo said. “It shows not even they trust the
balance sheets of the banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid   at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  