-- SAP Seen Boosting Cloud to Vindicate SuccessFactors Deal
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-05-14T13:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/sap-seen-boosting-cloud-to-vindicate-successfactors-deal.html
SAP AG (SAP)  plans to show this week it has
learnt from a flawed venture into Internet-based software five
years ago with its new strategy for cloud-computing, months
after the $3.4 billion purchase of SuccessFactors Inc.  Investors’ attention at SAP’s Sapphire conference in
 Orlando ,  Florida , will be on Lars Dalgaard, the SuccessFactors
founder who joined SAP’s global management board last month.
Dalgaard plans to explain how SAP can generate 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) in sales from software delivered over the Web by
2015 to help the Walldorf, Germany-based company reach its 20
billion-euro revenue target by then.  The market for on-demand software will grow five times
faster than the traditional on-premise programs that are
dominated by SAP, according to researcher IDC. With the cloud-
computing market already crowded with providers such as
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , SAP will need to show
how it can apply SuccessFactors’s strength in delivering cloud
applications to its core money makers, programs that run routine
functions like financial accounting and inventory management.  “To really make the cloud an opportunity rather than a
threat they need to move their traditional functionality to the
cloud,” said Leon Cappaert, who manages 400 million euros,
including SAP shares, at KBC Asset Management in Brussels. “The
worst-case scenario for SAP would be if a big cloud competitor
rises that has all the functionality that SAP has built.”  Salesforce, Workday  Cappaert cited Salesforce.com, the biggest provider of
online customer-management software,  NetSuite Inc. (N)  and Workday
Inc. as the main rivals SAP has to tackle in that market.  SAP fell as much as 1.9 percent to 47.92 euros and traded
1.1 percent lower as of 3:36 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
slipped 1 percent to $26.72 in  New York .  SAP first got into cloud-computing in 2007 with its
Business ByDesign software, which offered more bite-sized
management tools to companies with 100 to 500 employees that
couldn’t afford to set up their own servers and install SAP’s
staple software.  The product, which cost $500 million to introduce, fell
short of plans and was revamped and introduced again in 2010. By
the end of last year, the on-demand software attracted more than
1,000 clients, still far less than SAP’s initial targets.  ‘Crown Jewel’  Companies are turning to cloud computing as a secure way to
outsource data centers and reduce the need for pricey servers
and other hardware.  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  last year estimated
that the software-as-a-service market will grow to $133 billion
by 2020 from $21 billion last year.  SAP’s confidence in SuccessFactors, which specializes in
software used to manage employee performance, made it pay a 54
percent premium to SuccessFactors’s share price in December. SAP
Co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  called SuccessFactors
the “ crown jewel ” in the industry and Dalgaard, a 44-year-old
Danish-born executive who speaks eight languages, “the best
cloud executive in the world.”  “It is critical for Mr. Dalgaard to demonstrate how he
will integrate the SuccessFactors’s and other cloud applications
into SAP’s core systems, without impeding SuccessFactors’s
innovation,” Adam Wood, a Morgan Stanley analyst in  London ,
wrote in a May 11 note.’’ As companies become more willing to
run applications in the cloud, we believe the integration
question could become more important.’’  Challenging Oracle  McDermott and Jim Hagemann Snabe, who have been running SAP
as co-CEOs February 2010, also oversaw the acquisition of Sybase
Inc., which added database technology and software for
smartphones and other mobile devices to SAP’s product range.  At the three-day summit, SAP also plans to unveil
applications for its Hana software, which lets clients rapidly
analyze large amounts of data by bypassing slower hard drives.  Some of the most recent applications include sifting
through cancer patients’ genetic information within seconds to
help suggest therapies, a process that would normally take hours
or days.  The German company said today its partner Utopia Inc.
agreed on an alliance with MetaScale to offer software based on
the Hana platform.  SAP is also using Hana to target the No. 2 spot by 2015 in
the $22.5 billion database market that is dominated by Oracle,
taking on providers including  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Teradata Corp. (TDC)   Hana Outlook  The Germany company wants to displace some of the Oracle
database that’s sold alongside its applications and replacing
that with Hana installations. Hana software to more than double
sales this year from 160 million euros, SAP said.  SAP will also reinforce its mobile-software offering by
making applications available via the cloud, Sanjay Poonen, the
company’s head of global solutions, said in an interview. Plans
include hosting mobile-device management system on Amazon Web
Services, he said this month.  The German company today announced mobile apps include one
that allow workers to file expenses on the go on devices
including  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry and smartphones
based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform.  Still, as SAP’s top brass gather in Florida, they need to
reassure shareholders after first-quarter license sales,
including Hana, missed estimates. So far,  investor confidence 
helped send the stock 20 percent higher this year, compared with
Oracle’s 5.3 percent gain. Salesforce.com, an early entrant into
the cloud-computing market, has jumped 36 percent.  “SAP is one of the few stories within the European
technology sector that investors are really excited about
because they have these specific new product cycles which should
help them support their growth,” KBC’s Cappaert said. “If Hana
disappoints again and we don’t get positive signals from the
conference, then the stock may be under pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Orlando, Florida via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  