-- Naimi Says Brent Oil Should Drop to $100 as Supply Tops Demand
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-13T05:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/saudi-s-al-naimi-says-brent-oil-should-drop-to-100-a-barrel.html
Crude prices should fall because
global supply is outweighing demand, according to  Saudi Arabia ’s
oil minister,  Ali al-Naimi .  “We want a lower price than where it is now,” al-Naimi
said in Adelaide today. “We need to get the price to a level of
around $100” a barrel for  London ’s Brent crude, he said. Saudi
Arabia is the world’s biggest oil exporter.  Brent, a benchmark price for more than half the world’s
crude, has dropped 6 percent this month amid concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis will worsen and curb fuel demand. OPEC is working to
bring prices down, the group’s Secretary-General, Abdalla el- Badri, said May 3.  The producer group, scheduled to meet next month, is
pumping 8.3 percent more crude than it considers necessary this
quarter, figures from the Vienna-based group show.  Brent crude  for June settlement dropped 0.8 percent in the
week to May 11 to $112.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. West Texas Intermediate oil for June
delivery slid 2.4 percent to $96.13 a barrel.  Oil supply outweighs demand by 1.3 million to 1.5 million
barrels a day, al-Naimi said today. Demand may rebound in the
second half of 2012, he said.  Saudi Arabia increased output last month to the highest in
more than three decades, according to data it provided to OPEC.
The kingdom pumped 10.1 million barrels a day in April, about
200,000 barrels more than the previous month, the group said in
a May 10 report. That’s the highest level since at least 1980,
figures from the U.S. Energy Department show.  Storing Oil  The kingdom is storing as much as 80 million barrels of
crude, according to al-Naimi. It has set aside supplies “on
shore in Saudi Arabia, in pipelines, in tanks,” he said in
 Tokyo  last week.  Saudi Arabia still has about 2.5 million barrels a day of
spare production capacity, al-Naimi said May 8. It is storing
crude “because of the situation in the world,” he said,
without elaborating. Inventories of 80 million barrels are
equivalent to less than one day of global consumption, which is
forecast by the  International Energy Agency  at 89.9 million
barrels a day this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Adelaide at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  