-- Scot Salmond Getting Better of Prime Ministers With New Autonomy
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-05-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/scot-salmond-getting-better-of-prime-ministers-with-new-autonomy.html
Alex Salmond  likes to recite the tale
his grandfather told about his hometown of Linlithgow ousting
English occupiers from the local castle in the 14th century.  “They put a hay cart under the  portcullis  and they all
charged in,” Salmond said in an interview in Edinburgh,
 Scotland ’s capital. “The way my granddad told it, he didn’t
just say what happened, he named the people involved. These were
daring deeds, heroic tales, even better than Braveheart.”  Seven hundred years later, Salmond is first minister of
Scotland and leading his own drive for autonomy.  Consultations 
by his government ended last week as he prepares to propose an
independence referendum for the country in 2014.  With Britain in its  second recession  in three years,
Salmond, 57, says his plan to revive the economy is better than
what Prime Minister  David Cameron  is offering. Cameron says the
U.K. government best serves the economic interests of Scots and
English alike.  Salmond, who has sparred with five British prime ministers
since entering national politics in 1987, is taking the fight to
Cameron on the biggest constitutional question since the U.K.’s
formation in 1707.  The argument is emotional, one of Scottish versus British
identity, as well as economic, and the result may seal the
political fate of both leaders, said  John Curtice , professor of
politics at Strathclyde University in Glasgow.  Political Legacy  “The referendum will determine Salmond’s and Cameron’s
legacy,” Curtice said by phone on May 10. “Salmond’s name will
be written in the country’s history books” if he wins, and on
the same basis “I wouldn’t wish to put too much money on
Cameron being prime minister at the 2015 election,” he said.  Salmond has won support from News Corp.’s  Rupert Murdoch ,
whose London-based Times newspaper named Salmond “Briton of the
Year” in December. In his Twitter Inc. account, Murdoch praised
Salmond as a fellow “anti-establishmentarian.”  Opinion polls show that Salmond has more work to do to
convince a divided Scottish public to back his vision of an
independent Scotland. Thirty-five percent of 998 Scots voters
surveyed between Jan. 25 and Feb. 1 said they would vote in
favor of independence, while 44 percent would vote against, the
latest  poll  conducted by TNS-BMRB found.  “He’s always been very good at mood music and generating a
feeling of momentum and inevitability about these things, which
can influence how people vote,” said David Torrance, author of
“Salmond: Against the Odds,” which was published last year.  North Sea Oil  With little more than two years before the referendum,
Salmond’s argument is that increased  government spending  on
projects such as transport improvements can create jobs and
foster a revival. Scotland would also have 90 percent of North
Sea oil and about 8 percent of the British national debt.  First-quarter figures showed the 140 billion-pound ($222
billion) Scottish economy was shrinking by less than the U.K.
overall and unemployment was falling more quickly.  After gaining power in Scotland for the first time in 2007
and running a minority government, his  Scottish National Party 
recorded a landslide victory last year in elections to the
Edinburgh parliament. It has power over health, transport,
justice and education, and a budget of about 28 billion pounds a
year transferred from the U.K. Treasury.  Salmond, a former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
economist and oil analyst, wants to expand his government’s
remit to have full control over finances, including income and
 corporation tax  and the ability to borrow money. The proposal
calls for Scotland to become a member of the European Union,
while it would keep the pound and a seamless border with
England.  Queen Elizabeth II  would continue to be head of state.  Glasgow Bastion  While failing to take Glasgow, Scotland’s largest city and
a traditional Labour Party bastion,  municipal elections  showed
the SNP cementing its dominance this month in some parts of the
country. Cameron’s Conservatives and his U.K. coalition partner,
the Liberal Democrats, both lost seats.  Scots are “divided down the middle whether Scotland will
be better off economically” as an independent country, said
Curtice. “If the unionists win the argument, it is game, set
and match to them. It is a precondition for the SNP to win that
argument to have a serious chance of winning” the referendum.  Salmond was born in Linlithgow, 15 minutes west of
Edinburgh by train, on New Year’s Eve 1954, the second of four
children to two civil servants. He grew up on Preston Road, down
the street from St. Ninian’s church, where his mother was an
elder, and the town’s oldest pub, the Black Bitch, named after
the hunting dog from the coat of arms.  Robert the Bruce  Linlithgow Palace, a castle that served as a royal
residence, dominates the town, perched on a hill overlooking a
small loch with fisherman casting from boats. It was taken back
from King Edward II’s army by Robert the Bruce in 1313 during
the Scottish Wars of Independence. Mary Queen of Scots was born
there in 1542.  Salmond said his first foray into politics was when he was
in primary school and he represented the SNP because it was the
only party left to choose.  “I won a resounding victory,” Salmond said during the
April 18 interview at his official Edinburgh residence. “I
promised morning-only school, ice cream instead of school milk.
I had a good platform.”  He studied economics and history at  St. Andrews University ,
the third-oldest university in the English-speaking world after
Oxford and Cambridge. Founded in 1413, its luminaries include
 Benjamin Franklin , the American founding father who traveled to
 St. Andrews  for an honorary law degree in 1759, and  James
Wilson , one of two Scottish signatories of the U.S. Declaration
of Independence.  ‘Corner of Nowhere’  “Growing up as a child in the 1960s in Linlithgow, there
was an underlying assumption that Scotland was somehow stuck up
in the corner of nowhere, always struggling against the odds,”
Salmond said. “Then when I went to university and started to
look at Scottish economic history, what I saw was something
totally different. I saw this country that had contributed
massively to economic and human development.”  His upbringing gave Salmond the grounding to reach out to
Scottish voters, said Catherine Hassell, who grew up in the same
neighborhood and went to the same school, Linlithgow Academy,
albeit at different times.  “He puts it over like a working man rather than talking
down to you,” Hassell, 65, said at the  town museum  where she
volunteers. “I suppose he has the will to do it.”  Hassell, an SNP supporter, said she’s undecided on whether
Scotland should pursue full independence.  Lockerbie Bombing  Salmond has overcome political adversity before. His first-
term government gained worldwide prominence in August 2009 when
it released convicted Lockerbie bomber Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi
on compassionate grounds. Less than two years later, he led the
SNP to an historic victory by winning an overall majority in a
voting system designed to create coalitions.  Salmond’s challenge now is to translate public support for
himself and his party into backing for Scotland abandoning the
305-year-old Act of Union with  England .  “If it happened, I would enthusiastically support it
because that’s where we are, and if it didn’t, then I’m happy
with the status quo too,” said Sandy Nairn, chief executive
officer of Edinburgh Partners, the fund management firm he set
up in 2003. “We’re not an oppressed nation under the yoke of
someone else. We’re great neighbors and we get on pretty well.”  The Scottish Parliament in the city was re-established in
1999 under a U.K. policy called devolution introduced by the
former Labour government led by  Tony Blair . Since then, the
movement toward more autonomy has gathered speed.  Dim Prospects  Mike Smith , a private banker from the U.S. who moved to
Edinburgh 13 years ago, calls it “incremental independence.”  “The entire experience of devolution and pre-occupation
with independence has been bad for the Scottish people and for
the Scottish economy,” said Smith, who arrived in the Scottish
capital to work for Merrill Lynch before moving to SGPB Hambros.
“The economic prospects for Scotland as an independent country
led by an SNP government are very dim indeed.”  There’s also the backlash against Salmond from what he
calls the “London” political groups. The three main parties in
the U.K. Parliament at Westminster -- the Conservatives, Liberal
Democrats and Labour -- say Scotland can’t afford to be
independent and is better off staying part of the U.K.,  Europe ’s
third-largest economy.  Salmond, a member of parliament from 1987 to 2010
representing the northeast Scotland fishing and farming district
of Banff and Buchan, has been caught up in the inquiry into News
Corp.’s ties with British lawmakers.  Bank Economist  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  last month called him an
“undercover lobbyist” for Murdoch over a failed bid to buy the
rest of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. Salmond defended
himself,  telling the BBC  on April 28 that his “good
professional relationship” with Murdoch was about securing jobs
in Scotland.  After graduating from St. Andrews, Salmond worked as a
government economist between 1978 and 1980 and then for Royal
Bank of Scotland, where he was responsible for creating its
monthly oil index. He married Moira McGlashan, a Scottish Office
civil servant 17 years older than him, in 1981. They live in a
converted watermill in the village of Strichen.  A lifelong fan of Edinburgh soccer club Heart of
Midlothian, Salmond wrote a regular column about horseracing for
the Scotsman newspaper.  Yet it’s his interest in history and the legacy of his
paternal grandfather, the town plumber in Linlithgow, that now
reverberates across the nation.  “My granddad used to take me round all the nooks and
crannies of Linlithgow,” Salmond said. “He wanted me to have a
Scottish attitude to the world, and I think he managed it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  