-- Shirakawa Urges Japan to Cut Deficit for Yen Stability: Asahi
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-05-13T02:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/shirakawa-urges-japan-to-cut-deficit-for-yen-stability-asahi.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa urged reduction of the nation’s deficit to stabilize
the yen as the  bond market  may come under pressure if investors
lose trust in fiscal policy, the Asahi newspaper said.  The yen might become unstable, triggering uncontrollable
inflation should the central bank buy government bonds in an
attempt to prevent a financial crisis, Shirakawa said in an
interview with the newspaper on May 11.  The BOJ is under pressure to add stimulus as a group of
lawmakers proposed overhauling the BOJ’s governing law to ensure
steps to end deflation afflicting the nation for more than a
decade. The BOJ said its 1 percent inflation goal will be
achieved before long after it expanded by 10 trillion yen ($125
billion) on April 27 its plan for government-bond purchases as
the world’s third-largest economy showed signs of slowing. Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s party sent a bill to parliament to
double the  sales tax  by 2015 to rein in the world’s largest
public debt over the objections of opposition lawmakers.  “Japanese government bonds would be sold if  Japan ’s fiscal
policy was seen as unsustainable, causing heavy losses to
financial institutions holding the bonds,” Shirakawa was quoted
as saying.  Noda is struggling to convince lawmakers to double the 5
percent sales tax. Pressure will remain high as politicians want
to show the public that the nation is making progress toward
ending deflation, so a tax bump won’t be too much of burden,
according to Masayuki Kichikawa, chief economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  “The prices of Japanese  government bonds  are stable
because investors see the nation has the will and ability to
realize its fiscal adjustment,” Shirakawa said. “It is very
important to improve fiscal policy while they retain trust.”  Japan’s economy rebounded last quarter after shrinking in
2011 with the impact from a record earthquake. Growth is
forecast to moderate as a bump from reconstruction diminishes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  