-- Spark in Sales of Cars and Trucks Drives U.S. Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   T i m o t h y   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-13T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/spark-in-sales-of-cars-and-trucks-drives-u-s-economy.html
Car sales that are running at the
 fastest pace  in four years are poised to reverberate through the
world’s largest economy as a spillover into production, profits
and jobs for Americans may be starting.  Auto purchases have exceeded a 14 million annual rate in
each month this year, the strongest performance since early
2008, according to Ward’s Automotive Group. Government data show
motor-vehicle output contributed half of the first quarter’s 2.2
percent economic growth.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s largest automaker last
year, boosted its 2012 industry-sales forecast,  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
will add factory shifts and Chrysler Group LLC is stepping up
hiring as demand rises. The resurgence -- from assembly lines
and dealerships to steelmakers, freight lines and loan providers
-- signals the U.S. is headed for lasting, robust growth, says
 Joseph Carson , director of global economic research at
AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  “We’re starting to see the spark in the auto sector that
was missing initially” during the recovery from the recession,
said Carson, a former GM economist. “It tells you there’s a
certain momentum. A whole host of areas could see the multiplier
effect. We’re at the beginning of a very long and durable
cycle.”  Rising employment, an improvement in  consumer confidence 
and a thaw in lending are facilitating the revival in sales of
cars and light-duty trucks. Chad Moutray, chief economist at the
National Association of Manufacturers in Washington, estimates
each dollar spent in the industry triggers an additional $2.02
of output in the economy.  Auto-Glass Demand  Apex Tool & Manufacturing Inc. is benefiting from the
trickle-down, as the maker of tooling, fixtures and gauges to
manufacture glass and other products has seen an increase in
auto-related sales since the last quarter of 2011.  Glass for vehicles “is the one part of our business that’s
on the rise,” said Terry A. Babb, president of the Evansville,
Indiana, company. “Everything else is sort of diminishing.”  While the pickup and its potential to filter through to the
economy isn’t lost on investors, stocks are underperforming. The
Russell 3000 Automobiles Index, comprised of GM, Ford and
electric-car maker Tesla Motors Inc., is up  1.5 percent  this
year, compared with an  8 percent  rise in the  Russell 3000 Index. (RAY) 
The auto gauge has fallen 31 percent in the past year.  Aging Vehicles  Investors are distracted by concerns about  Europe ’s debt
crisis, which also weighs on the U.S., even though the need to
replace aging vehicles and households’ easier access to loans
bode well for earnings, said Robert Carey, chief investment
officer at Wheaton, Illinois-based First Trust Portfolios LP.  “It is clearly an industry that’s in recovery, and
valuations have a lot of room to go up, but investors don’t want
to take on any risk right now,” said Carey, who helps oversee
about $55 billion and helped start the  First Trust Nasdaq Global
Auto Index Fund. (CARZ)  Once cyclical companies “come back, auto
stocks will be right near the top of the heap. The sector should
outperform the market over the next few years.”  The rebound helps President  Barack Obama  as he seeks re-
election in November, because his campaign “can make a
plausible case this didn’t happen just by coincidence but as a
direct effect of a series of actions the president took,” said
 Dan Schnur , a campaign adviser for  Arizona  Republican John McCain’s 2000 bid for the White House. The current Republican
candidate,  Mitt Romney , has criticized Obama for giving GM and
Chrysler billions in restructuring aid, even as Romney claims he
influenced Obama’s decision to rescue the two companies.  Industry Rebound  Automakers have rebounded since demand plunged during the
18-month recession that began in December 2007, causing
production cuts and mass layoffs, and forcing GM and Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler into bankruptcy in 2009. The
industry’s share of gross domestic product dropped to 1.8
percent that year; the 2.8 percent for this year’s first quarter
was almost back to 2007’s 2.9 percent, Carson said.  Fewer discounts and better prices for new models,
especially in North America, helped to bolster GM’s first-
quarter earnings, the company said May 3. The Detroit-based
company’s sales climbed even as it spent 11 percent less per
vehicle on incentives, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  “This is a solid quarter,” GM’s Chief Financial Officer
Dan Ammann told reporters. “Revenue growth, profit growth,
margin growth, cash-flow improvement, another step in the right
direction.” Second- and third-quarter results for North America
should be similar to the first three months of 2012, he
predicted.  Rising Projections  Data from Ward’s indicate demand is holding up. Cars and
light-duty trucks sold at a 14.38 million seasonally adjusted
annual rate in April, after a 14.32 million pace in March. GM,
Toyota and Ford all have raised projections for 2012 U.S.
industry sales, and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict a
14.3 million total for the year, up from a January forecast of
13.6 million.  “Auto sales are leading the way in  consumer spending ,”
said  George Magliano , senior principal economist at IHS
Automotive in New York. “It’s a function of pent-up demand and
all the things that go with an economy that’s getting better. It
helps everybody when the  auto industry  does well.”  The companies, in “good shape” after having survived the
crisis, will improve further as Americans feel encouraged to buy
big-ticket items and factories fill orders, Magliano said.  Adding Shifts  GM regained its rank as global industry sales leader last
year after losing it to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in 2008. Chrysler,
the automaker controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , is accelerating plans to
increase output at a sport-utility-vehicle plant in Detroit,
hiring 1,100 workers in November instead of early 2013. South
Korea’s Hyundai Motor Co. and Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford also
will add shifts at U.S. factories this year, and Ford will idle
13 facilities for one week instead of two during its annual
summer shutdown.  “We are working most of our North American plants at
maximum capacity, and we are adding production,” James Tetreault, Ford’s vice president of North America manufacturing,
said in a May 8 statement. “Requiring more capacity from our
plants is a good problem to have.”  Foreign companies also are responding to rising demand. VW
Credit Inc., the U.S. finance arm of Germany’s Volkswagen AG,
said last month it’s expanding its Libertyville, Illinois,
office and adding about 150 jobs through 2018.  Boost Supplies  Toyota, the biggest seller of hybrid vehicles, last week
said it wants to boost supplies of its Prius line as demand
outpaces its initial U.S. target of more than 220,000 this year.
Toyota also announced it will spend about $30 million to lift
output of four-cylinder engines at its Georgetown, Kentucky,
plant by August 2013, adding about 80 jobs.  All this means more orders for American machinery and
equipment makers and is bolstering U.S. manufacturing, which
grew in April at the fastest pace in almost a year, according to
the Institute for Supply Management.  One reason factories may remain a source of strength for
the economy is low stockpiles, particularly of automobiles, said
Conrad DeQuadros, senior economist and partner at RDQ Economics
LLC in  New York . The inventory-to-sales ratio for motor vehicles
-- at 1.88 in February, the most recent government data -- is
holding around last year’s average of 1.87 and is down from 2.39
in 2008, the peak since records began in 1967, he said.  “Given the combination of a low-inventory environment and
the current selling rates, you could see continued solid growth
in production of motor vehicles,” DeQuadros said. “That’s a
positive area within manufacturing.”  Improving Payrolls  The gains depend on continued improvement in employment,
which “provide an important support to consumer spending,
including autos,” he said. The jobless rate has been above 8
percent for more than three years, and payrolls rose by 115,000
in April, the fewest in six months, after a 154,000 gain in
March, adding to concerns the labor market may be faltering.  Even if the industry’s rebound continues, sales haven’t
returned to the pre-recession pace of 16.1 million in 2007, and
its share of GDP is well below the record 4.8 percent in 1968.  “We still have a ways to go, but there’s progress,”
Magliano said.  The ripple effect is apparent across industries.  3M Co. (MMM) ,
which makes Post-it Notes and fuel-system tune-up kits, beat
analysts’ first-quarter profit estimates as U.S. auto and
industrial demand cushioned slowing growth abroad.  Harman
International Industries Inc. (HAR) , a maker of car-audio systems, got
a record $2 billion contract in April from a luxury European
automaker whose name it didn’t disclose.  Increasing Rail Shipments  Rising sales are helping generate the most business for
railroads in four years, reflected in data from companies
including  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and Norfolk Southern Corp. that
show motor-vehicle shipments for the final week of March at the
highest level since June 2008.  Some companies are acquiring facilities to take advantage
of the opportunities. Faurecia SA, Europe’s largest maker of car
interiors, said May 3 that it will acquire an interior-
components business in Saline, Michigan, for an undisclosed
amount to increase its U.S. market share.  The business generates $1.1 billion in annual sales from
cockpit modules, instrument panels, door panels and center
consoles for vehicles assembled at Ford plants, the Nanterre,
France-based company said, adding that Ford will become its
third-largest customer.  The revival in demand “obviously benefits everybody,”
said NAM’s Moutray. “You’re not only helping outside the auto
industry -- the glass and steel and seat manufacturers -- but
you’re also helping the restaurant that’s on the corner next to
all those facilities. It is going to continue to be a bright
spot for manufacturing throughout this year and next.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  