-- Stockpicking Window Shuts as Market Correlation Rebounds
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/stockpicking-window-shuts-as-market-correlation-rebounds.html
After a period of respite in the
first quarter, rebounding correlation between equities is
undermining the strategies of investors looking to make outsize
returns by betting on individual stocks.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows, in the top panel, how the one-
year correlation among eight benchmark share indexes has climbed
since March. The monthly data was compiled by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. The lower panel shows the connectedness among stocks in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to Morgan Stanley. The
yellow lines indicate the average.  The tighter the link among stocks, the harder it is for
investors to beat the market, and the less justified is the risk
of going against the herd. A strategy that involves buying
favored companies while short-selling others has gained 4.5
percent since the U.S. bull market began on March 9, 2009,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The  S&P 500 
has rallied 100 percent over the period.  “Correlations will edge higher,” Jose Gonzalez-Heres, a
managing director at Morgan Stanley Investment Management, said
in a phone interview on May 9. “This is leading us to favor
more directional strategies such as macro and not so much stock-
selection strategies. We are less confident that there will be a
good market for stock-pickers.” His company oversees about $287
billion globally.  Gonzalez-Heres, a manager at Morgan Stanley’s Alternative
Investment Partners division in  West Conshohocken ,  Pennsylvania ,
authored an essay in the Spring 2012 issue of The Journal of
 Wealth Management  called “The Effect of S&P 500 Correlation on
Hedge Fund Alpha,” which concluded that times of high
correlation are unfavorable for stock selection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  