-- Syriza Says It Won’t Join Greek National Unity Government
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-13T14:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/syriza-says-it-won-t-join-greek-national-unity-government.html
Greece’s biggest anti-bailout party,
Syriza, said for the second time in as many days that it won’t
join a unity government, pushing the country closer to new
elections that have sparked concerns about a euro-area exit.  “Syriza won’t betray the Greek people,” leader Alexis
Tsipras said in statements televised on state-run NET TV after a
meeting brokered by President Karolos Papoulias between the
party and the leaders of the  New Democracy  and Pasok parties.
“We are being asked to agree to the destruction of Greek
society.”  Papoulias began a final bid to coax the three biggest
parties into a coalition today after a week of talks which
failed to deliver on mandates to form governments. He will meet
later today the leaders of the four other parties to probe the
likelihood of forming a national-unity government. If
Papoulias’s efforts fail, new elections will need to be called.  Greece’s political impasse since inconclusive general
elections May 6 has raised the possibility another vote will
have to be held as early as next month, with polls showing that
could boost anti-bailout Syriza to the top spot. The standoff
has reignited concern the country will renege on pledges to cut
spending as required by the terms of its two bailouts negotiated
since May 2010, and, ultimately, leave the euro area.  Mandates Returned  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader, returned
the third, and final, mandate to Papoulias yesterday after
Tsipras turned down an appeal by the smaller Democratic Left
party to join a coalition.  Papoulias’s efforts will now focus on Democratic Left, to
see if he can persuade them to join a government. Democratic
Left has said that Syriza, the second-biggest party, must be
part of its proposed unity government.  Tsipras said the three pro-bailout parties may proceed, a
departure from his statements on May 11 when he said he hoped
that Democratic Left would stick to pledges to not join such a
government without Syriza.  “The three parties that have agreed on the policy
framework for a two-year government to implement the memorandum
have 168 lawmakers in the new parliament,” which has 300
deputies, he said. “They have the majority so let them proceed.
Their demand for Syriza to join their planned agreement is
illogical.”  ‘Shameful’ Statements  Democratic Left party said Tsipras’s statements today were
unjustified.  “Yesterday he called on us to stand fast to our positions
that we not participate in a government without Syriza,” the
Athens-based party said in an e-mailed statement. “Today he
declares that we have agreed with Pasok and New Democracy on a
government to support the bailout. It is shameful.”  Pasok, New Democracy and Democratic Left agreed last week
on the broad outline of a government that would last until 2014
and be committed to keeping the country in the euro region and
renegotiating bailout conditions from the  International Monetary
Fund  and European Union to boost growth. Tsipras turned down the
approach on May 11 as the first opinion polls since the
elections showed he was gaining in support.  Syriza would come in first, though short of an outright
majority, with 20.5 percent of the vote, if elections were held
again, according to a Kapa Research poll for the newspaper To
Vima, released yesterday. It got 16.8 percent in the May 6
election. Support for New Democracy would fall to 18.1 percent
from 18.9 percent and Pasok would drop to 12.2 percent from 13.2
percent, according to the survey.  Concessions Wanted  The poll showed 78 percent of Greeks want the government to
do whatever possible to keep  Greece  in the euro area and that 72
percent want political parties to make concessions to form a
coalition, compared with 22.9 percent who want new elections.
Kapa surveyed 1,007 Greeks May 9 and 10. The poll had a margin
of error of 3.1 percentage points.  New Democracy and Pasok, the two parties that supported the
international rescue in an interim government earlier this year,
are two deputies short of the 151 seats needed for a majority in
the 300-seat chamber. Five parties opposed to the bailout
conditions are now in parliament.  Tsipras failed to reach an accord with other leaders after
giving them an ultimatum to renounce support for the  EU-led
rescue  in order to enter the government. Both Antonis Samaras, 
the leader of New Democracy, and Venizelos rejected the request.  Samaras, whose party finished first, gave up trying to
forge a coalition after six hours of talks on May 7.  Euro Exit Risk  More than half of investors predict one of the nations in
the euro area will exit the currency bloc this year as Greece’s
election impasse threatens to push the  European debt crisis  to
new depths, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll on May 10.  A Greek departure from the euro could be “technically”
managed yet would damage confidence in the monetary union,
European Central Bank Governing Council member  Patrick Honohan 
said yesterday.  “It is not necessarily fatal, but it is not attractive,”
Honohan told a conference in the Estonian capital, Tallinn.  Greece will run out of cash by early July if partners
decided to withhold their next aid payment. The European
Financial Stability Facility on May 9 confirmed that a 5.2
billion-euro ($6.7 billion) tranche will be released by the end
of June, with 4.2 billion euros disbursed May 10. The remaining
1 billion euros will be released depending on Greece’s financing
needs.  Bailout Terms  Under the terms of the bailout, a new government will need
to spell out how it will save 11 billion euros next month.  Fitch Ratings  said in a report on May 11 that the outcome
of another election would be “unpredictable” and “make it
doubtful that Greece could comply with the EU-IMF’s end-June
deadline to propose further medium-term austerity measures.”  While Greece would probably be granted an extension to that
deadline, any attempt to significantly renegotiate its program
would be unacceptable to the so-called troika of the European
Commission, IMF and  European Central Bank , Fitch said.  “The impression from this week’s unfruitful negotiations
on the formation of a new government is that Greek political
parties have taken the view that new elections in June are the
only way out,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at
Mizuho International Plc said in a note to investors on May 11.
“If new elections are called, they will indeed amount to a
referendum on staying in the euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  