-- UniCredit’s Vita Wants Bank to Take Leadership Role in Europe
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-05-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/unicredit-s-vita-wants-bank-to-take-leadership-role-in-europe.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  may expand in the
countries where it operates in a bid to play a “leadership
role” in Europe, new Chairman Giuseppe Vita said.  “I want to contribute to create a stronger European bank,
which can expand in  Germany ,  Poland ,  Turkey  and all other
countries in which it is present,” said Vita at a May 12
conference, after becoming chairman of Italy’s biggest bank.  Vita, 77, was named at a shareholder meeting May 11 to
replace Dieter Rampl. He was proposed by UniCredit’s governance
committee last month as “the best candidate in terms of profile
and requirements,” the Milan-based bank said in an April 12
statement. Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  said Vita
is a great manager with a high international profile.  “A local bank cannot survive in  Europe  in a long term
period,” according to Vita, who spent most of his life in
Germany running companies including publisher Axel Springer AG.
“UniCredit is the only Italian bank which can grow abroad.”  UniCredit, which operates in  22 countries , including
Germany, Austria and Poland, gets about 57 percent of its
revenue outside Italy. The bank spent $61 billion on European
takeovers from 2005 to 2008 becoming the EU’s  eleventh-largest
bank  in the Euro STOXX 600 Banks Index, with 927 billion euros
of assets. Purchases included Munich-based HVB AG, Germany’s
third-biggest bank, and the largest lenders in Poland and
Austria.  ‘Organic Growth’  “UniCredit should boost its presence in Europe through an
organic growth by developing its business in countries with
higher rates of growth,” said Wolfram Mrowetz chairman of Milan
brokerage Alisei Sim. “This isn’t time for acquisitions, so
Vita is right when he aims at boosting business where the bank
already works.”  UniCredit shares have fallen 34 percent in the year to
date, giving the bank a market value of 16.3 billion euros ($21
billion). The stock closed 1.1 percent lower at 2.81 euros on
May 11.  The lender’s  first-quarter profit  rose 13 percent to 914
million euros, beating analysts estimate, on higher trading
income and lower provisions, the bank said in a May 10
statement. UniCredit is cutting costs and reviewing the bank’s
strategy in central and eastern Europe as part of a plan
approved in November to strengthen finances and boost profit.  UniCredit has a strong capital base, enabling it to take
opportunities, according to Mrowetz. The lender, which raised
7.5 billion euros in a rights offer in January to meet capital
targets set by the European Banking Authority, has a core Tier 1
ratio, a key measure of financial health, of 10.3 percent as of
March 31. EBA requires a 9 percent Tier 1 ratio.  CEE  Ghizzoni is focusing investments on countries with the
biggest and most profitable units in the emerging economies of
Europe, where UniCredit is the largest lender. He has named
 Russia , Poland, Turkey and the  Czech Republic  as “growth
engines,” while putting expansion plans in  Hungary  and Romania
on hold and not ruling out the sale of units in some of the 15
formerly communist countries.  “We are not a domestic bank,” Ghizzoni said during the
conference to introduce Vita. “We are armed to be competitive
at European level. Looking at diversification, we are the most
European bank.”  Central and eastern Europe contributed half of UniCredit’s
recurring net operating profit in the quarter. Profit advanced 2
percent to 563 million euros. Earnings in Turkey fell 16 percent
because of lower fee income and higher risk charges. Russian
earnings advanced 8 percent, while Polish profit declined 3
percent, the company said.  Unlike rivals including OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) 
and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , UniCredit has remained
profitable in Hungary. First-quarter earnings benefited from
writebacks of provisions it had earlier made against losses.  Worst Is Over  The only unprofitable countries in the region for
UniCredit, which has offices in 50 countries where it operates
through 160,000 employees and 9,456 branches, were  Kazakhstan 
and the Baltics.  “The worst for the bank is over,” said Vita. “The bank
is recovering, and I can help in the relations with Germany and
some countries of eastern Europe, markets that I know very well.
UniCredit must be a prudent bank to serve its customers.”  Vita, who is also chairman of  Allianz SE (ALV) ’s Italian unit,
Allianz SpA, said he will resign from the post. Vita is the
second Allianz executive to be appointed to a prominent position
at an Italian lender in the last six months. Allianz’s Enrico Cucchiani was named chief executive officer of Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA,  Italy ’s No. 2 lender, in November.  Vita is a graduate of the medical school at Rome’s La
Sapienza University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net  