-- My-Brand-Is-Better Marketing Won’t Sell Your Product
-- B y   D a v i d   A a k e r
-- 2012-05-13T22:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/my-brand-is-better-marketing-won-t-sell-your-product.html
With rare exceptions, marketing
designed to create or enhance brand preference over competitors
in established product categories changes nothing. No matter how
big the budget or how clever the execution, “my brand is better
than your brand” marketing rarely results in sales growth.  Look at any product category over a long time period and
you will see that changes in market position rarely occurred
unless there was a substantial or transformational innovation.
Innovation drives customer “must haves.” These, in turn, define
a new subcategory in which competitors are either weak or
nonexistent, resulting in meaningful sales change.  I studied the Japanese beer industry for more than 40 years
and found that the sales trajectory of the leading brands
changed only four times. On three of those occasions, a new
subcategory got traction: dry beer, Ichiban, or Happoshu (low-malt and low-tax beer); in the fourth, two subcategories (dry
and lager) were simultaneously repositioned. It is striking that
four decades of enormous new product vitality, marketing budgets
and promotional activity had little impact.  A similar story would play out if you looked at bottled
water, ice cream, computers, financial services, automobiles,
fast-food restaurants, hotels, canned soup, candy, airlines,
airplanes or almost any other category. You would assume that
the recipe for success would be products or services that are
reliable and deliver on their promise, improved each year with a
program of incremental innovation, and supported by well-funded
and executed marketing. Instead, with rare exceptions, such
efforts simply result in running in place and preserving the
status quo.  Competitive Field  In contrast, substantial or transformational innovation
that creates an offering for which competitors aren’t relevant
can have a huge impact. Consider, for example, the Chrysler
minivan introduced in 1983: It had 16 years with no viable
competitor and sold more than 12 million units. Or take
Enterprise Rent-A-Car: It went three decades with little real
competition, keeping its focus on customers who needed a
replacement vehicle as theirs was being repaired, and was able
to surpass  Hertz (HTZ)  in sales and profits.  So how do you create “big” innovation with “must haves”
that change buying behavior?  Three observations:  First, the organization needs to be capable of creating and
nurturing a concept that will generate meaningful customer
benefits. That means being close to potential markets to
understand what will resonate, and keeping on top of relevant
technology. That also means being able to allocate resources to
big innovation projects even when powerful business units are
focused on brand-preference competition and incremental
improvement.  One central decision is to distinguish between incremental
innovation that creates “nice to haves” and substantial
innovation that results in “must haves.” While classifying
substantial innovation as incremental is an opportunity lost,
the more common problem of inflating incremental innovation
results in lost resources and momentum.  Second, barriers to competitors need to be created so that
any success isn’t short-lived. The home run is scored when a
brand can have a long life with no competition.  Barriers to competition include:  -- Over-the-top execution: The online shoe store Zappos.com
Inc. is an example of a company that sets a high bar for a
potential competitor, with its 24/7 call center that famously
found a pizza-delivery service in the middle of the night for
one customer, its policy of taking back shoes and its 10 Core
Values that include a mission to “create fun and a little
weirdness.”  -- Branded innovations: Westin’s Heavenly Bed or
 Amazon.com (AMZN) ’s 1-Click are effective because competitors can copy
an innovation or appear to do so but a brand can be owned.  -- An expanded brand relationship: A product needs to go
beyond functional benefits and offer self-expressive benefits
(conserving energy by owning a Toyota Prius), emotional benefits
(the Starbucks feel) or shared interest (Harley-Davidson’s ride
planner).  -- A loyal customer base:  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  has
achieved this, leaving its competitors to vie for less
profitable customers.  Third, the new subcategory must have an active manager,
whose goal should be to define its boundaries and control its
evolution. In particular, the ongoing innovation should add new
“must haves” and create a moving target for competitors, much as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  did with the iPod subcategory by introducing shuffle,
nano and iTouch. A key is to become the subcategory exemplar as
SalesForce.com did with the first major cloud-computing
application. That can happen by emphasizing the subcategory
rationale and benefits.  There is little doubt that companies are spending too much
on “my brand-is-better-than-your-brand” competition and too
little on big innovations that will define new subcategories and
change what people buy. While existing businesses must be
protected, companies also need to have a “risk” budget devoted
to making bets on offerings that will make a real difference in
the marketplace.  (David Aaker is professor emeritus of marketing and public
policy at the  University of California , Berkeley’s Haas School
of Business and a contributor to  Business Class . He is
vice-chairman of  Prophet , a strategic brand and marketing
consulting firm and the author of “Brand Relevance: Making
Competitors Irrelevant.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  better cookstoves for
the developing world ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  next Kennedy
superstar ; Edward Conard on  what drives the U.S. economy ;  Aaron
David Miller  on  safe zones in Syria ;  Simon Johnson  and  Peter
Boone  on  the euro and banks ; Rachelle Bergstein on  wedges and
World War I .  To contact the writer of this article:
 David Aaker  at  DAaker@prophet.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 