-- Yahoo Board Said to Meet Over CEO Record Amid Firing Call
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-13T17:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/yahoo-board-said-to-meet-over-ceo-record-amid-firing-call.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Scott Thompson , hired from  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  in January to turn around
the struggling Web portal, is stepping down after his academic
credentials were misrepresented, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Thompson will be replaced on an interim basis by Ross
Levinsohn, head of global media at the Sunnyvale, California-
based company, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the plans haven’t been made public. Investor Third Point
LLC, which is seeking board representation because it says Yahoo
is mismanaged, highlighted discrepancies in Thompson’s resume on
May 3 and stepped up pressure ever since.  The departure of the third CEO in just over three years
adds to upheaval at a company that was once a leader in Web
search and online information. Yahoo’s sales tumbled 31 percent
last year from a peak three years earlier, while its market
value dropped by more than half since the end of 2005. Thompson,
54, was brought in to stem  management  disarray and orchestrate a
turnaround after Google Inc. nabbed market share in advertising
and  Facebook Inc . lured fans of social networking.  Thompson’s undoing stems from erroneous biographical
 references  to him holding a bachelor’s degree in computer
science from Stonehill College. He earned a degree in accounting
from the Easton, Massachusetts-based school, and the information
is correctly listed in EBay regulatory filings and some Yahoo
press releases. Yet the incorrect degree showed up in Yahoo’s
April 27 10-K  filing , as well as on the company’s  website .  Other Casualty  Thompson wasn’t the only casualty of his academic record.
Yahoo Director Patti Hart, who was on the three-person committee
responsible for his hiring, is also leaving the board. She
announced her plans on May 8, citing responsibilities as CEO of
slot-machine maker  International Game Technology. (IGT)  Third Point
had accused Hart of inflating her academic credentials.  Yahoo shares fell 1.6 percent to $15.19 in  New York  on May
11 and have declined 5.8 percent so far this year.  Dana Lengkeek, spokeswoman for Yahoo, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment. Thompson’s departure was
previously reported by the technology blog AllThingsDigital.  Thompson, the former president of EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit,
was hired in January to replace  Carol Bartz , who had been
dismissed by the Yahoo board in September. He had cut 2,000 jobs
and overhauled management, and Yahoo’s stock had its biggest
rally in three months on April 18 after the company reported
first-quarter sales that topped estimates, fueling optimism that
turnaround efforts may take hold. A day earlier, Yahoo reported
its first revenue gain in more than three years.  Third Point’s Pressure  Third Point , the  owner  of about 5.8 percent of Yahoo, has
been locked in a dispute with the company over its direction and
appointments to the board, calling it one of technology’s “most
mismanaged companies.”  The fund faulted Thompson in April for embarking on job
cuts before he articulated a more complete strategy, and
criticized earlier management for failing to accept a $44
billion takeover bid from Microsoft Corp.  Yahoo named three new independent directors in March as
part of an effort to shake up the board and appease investors.
The company negotiated with Third Point’s Loeb about adding one
of his nominees and another that both sides could agree on. The
discussions broke down when Loeb insisted that he himself be
added, Yahoo said at the time. The fund announced plans in March
to seek shareholder votes for its slate of four directors.  After the  disclosure  of the resume error, Yahoo formed a
committee led by board member Alfred Amoroso, who joined in
February.  ‘Inadvertent Error’  The other directors on the panel are John Hayes and Thomas
McInerney, who both joined in April. The committee has also
retained independent counsel, Terry Bird of  Bird, Marella,
Boxer, Wolpert, Nessim, Drooks & Lincenberg  in  Los Angeles .  The company initially called the discrepancy an
“inadvertent error” and said it “in no way alters that fact
that Mr. Thompson is a highly qualified executive with a
successful track record leading large consumer technology
companies.” It later said it would begin a review.  Thompson, in a memo to staff on May 7, apologized for the
fallout from the disclosures and said he takes “full
responsibility.”  “I want you to know how deeply I regret how this issue has
affected the company and all of you,” Thompson said.  Thompson's Compensation  Thompson’s four months of work at Yahoo were lucrative, and
his potential compensation was set at as high as $27 million
when he joined. Besides an annual base salary of $1 million, he
received a hiring bonus of $1.5 million in cash and $5.5 million
in stock, according to Yahoo’s agreement  letter  filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  He also was set to receive a so-called inducement equity
award in February worth $5 million, regulatory filings show.
Thompson was eligible for incentive compensation of as much as
twice his annual salary, depending on performance, with the
bonus guaranteed to be least $1 million for the fiscal year.  Thompson also was slated to receive an additional $1
million stock award in March 2013 and to get long-term equity
grants that were projected by the company to be worth $11
million for 2012, according to the regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 