-- Andy Pettitte Takes Loss in First Game With Yankees Since 2010
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-14T04:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-13/yankees-pettitte-loses-in-first-major-league-game-since-2010.html
Andy Pettitte  pitched into the
seventh inning in his first appearance for the  New York Yankees 
since 2010, a 6-2 loss to the  Seattle  Mariners in which he said
a couple of mistakes led to a pair of two-run home runs.  Pettitte, 39, ended his one-season retirement from  Major
League Baseball  in March and rejoined the Yankees yesterday in
New York after working his way back into shape in the minor
leagues. He allowed four runs on seven hits and three walks in 6
1/3 innings.  “It felt like I never left, it really did,” said
Pettitte, whose 203 wins with the Yankees are the third most in
franchise history. “I’m disappointed in getting the loss.”  Pettitte held the Mariners hitless until the fourth inning,
when he allowed a homer to Justin Smoak.  With the Yankees trailing 2-1, Casper Wells added another
two-run homer in the sixth inning off Pettitte, who threw 94
pitches before giving way to the bullpen.  “The guys gave me a chance to get back in the game and I
go back out and give up a two-run homer. You just can’t do
that,” Pettitte said at a news conference. “I got a little
careless with a few pitches and they cost me. It’s a real quick
learning lesson and wakeup call for me, that’s for sure.”  Pettitte helped the Yankees win five World Series titles
over 13 seasons in  New York  and trails only  Whitey Ford  (236)
and Red Ruffing (231) for the most wins in team history.  Pettitte went 11-3 with a 3.28 earned run average in 21
starts during his last season for the Yankees in 2010, when he
was limited by a groin injury in the second half.  The left-hander retired before the 2011 season, saying he
didn’t have the hunger to play even though his pitching arm felt
fine. He didn’t rule out a return at the time and on March 16
signed a one-year, $2.5 million contract with the Yankees.  Two Strikeouts  “To me, it looked like he hadn’t missed a beat,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  said at a news conference.  Girardi said he was encouraged that Pettitte showed good
velocity and recorded 10 ground-ball outs, including a pair of
inning-ending double plays. Pettitte also had two strikeouts.  “To get us into the seventh inning, that’s pretty good,”
Girardi said. “It was just a bit of missed location. His pitch
count, he kept it low all day, which is important.”  Pettitte joins a starting rotation that includes CC
Sabathia,  Hiroki Kuroda ,  Phil Hughes  and Ivan Nova. The Yankees
in April lost Michael Pineda, who they acquired from Seattle
during the offseason, to a season-ending shoulder injury.  “The one thing we’re going to have to look at a little bit
is how he bounces back each start,” said Girardi, whose team is
in third place in the American League Eastern division with a
19-15 record. “Everything looked pretty similar to when he
left. That’s a good sign. He was effective and it’s what we’re
used to seeing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  