-- American Airlines Asks Court to Approve US Airways Merger
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-02-23T00:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/american-airlines-asks-court-to-approve-us-airways-merger-1-.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
asked the judge overseeing its bankruptcy case to approve its
$11 billion merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  to create the
world’s largest carrier.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in Manhattan is scheduled
on March 27 to consider approving the agreement filed today. The
merger will take effect through a bankruptcy plan that hasn’t
been proposed yet.  “The combination of the two airlines will result in
superior value for all stakeholders,” American said in its
filing.  Fort Worth, Texas-based American and  US Airways , based in
Tempe, Arizona, announced the merger last week. US Airways began
its pursuit of a deal in January 2012, less than two months
after AMR filed for bankruptcy.  The combined company would operate under the American
Airlines name. US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker
will be CEO of the merged company, while AMR CEO  Tom Horton  will
be chairman through its first annual meeting.  The agreement, which has the backing of creditors holding
about $1.2 billion in claims, can be terminated by either
company if the merger hasn’t been consummated by Oct. 14. That
deadline can be extended to Dec. 13 under certain circumstances,
American said. The deadline for filing objections to the merger
is March 15.  The closing of the merger and the effectiveness of
American’s bankruptcy plan will occur together, American said in
court papers. The carrier has an April 15 deadline for filing
the reorganization plan in court. It said a plan hasn’t been
negotiated with the committee representing unsecured creditors
in the bankruptcy case.  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  