-- Banksy Mural Taken From London Wall Withdrawn in Miami
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-02-23T22:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/banksy-mural-taken-from-london-wall-may-fetch-700-000.html
A Banksy mural recently removed from
a London street was tonight withdrawn from an auction in  Florida 
-- after starting a debate on who owns street art and when it
can be sold.  The spray painting “Slave Labour,” showing a young boy
making Union Jack bunting with a sewing machine, had been
stenciled by the pseudonymous artist on the wall of a Poundland
store in the Wood Green area of northeast London in 2012.  The work, satirizing Queen Elizabeth’s Diamond Jubilee, was
removed from the wall earlier this month. It has re-appeared in
a sale of modern, contemporary and street art at Fine Art
Auctions Miami, estimated at $500,000 to $700,000. The lot was
withdrawn at the last moment, Fine Art Auctions said.  “There’s a sense of outrage among local people,” Claire
Kober, Leader of  Haringey Council , said in an interview before
the planned auction. “Banksy gives these paintings to
communities. They’re cultural assets that generate a huge sense
of civic pride. Morally, if not legally, we act as guardians
rather than owners.”  Kober wrote to Tomas Regalado, mayor of Miami, on Feb. 21,
appealing to the fellow local politician to stop the auction of
the painting. As of yesterday, she hadn’t received a reply,
Kober said. After the sale was cancelled, she claimed it was a
success for her campaign.  Record Price  Bristol-born Banksy is the world’s most famous and
expensive urban artist. A canvas by him sold for a record $1.9
million at auction in February 2008. In that same year, he
introduced an authentication service, Pest Control, intended to
regulate the market for his paintings and street murals.  Pest Control routinely fails to authenticate site-specific
pieces, citing the artist’s desire to keep his public works in
their original contexts.  Sotheby’s (BID) , Christie’s International and
other leading auctioneers will not offer works without this
certification.  “Slave Labour” hasn’t been endorsed by Pest Control,
according to the Fine Art Auctions Miami online catalog. The
company declined to reveal the identity of the sellers when
telephoned by Bloomberg News.  “FAAM has done all the necessary due diligence about the
ownership of the work,” the Florida-based auction house said in
an earlier statement. “Unfortunately, we are not able to
provide you with any information, by law and contract, about any
details of this consignment. We are more than happy to do so
however if you can prove that the work was acquired and removed
illegally.”  Building Owners  The Poundland store occupies a building owned by Wood Green
Investments Limited, David Hardiman, Haringey Council’s senior
communications officer, said in an interview yesterday.  Wood Green Investments is a property company registered at
Woodford Green, Essex, according to the U.K. registry, Companies
House. Its co-directors are named as Robert Alan Davis and
Leslie Steven Gilbert, both based in Essex. Calls to the
company’s lawyers, MJD Solicitors, were not returned.  “The council leader has tried repeatedly to engage with
Wood Green Investments,” Hardiman said. “They haven’t
responded.”  Owners of buildings painted by artists have argued that the
graffiti, painted without their permission, can disfigure the
exteriors. Some take the view that the artist has given them the
work to do with as they wish, rather than it being public
property.  Graffiti Removal  Haringey’s attitude to the lost Banksy contrasts with the
past responses of some other local authorities. In 2008,
Islington council in north  London  painted over a Banksy mural of
two young girls playing with a Kalashnikov rifle, following
complaints from residents.  In London in 2008, Edinburgh-based auctioneers Lyon &
Turnbull attempted to sell five site-specific spray paint and
stencil works by Banksy that Pest Control refused to endorse.
Ranging in value from 30,000 pounds to 150,000 pounds, they all
failed to find buyers.  “Banksy prefers street work to remain in situ, and
building owners tend to become irate when their doors go missing
because of a stencil,” the authentication service said in a
statement at the time.  Painted Dog  This Miami auction was also to include the 2007 Banksy
street painting, “Wet Dog,” estimated at $600,000 to $800,000.
This three-ton stencil on concrete, showing the outline of a dog
that has shaken wet paint over a wall, had been removed from the
West Bank city of Bethlehem.  It was acquired and offered for sale by the New York City
and Southampton, New York, dealer Stephan Keszler in 2011,
initially priced at $420,000. This lot was removed from the
Miami online auction shortly before the event started and Fine
Art Auctions said it had also been withdrawn.  “Pest Control has done a good job regulating the market
for Banksy street works that weren’t intended for sale,” Mike Snelle, director of the London-based gallery Black Rat Press,
said in an interview. “If they haven’t got certification,
they’re difficult to sell. You don’t know if they’re real.”  Yesterday, two new stencils appeared on either side of the
re-plastered hole in the Poundland wall where “Slave Labour”
had been. To the right, a sorrowful Banksy-style rat holds a
placard saying, “Why?” To the left, a sign warns “Danger
Thieves.” It is not as yet known whether the artist himself
made these painted comments in the early hours of Feb. 22.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on books,  Richard Vines 
on food and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 