-- BP Heads Into Spill Trial With Initial Court Victory
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-02-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/bp-heads-into-spill-trial-with-initial-court-victory.html
BP Plc (BP/)  heads into a sprawling trial
Monday over who is liable for the biggest offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history with an early victory, after a judge ruled some
documents related to its criminal conviction can’t be used.  In November, BP reached a deal with the U.S.  Justice
Department , agreeing to pay $4 billion to resolve the criminal
case stemming from the spill. Prosecutors also indicted three 
BP workers. U.K.-based BP, owner of the Macondo well that blew
up in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2010, claimed criminal allegations
against the company, as well as the indictments, were
“hearsay” and couldn’t be used in next week’s civil trial.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, while
agreeing with the company, declined to rule on whether BP’s
guilty plea would be barred as well. BP, which settled many
spill claims last March in an $8.5 billion civil pact, said it
will fight those that remain “vigorously,” including making the
argument that some business profit and tax revenue losses were
made up for by the economic boon of an influx of cleanup workers.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig
killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million barrels of oil.
The disaster sparked hundreds of lawsuits against BP, Vernier,
Switzerland-based Transocean, which owned the rig, and Houston-
based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  Barbier will conduct a nonjury trial beginning Feb. 25 to
determine liability for the incident and whether any of the
defendants acted with gross negligence. In a separate ruling
this week, he said Halliburton and the plaintiffs can show some
evidence of Transocean’s “prior alleged improper conduct.”  $17.6 Billion  BP faces $17.6 billion in potential penalties for
environmental violations. It also faces potential fines by
affected states, and billions of dollars in additional damages
by plaintiffs who weren’t offered settlements by the company.  The U.S. and gulf coast states are considering a $16
billion settlement offer to BP, the Wall Street Journal said
yesterday, citing unidentified “people familiar with the
discussions.”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP, and Wyn
Hornbuckle of the Justice Department, declined to comment.  For Monday’s trial, Transocean had urged Barbier to bar
evidence that isn’t directly related to its conduct on the well.
Opponents will be able to introduce a series of Transocean e-
mails and letters concerning prior well-control incidents on
other company rigs, including one that occurred within months of
the Macondo blowout, Barbier said.  Gross Negligence  Steve Herman , a lead attorney for the plaintiffs, which
include businesses, municipalities and individuals, said,
“There is overwhelming evidence that BP, Transocean and
Halliburton were all grossly negligent, and we look forward to
introducing that evidence at trial.”  A finding of gross negligence, as opposed to simple
negligence, will increase the potential fines against the
company under criminal law by billions of dollars, reaching as
high as $17.6 billion.  Dean, of BP, declined to comment on Barbier’s ruling on the
use of criminal evidence. Transocean’s spokesman Lou Colasuonno
didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  All victims whose claims were excluded from the settlement
must prove the spill directly caused their physical or economic
injury, as required under the Oil Pollution Act, which governs
spill-damage compensation, legal experts said.  “Causation is the main hurdle, because the bulk of claims
for economic loss are by people without physical damage,” said
 David Robertson , a University of Texas law professor who has
advised lawyers leading the spill suits. “There’s a whole huge
block of the economy that was heavily affected by the spill, and
some of these are very large claims.”  Fault Findings  Barbier’s findings of fault will be applied to subsequent
trials where specific dollar-amounts for spill damages will be
determined, including those on claims excluded from the initial
settlement. Plaintiffs’ lawyers said those damages trials,
unlike the phase beginning next week, will be heard by juries.  Following next week’s trial, claimants may pursue their
claims individually, with the court’s determination of fault in
hand. However, they will have to then prove they were injured,
and that it was caused by the spill defendants.  The company said in court papers that it may try to prove
that tax-revenue losses by some governmental entities and
revenue-loss claims by some tourism businesses, such as casinos,
were offset by increases in economic activity generated by BP’s
cleanup crews.  Thousands of BP workers swarmed the coastline in 2010 and
2011 to clean up the spill, and BP said in court filings that
spending by these workers largely replaced lost tourist dollars.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 