-- McGraw-Hill’s S&P Has Until April for U.S. Suit Response
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/mcgraw-hill-s-s-p-has-until-april-for-u-s-suit-response.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) ’s Standard & Poor’s
unit and the Justice Department both want more time to prepare
written arguments in the first federal court case against a
ratings service for grades related to the credit crisis.  The government accused S&P on Feb. 4 of deliberately
misstating the risks of mortgage bonds, whose collapse helped
trigger the credit crisis. A response was due March 6. S&P,
citing the complexity of the case, yesterday won a federal
judge’s permission to extend the deadline to April 22.  S&P sought more time to review and respond to the U.S.
complaint given the “length and breadth of its allegations,”
it said in a filing in federal court in Santa Ana, California.  The government agreed as long as S&P consents to the
Justice Department getting a similar extension for its reply to
the ratings company’s response, according to the document. U.S.
District Judge David Carter granted S&P’s extension.  S&P is accused in the lawsuit of inflating ratings on
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations
and the U.S. may seek as much as $5 billion in damages. More
than a dozen states followed with their own lawsuits while
others are still investigating the company. Connecticut,
Illinois and  Mississippi  had earlier filed lawsuits.  Financial Institutions  S&P rated more than $2.8 trillion worth of residential
mortgage-backed securities and almost $1.2 trillion worth of
collateralized debt obligations from September 2004 to October
2007, according to the U,S. complaint. Federally insured
financial institutions suffered $5 billion in losses on CDOs
rated by S&P, the Justice Department said in a statement.  The collapse in value of securities that packaged home
loans from the riskiest borrowers led to a credit seizure
starting in 2007 that sent the world’s largest economy into its
longest recession since 1933, as defaults soared and home values
plummeted.  McGraw-Hill, which had net income of $867 million in the
past four quarters, denied wrongdoing. S&P called the U.S. and
state lawsuits “meritless” and said its ratings reflected the
company’s best judgments, according to a statement.  According to the U.S. complaint, S&P falsely represented to
investors that its credit ratings were objective, independent
and uninfluenced by any conflicts of interests.  The company bent rating models to suit its business needs
to the extent that one CDO analyst commented that loosening the
measure of default risk for a certain security in 2006
“resulted in a loophole in S&P’s rating model big enough to
drive a Mack truck through,” the U.S. said.  Banks create collateralized-debt obligations by bundling
bonds or loans into securities of varying risk and return. They
pay ratings companies for the grades, which investors may use to
meet regulatory requirements.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  