-- China to Expand Short-Selling Program as Part of Reform
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-23T11:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/china-to-expand-short-selling-program-as-part-of-reform.html
China  will expand its short-selling
program on Feb. 28 by allowing selected brokerages to borrow
shares from institutional investors, the  Shanghai  Securities
News reported.  Eleven brokerages will be able to borrow shares in a pre-
approved pool of 90 publicly traded companies, according to the
report, which cited China Securities Finance Corp. The state-
owned agency was set up to provide securities firms with funds
and stock for short-selling and margin trading.  The expansion of short-selling -- in which investors sell
borrowed shares in the expectation of profiting when they fall -
- will increase the efficiency of China’s equity market, help
manage risks and boost brokers’ revenue, the report said.  The brokerages in the trial program are:  Citic Securities (600030) 
Co., the biggest listed broker; Everbright Securities Co.; GF
Securities Co.; Guotai Junan Securities Co.; Guosen Securities
Co.;  Haitong Securities (600837)  Co.; Huatai Securities Co.; Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co.; China Merchants Securities Co.; Galaxy
Securities Co.; and China Securities Co.  These firms will be allowed to borrow shares from CSFC and
re-lend to customers. The pre-approved pool of securities
comprises 50 companies listed in Shanghai and 40 in Shenzhen,
with a total market capitalization of 9.3 trillion  yuan  ($1.49
trillion), according to the report.  Brokerages will be able to borrow shares from CSFC for
fixed periods -- 3, 7, 14, 28 and 182 days -- at different
rates, the report said.  The expanded program “will not necessarily add to the
selling pressure and suppress the equity market” because more
brokers are participating in the margin-trading program, which
allows investors to borrow money from brokers to buy shares,
according to the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in  Shanghai (SHCOMP)  at +86-21-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  