-- Cyprus Votes Again to Choose Crisis-Ravaged Economy’s Savior
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-02-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/cyprus-votes-again-to-choose-crisis-ravaged-economy-s-savior.html
Cypriots return to the ballot box
today to elect a new leader who can avert the island nation’s
financial collapse after a first-round presidential election
failed to deliver an absolute winner.  Nicos Anastasiades, 66, the head of Cyprus’s main
opposition Disy party who is endorsed by German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, faces a run-off vote against Stavros Malas, 45, a
former health minister. Anastasiades took 45.5 percent in the
first ballot to 26.9 percent for Malas, who is backed by the
communist Akel party of outgoing President Demetris Christofias.  Cyprus’s new president will have to revive stalled talks
with European partners on aid that is needed to avert meltdown.
Cyprus, a European Union member since 2004, has been negotiating
for eight months with the so-called troika of the European
Commission, the European Central Bank and the International
Monetary Fund over the terms of a bailout that could equal the
size of its near 18 billion-euro ($24 billion) economy.  “If Anastasiades wins, he already has the strong backing
of Merkel and has been making all the right noises,” Fiona Mullen, director of Sapienta Economics in Nicosia, said in an e-
mail response to questions. “His main task will be to negotiate
on what concessions Merkel wants to extract from Cyprus so that
she can get the bailout through the German parliament.”  Merkel’s government, in charge of Europe’s biggest economy
and the largest contributor to euro-area bailouts, insists that
Russia contribute to any bailout, arguing that Russian capital,
legal or illegal, dominates the bloated Cypriot banking system.  Money Laundering  While Germany won’t stand in the way of aid if Cyprus
fulfils the criteria for help, questions need to be addressed on
the future size of the country’s banking industry, tax policy
and how Cypriot authorities deal with money that may be
illegally sent into the island, Deputy German Finance Minister
Steffen Kampeter said in an interview.  Cyprus, which became the fifth euro-area member to request
international aid in June 2012, has been shut out of debt
markets for almost two years, with lenders including  Bank of
Cyprus Plc  and  Cyprus Popular Bank Plc (CPB)  losing 4.5 billion euros
in Greece’s debt restructuring last year. Cyprus needs the
bailout to recapitalize its lenders as well as to finance the
government over the next three years.  Standard & Poor’s said in a Feb. 20 report that there’s a
one-in-three chance it may cut its long-term debt rating for
Cyprus again this year if the aid isn’t forthcoming.  Cyprus Ratings  “We would also lower the ratings if we believe the
authorities aren’t able to fulfil the conditions that would be
attached to an official assistance program,” Moritz Kraemer,
head of sovereign ratings at S&P, said in the report. S&P’s
current rating for Cyprus’s long-term debt is CCC+, seven steps
below investment grade.  Anastasiades and Malas agree on the need for Cyprus to sign
an international aid deal, saying there is no alternative. Both
also say that there’s room for re-negotiation and that Russia
should be involved in a Cypriot bailout.  Reaching agreement with Russia on contributing to a rescue
will be an “immediate priority,” Anastasiades said Feb. 21.
Malas said in an interview that he will “strongly” encourage
Russia to get involved in financing Cyprus.  European leaders will have to discuss ways to raise
“serious loans” to repay Cyprus government debt because “no
one needs a cataclysmic situation -- not Europe, not Russia and
obviously not Cyprus,” Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
said in a Feb. 14 interview.  Russian Restructuring  While Russia is willing to contribute, “the main support
for Cyprus should of course come from the countries in the
European community,” Siluanov said. Russia remains willing to
restructure a 2.5 billion-euro loan it provided in 2011 and
possibly agree to a lower interest rate, though “that still
won’t solve Cyprus’s debt problem,” he said.  One issue dividing the presidential candidates is the
demand that Cyprus consider a privatization program for state-
owned companies to restore debt sustainability. Anastasiades has
said state-asset sales are something he could agree to only if
necessary, while Malas opposes them altogether.  “If they continue to run the economy as Christofias did,
we’re all going to close down,” Sophoclis Sophocleous, 62, the
owner of a construction material import business, said in an
interview in Nicosia. “We need a change.”  Voting opens from 7 a.m. local time until 6 p.m., when the
first exit polls are due. An initial estimate of the final
result will be published around 8.30 p.m.  A change in government in Nicosia, the Cypriot capital, is
unlikely to trigger an immediate resolution of the problem as
“the main political challenge to a deal lies elsewhere,”
Alexander White, European political analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in London, said in a Feb. 19 note. “A deal in March or
April is certainly possible, but given the complexity of the
issue in Germany, and elsewhere, this may be optimistic.”  As Cyprus is facing a funding cliff, with bonds worth 1.4
billion due to mature on June 3, the euro region may find some
form of short-term financing that would push the debate beyond
German federal elections due on Sept. 22, White said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Nicosia at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  