-- Dollar Gains After Fed Minutes Show Bond-Purchase Pace May Vary
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-02-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/dollar-gains-after-fed-minutes-show-bond-purchase-pace-may-vary.html
The dollar gained versus the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers after minutes from the
 Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed several officials favored
varying the pace of bond purchases, which debase the currency.  The euro touched its lowest level in six weeks versus the
greenback after an industry report showed services and
manufacturing in the region shrank at a faster pace in February
than economists forecast. The yen appreciated against all but
one major counterpart after Finance Minister Taro Aso said the
Japanese government won’t buy foreign bonds to end deflation.
Automatic spending cuts known as sequestration will take effect
March 1 if the  U.S. Congress  doesn’t act.  “A big reason why the  U.S. dollar  performed well this week
is linked to the Fed minutes, which gave the signal that they
could slow the amount of purchases in the near future,” Charles St-Arnaud, a currency strategist in New York at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It caught a lot
of market participants off-guard.”  The dollar appreciated 1.2 percent to $1.3194 per euro this
week after touching $1.3145, its strongest level since Jan. 10.
The greenback fell 0.1 percent to 93.42. The Japanese currency
gained 1.4 percent to 123.22 per euro after appreciating to
122.26, its strongest level since Jan. 29.  Winners, Losers  The pound fell for a second week, with the loss widening
late yesterday after Britain lost its top  credit rating 
by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the continuing
weakness in the nation’s growth outlook and the challenges that
presents to the government’s fiscal consolidation program.  Sterling fell 2.3 percent to $1.5163 after sliding to
$1.5132, the lowest since July 2010.  The Australian dollar was the biggest winner among the
most-traded currencies this week, and  Norway ’s krone dropped the
most.  The U.S. dollar appreciated 1.9 percent this year among 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 2 percent, and the yen fell
6.2 percent to lead decliners.  Futures traders increased their bets that the yen will
decline against the U.S. dollar,  figures  from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a decline in the yen compared with those on an
increase -- so-called net shorts -- was 65,891 on Feb. 19,
compared with net shorts of 61,306 a week earlier.  Net-long bets that the euro will rise against the dollar
decreased to 19,103 as of Feb. 19, compared with 24,181 a week
earlier, figures showed.  LTRO Repayments  The euro depreciated versus the dollar after the  European
Central Bank  said financial institutions will pay back 61.1
billion euros ($80.5 billion) of the ECB’s second three-year
Longer Term Refinancing Operation loans on Feb. 27, the first
opportunity for early repayment. That compares with a forecast
of 122.5 billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “The market is trading on confidence and sentiment, and
the LTRO news shows that tail risk has shrunk less than we
thought,”  Greg Anderson , New York-based head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc., said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “What we’ve seen this week is the last of
the euro longs getting squeezed out.” A long position is a bet
that an asset will rise.  The ECB said nine banks will repay next week a further 1.7
billion euros from the  first  three-year LTRO. That takes the
total amount of funds repaid early to 212.3 billion euros, or 21
percent of the overall amount lent. Banks can continue to repay
the loans over coming weeks.  Kiwi Drops  The  New Zealand dollar  slumped the most in almost nine
months against the greenback on Feb. 20 after Reserve Bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler said the monetary authority was prepared
to step in to prevent it from strengthening.  The so-called kiwi has surged more than 40 percent since
the end of 2008, the biggest advance after its Australian
counterpart among more than 150 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
It climbed to 88.43 U.S. cents on Aug. 1, 2011, the strongest
since it was freely floated in 1985.  “From a longer-term investment value-driven perspective,
there’s still demand for kiwi,” PK Sinha, New York-based
managing director of foreign-exchange at CRT Capital Group LLC,
said in a Feb. 20 telephone interview. “It’s not as attractive
as it used to be, but it’s still there.”  New Zealand ’s dollar depreciated 0.8 percent to 83.82 U.S.
cents after falling 83.13, the lowest level in two weeks. The
kiwi decreased 0.9 percent to 78.28 yen.  Pending Cuts  The U.S. dollar gained even as federal spending will be
reduced by $85 billion in the final seven months of this fiscal
year and by $1.2 trillion over the next nine years if Congress
doesn’t act on sequestration. By the end of 2013, inaction would
lower the gross domestic product by 0.6 percent and cost 750,000
jobs, according to the non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office .  The euro slid before Italian voters head for general
elections on Sunday amid concern the emergence of a populist
government will derail the nation’s austerity program. Caretaker
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  has failed to make headway in opinion
polls, even as former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  and ex-comic
Beppe Grillo gained popularity. Pier Luigi Bersani, the union-
backed Democratic Party candidate, leads the field.  “Attention next week will be focused on whether we’re able
to avoid sequestration here and whether Berlusconi returns to
power in  Italy ,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts .
“Either event could have a major impact.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will make his
semi-annual testimony to Congress Feb. 26-27. He is likely to
back away from “any perceived hawkishness” emanating from the
Fed’s January minutes,  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC
Capital Markets LLC in New York, said yesterday in note to
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  