-- Dubai’s Arqaam Plans Asia, Africa Expansion as Rivals Go
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-02-25T10:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/dubai-investment-bank-arqaam-expansion-push-targets-asia-africa.html
Arqaam Capital Ltd., the Dubai-based
investment bank which acquired financial companies in Libya and
Egypt last year, said it’s considering expansion from Africa to
southeast Asia as larger rivals scale back in  emerging markets .  Arqaam is weighing acquisitions among options as it seeks
to sustain compounded annual growth of about 35 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Riad Meliti said in a Feb. 19 interview. The
bank will add staff in Dubai, Cairo, Tripoli and  Beirut  and
boost the number of companies covered to 140 from 98, he said.  Persian Gulf financial institutions are expanding as local
markets rally, while Europe’s debt crisis prompts larger rivals
including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Nomura Holdings Inc. and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  to reduce staff. Dubai investment bank  Al Mal 
Capital PSC’s Chairman Naser Nabulsi said this month he plans to
increase employees by 20 percent as the recovery takes hold.  “Global institutions of developed markets are currently
retrenching from their frontier and emerging-market bases,
increasing the opportunity that we have in front of us today,”
Arqaam’s Meliti said. “Managers of funds are embarking on an
asset allocation shift from the developed world.”  Persian Gulf banks have pursued acquisitions in North
Africa to gain access to more-populous nations such as Egypt as
the countries undergo a political transition following so-called
Arab Spring uprisings. Arqaam bought El Rashad Securities
Brokerage SAE in Cairo in January last year. The benchmark EGX
30 Index rallied 51 percent in 2012, the world’s second-best
performance among 93 gauges tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Critical Market’  “It was a critical market for us to have a presence on the
ground, to produce research and add value to regional and
international clientele to invest in the market,” Meliti said.  Arqaam also acquired  Libya ’s Al Rashad Finance and
Management Advisory, where  market access  will accelerate as the
nation pursues a democratic transition, he said.  Middle East and North Africa equities are poised to
outperform  emerging markets  as higher dividends and state-funded
expansion lure investors hunting for better returns, Franklin
Templeton Investment Management Ltd. said in December.  Credit Suisse is cutting positions in Dubai as it moves its
equities business to  Riyadh , a person familiar with the matter
said in December, while Morgan Stanley eliminated three equity
positions in Dubai in January, according to a banker familiar
with the matter. Nomura cut a third of its investment banking
jobs in Dubai, including its investment bank head in the  Middle
East  and North Africa, a person familiar said in September.  New Hire  Arqaam appointed former Credit Suisse banker Wafic Nsouli
as head of institutional equity sales, the bank said today in an
e-mailed statement. Prior to joining Arqaam, he was head of
Middle East and North Africa equities at Credit Suisse,
responsible for the bank’s Dubai and Saudi Arabia offices.  To be sure, many of the local banks count employees in the
hundreds rather than thousands and have lower costs than larger
rivals. Arqaam, for example, has grown to 110 employees since
its creation five years ago, while Al Mal counts about 20.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose less than 0.1
percent yesterday in Riyadh. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced
1.2 percent to the highest close since November 2009, bringing
this year’s gain to 20 percent, compared with a decline of 0.1
percent for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  The emirate’s
measure fell 0.1 percent as of 11:23 a.m. in Dubai today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  