-- Egypt’s April Vote Criticized as Port Said Rallies Escalate
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-02-23T18:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/egypt-s-april-vote-criticized-as-port-said-rallies-escalate-1-.html
Mohamed ElBaradei , a senior member
of  Egypt ’s opposition, urged supporters to boycott parliamentary
elections set to begin in April, while President Mohamed Mursi
adjusted the voting schedule after complaints over a clash with
Easter for the Coptic Christian minority.  ElBaradei, a leader in the National Salvation Front
coalition and head of the Constitution Party, made the call
today on Twitter. The bloc had threatened a boycott unless
voting was delayed to allow for tensions to ease, the economy to
recover and the constitution to be amended to reverse measures
the opposition says were imposed by Islamists.  “Called for parliamentary election boycott in 2010 to
expose sham democracy,” ElBaradei said on Twitter. “Today I
repeat my call, will not be part of an act of deception.”  The Cairo-based headquarters of the opposition Ghad El-
Thawra party, founded by  Ayman Nour , was torched yesterday by
masked men, the state-run Ahram Gate news website reported.
Nour, a member of the NSF, met with Mursi last week and said he
would be ready to take up a leadership position if invited to do
so by the president, according to Ahram.  Mohamed Abul Einein, head of the opposition Wafd Party’s
parliamentary delegation, announced a hunger strike and sit-in
at the Shura Council, which has legislative authority, to
protest new electoral districts drawn up on Feb. 21 by the
council, Ahram Gate reported. He called for Prime Minister
Hisham Qandil’s resignation.  Muslim Brotherhood  Mursi, backed by the Muslim Brotherhood, has resisted
demands for a national unity government. Islamist parties
welcomed Mursi’s decree two days ago to hold a four-stage
parliamentary election starting April 27 and ending in June,
with the new assembly to gather on July 6.  Mursi shifted the start of the elections to avoid clashing
with the Christian holidays, Ahram Gate news website reported.
The first round of polling in Cairo, Buheira, Minya, Port Said
and North Sinai provinces will be held April 22 and 23, with the
last round held on June 15 and 16, with parliament due to
convene on July 2. Copts will observe Easter on May 5.  The president, who faces a rift with some of his Islamist
allies, had expressed hope that the vote would end the unrest
and violence that has spooked investors and damaged the economy
since the uprising that ousted former President  Hosni Mubarak  in
February 2011.  Civil Disobedience  Port Said entered its seventh day of civil disobedience
with young soccer fans, known as the Ultras, blocking all
entrances and exits to the Mediterranean coastal city, laying
siege to the governor’s office, and closing the customs
building, according to a faxed statement by Amir Abulezz, the
counsel for the attorney general at Port Said prosecutions.  The customs building was closed for six hours before the
armed forces and police reopened it. Military police took over
traffic control on Port Said’s main streets, according to the
statement.  Protesters in Cairo and Port Said gathered for anti-
government rallies yesterday urging the dismissal of the Mursi-
appointed Prosecutor General Talaat Abdullah and the immediate
release of detained political activists. Organizers said the
rallies are the first step toward a nationwide civil-
disobedience campaign, drawing on continuing protests in
Alexandria and the Suez Canal cities of Ismailia and Suez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  