-- Ten Network Names Hamish McLennan CEO Replacing James Warburton
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-23T01:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/ten-network-names-hamish-mclennan-ceo-replacing-james-warburton.html
Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN) ,
Australia’s third-biggest television broadcaster, appointed News
Corp.’s Hamish McLennanas chief executive officer, replacing
James Warburton after a year in the job.  McLennan joins Ten, which counts Asia’s richest woman  Gina Rinehart  as a board member, from March 18, Sydney-based Ten
Network said late yesterday in a statement.  “Ten is a media business with a strong balance sheet and
excellent staff,” McLennan, who will remain as chairman of
online services provider  REA Group Ltd. (REA) , said according to the
statement. “I look forward to leading Ten through a period of
creative renewal and financial growth.”  The broadcaster, which airs the U.S. television program
 “Homeland”  and focuses on younger viewers,  plunged  53 percent
over the past year after twice selling new stock to pay back
debt as program flops deterred advertisers.  Ten rose  3.5 percent  to 29.5 Australian cents at the close
of trading in Sydney yesterday. The broader S&P/ASX 200 index
gained 0.8 percent.  “The board would like to thank James Warburton for his
hard work and contribution during what has been a difficult
period for the company and for the broader media sector,”
Chairman  Lachlan Murdoch  said in the statement.  Rupert Murdoch , the 81-year-old chairman and CEO of New
York-based News Corp., once owned Ten. He sold control of the
network in 1987 after becoming a U.S. citizen. Lachlan Murdoch,
41, his eldest son who lives in Sydney, and casino billionaire
 James Packer  acquired stakes in 2010. They each own 9 percent,
while Rinehart, who has a fortune of $17.9 billion, has a 10
percent stake, according to Ten’s annual report and data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ten has been battling a ratings slump. “Everybody Dance
Now,” a talent show hosted by Lachlan Murdoch’s wife, Sarah,
debuted in August and was canceled within weeks. “Masterchef
Australia” was the only Ten program among  Australia’s top 50 
shows on free-to-air channels last year, according to data from
FreeTV  Australia , which represents commercial free-to-air
television licensees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  