-- England Beats France 23-13 to Stay Unbeaten in Six Nations Rugby
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-23T19:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/england-beats-france-23-13-to-stay-unbeaten-in-six-nations-rugby.html
England  defeated France 23-13 to
remain the only unbeaten team in European rugby’s Six Nations
Championship.  Manu Tuilagi scored a try and Owen Farrell and Toby Flood
combined to kick six penalties at Twickenham Stadium in  London 
today as England won its third straight game to stay in
contention for the so-called Grand Slam sweep of five victories
in the tournament.  “The boys worked hard out there, it was a tough game,”
Tuilagi told the British Broadcasting Corp. “I’m just happy to
get a win.”  England has six points and  Wales , which beat Italy 26-9
earlier today, has four. Ireland and  Scotland , who meet tomorrow
in Edinburgh, have two points, as does  Italy .  France, the bookmakers’ pre-tournament favorite for the
title is in last place after its third straight loss.  Farrell gave England the early lead with a penalty in the
opening minute, which was matched three minutes later by
France’s Morgan Parra. After another Farrell penalty put England
in front, Wesley Fofana shook off four tackles to touch down and
give France a 10-6 lead.  Farrell booted another penalty to draw England within a
point and Parra missed a long penalty with the final kick of the
opening half. Parra pulled a penalty wide early in the second
half and Farrell re-established England’s lead with his fourth
penalty in the 49th minute.  Wales Routs Italy  England used a bit of luck to extend its advantage five
minutes later. An England player kicked the ball forward at a
ruck and it deflected off Mako Vunipola to Tuilagi, who ran in
for the try. Farrell, however, missed the conversion to leave
the score 17-10.  Frederick Michalak took over kicking duties from Parra for
 France  and booted a penalty to cut the English lead to 17-13.
Farrell then missed a penalty and was replaced by Toby Flood
after pulling up injured moments later.  Flood then completed the scoring with a pair of penalties
in the final six minutes as England stayed in the hunt for the
Grand Slam.  In  Rome , Jonathan Davies and Alex Cuthbert scored tries as
Wales routed Italy for its second straight win. Leigh Halfpenny
kicked four penalties and finished with 16 points for the Welsh,
and Kristopher Burton booted three penalties for Italy  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 