-- Ex-SAC Capital Manager Allowed to Attend Uncle’s Funeral
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/ex-sac-capital-manager-allowed-to-attend-uncle-s-funeral.html
 A former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager charged in what prosecutors called the biggest
insider-trading scheme in history was given permission by a
judge to travel to  Chicago  to attend his uncle’s funeral.  Nathaniel Marmur, a lawyer for defendant Mathew Martoma,
said in a letter to the court yesterday that his client was
seeking a temporary modification of his bail conditions to
permit him to travel with his family on Feb. 23 through Feb. 26
to attend the funeral.  U.S. District Court Judge Kimba Wood, who was handling
emergency matters, granted Martoma’s request.  When Martoma made his first appearance in  Manhattan  federal
court in November, U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott released him
on a $5 million personal recognizance bond. Cott directed
Martoma to surrender his passport and those of his children and
restricted his travel to the Southern and Eastern Districts of
New York,  Massachusetts , New Jersey and  Florida , where he lives.  Marmur said yesterday that prosecutors and U.S. court
officials didn’t object to Martoma’s request.  Drug Trial  Martoma has pleaded not guilty to one count of conspiracy
and two counts of securities fraud. Prosecutors say he used
inside information about a clinical drug trial to help SAC make
$276 million in profits and averted losses through trades in
 Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC.  Prosecutors said in an indictment filed Dec. 21 that
Martoma illegally used tips from a physician who was in charge
of monitoring the tests’ safety. Martoma advised a “hedge fund
owner,” unidentified in the indictment, to trade in Elan and
Wyeth, the government alleged.  A person familiar with the case said Steven A. Cohen, SAC’s
founder, is the hedge fund owner referred to.  SAC bought shares of Elan and Wyeth, which were promoting
bapineuzumab, or bapi, a drug intended to treat Alzheimer’s
disease, based on positive safety data from the tests, the
government said.  Later, when Martoma learned the companies would report
negative data on the drug, Martoma had a 20-minute phone call
with Cohen, according to the government.  SAC began liquidating its $700 million position in Elan and
Wyeth the day after the call, the government said. SAC then
profited by taking short positions in the stock, prosecutors
said.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, has said Cohen and SAC acted appropriately in making
the trades. Cohen hasn’t been charged criminally or sued by
regulators in the case.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  