-- New Mexico, Vanderbilt Capital Settle for $24 Million
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/new-mexico-vanderbilt-capital-settle-for-24-million.html
 Vanderbilt Capital Advisors LLC
agreed to pay  New Mexico  $24 million to settle claims over pay-
to-play and politically motivated investments the state made
with the firm, the state said.  The agreement, announced by the New Mexico State Investment
Council, said the settlement represents a portion of the
investments New Mexico made with Vanderbilt from 2004 through
2006, according to a statement the agency issued yesterday.  “This is a significant recovery of money for the taxpayers
of New Mexico, and it demonstrates how diligently this Council
has worked over the past two years to bring a measure of
accountability following a deeply disappointing chapter in New
Mexico history,” Governor Susana Martinez said in the
statement.  The state sued individuals and placement agents over claims
they were were unjustly enriched through the investments at
issue, according to the statement. Vanderbilt would have been a
defendant in a second round of litigation against various
investment funds, according to the statement.  Vanderbilt,  acquired  in 2006 by Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
“continues to maintain that it did nothing wrong,” Peter
Simmons, a lawyer representing the investment firm, said in a
phone interview. New Mexico “fully understood the risks
inherent in the investments that it made, and there were no
improprieties in any payments that were made.”  Vanderbilt settled to “avoid the costs and disruption of
continued litigation” and it “made sense to put these
historical matters to rest since were able to do so on agreeable
terms,” he said.  The case is New Mexico v. Vanderbilt Capital Advisors,
D-101-CV-2008-1895, First Judicial District Court, County of
 Santa Fe , New Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  