-- Morgan Stanley Sued by Ex-Employee Over Alleged Arbitration Ploy
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-23T01:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/morgan-stanley-sued-by-ex-employee-over-alleged-arbitration-ploy.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and six of its
executives were sued by a former employee claiming they
fraudulently obtained a $1.2 million arbitration award against
him by misleading an industry regulator and its arbitrators.  Mark Mensack said he worked for Morgan Stanley from August
2008 to November 2009 before being forced out for questioning
the legality of compensation received by the firm and some of
its executives for retirement plan sales, according to a
complaint filed in federal court in Camden, New Jersey.  When he tried to press a state-court whistle-blower suit,
the firm sought Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
arbitration and won its claim for money due under a note Mensack
signed at the outset of his employment, according to today’s
complaint. Morgan Stanley also won dismissal of a state-court
case he had filed against it.  Mensack claims that in July 2012 he learned the firm had
assigned the note to a different Morgan Stanley entity prior to
the arbitration and had no right to pursue him over it.  Mensack sustained “severe emotional and physical distress
as well as economic damages,” he said in the complaint.  Also named as defendants in Mensack’s complaint are Morgan
Stanley Chairman James Gorman, former Chairman John Mack -- whom
he alleges were aware of the “illegal” compensation scheme --
and Finra itself. Mensack said Finra breached its duty to
provide fair and independent arbitrators and allegedly lost
eight hours of recorded testimony in his case.  Mensack, of Cherry Hill, New Jersey, is seeking
compensatory and punitive damages.  The New York-based firm’s media relations department didn’t
immediately reply after regular business hours to an e-mail
seeking comment on the complaint.  Nancy Condon, a spokeswoman for Washington-based Finra,
declined to comment on Mensack’s allegations.  The case is Mensack v. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC,
13cv1053, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  