-- Horse Meat With Drug Enters French Market as Italy Pulls Product
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-02-23T15:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/horse-meat-with-drug-enters-french-market-as-italy-pulls-product.html
Three out of the six horse carcasses
shipped this year from the U.K. to  France  with traces of a
painkiller probably entered the country’s meat-producing market,
French Agriculture Minister Stephane Le Foll said.  France received an alert from U.K. authorities this month
and withdrew three horse carcasses from the market, Agence
France-Presse reported today, citing an unidentified agriculture
ministry official. The alert came too late for the other
carcasses, AFP reported. The horse carcasses with
phenylbutazone, a drug that’s banned in food for humans, have no
link with the mislabeling of horse meat as beef meat, AFP said.  “These carcasses had extremely weak traces of
phenylbutazone,” Le Foll said today at the Paris farming fair.
“There’s no health risk.”  Retailers across  Europe  have withdrawn frozen meat products
after they were shown to contain horse DNA. The mislabeling
scandal has led policy makers to urge the industry to make the
food chain more transparent. The European Union on Feb. 19
recommended a plan to investigate fraudulent food-marketing
practices in a bid to restore  consumer confidence .  Italian health authorities said today that a frozen lasagna
product tested positive for horse DNA, the first such case in
the country. The product being sold in a supermarket in the
northern city of Brescia wasn’t properly identified as horse
meat on its label, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Italian Health Ministry. The “Lasagna alla Bolognese,” made by
a company in Bologna, has been removed from store shelves, the
ministry said.  Italian Testing  Health officials have seized 6 tons of ground meat labeled
as beef and 2,400 packages of the lasagna product, according to
the statement. The ministry said authorities are continuing to
conduct checks throughout  Italy . Earlier today, the ministry
said all meat samples tested at a  Nestle SA (NESN)  plant near Turin
were negative for horse DNA.  Nestle, the world’s largest food company, said Feb. 18 that
it’s withdrawing some beef ravioli and beef tortellini products
and halted deliveries after traces of horse DNA were found in
food made with meat from a German supplier.  A frozen lasagna product made in France for the catering
industry was also withdrawn, the Vevey, Switzerland-based
company said in the statement.  In the U.K., about 1 percent of beef products tested were
found to contain horse meat, the Food Standards Agency said Feb.
15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  