-- Toshiba Considers Replacing President, Company Official Says
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-02-25T03:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/toshiba-considers-replacing-president-company-official-says.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the Japanese maker of
flash-memory chips, elevators and nuclear reactors, may replace
President Norio Sasaki after a shareholder meeting in June, an
official at the company said.  The board may name Corporate Senior Executive Vice
President Hisao Tanaka, 62, to replace Sasaki, the official said
Feb. 23, asking not to be identified because the decision hasn’t
been made. Sasaki, who took over almost four years ago, would
become vice chairman, and Chairman Atsutoshi Nishida would
retain his post, the person said. Toshiba’s last three
presidents all served for about four years, according to the
company.  Sasaki has turned around Tokyo-based Toshiba since becoming
CEO in June 2009, leading the company to two consecutive annual
profits following a record 344 billion-yen ($3.7 billion) net
loss in the year ended March 2009. The 63-year-old executive,
who  joined  Toshiba in 1972, has used acquisitions to bolster the
company’s smart-energy and chipmaking operations while paring
its consumer-electronics businesses.  “I don’t think Toshiba will change dramatically following
a change in president,” said Tsunenori Ohmaki, an analyst at
Tachibana Securities Co. in Tokyo. “It will keep putting its
effort into semiconductors and energy, while shrinking its home
electronics operation.”  Toshiba Acquisitions  Toshiba bought San Antonio-based, energy-technology
management company Consert Inc. for more than 1 billion yen this
month, it said Feb. 7. It  acquired  Swiss electronic-metering
company Landis+Gyr AG in 2011 to boost its energy-management
sales.  The Nikkei newspaper reported the planned change on Feb.
23. Toshiba isn’t the source of the report and no decision has
been made, Atsushi Ido, a company spokesman, said by phone.  Toshiba rose 2.7 percent to 423 yen as of the midday break
in  Tokyo  trading, compared with a 2 percent gain for the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The chipmaker has gained 26
percent this year after advancing 7 percent in 2012.  Tanaka joined Toshiba in 1973 and has held his current
title since June 2011, according to the company’s  website .  “The change in president is not a surprise because four
years have passed since Sasaki took office,” said Yukihiko Shimada, an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Sasaki will become vice chairman of Keidanren, Japan’s
biggest business lobby, the group said Feb. 12. He also is a
member of the Council on Economic and Fiscal Policy, a
government advisory body that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe revived
in January.  Chip Prices  Toshiba posted a larger-than-expected  profit  for the three
months ended Dec. 31 because of higher semiconductor prices, a
weaker yen and rising sales of power equipment. Net income
totaled 29.3 billion yen, the company said Jan. 31.  The company, the world’s second-biggest maker of  flash
memory , benefited from higher chip prices caused by production
cuts, rising sales of mobile devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPads,
and demand for gas-fired power stations following the 2011
Fukushima nuclear accident. The  weaker yen  boosted the value of
overseas sales and assets.  Toshiba expects full-year net income of 110 billion yen,
operating profit of 260 billion yen and sales of 6.1 trillion
yen, it said Jan. 31.  The company is in talks to sell as much as 36 percent of
its Westinghouse Electric atomic-power business after being
forced to increase its stake in the unit to 87 percent. Toshiba
was compelled to buy 20 percent of Westinghouse last month after
Shaw Group Inc. used a push option to sell its stake.  Toshiba is one of the 40 biggest companies in  Japan , with a
market cap of about $19 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  