-- Paulson-Owned Resort Group Chapter 11 Exit Plan Approved
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-23T01:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/paulson-owned-resort-group-chapter-11-exit-plan-approved.html
A resort group owned by hedge fund
Paulson & Co. won approval for a plan to exit bankruptcy by
selling properties to a Singapore sovereign wealth fund.  MSR Resort Golf Course LLC’s plan was confirmed today in
 Manhattan  by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane, who overruled
objections by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and investor
Five Mile Capital Partners LLC.  Government of Singapore Investment Corp. , the world’s
eighth-largest sovereign wealth fund, according to the  Sovereign
Wealth Fund Institute , is set to buy four of MSR’s resorts for
$1.5 billion. The IRS and Five Mile alleged that the sale
created a tax liability of as much as $331 million that may not
be paid.  “All objections and all reservations of rights that have
not been withdrawn, waived, or settled pertaining to
confirmation are hereby overruled on the merits,” Lane said in
an order filed today.  The Singapore fund is buying the Grand Wailea in  Hawaii , La
Quinta Resort & Club in  California , the  Arizona  Biltmore Resort
& Spa in Phoenix and the Claremont Resort & Spa in Berkeley,
California.  A fifth resort, the  Doral Golf Resort & Spa in Miami , was
sold to Donald Trump in June. The resorts entered bankruptcy
protection in 2011 after a joint venture including Paulson
acquired them through foreclosure.  Secured Debt  Today’s ruling came after a hearing earlier this month
where witnesses for MSR testified that the company wasn’t trying
to hide the tax liability, and that it would be incurred by a
real estate investment trust that isn’t in bankruptcy.  The plan provides for repayment of 96 percent of secured
debt and 100 percent of general unsecured debt, according to a
Jan. 31 court filing by MSR. Five Mile stood to lose about $58
million, including investments by pension funds and other
parties, David Friedman, a lawyer for Five Mile, said during the
hearing.  The resorts sought approval in August for an auction with
GIC as the lead bidder. The auction was canceled after no
competing bids were received, according to a court filing in
December.  “When we came into bankruptcy, people thought the world
was going to get better a lot faster,” Basta said in court on
Feb. 4. By August, “Five Mile couldn’t get their deal
together,” he said.  Paulson and co-investor  Winthrop Realty Trust (FUR)  put the five
resorts into Chapter 11 in February 2011 to prevent foreclosure
of $1 billion in mortgages and $525 million in maturing
mezzanine debt.  The properties listed assets of $2.2 billion and
liabilities of $1.9 billion. An affiliate of  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
purchased the five resorts in 2007 for $4 billion.  The case is In re MSR Resort Golf Course LLC, 11-10372,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  