-- Pound Drops to Lowest Since July 2010 on Ratings Cut, King
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e ,   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-02-23T15:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/pound-drops-to-lowest-since-july-2010-on-king-stimulus-support.html
The pound dropped for a second week
against the dollar after Moody’s Investors Service cut the
U.K.’s AAA credit rating and  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King ’s indicated he backed more economic stimulus.  Sterling declined to the lowest since July 2010 against the
U.S. currency after Moody’s cut the U.K.’s rating one level to
Aa1 and the minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee meeting,
published on Feb. 20, showed that King voted to increase the
central bank’s target for bond purchases to boost Britain’s
economy. The  Federal Reserve  signalled it may slow the pace of
its own asset-buying program.  “While this downgrade is not unexpected, it will remind
markets of the challenges the pound faces in 2013,”  Daragh Maher , a senior foreign-currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in  London , wrote in a note. “In addition, while the pound has
already fallen this year, the drop has been small when framed in
the context of a longer time-frame, so further falls would not
represent an overshoot.”  The pound slid after Moody’s downgrade in the last half-
hour of trading in  New York  yesterday, dropping 0.6 percent to
$1.5163, the lowest since July 2010. It brought the week’s
decline to 2.3 percent. The currency had fallen 1.8 percent the
previous week. Sterling depreciated 1 percent to 86.99 per euro
after reaching 87.65 pence on Feb. 20, the weakest since October
2011.  Growth Outlook  The outlook on the U.K.’s debt changed to stable from
negative, Moody’s said in a statement yesterday. The agency
cited weakness in the nation’s growth outlook and challenges to
the government’s fiscal consolidation program for the downgrade.  Further asset purchases by the U.K. central bank “could
help the process of rebalancing the economy,” minutes from the
Monetary Policy Committee meeting showed. King and  Paul Fisher 
joined  David Miles  in voting to raise the target by 25 billion
pounds ($38 billion) to 400 billion pounds.  The U.S. central bank released minutes of its January
policy-making committee meeting on Feb. 20, showing continued
debate about how long to undertake open-ended bond buying to
bolster the economy, spurring speculation they could slow the
amount of purchases in the future. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will make his semi-annual testimony on Congress Feb.
26-27.  “There’s a very clear divergence of future expectations of
monetary policy between the U.K. and the U.S.,” said Peter Kinsella, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in London.
“With that we have seen the pound trade a lot lower. There’s
definitely more of a downside and by the end of this year we
could see the pound trading around the $1.45 to $1.47 area.”  Quantitative Easing  The U.K.’s King, Miles and Fisher were outvoted by the
remaining six members of the MPC, the minutes of the Feb. 7
meeting showed. Economists had predicted only one policy maker
voted for more quantitative easing.  The U.K. economy  contracted  0.3 percent in the three months
through December 2012, after expanding 0.9 percent in the
previous quarter, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News Survey. The  Office for National Statistics 
will release the data on Feb. 27.  The pound has fallen 5.6 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 2.1 percent and the euro rose 1.8 percent.  The yield on 10-year gilts dropped nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, from last week to 2.11 percent. The 1.75
percent bond due September 2022 rose 0.72, or 7.20 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 96.93.  Rising Debt  U.K. government bonds lost 2.1 percent this year through
Feb. 21, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds dropped 1.2 percent and Treasuries fell 0.7 percent.  Britain’s debt as a percentage of gross domestic product
will climb to 98 percent next year from 90 percent last year and
95.4 percent in 2013, the European Commission said in its winter
forecast yesterday.  With the U.K.’s high and rising debt burden, deterioration
in the government’s balance sheet is unlikely to be reversed
before 2016, Moody’s said in the statement.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse than the
longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than 300
changes since 1974.  “The comfort expressed by the gilt market is largely built
on the idea that the U.K. can print its own money and therefore
avoid defaulting on its debt,” Maher at HSBC wrote. “However,
while this may let bond investors sleep easier, it will keep
investors in the pound awake at night.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  