-- RBS Said to Plan IPO for its U.S. Citizens Financial Unit
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-02-23T15:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/rbs-said-to-plan-ipo-for-its-u-s-citizens-financial-unit.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, will signal next week
it plans to sell a 15 percent to 25 percent stake in its
Citizens Financial Group Inc. unit, according to a person
familiar with the plan.  No deal is imminent and the process will probably take
about two years to complete, the person, who asked not to be
named because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the
matter, said today.  RBS (RBS)  will announce the move when it reports
full-year earnings on Feb. 28.  RBS, based in Edinburgh, has been under pressure from U.K.
Financial Investments Ltd., the steward of the government’s 81
percent stake in the bank, and lawmakers to sell the U.S.
consumer and commercial lender it acquired in 1988. Chief
Executive  Stephen Hester  said in August the bank would keep hold
of Rhode Island-based Citizens because it’s a “core” part of
the company that will be more valuable in three years.  “This sounds like a compromise between the government
regulators and the bank, in terms of how to improve
capitalization of the business without forcing it sell assets at
depressed prices,” said Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at
Shore Capital Ltd. in Liverpool, who has a hold rating on the
stock.  Citizens Sale  The Telegraph newspaper, which reported the possible IPO
earlier today, said a full sale of Citizens could ultimately
raise 8 billion pounds ($12.13 billion).  Canada’s  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  held informal talks to buy
the unit, the  New York  Post reported on Aug. 3, without saying
where it got the information.  “The  Bank of England  is looking at U.K. banks that are
under-capitalized, and the U.K. government doesn’t want to put
more money into these businesses,” Greenwood said. “They’ve
got to find other ways to recapitalize and one of those ways is
by selling businesses off such as Citizens.”  An RBS official declined to comment when contacted by
 Bloomberg News .  Hester has cut assets by more than 800 billion pounds,
eliminated 36,000 jobs and scaled back RBS’s securities and
Irish units since he took over from  Fred Goodwin  in 2008. RBS
said in January last year it would cut about 3,500 jobs at the
investment-banking division and sell or close its unprofitable
cash equities, mergers advisory and equity capital markets
divisions.  The shares have risen 21 percent in the last 12 months,
giving the bank a market value of 38.5 billion pounds. On Feb.
22, the stock fell 0.4 percent to 345 pence in London trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  