-- Spain King’s Son-in-Law Testifies in Corruption Probe
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-23T14:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/spain-king-s-son-in-law-testifies-in-corruption-probe.html
Inaki Urdangarin, the son-in-law of
 Spain ’s  King Juan Carlos , testified today before a judge
investigating corruption allegations.  Urdangarin read a statement before Judge Jose Castro that
the king’s office had no role in authorizing or advising his
activities as part of his involvement in the non-profit Noos
Institute, El Mundo  reported  on its website today. Urdangarin’s
lawyer, Marius Pascual Vives, wasn’t immediately available when
 Bloomberg News  contacted his office today to seek comment.  The case is a private prosecution filed by Clean Hands, a
Madrid-based public workers union, and other groups. Spanish 
state broadcaster TVE showed images of Urdangarin, a former 
Olympic handball player who is married to Princess Cristina, 
arriving in court in Mallorca today as a crowd of about 400 
protesters waved anti-monarchy or  Catalan  independence movement 
banners.  The probe into Urdangarin’s activities at Noos has led him
to be named as an official suspect on six counts including
fraud, embezzlement and money laundering. The investigation is
part of a wave of graft scandals hitting Spanish institutions.  E-mails from Urdangarin that his former partner Diego
Torres supplied to magistrates in Mallorca, refer to meetings
the king allegedly attended to help secure financial support for
his son-in-law’s commercial projects, El Pais newspaper reported
this week. In his statement today, Urdangarin said the king
advised him to give up his activities at Noos because they
weren’t appropriate, El Mundo reported.  A spokesman for the king, who asked not to be identified by
name, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  