-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Falls Below 2% as Fed Buying Is Projected
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-02-23T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/u-s-10-year-yields-falls-below-2-as-fed-buying-is-projected.html
Treasury 10-year yields  fell  below 2
percent on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will maintain
its monetary stimulus through the balance of the year.  The benchmark yield reached an almost one-month low as
consumer prices in the 12 months through January rose less than
the Fed’s 2 percent long-term objective, while an index of
economic indicators signaled growth.  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said he expects the central bank will buy $85 billion a month of
government and mortgage securities until January 2014. Revised
data may show economic expansion during the fourth quarter,
rather than a decline, when the Commerce Department updates its
gross domestic product estimate on Feb. 28.  “While the economy continues to chug along and do
reasonably well, there’s not really any pressure on inflation,”
said Tom Kersting, a fixed-income strategist at Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis . “That pushes out further when the Fed begins
to change current policies.”  The U.S. 10-year yield fell four basis points this week, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.96 percent, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader data. The price of the 2 percent note due in
February 2023 rose 11/32 or $3.44 per $1,000 face value, to 100
11/32.  Yield Levels  The benchmark yield reached 1.96 percent on Feb. 21 and
yesterday, close to the 1.92 percent low for the month on Feb.
1. The yield has straddled 2 percent for the past five weeks, as
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch MOVE index, which measures
volatility, declined to 57.9 on Feb. 20, the lowest in a month.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  reduced 
net-short position in 30-year bond futures in the week ending
Feb. 19, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data. Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 17,695 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, down 5,984 contracts, or 25 percent, from a week
earlier.  Traders  increased  their net-long position in 10-year note
futures. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
exceeded short positions by 53,288 contracts.  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $35 billion of two-year
notes on Feb. 25, the same amount of five-year securities the
next day and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Feb. 27.  Fed Views  Several policy makers said at the Fed’s last meeting that
officials should be ready to vary the pace of its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases. The central bank holds a record $2.75
trillion of Treasuries and mortgage securities, up from $2.5
trillion in September before policy makers announced the central
bank would buy $40 billion a month of securities backed by home
loans, which was followed by a December pledge to buy $45
billion a month of government debt.  “Two percent, in my mind, is the middle of the range for
the year,” said  Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at SEI
Investments Co. in Oaks,  Pennsylvania . “The Fed is still in the
game, regardless of what rhetoric comes out.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  minimized the view that the
central bank’s monetary stimulus has spawned economically risky
asset bubbles in comments at a meeting with dealers and
investors this month, according to three people with knowledge
of the discussions. The people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks were private, said Bernanke made the remarks
at a meeting in early February with the Treasury Borrowing
Advisory Committee.  The Fed chief is scheduled to testify before lawmakers on
Feb. 26-27 about monetary policy.  Economic Data  The Conference Board said Feb. 21 that its gauge of the
outlook for the next three to six months increased 0.2 percent
from a 0.5 percent rise in December, the New York-based group
said. The gain matched the increase projected by economists,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The cost of living in the U.S. was little changed in
January for a second month as a drop in energy costs made up for
gains in other goods and services. The CPI was unchanged in
January and up 1.6 percent from a year earlier, the Labor
Department reported.  The U.S. sold $9 billion of 30-year inflation-protected
securities on Feb. 21 at a yield of 0.639 percent, compared with
an average forecast of 0.625 percent in a Bloomberg News survey
of seven of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers.  The inflation rate for the next 10-years implied by the gap
between yields on 10-year Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities and regular government debt with comparable
maturities was 2.54 percentage points yesterday, close to the
2.53 percentage point average this year.  Revised Measure  The Commerce Department will revise its GDP estimate for
the fourth quarter to 0.5 percent growth from a 0.1 percent
contraction, according to a Bloomberg survey of 66 economists.  The GDP estimate may be revised higher than the consensus
forecast, which would “budge Treasuries” higher in yield, said
 Eric Lascelles , chief economist for Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Asset Management unit in Toronto. “This move higher in yield is
probably durable.”  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.8 percent loss this
year, after a 2.2 percent gain last year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
of stocks has returned 6.5 percent, including reinvested
dividends, versus a 16 percent gain for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  