-- Venezuela’s Chavez Held 5-Hour Meeting With Cabinet
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-02-23T23:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/venezuela-s-chavez-held-5-hour-meeting-with-cabinet.html
Venezuela ’s ailing President Hugo Chavez discussed economic policy and national security with his
Cabinet for five hours yesterday at a military hospital in
Caracas, Vice President Nicolas Maduro said.  Chavez and his team worked on measures to fight inflation
and guarantee resources in bolivars and dollars for public
spending, economic policy moves to be announced over the coming
weeks, Maduro said last night on state television.  “The president was clear about the speculative attack on
our currency and product hoarding and said that we have to
increase actions to fight the economic war being waged by the
bourgeois,” Maduro said.  Chavez communicated by written notes during the meeting,
Maduro said. The one-time paratrooper is under intensive
treatment for “respiratory insufficiency” and can’t speak
because of a breathing tube.  “He had a vibrant smile,” Maduro said. “He has immense
strength, and we left the meeting full of his energy.”  Caracas Return  Chavez returned to Caracas on Feb. 18 after more than two
months of treatment in Cuba. Apart from photos released this
month and Twitter messages sent by Chavez upon arrival, he
hasn’t been seen in public since traveling to  Havana  for his
fourth cancer surgery in 20 months. No images of his arrival or
hospital stay have been released by the government.  Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said on Feb. 21 that
the tendency of Chavez’s respiratory problem “hasn’t been
favorable.”  “There’s only one president in Venezuela, and that’s
Chavez,” Maduro said today on state television, adding that the
breathing tube he is using has not prevented him from giving
instructions. “We are absolutely subordinate to his orders.
We’re his soldiers.”  Opposition politicians staged a rally today in Central
Caracas to protest the lack of information about Chavez’s health
and economic measures, including a 32 percent devaluation
announced on Feb. 8, television network Globovision  reported  on
its website.  Opposition parties will begin holding meetings to choose a
unity candidate for elections, should they be called if Chavez
is unable to complete his term, Globovision cited Caracas mayor
Antonio Ledezma as saying.  Chavez last year urged Venezuelans to support Maduro if he
is unable to complete his term and elections are called.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  