-- Vietnam Inflation Rate Eases as Economy Struggles to Revive
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-23T09:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/vietnam-february-inflation-slows-as-economy-struggles-to-revive.html
Vietnam ’s inflation eased in
February as domestic consumption struggled to rebound after a
credit crunch that slowed economic growth to a 13-year low.  Consumer prices  climbed 7.02 percent from a year earlier
after rising 7.07 percent in January, the General Statistics
Office in Hanoi said today.  “We expect more of this benign inflation trajectory,”
said  Edwin Gutierrez , a London-based portfolio manager at
Aberdeen Asset Management, which holds Vietnamese bonds. “The
economy is still fairly weak, which is the necessary byproduct
of the credit slowdown.”  Moderating economic  expansion  has kept Vietnam’s inflation
rate below the double-digit range it held at throughout 2011 and
into early 2012. Concern over the level of bad debts at the
nation’s banks has eased credit growth, damping consumer demand
and squeezing companies’ ability to raise capital and spur
expansion.  “Domestic demand still appears to be weak and the exchange
rate has been stable for a while, so I don’t see many core
inflationary pressures there,” Dominic Mellor, a Hanoi-based
economist at the Asian Development Bank, said before the data
release. “There’s still a lack of economic confidence due to
people waiting to see what will happen with the banking
sector.”  The World Bank in December forecast that Vietnam’s economy
will expand 5.5 percent this year, which would mark a third
straight year of below-6-percent growth. The increase in gross
domestic product averaged 7.3 percent annually in the first
decade of this century.  Credit Growth  Vietnam’s dong closed at 20,885 per dollar yesterday,
compared with 20,898 the previous day. The Ho Chi Minh City
Stock Exchange’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rose 0.2 percent to 477.69, bringing
the gain for this year to about 15 percent.  The State Bank of Vietnam said in December it is targeting
12 percent credit growth this year, up from about 7 percent in
2012. It cut interest rates six times last year, with the latest
reduction taking effect Dec. 24, two weeks after the World Bank
 said  Vietnam is susceptible to a premature loosening of monetary
policy that may lead to a resurgence in inflation.  Consumer prices gained 1.32 percent in February from the
previous  month , the Statistics Office said today.  Health-care Costs  While prices in the category including health care and
pharmaceuticals jumped 56.04 percent from a year earlier, the
monthly rate was 0.58 percent, compared with 7.4 percent in
January. Some provinces that didn’t adjust their health-care
costs in 2012 did so in January, fund manager Dragon Capital
said in its latest monthly update.  “The pickup in inflation you saw before was largely
health-care related,” said Gutierrez of Aberdeen Asset
Management. “The fact that the government is letting health-
care prices rise shows that they’re comfortable with the
inflation picture.”  If consumer-price gains are on track to meet a year-end
target of 6 percent, the central bank will consider lowering
rates, central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh said in the
transcript of an interview posted on the government website this
week.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors: Rina Chandran,
Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  