-- Wigan Beats Reading 3-0 to Move Out of Premier League Relegation
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-23T18:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/wigan-beats-reading-3-0-to-move-out-of-premier-league-relegation.html
Wigan beat Reading 3-0 to move out
of the relegation zone in English soccer’s Premier League as
Norwich rallied to end a nine-game winless run.  Arouna Kone scored twice for Wigan at Reading’s Madejski
Stadium. The victory moves the Latics ahead of  Aston Villa ,
which dropped into the three relegation spots at the bottom of
the 20-team standings after losing 2-1 at Arsenal, on goal
difference with both having 24 points.  Norwich scored twice after the 84th minute to beat Everton
2-1,  Manchester United  defeated last-place Queen’s Park Rangers
2-0 to extend its lead at the top of the standings, West Brom
beat Sunderland 2-1 and  Mark Schwarzer  saved a penalty kick in
Fulham’s 1-0 win over Stoke.  Wigan ended a six-game winless run in the league to climb
over Reading, which finished the game with 10 men, and Aston
Villa into 17th place.  The Latics took the lead in the 43rd minute as Maynor
Figueroa’s shot hit Kone in the chest and went past goalkeeper
Adam Federici. Kone doubled the lead in first-half stoppage time
when he flicked a ball from Jean Beausejour over Federici.  Figueroa made it 3-0 three minutes into the second half
when he ran onto a ball from Franco Di Santo and slid a shot
past Federici. Reading’s Pavel Pogrebnyak then received a red
card for a foul on Figueroa in the 53rd minute.  Grant Holt  capped a late rally by scoring in stoppage time
as Norwich won for the first time in 10 matches.  Leon Osman  gave Everton the lead in the 39th minute and Kei
Kamara headed in a corner kick with six minutes left to tie the
score. Holt then won it in the last of three added minutes when
he knocked in a cross from  Russell Martin .  Manchester United  Manchester United extended its unbeaten run to 15 matches
and moved 15 points ahead of Manchester City, which plays
Chelsea tomorrow.  Rafael Da Silva opened the scoring with a volley from
outside the penalty area midway through the first half and  Ryan Giggs  clinched the victory with 10 minutes remaining. The loss
plunges QPR deeper into last place with 17 points, six fewer
than Reading above it.  Santi Cazorla’s second goal of the game in the 85th minute
gave Arsenal the win over Aston Villa. The Gunners move within a
point of Tottenham, which plays West Ham in two days, in the
race for fourth place and the final qualifying place in the
 Champions League .  Romelu Lukaku scored both goals as West Brom won its second
straight to move into seventh place, two points behind Everton.
Stephane Sessegnon scored for Sunderland, which is winless in
four matches.  Schwarzer dived to his right to save  Jonathan Walters ’
penalty in the 56th minute to preserve Fulham’s win over Stoke.
Dimitar Berbatov had given Fulham the lead with a volley in
first-half stoppage time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 