-- Yudhoyono Names Finance Minister to Lead Bank Indonesia
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-02-24T04:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/yudhoyono-names-finance-minister-to-lead-indonesia-central-bank.html
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono nominated Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  to
replace Darmin Nasution as central bank governor in a bid to
reshuffle his top policy team.  Yudhoyono proposed Martowardojo as the only candidate in a
letter to parliament, Speaker of the House Marzuki Alie said by
phone yesterday. Nasution’s term expires on May 23.
Martowardojo, 57, was rejected by the parliament’s finance
committee when Yudhoyono nominated him in 2008.  The president’s choice heralds a change in leadership at a
time when the central bank is grappling with a weakening
currency, a widening current-account deficit and  inflation 
stemming from power tariff increases and higher wages. The
parliament’s finance committee will conduct a so-called fit-and-
proper test on the candidate before he can be approved by
lawmakers in a plenary meeting.  “I am really surprised,”  Fauzi Ichsan , senior economist
at Standard Chartered Bank Plc, said by phone yesterday. The
frequent change of finance minister “is not good for the
sustainability of  Indonesia ’s fiscal policy.”  Martowardojo replaced former Finance Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati  in May 2010, when Mulyani joined the  World Bank  as a
managing director.  “Parliament will decide whether we will receive
Martowardojo’s nomination for the next governor,” Harry Azhar Azis, vice chairman of the finance committee, said by phone
yesterday. “We realize that the previous finance committee
rejected Martowardojo’s candidacy for  Bank Indonesia  Governor.
This time it will depend on the fit and proper test.”  Career  Martowardojo started his career at Bank of America Corp.,
according to the  Finance Ministry ’s  website . He was president
director of PT Bank Mandiri, the country’s largest lender by
assets, before becoming finance minister  Nasution, 64, assumed the central bank governor post in
September 2010 after more than a year as acting governor. He has
a doctorate in economics from  University of Paris , Sorbonne,
 France , and is the 14th governor in the central bank’s six-
decade history. He became acting governor after Vice President
Boediono resigned in May 2009 to become Yudhoyono’s running mate
in the last presidential election.  During Nasution’s tenure, one of his deputy governors was
the target of probes into a 2008 bailout of PT Bank Century.
Budi Mulya was under investigation by the state auditor
regarding a “personal” 1 billion rupiah ($103,000) loan he
obtained from the former owner of Bank Century. The deputy
governor was relieved of his role as head of monetary policy
operations and his term ended last year.  Reference Rate  The central bank this month kept its  reference rate  unchanged
for a 12th meeting at a record-low 5.75 percent. The central
bank has stepped up intervention to support the rupiah and
narrow the gap between local and overseas prices, Hendar,
 executive director  for monetary policy at the central bank, said
in a Jan. 28 interview.  Bank Indonesia may take action on its benchmark rate if the
currency’s depreciation causes inflation to accelerate, Deputy
Governor  Hartadi Sarwono  said last month. The economy expanded
6.11 percent last quarter, the slowest pace in more than two
years.  “Leadership and continuity are important for BI,” said
President Director Bank Danamon Indonesia Henry Ho in Jakarta
last week. “So far, the central bank has done a very good job,
working with the banks, working with many issues in the economy.
We want to see Indonesia continue to grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  