-- Yudhoyono Taps Finance Minister to Lead Indonesia Central Bank
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-02-23T02:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-23/yudhoyono-taps-finance-minister-to-lead-indonesia-central-bank.html
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono nominated Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  to
replace Darmin Nasution as central bank governor, Speaker of the
House of Parliament Marzuki Alie said.  Yudhoyono proposed Martowardojo as the only candidate in a
letter to parliament late yesterday, Alie said by phone today.  The president’s choice heralds a change in leadership at
a central bank grappling with a weakening currency, a widening
current-account deficit and  inflation  stemming from power tariff
increases and higher wages. At the same time, economic growth
has slowed, adding pressure on policy makers to boost expansion
after keeping  interest rates  unchanged for a year.  “Monetary policy management must emphasize balancing the
policy rate with growth-inflation dynamics,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  The legislative body’s finance committee will hold a fit
and proper test on the candidate before he can be approved by
lawmakers in a plenary meeting.  Nasution, 64, assumed the post in September 2010 after more
than a year as acting governor. He has a doctorate in economics
from  University of Paris , Sorbonne,  France , and is the 14th
governor in the central bank’s six-decade history. He became
acting governor after Vice President Boediono resigned in May
2009 to become Yudhoyono’s running mate in the last presidential
election.  Tenure  During Nasution’s tenure, one of his deputy governors was
the target of probes into a 2008 bailout of PT Bank Century.
Budi Mulya was under investigation by the state auditor
regarding a “personal” 1 billion rupiah ($103,000) loan he
obtained from the former owner of Bank Century. The deputy
governor was relieved of his role as head of monetary policy
operations and his term ended last year.  The central bank this month kept its  reference rate 
unchanged for a 12th meeting at a record-low 5.75 percent. The
central bank has stepped up intervention to support the rupiah
and narrow the gap between local and overseas prices, Hendar,
 executive director  for monetary policy at the central bank, said
in a Jan. 28 interview.  Bank Indonesia  may take action on its benchmark rate if the
currency’s depreciation causes inflation to accelerate, Deputy
Governor  Hartadi Sarwono  said last month. The economy expanded
6.11 percent last quarter, the slowest pace in more than two
years.  ”Leadership and continuity are important for BI,” said
President Director Bank Danamon  Indonesia  Henry Ho in Jakarta
last week. ” So far, the central bank has done a very good job,
working with the banks, working with many issues in the economy.
We want to see Indonesia continue to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang2@bloomberg.net  