-- 
‘Lion King’ 3-D Surprise Helps Hollywood Define Fans’ Taste

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-09-26T21:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/-lion-king-3-d-surprise-helps-hollywood-define-fans-taste-for-technology.html
Hollywood’s search to find a
winning formula for 3-D technology has returned to an enduring
theme after some high-profile flops: start with the right movie.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s animated 1994 hit “The  Lion King ” has
collected $61.5 million in the U.S. since it was reissued to
cinemas in 3-D on Sept. 16, according to Hollywood.com Box-
Office, a bright spot after bombs like “Green Lantern” and
“Mars Needs Moms.” The results may ease concern that three-
dimensional films aren’t living up to their billing, said  James Cameron , whose 3-D “Avatar” is the top-grossing movie of all
time.  “To turn around the trough of disillusionment, whatever
its source is, we have to change the perception,” Cameron said
at the 3D Entertainment Summit in Los Angeles last week. “The
way for us to work against that is to continue to have success
stories.”  Studios will release 39 films in 3-D next year, up from 36
in 2011 and 23 in 2010, according to Screen Digest, a unit of
Englewood, Colorado-based researcher  IHS Inc. (IHS)  The number may
change as studios tinker with schedules. In 2011, 3-D hasn’t
been enough of a hit to lift U.S. theater attendance, which is
down 5.6 percent as of Sept. 25. Sales are off 3.6 percent.  One lesson, studio executives say, is that 3-D effects
alone won’t convince audiences into paying more, about $3 on
average.  ‘No Rule’  “You have to look at it on a picture-by-picture basis,”
Brad Grey, chairman and chief executive officer of  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s
 Paramount Pictures , said in an interview. “When it’s right for
a movie, as it was for ‘Transformers,’ you go 3-D on a global
basis. There is no rule.”  Tom Rothman, co-chairman of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Filmed
Entertainment, said in an interview that 3-D production is
unlikely to expand beyond the 30 to 40 films now turned out by
Hollywood. Most will be male-oriented genre films, he said.  “We’ve been very, very selective,” Rothman said at the
summit. “We have a very good idea when it’s integral to the
storytelling.”  In addition to “Avatar” sequels, Fox is developing 3-D
movies including the Ridley Scott science-fiction film
“Prometheus” and director Ang Lee’s “The Life of Pi.”  Lee convinced Fox to make the film in 3-D, arguing the
technology would let him draw the audience into the small world
of a shipwreck survivor who must share a lifeboat with a tiger,
Rothman said.  Older Hits  “The Lion King” is the first in a number of 3-D
conversions of older hit films. Cameron, Fox and Paramount are
converting “Titanic” and Fox is doing the same with George Lucas’s “ Star Wars : The Phantom Menace.” Both are scheduled
for release next year, according to Hollywood.com.  Moneymakers like “Transformers,” which took in $1.12
billion to rank second this year, have been accompanied by
disappointments. “Green Lantern,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
 Warner Bros ., cost $200 million to make and has generated just
$219.8 million worldwide, a sum the studio splits with theaters.  Disney’s animated “Mars Needs Moms,” made for $150
million, took in $39 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  The supply of 3-D screens has had an impact. Early entries,
like “Avatar” and Disney’s “Alice in Wonderland” opened with
at least 70 percent of their domestic ticket revenue from 3-D
cinemas. That fell to 45 percent for Warner Bros.’ “ Harry
Potter  and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2,” which went on to be
this year’s top-grossing film anyway.  3-D Competition  Cameron cites competition for 3-D screens. Paramount’s
“Captain America: The First Avenger,” was released on July 22,
a week after “Harry Potter” opened. “Transformers” and
“Cars 2” were also in theaters, according to Box Office Mojo.  Cinema operators are adding screens to alleviate the
problem.  RealD Inc. (RLD)  announced agreements in July to equip 1,000
screens for AMC Entertainment Inc. and 1,500 at  Cinemark
Holdings Inc. (CNK)  theaters.  Cameron predicts most movies will be shot in 3-D in the
future as the technology is adopted in home entertainment, just
as the onset of color TV hastened change in the  film industry  in
the 1960s.  The director’s company, Cameron/Pace Group, has helped
Disney’s ESPN cable channel televise more than 140 sporting
events in 3-D with its proprietary equipment.  “Everything that happens in film will be driven by home
video,” he said. “Once broadcast moves aggressively to 3-D,
every movie will be in 3-D. It’s that simple.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  