-- 
Abu Dhabi Yields Near Record Low as Investors Shun Equities: Arab Credit

-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-27T11:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/abu-dhabi-bond-near-high-helped-by-flight-to-safety-arab-credit.html
Investors are shunning equity
markets in the  United Arab Emirates  and turning to Abu Dhabi’s
investment-grade bonds on concern  Europe  will struggle to
contain its debt crisis.  The yield on Abu Dhabi government’s 5.5 percent dollar bond
maturing April 2014 fell to a record 1.31 percent on Sept. 19,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The debt yielded 1.49
percent today. The rate is 334 basis points, or 3.34 percentage
points, below the average yield on sovereign debt in the Middle
East, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East Conventional Sovereign
US Dollar Bond Index shows. Abu Dhabi’s benchmark stock index
closed at the lowest level in almost seven months yesterday. It
rose 0.5 percent today.  Abu Dhabi, which has the third-highest investment grade at
Moody’s Investors Service, is home to about 7 percent of the
world’s proven oil reserves and one of the biggest sovereign
wealth funds. Crude  oil prices  have averaged about 20 percent
more this year than in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The emirate and the U.A.E.’s central bank supported
Dubai with $20 billion during the global credit crisis.  “The underlying belief is that they would have no problem
in servicing their debt and their credit is an extremely strong
one,” Abdul Kadir Hussain, chief executive officer at Mashreq
Capital DIFC Ltd., said in a phone interview yesterday. “Short-
dated, high-quality regional paper is going to be the safe-haven
trade that people will make.”  Qatar Credit Risk  The cost of insuring against a default by Abu Dhabi through
credit default swaps was the second-cheapest in the  Middle East 
and  Africa  at 127 basis points today, according to five-year
credit default swaps from data provider CMA, which is owned by
 CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That compares with 125 for Qatar,
the gas-rich Persian Gulf nation, and 491 for Dubai, which isn’t
rated.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent, should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , Abu Dhabi’s benchmark stock gauge,
fell to 2,531.88 yesterday, the lowest since March 3. The
measure has dropped 5.9 percent this quarter compared with a
decline of 4.5 percent in Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  amid concern
Greece may default on its debt. About 60 million shares traded
in Abu Dhabi today, compared with this year’s daily average of
69 million shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Trading volumes in Dubai in 2011 are at the lowest in six years.  ‘Safe Issuer’  “Our equity markets failed to convince investors as there
is no liquidity, poor diversification and inability to generate
high-growth business prospects,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, head of
asset management at Abu Dhabi-based Royal Capital PJSC. “Our
fixed-income markets are better perceived because the U.A.E. is
seen as a safe issuer given its absence of deficit, its low
leverage and its reliance on still strong oil prices.”  European officials are under pressure to intensify efforts
to contain their 18-month debt crisis as  Greece  teeters on the
brink of default. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
called on governments to unite with the ECB to beef-up the
capacity of their 440 billion-euro ($594 billion) bailout fund,
warning that failure to act threatened “cascading default, bank
runs and catastrophic risk” for the global economy.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro-region leaders
must erect a firewall around Greece to avert a cascade of market
attacks on other European states that would risk breaking up the
currency area.  Richest Nation  By contrast, U.A.E. economic growth will accelerate to 3.3
percent this year from 3.2 percent in 2010, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates published in its  World
Economic Outlook  this month. Qatar, with a population of about
1.7 million, surpassed Luxembourg as the world’s richest nation
in 2010 with a gross domestic product per capita of $88,221,
latest estimates from the IMF show.  The yield on Qatar’s 4 percent bond maturing January 2015
fell two basis points to 2.34 percent today, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate has fallen 28 basis points so
far this quarter, while the rate on  Abu Dhabi ’s bond has
declined 32 basis points in the period. Like Abu Dhabi, Qatar is
rated Aa2 at Moody’s. Both were spared the unrest that swept the
Middle East this year.  “In a risk-off mode, you’ll see a flight to quality as
investors tend to get out of higher beta names and into safer
names,”  Usman Ahmed , the head of fixed income at Emirates NBD
Asset Management, a unit of the U.A.E.’s biggest bank, said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ; Zahra Hankir in Dubai
at   zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  