-- 
Thai Stock Slump Sparks Exporter Backlash Over Yingluck Minimum Wage Plan

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-09-27T03:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/thailand-stock-decline-stokes-exporter-opposition-to-yingluck-wage-policy.html
The biggest drop in  Thailand ’s main
stock index since 2008 prompted brokerages, fund managers and
the bourse to call on Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s two-
month-old government to alter plans to raise the minimum wage.  The Federation of Thai Capital Market Organizations, a  six-
member grouping  that includes the Stock Exchange of Thailand and
Association of Investment Management Companies, urged policy
makers to review any measures that would hurt exporters. The SET
Index gained 2.6 percent as of 10:02 a.m. in Bangkok after
falling 5.7 percent yesterday, the most among Asian benchmark
gauges and the biggest drop since Oct. 27, 2008.  The sell-off “might bring some more common sense into the
equation,” said Terry Weir, chief financial officer of  Hana
Microelectronics Pcl (HANA) , Thailand’s biggest publicly traded
semiconductor packager, which fell 6.1 percent a day ago. “If
the minimum wage goes up far quicker than the productivity
increase, then of course that will have a negative impact on our
profits and on our competitiveness.”  Concern that Europe’s debt crisis and a weakening U.S.
recovery will slow exports, which account for about 60 percent
of the economy, have contributed to a sell-off in Thailand’s
equities and currency this month. Government plans to boost the
minimum wage and purchase rice at guaranteed prices have added
to investor uncertainty, said Kongkiat Opaswongkarn, chief
executive officer of Asia Plus Securities Pcl.  Reserve Ammunition  “The government should reserve some ammunition for some
hard times going forward,” said Kongkiat, who heads Thailand’s
third-biggest brokerage. “They have been spending and spending
and I’m afraid they probably never realized how long the global
slowdown is going to last.”  Thailand’s baht snapped a four-day drop on speculation
exporters will take advantage of the currency’s decline to a
one-year low to convert income at a more-favorable  exchange
rate . The baht gained 0.6 percent to 30.96 per dollar as of
10:25 a.m. in Bangkok after touching 31.22 earlier, the weakest
level since September 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In 2009, the year after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed, Thailand’s economy contracted 2.3 percent as overseas
sales shrunk 14 percent. Last year growth reached 7.8 percent,
the fastest pace since 1995, as exports climbed 19 percent. The
central bank expects gross domestic product to increase 4.1
percent in 2011 and 4.2 percent next year.  ‘Accelerate Layoffs’  “With the global economic slowdown, Thai exports will be
affected,” the  Federation of Thai Market Organizations  said in
a statement yesterday. “We would like to urge the government to
review any policies that will affect production costs. That
includes attempts to raise minimum wages. The hike in wages
during this economic slowdown may accelerate layoffs by
manufacturers.”  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said in a Sept. 24
interview that the Bank of Thailand may cut its economic growth
projections as the global recovery falters, signaling there may
be less scope for  interest rates  to rise further. The central
bank raised its key rate for a seventh straight meeting last
month, citing inflation risks posed by the government’s plan to
raise wages and support rice prices.  Goldman Sachs lowered its  consumer price index  forecast for
Thailand this year to 3.8 percent from 4.1 percent on declines
in global commodity prices, economist Mark Tan wrote in a note
today. The bank maintained GDP forecasts of 3.8 percent in 2011
and 4.2 percent next year, the note said.  ‘Policy Backfire’  The minimum wage policy “is not exactly a fiscal boost”
and “looks more like a transfer from one sector to another,”
Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said by phone. The government “might see this
policy backfire because it actually hinders growth and may cause
social problems as well because people are getting laid off.”  Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong, who oversees
economic policy, said the government would proceed with policies
to strengthen domestic demand because the country has already
“wasted much time” attempting to reduce its reliance on
exports. Higher wages will “create more spending” and
“increase productivity,” he said.  Shift in Demand  “Export-related businesses may face a difficult time
because they rely on global markets,” Kittiratt, who is also
commerce minister, told reporters in Bangkok yesterday. “When
our policies are effective, many businesses that rely on local
demand will have a good chance to benefit from stronger
purchasing power because the balance is changing.”  Kittiratt rejected comments from former Finance Minister
Pridiyathorn Devakula reported in the Nation newspaper that the
government’s rice-buying plan would lead to losses of 250
billion baht ($8 billion), without saying how much it might
cost. Thailand, the world’s largest rice exporter, canceled a
plan to sell the grain to  Indonesia  because the price offered
was too low, he said yesterday.  The government expects to use as much as 400 billion baht
($13 billion) to fund the rice-price guarantee program, which
will run from Oct. 7 until Feb. 29, deputy government
spokeswoman Anuttama Amornvivat said Sept 13. Funding for the
rice program isn’t included in the government’s budget deficit
estimate of 350 billion baht for the fiscal year starting Oct.
1, Kittiratt said in a Sept. 12 interview.  Bonds Drop  Government bonds  dropped this month after data from the
Thai Bond Market Association showed overseas investors sold $160
million more local debt than they bought in September through
yesterday. The yield on the government’s 3.65 percent debt due
December 2021 has gained 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage
point, to 3.82 percent this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To be sure, government and corporate debt is “very low”
and imports “basically” balance out the net position for the
baht,  Andrew Stotz , a Bangkok-based strategist at Kim Eng
Securities (Thailand) Pcl, told Bloomberg Television today.  “You’ve got a problem in Thailand that you don’t have
almost anywhere in the world: Unemployment is about 1 percent,”
he said. “You cannot increase the economic growth of Thailand
by getting more people to work, so you have to increase the
income of the people.”  In July elections, Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party won 153 of
195 seats in the north and northeast, where incomes are about a
third of those in Bangkok. That helped her to win a
parliamentary majority for the first time since her brother
 Thaksin Shinawatra  was ousted in a 2006 military coup.  “Fears have overwhelmed the Thai stock market,” Petcharat Powattanasatien, the head of Kasikorn Asset Management Co., the
nation’s largest money manager, with $22 billion of assets, said
yesterday. “Fundamental analysis is unlikely to be justified as
long as the problem in  Europe  and the U.S. remains unresolved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  