-- 
Airlines May Use CO2 Windfall to Replace Aircraft, EU Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-09-26T16:54:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/airlines-may-use-carbon-permit-windfall-to-replace-aircraft-eu-says.html
Airlines might pass on to customers
the cost of carbon allowances that they receive for free,
providing a windfall that can be used to buy new aircraft, said
the head of the bloc’s climate department.  Airlines can use the extra revenue after charging customers
for emission permits to cut greenhouse-gas output,  Jos Delbeke ,
the European Commission Director-General for climate, said at a
web-cast press conference in Brussels and posted on Bloomberg.
The region will give out about 1.6 billion metric tons of free
carbon allowances to airlines through 2020, based on data on the
EU website.  “A significant share of allowances will be given for free,
which represents 20 billion euros ($27 billion)” during the
next nine years, Delbeke said.  Europe  is easing the way for
airlines to “upgrade fleets” and introduce efficiency
procedures that cut emissions, he said. New aircraft can slash
emissions by as much as 20 percent, he said.  It’s unclear whether competition between airlines will
allow them to pass on the entire carbon price to their
customers, or only a portion of it, Delbeke said.  The European Union  today set benchmarks  to calculate the
distribution of free carbon-dioxide permits among domestic and
international airlines from 2012, when they join the bloc’s
emissions-trading system.  The regulator of the 27-nation bloc set a level of 0.6422
carbon allowances per 1,000 ton-kilometers for the eight years
through 2020, the commission said today. Airlines will receive
0.6797 carbon allowances per 1,000 ton-kilometers in 2012, it
said. The free allowances will be distributed over the nine
years starting 2012 based on 2010 freight-and-passenger data.  Trading Expansion Challenged  The EU decided in 2008 that international aviation should
become a part of the world’s largest cap-and-trade program after
airline discharges in Europe doubled over two decades. U.S.
carriers including  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  and United
Continental Holdings Inc. are challenging the carbon plan in
court, arguing the EU exceeds its jurisdiction.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
said its shortfall of EU carbon permits will cost 150 million
euros to 350 million euros in 2012, according to an e-mailed
statement from  Peter Schneckenleitner , a company spokesman.
That’s based on a shortfall of at least 30 percent and a carbon
price as low as 15 euros a metric ton and as high as 35 euros,
he said. The airline’s cap of carbon allowances was set
according to data from the three years through 2006 and the
airline has grown since then, he said.  EU carbon allowances for December fell 4.1 percent today to
close at 10.90 euros a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London .  ‘Real Costs’  “Lufthansa will only pass on the real costs caused by the
EU emissions trading system,” Schneckenleitner said today by
phone and e-mail. “Due to the tough competition situation there
is no chance to make any windfall profits,” meaning the airline
will only pass on the cost of paid-for allowances, he said.  “It is even questionable if we can pass on the real costs
1:1 to our passengers,” he said. “All in all, prices for
tickets and the revenues to be realized are set by the market,
and of course Lufthansa will do everything to receive the best
possible revenues under consideration of the market
circumstances.”  Aviation “needs a global solution” for climate
protection, Schneckenleitner said today, after the EU published
the portion of free allowances. The ratios were as expected by
the airline, he said.  In the first seven months of this year, European airlines
boosted passenger traffic by 11 percent on average, compared
with the same period last year, according to figures published
Sept. 1 on the website of the  International Air Transport
Association , a lobby group based in  Montreal . That’s the second
best growth in the world after  Latin America , which achieved
12.2 percent. EU freight traffic jumped 4.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  