-- 
Taiwan Dollar Falls Toward Nine-Month Low on Europe; Bonds Drop

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-26T08:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/taiwan-dollar-weakens-toward-nine-month-low-on-europe-concern.html
Taiwan’s dollar fell toward a nine-
month low as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis added to concern the
global economic recovery will stall.  The currency weakened for a sixth day, taking its loss this
month to 5.1 percent, after data showed export orders increased
at the slowest pace in almost two years in August. Europe
doesn’t have much time to solve its crisis and policy makers
should put aside their differences and act for the “common
good,” Antonio Borges, the head of the International Monetary
Fund’s European department, said on Sept. 25 in  Washington .  “Markets are risk-off again,” said Goh Puay Yeong, a
foreign-exchange strategist in  Singapore  at Credit Suisse AG.
“Markets were a bit disappointed over the outcome of the IMF
meetings over the weekend. We expected more concrete measures.”  Taiwan ’s dollar slid 0.6 percent to NT$30.572 against its
U.S. counterpart at the 4 p.m. close local time, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. The currency touched NT$30.670 on Sept. 23,
the weakest level since Dec. 9.  Losses may be limited by central bank intervention, Goh
said. Taiwan’s monetary authority will maintain order in the
foreign-exchange market if there’s excess volatility, it said in
a Sept. 24 statement on its website. Central banks intervene in
 currency markets  by arranging purchases or sales of foreign
exchange.  Export orders, indicative of shipments in the next one to
three months, rose 5.3 percent in August from a year earlier,
after an 11.1 percent gain in July, the Ministry of Economic
Affairs said in Taipei on Sept. 20.  Government bonds  fell. The yield on the 2 percent bonds due
July 2016 increased one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 0.965 percent, according to Gretai Securities Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  