-- 
Major Rivers Have Enough Water to Meet Food Needs

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-28T12:53:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/major-rivers-have-enough-water-to-meet-food-needs-study-shows.html
Major river systems in the
developing world have enough water to meet  food-production  needs
this century, according to a report by researchers from 30
countries published in the journal Water International.  A study of 10 river basins in  Asia , Latin America and
Africa released today from Recife,  Brazil , found there’s
“clearly enough” water, and the issue is one of inefficient
use and unfair distribution rather than scarcity, the Challenge
Program on Water and Food, or CPWF, said in a statement.  The river basins studied are home to about 1.5 billion
people, according to the research group. World food output will
have to climb 70 percent by 2050 as the world’s population rises
to 9.2 billion from an estimated 6.9 billion in 2010, according
to the  United Nations ’ Food and Agriculture Organization.  “Water scarcity is not affecting our ability to grow
enough food,” Alain Vidal, director of the CPWF who is based in
 Colombo ,  Sri Lanka , said in the statement. “There is scarcity
in certain areas, but our findings show that the problem overall
is a failure to make efficient use of the water available in
these river basins.”  The CPWF, based in Battaramulla, Sri Lanka, was set up by
the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research, a
 collaboration  of research centers funded by governments and
organizations including the U.S., the European Union,  India  and
the  World Bank .  The researchers studied the Andes and Sao Francisco river
basins in  South America , the Limpopo, Niger, Nile and Volta
river systems in  Africa  and the Indus-Ganges, Karkheh, Mekong
and Yellow River basins in Asia.  ‘Complete Fragmentation’  The study found “complete fragmentation of how river
basins are managed amongst different actors, and even countries
where the different sectors, agriculture, industry, environment
and mining, are considered separately rather than as
interrelated and interdependent,” Simon Cook, head of the
CPWF’s Basins Focal Research Project, said in the statement.  Governments need to rethink how to use the multiple
benefits from river systems, rather than focus on one sector
such as hydropower, irrigation or industry, the researchers
said.  “This is ultimately a political challenge, not a resource
concern,” Vidal said.  Africa has the biggest potential to increase food
production, with only 4 percent of available water captured for
food and livestock, according to the report. “Huge” amounts of
rainwater are lost or unused, especially in sub-Saharan Africa,
according to Vidal.  “With a major push to intensify rain-fed agriculture, we
could feed the world without increasing the strain on river-
basins systems,” Cook said.  The researchers found production to be at least 10 percent
below potential in “large” parts of Asia and  Latin America ,
according to the statement. In the Indus and Ganges, 23 percent
of rice farms are producing about half of what they could
sustainably produce, according to the report.  Areas with relatively good water efficiency are in the
Ganges, Nile and Yellow River basins, where farmers and
governments have “vastly” increased the amount of food
produced from available water, the research showed.  Water “hot spots” are in the Indus, Yellow, Nile and
Limpopo river basins, where conflict over sharing water
resources is increasing, according to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 