-- 
Talaat Moustafa Jumps as Military Asks to Respect Land-Sales

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-09-26T13:57:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/talaat-gains-on-report-military-asks-to-respect-land-sale-deals.html
Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding rose
the most in more than six weeks after Al Mal newspaper reported
the ruling military council ordered the government to respect
previously signed land-sale contracts.  The shares of  Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded property
developer climbed 3.5 percent to 3.57 Egyptian pounds at the
2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. That trimmed the stock’s decline this
quarter to 27 percent. Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  increased
1.7 percent.  The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which took over
presidential powers after the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  in
February, directed the Ministry of Housing to respect
previously-signed contracts for the sale of government land to
property developers and expedite licenses for contractors,  Al
Mal newspaper  reported, citing a Sept. 10 letter sent by the
council to the ministry.  “The government’s decision-making process with respect to
the real-estate sector is still not clear,” said Rehab Taha,
Cairo-based equities analyst at Prime Securities SAE. “The only
way long-term recovery in the sector can be achieved is through
the issuance of clear legislation that resolves previous
disputes and prevents more from occurring in the future.”  Talaat Moustafa is owner to a 33-million-square meter (255
million square feet) land plot on the outskirts of Cairo, on
which it is building a residential housing development. A Cairo
court is due to rule on Oct. 4 on a challenge to the company’s
ownership of the land because it wasn’t purchased from the
government at a public auction as stipulated by law.  Judge Hassan Abdel-Aziz said in June that the court wants
time to examine the recommendations of a panel of judges who
called for the case to be dismissed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  