-- 
Malaysia Inflation May Have Peaked: Zeti

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-09-26T02:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/malaysia-inflation-may-have-peaked-pressures-easing-zeti-says.html
Malaysia ’s inflation has probably
peaked and price pressures may ease as the global economy
deteriorates, central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said,
joining neighbors in signaling less pressure to tighten policy.  “Right now, we have to wait for greater clarity on the
outlook for growth and inflation before taking any further
adjustments” on  interest rates , Zeti said in an interview in
Washington late yesterday. “Given the more moderate global
growth and in terms of the external environment and its
implications on the domestic economy, we believe domestic
sources of inflationary pressures will be less.”  Interest rates are still at a level that is supportive of
growth, which may be “about the same or slightly better” in
the second half of this year compared with the first, Zeti said.
The economy grew at the slowest pace since 2009 last quarter.
The government will give updated forecasts for growth in 2011
and 2012 when the annual budget is unveiled next week, she said.  Europe ’s debt crisis and a weakening U.S. recovery are
threatening growth in Asia as demand for the region’s exports
eases. Central banks from  South Korea  to the  Philippines  have
refrained from rate increases in recent months, with  Bank Negara
Malaysia  keeping the benchmark overnight policy rate at 3
percent this month after four increases from early March 2010 to
May this year.  Malaysia’s inflation slowed in August for the second
straight month to 3.3 percent. Consumer prices will probably
rise 3 percent to 3.5 percent in 2011, Zeti said.  Currencies Fall  Asian currencies had their biggest weekly drop since 1998
last week as concern the global economy is headed for a
recession dimmed the outlook for exports and prompted investors
to favor safer bets than emerging-market assets. Asian stocks
fell today, with the MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index set for its lowest
close since June 2010. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index is at
its lowest level since July 2010.  The Malaysian ringgit has fallen more than 6 percent in the
past month, along with most regional currencies. It was little
changed at 3.1835 a dollar as of 9:41 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  “What we do need to monitor closely is destabilizing
capital flows,” Zeti said. “We want to achieve orderly market
conditions in the foreign-exchange market, in the domestic money
markets, to ensure there is ample liquidity and that trade
financing is not disrupted. That is very important that it
remains orderly for exporters and importers, that there is no
uncertainty with respect to our currency.”  Intervention Goal  Malaysia’s central bank has intervened in  currency markets 
to limit the swings in the ringgit, she said, without specifying
when officials did so.  “There have been times that we have been in the market to
restore and ensure orderly conditions and this is the only
motivation for our intervention” rather than trying to influence
the trend, Zeti said. Malaysia has been able to cope with a
higher degree of volatility in the currency in the past few
years because of a strengthened financial system, she said.  The central bank isn’t rushing to let its currency be fully
traded overseas anytime soon, the governor said. Then-Prime
Minister Mahathir Mohamad fixed the ringgit at 3.80 per dollar
in September 1998 during the Asian financial crisis, blaming
speculators including  George Soros  for a 34 percent plunge in
the currency. A ban on offshore trading of the ringgit has
remained in force since, though the peg was removed in 2005.  “Given this kind of highly uncertain volatile environment,
we would not change our circumstance with respect to the
internationalization of our currency,” Zeti said. “We are
working towards putting in place the preconditions for such
internationalization but as of now, that certainly would not be
a consideration given the highly uncertain and volatile
international, financial and economic environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Washington  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  