-- 
Amazon, Samsung, Apple, Netflix: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-26T11:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/amazon-samsung-apple-warnaco-netflix-intellectual-property.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s
largest online retailer, won a federal appeals court ruling that
patent claims brought by software maker Cordance Corp. related
to one-click shopping and customer feedback procedures weren’t
valid, reversing a decision by a trial judge.  The ruling Sept. 23 from the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington  reinstated a verdict by a federal
jury in Delaware. The jury found that while elements of a
Cordance patent had been infringed by Amazon, the claims were
invalid. The trial judge later reversed the finding on
infringement, leading to Amazon’s appeal.  “The district court erred” in ruling that the Cordance
claims were valid, the three-judge appeals court panel wrote.
The claims were anticipated, making them invalid, the court
said.  Cordance had initially sought more than $84 million in
damages for infringement of three patents that are related to
allowing customers to store payment information and shipping
addresses in their Amazon customer accounts. The jury only found
infringement for one of the three contested patents. Michael A.
Albert, of  Boston ’s Wolf Greenfield Sacks PC and who represented
Cordance, declined to immediately comment.  Cordance, a patent holder and software developer, sued
Seattle-based Amazon in 2006, contending it was misusing
technology patented by Cordance for one-click shopping and
customer feedback procedures.  The case is Cordance Corp. v. Amazon.com Inc., 10-1502,
1545, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  Samsung Files Suits Against Apple in Netherlands, Court Says  Samsung Electronics Co. filed four lawsuits against  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  in the Netherlands and the first hearing in the cases is
scheduled for today, according to The Hague court.  “There will be hearings on four different suits,”
according to a court spokeswoman, who didn’t want to comment on
the content of the complaints and declined to be identified
citing court policy.  Dutch website Webwereld.nl reported Samsung is claiming the
Cupertino, California-based company’s iPhone and iPad that use
3G technology infringe Samsung patents. Samsung is seeking a ban
of the sale of such products in The Netherlands, Webwereld said.  The legal battle between Apple and rival smartphone makers
is intensifying as an increasing number of consumers use
smartphones and wireless handsets to surf the Web, play games
and download music and videos. Samsung lost a preliminary court
ruling over sales of its Galaxy S, S II and Ace smartphones in
the country in another patent dispute with Apple last month.  Samsung declined to comment on the planned hearing. Apple
didn’t have an immediate comment.  S3 Graphics Targets Apple in Patent Complaint at Trade Agency  S3 Graphics Co., the image-compression technology company
being bought by phonemaker  HTC Corp. (2498) , filed a complaint against
Apple Inc. at the U.S. International Trade Commission.  The content of the complaint filed Sept 22 wasn’t
immediately made public. The ITC, an arbiter of trade disputes
with the power to block imports of products found to infringe
U.S. patents, posted a notice of S3’s filing Sept 23.  S3, in a separate ITC case in July, won a partial ruling
against Cupertino, California-based Apple that said the Mac OS X
computer system violates patents. The judge’s decision is under
review by the full commission. Fremont, California-based S3
makes image-compression technology and its Texture Compression
feature is used in Nintendo Co.’s Wii and Sony Corp.’s
PlayStation portable gaming systems.  Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC,  Asia ’s second-biggest maker of
smartphones, agreed to buy closely held S3 for $300 million in
July. HTC and Apple have targeted each other in patent-
infringement complaints as part of a struggle among smartphone
makers for market share.  Dispute Ends Between University, Growers of Patented Apple  A dispute between the University of  Minnesota  and a group
of the state’s apple growers has ended in what court papers
describe as “a compromise settlement of all issues.”  The growers sued the university in state court in June 2010
because they objected to the school’s exclusive license with
 Pepin Heights Orchard Inc.  of Lake City, Minnesota. The license
covered a patented apple variety sold as the  SweeTango .  This early-season apple, a cross between the Honeycrisp and
Zestar apples, was developed through the use of state funding,
according to court papers. It’s covered by a plant patent U.S.
PP18,812, which was issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office in May, 2008, according to the database of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  Under Pepin’s license, the Lake City-based orchard could
give permission to others to grow a limited number of trees of
the SweeTango variety only if they were sold to consumers within
the state at their orchards, farmers markets or direct store
delivery.  The other growers were barred from pooling their crops to
sell to a large retailer or to any wholesaler, they said in
their complaint. They claimed this was an unfair restraint of
trade and violated state antitrust laws and federal laws barring
unfair agricultural-trade issues.  Under the terms of the settlement, although the growers
other than Pepin will be able to grow a larger number of
SweeTango trees than previously, they still are barred from
selling their apples wholesale. They must also pay $25,000
toward the cost of Pepin Orchard’s attorney fees, according to
the settlement agreement.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Warnaco’s Speedo Unit Sues Over Aussie Gay Porno Websites  Warnaco Group Inc. (WRC) ’s Speedo unit went to court in  Australia 
to enforce the company’s trademarks against an Australian
website operator, United Press International  reported .  The New York-based company objected to the use of its marks
in connection with gay-oriented pornography sites, according to
UPI.  Speedo is also asking for money damages and to be awarded
those websites whose names contain the word “Speedo,” UPI
reported.  The bathing suit company said it filed the suit to protect
the “reputation and goodwill” associated with its mark,
according to UPI.  UHS Trademark Issues Derail Hospital’s Name Change  North Carolina ’s University Health Systems is consulting
with a marketing group in efforts to come up with a new name
that doesn’t trigger a trademark-infringement complaint from
 Pennsylvania ’s  Universal Health Services Inc. (UHS) , the Greenville,
North Carolina-based Daily Reflector newspaper reported.  The North Carolina health-care system’s plans to change its
name to UHS Medical Center brought a letter from the
Pennsylvania group warning of possible infringement issues,
according to the newspaper.  King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based Universal Health
Services has four facilities in North Carolina, according to the
Daily Reflector.  Dave McRae, chief executive officer of the North Carolina
system, told the newspaper that while it wants to keep some sort
of geographic designation in its new name, “the early
exploration we’ve done leads us to believe there are few options
left that would allow us to use the word ‘east’ or some other
similar word to designate the geography region.”  Netflix Files Application for ‘Qwikster’ Trademark After All  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , which said it would split its mail-order DVD
business off from its video-streaming service, didn’t try to
register the name for the new entity until the day after the
announcement was made.  The Los Gatos, California-based company said Sept. 18 that
the name of the mail-order spinoff would be “Qwikster,” and
that it would be created “in coming weeks.”  The following day the  San Francisco Chronicle noted  that no
applications had been filed to register as a trademark.  The
newspaper also reported that one user of Twitter Inc.’s short-
messaging service had already been using qwikster as his online
identity.  That same day Netflix filed two applications with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office to register the term as a trademark.  According to the application, the trademark would be used
for “retail services; online retail store services;
computerized on-line retail services featuring films, movies,
motion pictures, video recordings, pre-recorded videotapes,
digital video disks, digital versatile discs (or DVDs), Blu-ray
discs, videotape cassettes, audio recordings, multimedia.”
recordings and games.”  No Hammer and Sickle Trademarks in EU, European Court Rules  The hammer and sickle symbol used by the Soviet Union
cannot be registered as a trademark, the General Court of the
European Union ruled, the CBC  reported .  The application filed by Couture Tech Ltd. of Tortola, in
the British Virgin Islands, was rejected because in EU member
state Hungary, the use of the symbol is “contrary to public
policy and to accepted principles of morality,” according to
the CBC.  The court needed to look only at Hungary because a
rejection in any one member state is grounds enough for
rejection throughout the EU, the CBC reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  BBC  Sues Berlusconi’s Mediaset Over Ballroom Dancing Program  The British Broadcasting Corp., the U.K.’s public service
broadcaster, is suing  Mediaset SpA (MS)  for copyright infringement
over a ballroom dancing show, the U.K.’s Independent  reported .  Mediaset, which is controlled by the family of Italian
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, is accused of infringing the
BBC’s copyright related to its “ Strictly Come Dancing ” show
format, according to the Independent.  Italian public broadcaster Rai has run a licensed version
of the BBC’s show for the past six years, the Independent
reported.  The BBC is objecting to a proposed program called
“ Baila! ,” to be aired on Mediaset’s Canale 5 beginning this
week, according to the Independent.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Bradley Arant Adds Lanier Ford’s Angela Holt to IP Practice  Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP  hired Angela Holt for its
IP practice group, the Birmingham, Alabama-based firm said in a
 statement .  Holt , a litigator, joins from  Lanier Ford Shaver & Payne PC 
of Huntsville, Alabama. Before she was a lawyer, she was a test
engineer for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s Boeing Defense and Space Group.  She has represented clients in patent, trademark, trade-
secret and domain-name disputes, in addition to doing government
contract work.  Holt has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from  Auburn University  and a law degree from the  University of
Alabama .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 