-- 
Manchester Squalor Gave Marx’s Theories Human Form: Mary Gabriel

-- B y   M a r y   G a b r i e l
-- 
2011-09-26T00:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/manchester-gave-human-form-to-marx-s-theories-commentary-by-mary-gabriel.html
In the spring before he and
 Friedrich Engels  left for England,  Karl Marx  began sketching out
ideas for a book they would write together that would get them
past the “theoretical twaddle” and illustrate that to have
meaning, ideas -- be they religious, political or economic --
must be rooted in the real world.  German intellectuals in particular had been confined to the
loftiest realms of philosophy out of necessity, because the
government banned them from discussing or publishing anything
that might be recognizably pertinent to daily life. Even the
socialists used vague words like “humanity” and “suffering”
to obscure their intended meanings -- man and starvation. But
Marx and Engels argued conditions required that the theoretical
veil be lifted and the material truth exposed.  In his “ Theses on Feuerbach ,” written at this time, Marx
famously summed up the problem: “Philosophers have only
interpreted the world in various ways; the point is to change
it.”  With that call to action, he and Engels set off for
 England .  Industrial Laboratory  During most of their six-week stay, the two men remained in
Manchester. Almost 500,000 people worked in England’s textile
trade, and that city was its epicenter. For a social scientist,
it was quite simply the laboratory of the  industrial world . By
the time Marx and Engels arrived, the full transformation from a
home-based  textile industry  to a mass-scale factory system had
occurred. The small artisan master -- who by social tradition
took care of his workers with varying degrees of benevolence
until those workers became masters themselves -- had been almost
entirely replaced by a faceless company with no obligations to
its employees. Man was no longer a man, but an appendage to a
machine.  Marx and Engels’s studies involved days at the Chetham
Library, the oldest public library in Britain, where they
reviewed the works of British economists such as David Ricardo,
 Adam Smith , David Hume and  Sir William Petty .  They also spent time in the workers’ residential area,
where low cottages consisting of two rooms, a cellar and a
garret housed an average of 20 people each, with one outdoor
toilet for every 120 residents.  Death Over Injury  In this desperate world, family life disintegrated. Mothers
gave their infants opium to keep them sedated until they
returned from work. Girls as young as 12 were “married” off to
ease the family’s financial burden, and boys as young as 6 began
their lives on the street. Sickness was one more luxury the poor
could not afford; death was considered preferable and more
merciful than injury or disease.  Before this trip Marx had never witnessed proletarian life.
Although he had long criticized those who led with theory, the
truth was that he had done the same. No longer.  The two friends left Manchester after about a month and a
half and traveled to the capital. In Manchester the workers’
districts spread like weeds along the length of the river, but
in  London  the slums were vertical, and the poor crammed the
four-story houses from cellar to garret. Every inch, including
the staircase, was occupied. Some people rented only a place in
a bed, not even the whole bed. Others rented space on a rope
strung along the wall, where they could sleep sitting up.  London Movements  Marx and Engels toured the city and met with Germans and
Britons working on behalf of these poor.  Some were members of the secret League of the Just, which
Marx had first encountered in Paris and now had become part of
an organization called the Communist Workers’ Educational
Association. The group was composed almost entirely of artisans
-- the aristocracy of the  labor force  -- many of whom aspired to
be masters themselves.  But Marx and Engels also came into contact with the English
radical or reform movement, which, by contrast, had included a
mix of workers and artisans. In 1830, workers in Manchester had
attempted to gather all laborers under an umbrella union to push
for political reform, including universal male suffrage. But two
years later, when the  Reform Act  was passed, Parliament
sidestepped them, expanding suffrage only to select members of
the middle class. Far from spelling defeat, however, the setback
accelerated union formation. By 1833 one organization had at
least half a million members. Workers also awakened to the fact
that they as a group had a distinct place in society, that they
formed a class of men, the working class.  1837 Charter  In 1837 British labor agitators presented the House of
Commons with six demands, which came to be known as the  People’s
Charter , aimed at making Parliament accessible to all male
British citizens. But within five years the movement was dying.  It was at that moment that Marx and Engels met these labor
leaders. Engels, who acted as translator for Marx, recalled that
those involved in the talks came away convinced that the various
movements -- Chartism, socialism and communism -- were part of
the same historical struggle by the proletariat against the
bourgeoisie.  The two German visitors Marx and Engels learned much from
these veteran revolutionaries, and returned to  Belgium  fired up
with ideas for radicalizing the workingman in Brussels and
beyond.  Marx came away from his trip a changed man. The words he
knew so well from the texts he had read, words he himself had
repeated, had new meaning. The words had faces.  Deeper Friendship  One other important aspect of the trip is that it
solidified Marx and Engels’s friendship. They found they were
entirely sympathetic not only intellectually but also
personally. As intellectuals they were brilliant, incisive,
prescient and creative (but also elitist, cantankerous,
impatient and conspiratorial). As friends they were bawdy,
foulmouthed and adolescent. They loved to smoke, drink until
dawn, gossip and roar with laughter.  In Brussels, Marx resumed his writing, but not the
political economy treatise he had promised. Instead, he and
Engels began work on a book, “ The German Ideology ,” which laid
out for the first time, in basic terms starting with the advent
of man, Marx’s notion of the material basis of human history.  Marx and Engels argued that history was not guided by a
force separate from man, it was man, the story of man, a
chronicle of his actions. To believe otherwise, to make man a
mere player in a drama directed by a greater power (whether
movement, God or king), was to render him impotent and obscure
his ability to see himself as a capable actor in the society of
his fellow man.  Productive Essence  They determined that man’s existence was rooted in the
process of production, that indeed, man distinguished himself
from animals as soon as he began to produce his means of
subsistence. Each generation used improvements in the methods of
production to develop itself and modify society according to
changed needs. But at a certain stage “destructive forces” are
introduced, when machinery and money are consolidated under the
control of a few men as private property.  Marx and Engels concluded that all revolutionary historical
change was the result of clashes between those who controlled
production at any point and the mass of people subjected to
their control. They suggested that real, lasting change could
not occur as a result of violence alone: simply eliminating the
ruling elite by force would not erase the “universal truths”
its members had enshrined -- their laws, their art, their
hallowed institutions.  To reach the point of revolution, the masses had first to
recognize that the system under which they lived was entirely
the creation of a ruling class whose goal was to retain power.
Secondly, they had to have developed an intellectual foundation
upon which to build a new society out of the one they hoped to
replace.  “The German Ideology” grew to two volumes and more than
500 pages. It was presented to eight publishers, without
success. In the end, Marx said, they surrendered the manuscript
to the “gnawing of the mice.”  It is around this time that Marx decided he wasn’t content
to merely theorize revolution, and decided he needed to become
part of the historical revolutionary process. With that in mind
he, his wife, Jenny, and their Brussels cohorts joined the
League of the Just.  (Mary Gabriel is the author of the biographies “Notorious
Victoria” and “The Art of Acquiring.” This is the fourth in a
five-part series excerpted from her new book, “Love and
Capital: Karl and Jenny Marx and the Birth of a Revolution,”
published in September by Little, Brown & Co. Read  Part 1 ,  Part
2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mary Gabriel at  mgabriel1883@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 