-- 
Mantega Returns From IMF Early as Brazil Signals Ready to Act on Currency

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-09-26T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/mantega-returns-from-imf-early-as-brazil-signals-ready-to-act-on-currency.html
Brazil ’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  returned home early from the International Monetary Fund
meetings in Washington this weekend, after a plunge in the real
extended the world’s biggest currency slump over the past month.  “We need to be there in case there is more volatility in
the markets,” Mantega told reporters in Washington before he
left for Brazil on Sept. 24, a day earlier than scheduled.
“It’s better to be back in the country, but the situation in
Brazil is calm.”  Policy makers in Latin America, after spending the past
year fighting currency gains, have seen those policies upended
as the European debt crisis leads investors to dump emerging
market assets and seek safety in the  U.S. dollar . After rallying
43 percent since the end of 2008 through August, the real has
plunged 13 percent over the past 30 days, more than all 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  While the central bank acted in the currency futures market
last week for the first time since 2008 in a bid to stem the
rout, the government hasn’t decided whether to roll back any
measures taken to curb currency gains. Since last year, the
government has tripled a tax of foreign purchases of domestic
bonds, increased reserve requirements on short dollar positions
and raised levies on foreign loans.  The so-called IOF tax on foreign investors’ purchases of
Brazil’s fixed income assets could be withdrawn “when it’s no
longer needed,” Mantega said. The real jumped 3.9 percent Sept.
23 to 1.8339 per dollar, paring its biggest weekly loss since
November 2008, on speculation the government may revoke the tax.  Today, Mantega will meet with President  Dilma Rousseff , who
while attending the  United Nations General Assembly  last week
also voiced concern over the strengthening dollar. Rousseff,
speaking to reporters in New York Sept. 22, said her government
is “completely ready” to take additional currency measures.  Currency Swap  Brazil’s central bank on Sept. 22 auctioned swaps, the
equivalent to selling dollars in the futures market, for the
first time since 2008, helping the real rebound from a two-year
low. While bank President Alexandre Tombini in Washington said
he is ready to inject more liquidity into the market to protect
the real from international volatility, a government official
said policy makers see no need for now to sell any of their
record $351 billion in reserves.  Rousseff’s government must help the central bank by
“holding the line” on spending and keeping Brazil’s fiscal
house in order, Tombini added.  The real strengthened to a 12-year high in July, as near
zero  interest rates  in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  led investors
to seek higher yielding assets in emerging markets.  Latin America ‘Oversold’  Other Latin American currencies have also been hit by the
sell-off in emerging market assets. The Chilean peso fell 7
percent last week, leading all 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The JPMorgan Latin American Index of
currencies has slumped 9 percent this month.  Mexico ’s central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, a former
IMF deputy Managing Director, said in Washington yesterday that
his nation’s currency is “oversold”  after its 9 percent fall
this month, and is likely to rally over the next few days along
with other regional currencies.  Colombia ’s Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the
recent fall in the peso had taken it to around its equilibrium
level, and he would not welcome any further falls.  ‘Natural’ Volatility  Itau Unibanco Holding SA Chief Executive Officer Roberto Setubal, the head of  Latin America ’s biggest bank by market
value, said the real’s decline isn’t worrisome as Brazil has
little direct exposure to the debt problems in Europe.  “It’s natural in moments of high volatility in the
world,” Setubal told reporters in Washington yesterday. “The
tendency is for not such a big devaluation,” he said, referring
to the real.  Many analysts believe the government’s actions are
punishing the real more than other currencies.  The IOF tax
contributed to the “disorderly” sell-off in the real, while
the central bank’s surprise half point rate cut in August raised
doubts among investors about the government’s commitment to its
inflation target,  Tony Volpon , Latin America strategist at
Nomura Securities Inc., wrote in a Sept. 23 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in  Washington  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Washington at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  