-- 
Maple to Provide Update on TMX Group Offer as Talks Continue

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-26T16:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/maple-to-provide-update-on-tmx-group-offer-as-talks-continue.html
Maple Group Acquisition Corp., the
group of Canadian banks and pension funds seeking to buy the
Toronto Stock Exchange owner, will update investors this week on
its C$3.73 billion ($3.61 billion) offer as talks continue with
regulators and  TMX Group Inc. (X)   The bidding group plans to release a statement this week
ahead of a Sept. 30 deadline for the bid, said Maple spokesman
Peter Block.  “Discussions continue with TMX Group,” Block said today
in an interview. “Work continues with the Competition Bureau
and provincial regulators.”  Maple last month extended the deadline for its tender offer
to buy as much as 80 percent of TMX shares. Maple, whose 13
members include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Caisse de Depot et
Placement du  Quebec , and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , said in an
Aug. 3 statement it intended to further extend its deadline if
the regulatory approval process wasn’t completed.  Maple made an unsolicited bid for TMX on May 13,
challenging a friendly deal from London Stock Exchange Group Plc
and sparking a bidding contest. TMX and LSE scrapped plans to
merge on June 29 after failing to get enough shareholders’
support, leaving Maple as the sole suitor. TMX agreed July 21 to
hold takeover talks with Maple. The bid is being reviewed by
 Canada ’s Competition Bureau.  TMX Group fell 19 cents to C$39.09 at 11:46 a.m. trading on
the Toronto Stock Exchange, below Maple’s C$50-a-share cash and
stock offer. Since reaching a three-year high in June as LSE and
Maple waged a bidding contest, TMX has plunged more than 10
percent.  TMX spokeswoman Carolyn Quick didn’t immediately return a
message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  