-- 
Apocalyptic Scenes Thunder Through Tate’s John Martin Show: Martin Gayford

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-09-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/apocalyptic-scenes-thunder-through-tate-s-john-martin-show-martin-gayford.html
Hell is a city much like  London , as
the poet Shelley famously claimed.  While looking at John Martin’s painting “Pandemonium”
(1841), you may think he had the same idea in mind. It looks
like an infernal vision of the Embankment, nightmarish buildings
towering behind -- a little like the Houses of Parliament -- and
the Thames transformed into a river of fire.  We’re still a little worried that last bit might come true.
The end of the world, eco-doom, rising flood waters, vengeance
from on high -- these fears have never gone out of fashion. For
Martin (1789-1854) they were his stock-in-trade. The majority of
his pictures deal with such themes as the fall of empires and
the Last Judgment, with a certain amount of less compelling
heavenly bliss thrown in. Hence the title of the new exhibition
devoted to his work at  Tate Britain  in London, “John Martin:
Apocalypse.”  Martin is an oddity of art history. No one, in his own time
or since, has known how to classify him. His work was
simultaneously popular and much criticized. Some of his
paintings were shown as popular attractions, much like dioramas,
panoramas and similar early 19th-century predecessors of cinema.  He lived in style, though threatened intermittently by
financial ruin. Contemporaries regularly pointed out that his
colors were gaudy, his technique slick, and his subject matter
repetitive.  “The eternal sameness -- a sameness too of bad taste and
absurdity -- in this artist’s style, is quite disgusting.”  Oddly Familiar  So wrote the Edinburgh Literary Review in 1829. It’s still
true, and gives you new respect for Georgian art criticism. Yet
there’s something about Martin that’s impressive -- the writer
quoted above calls it “imposing” -- and also oddly familiar.  That shiny, almost photorealist treatment of cataclysmic
scenes, the burning rocks like asteroids crashing down on the
teeming multitudes in “The Great Day of His Wrath” (1851-3),
the vast geometrically planned cities of ancient Babylon, Thebes
and  Rome . We’ve seen them somewhere else.  The answer is that Martin was a predecessor of 20th- and
21st-century mass culture. His painting style leads on to film
and illustrations in science-fiction magazines, as is emphasized
by a reworking of “The Great Day of His Wrath” by the
contemporary painter, Glenn Brown. This picture from 1998, hung
at the end of the show, includes a few futuristic domes on a
rocky pinnacle looking like the products of some alien culture
that the crew of the Starship Enterprise might encounter.  Hollywood Style  The vast pillared hall in which “Belshazzar’s Feast”
(1820) takes place could be a set for a Hollywood epic by D.W.
Griffith or Cecil B. DeMille. The seething crowds, epic
landscapes and spectacular special effects sometimes bring the
“Lord of the Rings” films to mind, and also computer games.  Daringly, Tate Britain has embraced this connection by
actually turning three paintings on the theme of the Last
Judgment into a movie. With digital assistance, the rocks
actually quake, lightning flashes across the sky and the waters
of heaven gently ripple while voices read out passages from the
literature that accompanied these pictures on 19th-century
tours.  It’s fun, though loud enough to rumble through the whole
show, and it underlines what’s interesting about Martin. Still,
this doesn’t get over the basic problem, as noted by those old
critics. One apocalypse is gripping, dozens together are boring.
That’s showbiz: You get tired even of the end of the world.  “ John Martin : Apocalypse” is at Tate Britain, London,
through Jan. 15, 2012.  Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk/britain/ .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 