-- 
Apple Trims Orders for IPad Parts, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-26T13:50:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/apple-cuts-ipad-supply-chain-orders-jpmorgan.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is cutting orders to
vendors in the supply chain for its iPad tablet computer, a move
that may result in slower sales for companies including Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a report.  Several supply-chain vendors indicated in the past two
weeks that Apple lowered fourth-quarter iPad orders 25 percent,
the first such cut that analysts at JPMorgan’s electronic
manufacturing services team in  Hong Kong  said they have ever
seen. The report didn’t list the affected companies, and Gokul Hariharan, one of the report’s authors, said he couldn’t comment
when reached by Bloomberg News today.  For a vendor such as Hon Hai, the cut could mean a drop to
13 million units in the fourth quarter from 17 million units in
the third quarter, JPMorgan analysts wrote in the Sept. 25
report. The report said JPMorgan U.S. analyst  Mark Moskowitz ,
who covers Apple, does not expect to lower his projection of
10.9 million to 12 million units of iPad shipments in the third
and fourth quarters after the supply chain adjustments.  Reduced orders from Apple to iPad suppliers could reflect
both weakening demand in  Europe  due to economic conditions there
as well as a strategy by Apple, the world’s biggest company by
market value, to operate with reduced inventory, Wanli Wang, a
Taipei-based industry analyst at RBS Asia Ltd., said today.  “It’s back to reality,” Wang said. “Now it seems even
for Apple, due to the market situation, we need to be
conservative.”  No Confirmation  So far there is no confirmation from Apple that it has
reduced orders to suppliers, Wang said. Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-
based spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t respond to calls for comment
on the report today.  Edmund Ding , spokesman for Hon Hai, didn’t respond to an e-
mail or answer calls to his Taiwan and China mobile phones.  Shares of the Cupertino, California-based iPad maker fell
$8.21, or 2 percent, to $396.09 at 9:48 a.m. on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The stock had climbed 25 percent this year before today.  Apple’s iPad may account for 73 percent of tablet computer
sales this year, according to research firm Gartner Inc.
Products that run on Google Inc.’s Android operating system,
including Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy tablets, will
probably have about 17 percent of the market, Gartner said in a
Sept. 22 note.  Because of its current dominant market position, Apple
doesn’t have to rush to introduce its iPad 3 tablet computer as
potential rivals have failed to emerge to siphon sales from the
current model, JPMorgan’s Moskowitz wrote in a Sept. 16 report.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  may release a product late this year that
could become the number-two tablet in the market behind the
iPad, Moskowitz wrote in that report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  