-- 
JPMorgan Differs With JPMorgan on Apple IPad Order Research

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   E d m o n d   L o c o c o
-- 
2011-09-27T20:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/apple-report-by-jpmorgan-asia-staff-not-view-of-u-s-team-moskowitz-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst  Mark Moskowitz  said research from his colleagues in  Asia  about a cut
in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad orders doesn’t represent the views of the
securities firm’s U.S. team.  “Apple is fine,” Moskowitz wrote.  Apple is cutting orders to vendors in the supply chain for
its iPad tablet computer, a move that may mean slower sales for
companies including Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., according to
the earlier report by Hong Kong-based JPMorgan analyst Gokul Hariharan.  Analysts at other firms also issued research aimed at
quelling speculation that demand for iPads had diminished -- a
concern that dragged down Apple’s stock as much as 3.2 percent
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday. Chris Caso, an analyst
at Susquehanna International Group, said the resulting
“chatter” was “misleading” and  Gene Munster , at Piper
Jaffray Cos., said changes in orders may be the result of Apple
moving some iPad manufacturing out of Asia to  Brazil .  The earlier report “has the equity markets worried about
Apple,” Moskowitz wrote yesterday. “Mr. Hariharan’s report
focuses on how Hon Hai could be impacted by potential iPad sell-
in order cuts. This alert is not the view of the U.S. IT
Hardware team.”  Projection Maintained  Moskowitz, based in San Francisco, has rated Apple
“overweight” for about three years, during which time the
stock has quadrupled. Hariharan has covered Hon Hai for at least
five years, according to Bloomberg data.  Moskowitz maintained his projection that Apple will sell
10.9 million to 12 million iPads in the fiscal fourth quarter.  Apple fell $3.91 to $399.26 at 4 p.m.  New York  time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has climbed 24 percent this year.  The later note may have been prompted by complaints from
Apple or large shareholders, said Bruce Foerster, president of
South Beach Capital Markets in Miami.  “If nothing else this should be troublesome and at the end
of the day you have to come down on the side of independent
research,” said Foerster, a former managing director at
securities firms including Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. “That
has to trump all, every time. Otherwise what are you selling?”  Orders Cut  Moskowitz and Hariharan declined to comment beyond their
respective reports. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, declined to comment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and e-mail for comment after
regular business hours.  Edmund Ding , a spokesman for Hon Hai, didn’t answer calls
to his Taiwan and  China  mobile phones made today.  Hariharan’s report, dated Sept. 25, said multiple supply-
chain vendors indicated a 25 percent reduction in so-called
sell-in orders in the past two weeks, the first such cut that
analysts at JPMorgan’s Hong Kong-based electronic manufacturing
services team said they have seen. Sell-in orders are those made
by a company -- in this case, Apple -- to a supplier.  “We disagree with any talk of a shipment slowdown,”
analysts at  Barclays Capital  wrote in a report. “The numbers
being circulated Monday might be related to components and not
to actual iPad 2 shipments, in our view. Components checks (are)
not a good proxy for actual iPad product shipments.”  “Accelerate Production”  Talk of reduced Apple orders to suppliers may be coming
from “pull-ins, not cuts,” as production was moved up to the
third quarter from the fourth quarter, Susquehanna’s Caso wrote.  Caso said he does project a decline to 11 million to 13
million iPads built in the fourth quarter, from 17 million to 19
million in the third quarter.  “The 4Q sequential decline was accompanied by an increase
in 3Q builds, leading us to conclude that production was likely
pulled-in from 4Q to 3Q,” Caso wrote. Apple “has attempted to
accelerate production in 3Q to ensure product availability for
the holidays.”  Any current production cuts may also be “due to much
improved capacity and Apple actively managing its inventory in
front of what is likely an iPad refresh in the March quarter,”
said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee in  San Francisco , in a
research report today.  “The iPad 2 started shipping in March 2011, making the
product likely due for an update near its one-year
anniversary,” said Wu, who recommends buying shares and has a
target price of $500.  IPad Shipments  Wu maintained his projection of 27 million iPad shipments
in the second half of the calendar year, with 12 million units
in the current quarter and 15 million units for the period
ending in December.  Craig Berger, with FBR Capital Markets in New York, wrote a
report saying his view was “largely consistent” with the
research from JPMorgan’s Asia team on cuts to orders from Apple
to iPad suppliers. The cut to fourth-quarter iPad production may
reflect Apple being more cautious on overall global demand given
recent market turbulence, and discounting some iPad growth in
China, he wrote.  “For the iPad, 3Q11 builds were cut by 5%, while 4Q11
production estimates were cut by 24%, an incremental negative
for Apple related supply chain participants,” Berger wrote.  IPad builds were cut by 24 percent in the fourth quarter
from 17 million to 13 million, as iPad 2 Wi-Fi builds were
revised lower, and as ‘iPad 2 Plus’ production was removed from
the forecast due to “display manufacturing challenges,” Berger
wrote.  Apple’s iPad may account for 73 percent of tablet sales
this year, according to research firm Gartner Inc. Products that
run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, including Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Galaxy tablets, will probably have about 17
percent of the market, Gartner said on Sept. 22.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  may release a product later this year that
could become the No. 2 tablet in the market behind the iPad,
Moskowitz wrote in a report earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  