-- 
Samsung Tablet Faces Further Delay in Australia Amid Apple Patent Claim

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-26T07:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/apple-presses-for-ban-of-samsung-s-galaxy-tab-at-australian-court-hearing.html
Samsung Electronics Co.’s debut of
its Galaxy 10.1 tablet computer in Australia may be delayed
beyond the end of the month after a judge said she needs time to
study  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent-infringement claims.  Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett may grant a
“brief” injunction on sales of the Samsung tablet as she
considers arguments from Samsung and the iPad maker, the judge
said during the first day of a two-day hearing over whether the
Galaxy Tab should be banned in Australia until the dispute is
resolved. The judge urged both sides to consider starting their
patent-infringement trial as soon as possible.  “Technology moves very quickly, ” Bennett said. “It
would be in both sides’ interest to have this matter finalized
quickly.”  The dispute is part of a global fight between the two
companies, the world’s two largest makers of tablet computers,
which began in April in the U.S. after Cupertino, California-
based Apple sued Samsung claiming Galaxy products “slavishly”
imitated the designs and technologies used in iPads and iPhones.
Samsung struck back with lawsuits in  South Korea ,  Japan , Germany
and Australia.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, targeted the iPad 2
and adopted as many of its features as it could in developing
its newest tablet, Steven Burley, Apple’s lawyer, said today.  It must have been “as plain as the Opera House to
Samsung” that the design of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 infringed Apple
patents, Burley said. “They ought to clear the way in advance
rather than attempt to crash through.”  ‘High Stakes’  Samsung threatens to steal Apple’s sales of iPads with its
products and that would also threaten sales of iPhones,
applications and accessories because people like to stick with
one brand, Burley said.  A ban on the sale of the product would go too far, David
Catterns, Samsung’s lawyer, told the judge.  “This is a high-stakes fight,” Catterns said. “This is
where we draw the line.”  Apple’s iPad may account for 73 percent of tablet computer
sales this year, according to the research firm Gartner Inc.
Products that run on Google Inc.’s Android operating system,
including Samsung’s Galaxy tablets, will probably have about 17
percent of the market, Gartner said in a Sept. 22 note.  Samsung agreed in August to delay a planned release of the
Galaxy 10.1 tablets in  Australia  until Bennett rules on Apple’s
request for an injunction barring the sale of the product.  Fighting Until IPad 9  Under usual circumstances it would take “well into next
year” to resolve the patent dispute, Catterns said. Apple would
be prepared to go to trial next week, Burley told the judge.  Catterns said that by the time the patent dispute is
resolved at trial, Apple would be selling the iPad 9.  Samsung had altered its Galaxy 10.1 tablet from a U.S.
version that Apple claimed infringed 10 of its patents, for
release in Australia. The Australian version, although with
“reduced functionality,” still infringes at least three
patents, according Burley. Catterns denied the Australian tablet
has reduced functionality.  Apple didn’t object to earlier versions of Samsung’s
tablets even though they used the same technology, Catterns
said.  The 10.1 is a bigger threat to Apple because it’s the
thinnest tablet computer on the market, Catterns said.  “They didn’t sue before but now they’re worried,”
Catterns said of Apple. “It’s the thinness of our product that
worries them.”  Zoom Technology  Samsung countersued Apple on Sept. 17, saying the iPhone
and iPad infringe seven of its patents related to wireless
communications standards.  At today’s hearing, Apple focused on one alleged patent
infringement, relating to the touch screen technology of the
iPads. Samsung had agreed not to fight Apple’s claim that the
Galaxy 10.1 uses zoom technology that infringes its patent.  The agreement to halt advertising and the sale of the
Galaxy 10.1 tablet doesn’t affect any other Samsung tablet or
smartphone available in Australia, or other countries, the
company said following the Aug. 2 hearing.  A German judge barred the sale of the Galaxy 10.1 tablets
in that country on Sept. 9, pending a trial of Apple’s patent
claims. Apple also won an injunction in  Germany  prohibiting the
sale of the Galaxy Tab 7.7, which has a smaller screen than the
10.1 or the iPad. That forced Samsung to pull the product from
the IFA consumer-electronics show in Berlin earlier this month.  The case is: Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  