-- 
ArcelorMittal Still Seeks S. Africa Empowerment

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-26T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/arcelormittal-south-africa-ends-talks-to-sell-stake-to-black-investors.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)   South Africa  Ltd.
said finding a black empowerment partner remains a priority,
after failed talks to sell a 26 percent stake to a group of
black investors, including a son of President  Jacob Zuma .  The steelmaker planned to sell the stake, in a transaction
valued in August 2010 at 9.1 billion rand ($1.1 billion), to
comply with black economic empowerment legislation, laws
designed to compensate black South Africans for discrimination
during apartheid. The negotiations lapsed after the parties were
unable to agree to an extension, the company said in a statement
to the stock exchange in Johannesburg yesterday.  The proposed deal with the Ayigobi Consortium was
criticized when it was announced last year by five of the
steelmaker’s largest minority shareholders, including the Public
Investment Corp., the biggest South African pension fund
manager, and  Sanlam Ltd. (SLM)  Empowerment “remains a priority for us
as a company,” Themba Hlengani, an ArcelorMittal South  Africa 
spokesman, said yesterday by mobile phone.  The transaction hinged on the resolution of disputed rights
at Sishen, Africa’s largest iron-ore mine. Imperial Crown
Trading 289 (Pty) Ltd., whose owners form part of Ayigobi, was
awarded part of the prospecting license for the mine and deposit
by the government after the steelmaker missed a deadline to
renew its rights.  ArcelorMittal South Africa, a unit of the world’s largest
steelmaker, offered to buy Imperial for 800 million rand and to
include Imperial’s shareholders in Ayigobi in an attempt to
regain its Sishen rights.  Duduzane Zuma  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , which holds the remainder of the
Sishen rights, canceled a favorable iron ore supply agreement
with the steelmaker when it became aware of the award of the
rights to Imperial in February 2010.  Zuma’s son Duduzane, a business partner of Imperial’s
biggest shareholder, Jagdish Parekh, would have gained a 12.5
percent stake in Ayigobi through his company Mabengela
Investments.  ArcelorMittal South Africa’s buy-out of Imperial would have
been canceled if Imperial lost a court case with Kumba, a unit
of Anglo American Plc, over the government’s award of the
prospecting rights. The argument in that case has been heard and
the parties are awaiting a judgment from the North Gauteng High
Court in  Pretoria .  ArcelorMittal South Africa’s proposed purchase of Imperial
lapsed Aug. 12 because Imperial shareholders declined to grant
an extension in negotiations, Ronnie Mendelow, a lawyer for
Imperial, said in a telephone interview.  “We are focused on getting a mining right,” he said. “If
we are granted the right, then we are going mining.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  