-- 
Arctic Wildlife Zones Need More Oil-Drilling Protection, Pew Report Finds

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-09-26T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/arctic-wildlife-zones-need-more-oil-drilling-protection-pew-report-finds.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration should add to protection for Arctic wildlife as
the U.S. moves to allow oil-drilling off the Alaska coast next
year, a study commissioned by environmental groups said.  The U.S. government should make special efforts to avoid
harm in the most sensitive habitats and gather comprehensive
data about seals, walruses and bowhead whales of the Beaufort
and Chukchi seas, where  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has bought leases,
and the research should be publicly accessible, according to a
report released today by the Pew Environment Group and the Ocean
Conservancy.  The study was issued on the last day of public comments for
an updated environmental study of Chukchi Sea oil leases. Shell,
based in  The Hague , spent $2.1 billion for leases in 2008 and
hasn’t yet drilled a well because environmental and native
groups disputed the auction. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  will
decide whether to affirm or cancel the sale now that the new
 review  is finished.  “When it comes to the fragile Arctic, science, not
politics, needs to guide decision making,” Marilyn Heiman,
Pew’s U.S. Arctic director, said in a statement. Additional
research is needed “if we are to avoid irreparable harm to an
ecosystem found nowhere else in U.S. waters.”  Shell’s Beaufort Sea exploration plan won approval in
August on the condition that the company also get permits from
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine
Fisheries Service.  Spill Science Adviser  Pew and the Ocean Conservancy, both based in Washington,
hired Robert Spies, who was chief science adviser for  Alaska  and
the U.S. on effects of the Exxon Valdez tanker accident in 1989,
which dumped about 260,000 barrels of crude into Prince William
Sound. For today’s report, Spies led 14 Arctic researchers in
reviewing science needs for decision-making on offshore drilling
in the icy waters.  Shell expects Salazar to approve the Chukchi sale,
according to Pete Slaiby, its vice president for Alaska. The
company has said it includes mammal observers on each vessel
engaged in its seismic studies and exploration. The company
installed buoys that record animal sounds and help map their
migrations, according to company’s  website .  The scientists didn’t set a deadline for their proposals.  “Ideally, we would like to see these recommendations in
place before exploration drilling is approved,” Heiman said in
an e-mail. “We are concerned that drilling activity could get
out ahead of the needed science.”  The Pew Environment Group is part of the Pew Charitable
Trusts, a nonprofit organization based in Philadelphia and
 Washington .  Shell spokeswoman Kelly op de Weegh, Interior Department
spokesman Adam Fetcher and  David Smith , a spokesman for the
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , didn’t immediately reply to
e-mailed requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington
at   kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  