-- 
Arctic Needs More Oil-Drilling Protection, Pew Report Finds

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-09-26T18:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/arctic-needs-more-oil-drilling-protection-pew-ocean-conservancy-find.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration should add to protection for Arctic wildlife as
the U.S. moves to allow oil-drilling off the Alaska coast next
year, a study commissioned by environmental groups said.  The government should make special efforts to avoid harm in
the most sensitive habitats and gather comprehensive data about
seals, walruses and bowhead whales of the Beaufort and Chukchi
seas, where  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has bought leases, and the
research should be publicly accessible, according to a  report 
released today by the Pew Environment Group and the Washington-
based Ocean Conservancy.  The study was issued on the last day of public comments for
an updated environmental study of Chukchi Sea oil leases. Shell,
based in  The Hague , spent $2.1 billion for leases in 2008 and
hasn’t yet drilled a well because environmental and native
groups disputed the auction. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  will
decide whether to affirm or cancel the sale now that the new
 review  is finished.  “When it comes to the fragile Arctic, science, not
politics, needs to guide decision-making,” Marilyn Heiman,
Pew’s U.S. Arctic director, said in a statement. Additional
research is needed “if we are to avoid irreparable harm to an
ecosystem found nowhere else in U.S. waters.”  Shell’s Beaufort Sea exploration plan won approval in
August on the condition that the company also get permits from
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine
Fisheries Service.  Spill Science Adviser  The company’s  Alaska  plans are “built on decades of
scientific research,” Shell spokeswoman Kelly op de Weegh said
today in an e-mail. “It’s our view that there is enough science
to support an exploration program.”  Pew and the Ocean Conservancy hired Robert Spies, who was
chief science adviser for Alaska and the U.S. on effects of the
Exxon Valdez tanker accident in 1989, which dumped about 260,000
barrels of crude into Prince William Sound. For today’s report,
Spies led 14 Arctic researchers in reviewing science needs for
decision-making on offshore drilling in the icy waters.  Shell expects Salazar to approve the Chukchi sale,
according to Pete Slaiby, its vice president for Alaska. The
company has said it includes mammal observers on each vessel
engaged in its seismic studies and exploration. The company
installed buoys that record animal sounds and help map their
migrations, according to company’s  website .  According to op de Weegh, $500 million has been spent on
Arctic data, including $50 million by Shell. She said more than
5,000 independent studies have been conducted.  Drilling Activity  The scientists didn’t set a deadline for their proposals.  “Ideally, we would like to see these recommendations in
place before exploration drilling is approved,” Heiman said in
an e-mail. “We are concerned that drilling activity could get
out ahead of the needed science.”  The Pew Environment Group is part of the Pew Charitable
Trusts, a nonprofit organization based in Philadelphia and
Washington.  “We will review Pew’s recommendations,” Interior
Department spokesman Adam Fetcher said in an e-mail today. “We
continue to listen to affected communities and gather and assess
the environmental, ecological and technical information that
will inform our decisions on oil and gas development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington 
at   kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  