-- 
Arsenal’s Van Persie Not Ready to Sign New Contract, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-26T10:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/arsenal-s-van-persie-not-ready-to-sign-new-contract-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Van Persie  Stalls  Robin van Persie  said he’s is no rush to renew his contract
with Arsenal, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  “I still have almost two years until 2013,” the paper
quoted the Holland striker as saying. “So for the moment that’s
fine, but I don’t know. We will have to look,” said Van Persie,
who scored his 100th goal for the London club against Bolton.  This summer, Arsenal sold Samir Nasri and  Gael Clichy  to
Manchester City because both players had only one year left on
their contracts and refused to renew their agreements. Retaining
Van Persie will be the “No. 1 priority” for Arsenal coach
Arsene Wenger, the paper said.  Arsenal Lining Up Parejo  Valencia midfielder Daniel Parejo may join Arsenal in
January for as much as 7 million pounds ($11 million), the  Daily
Mail  reported.  Parejo, 22, is a graduate of Real Madrid’s academy and a
member of  Spain ’s Under-21 team that won the European
championships.  No Brum Deal for Parnaby  Defender Stuart Parnaby has been told his return to
Birmingham City is off, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The free agent was “left stunned,” after he had already
passed a medical and agreed contract terms last week, the paper
said. Parnaby had left City at the end of last season.  McFadden to Wolves?  James McFadden may join Wolverhampton this week after a
successful trial, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  “He looked good in training and I am delighted with that
part of it,” the paper quoted Wolves manager Mick McCarthy as
saying. “I want to sign him.”  The Scottish international is a free agent after he left
Birmingham City and spent a year away from the game because of
knee surgery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 