-- 
Harvard’s Greenblatt Extols Wicked Roman Poem Hidden By Monks

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-09-26T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/harvard-prof-extols-wicked-roman-poem-hidden-by-monks-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
The Western world became more
modern in the early part of the 15th century, though a number of
folks had to fry along the way.  Chained to a stake, Jan Hus went fairly quickly. His fatter
pal, Jerome of  Prague , screamed for a long time.  They were reform-minded preachers burned for questioning
the supremacy of the Roman Catholic Church at a time when this
was heresy.  Remember them as you read Stephen Greenblatt’s “ The
Swerve: How the World Became Modern ,” which starts in the
winter of 1417 as a stranger rides through the hills and valleys
of southern  Germany .   Greenblatt , the prolific humanities professor at  Harvard
University  whose books include “ Will in the World ,” about
Shakespeare, sets the scene beautifully.  “Unarmed and unprotected by a clanging suit of armor, he
was certainly not a Teutonic knight -- one stout blow from a
raw-boned yokel’s club would have easily felled him. Though he
did not seem poor, he had none of the familiar signs of wealth
and status: he was not a courtier, with gorgeous clothes and
perfumed hair worn in long lovelocks, nor was he a nobleman out
hunting and hawking. And, as was plain from his clothes and the
cut of his hair, he was not a priest or monk.”  Everyone had a fixed position in life and a costume to go
with it.  The Book Hunter  Suspicious locals watched the mysterious rider forge ahead.
Eventually he arrived at a distant monastery whose unexplored
contents were his journey’s goal.  The visitor was Poggio Bracciolini, an Italian in his late
30s with an unconventional vocation. He was a book hunter and an
intellectual in a time when the Church told people what to think
and few were literate.  The state of ignorance reflected the triumph of the Church
over the civilization of ancient  Rome . Zealots had burned
libraries and often their patrons. Even so, some books survived
because monks copied them over the centuries.  In a luminously written book filled with provocative
observations, Greenblatt devotes an entertaining section to the
challenges besetting monks who wore out their bottoms in the
scriptorium as they groaned over poor-quality parchment and
fought off boredom.  “Now I’ve written the whole thing. For Christ’s sake give
me a drink!” scribbled one in a margin.  Such men (and a few women) kept the past alive for future
generations.  Having sweet-talked his way into the monastery’s library --
theft was a problem back then too -- Poggio stumbled on a famous
epic known only from the title and a few surviving scraps: “De
rerum natura” (“On the Nature of Things”).  Anathema  Here in his hands was the entire poem by Lucretius, a first
century B.C. Roman poet, book collector and bon vivant.  Everything Lucretius extolled would become anathema to the
Church. Taking his cue from the Greek philosopher Epicurus, he
described a world devoted to beauty and pleasure. Enjoy your
life. There is no other.  The universe has no creator or designer, Lucretius wrote.
Everything is composed of invisible particles. “‘We are all
made of the same matter as the stars in the sky and the
creatures in the sea.”  He could not see atoms but believed as fervidly in them as
others might believe in heaven and hell and the angels who
shuttle in between.  Unexpected Change  Greenblatt takes his intriguing title from Lucretius’s
explanation of unexpected change. The Roman posited that a
swerve -- a minimal motion -- might set off a ceaseless chain of
particles. “Whatever exists in the universe exists because of
these random collisions of minute particles,” as Greenblatt
puts it.  We share the sense of excitement as the book hunter reads
Lucretius’ lost poem in praise of a world so different from his
own, where pain was a constant -- even central -- part of life
expected by most mortals and condoned by the Church.  It was also, of course, a dangerous text. Poggio had seen
Jerome burn and he took care to avoid promoting Lucretius and
his Church-challenging ideas -- while making sure the manuscript
was copied.  The Renaissance  Lucretius’s “On the Nature of Things” became the defining
text to a growing circle of humanists in Florence. The old Roman
opened the door to the new splendors of the Renaissance. Think
of the questing mind of  Leonardo da Vinci , who assumed man was
the measure of all things and conceived of humans flying over
the earth.  All the while, Poggio served as secretary to eight Popes
including the disgusting Baldassare Cossa, known as John XXIII
during the follies of the Western Schism, who pushed Hus and
Jerome to their terrible end. He must have been unctuous and
quite an operator. Greenblatt recounts how Poggio got rid of a
competing book-hunter by beating him up and then having him
fired.  When he died in 1459, Poggio was rich and respected if soon
forgotten, though the manuscript he found would influence
philosophers, politicians, writers, artists.  In a wondrous phrase, America’s Founding Fathers guaranteed
the “pursuit of happiness.” Unsurprisingly,  Thomas Jefferson 
owned many copies in different languages of “On the Nature of
Things.”  “The atoms of Lucretius had left their traces on the
 Declaration of Independence ,” writes Greenblatt, whose own book
is appropriately pleasurable.  “The Swerve” is published by Norton in the U.S. and Bodley
Head in the U.K. (356 pages, $26.95, 20 pounds). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21A@bloomberg.net  