-- 
Asian Currencies Fall, Led by Won, as Europe Spurs Stock Sales

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-09-26T08:36:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/asian-currencies-drop-led-by-korean-won-as-europe-debt-spurs-stock-sales.html
South Korea ’s won and Indonesian
rupiah led a slide in Asian currencies on concern Europe will
fail to contain its debt crisis, damping the outlook for Asian
exports and reducing demand for emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell toward a 10-
month low as the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares dropped for a
third day. Failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk,” U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned in Washington over
the weekend.  “Foreign money is leaving Asian equities,” said  Sean Callow , a Sydney-based senior currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. “Some capital that was rolled into Asian bonds is
now simply exiting to cover losses in  Europe  and US. Wealth
destruction will hurt spending and there will be some further
weight on Asian exports to Europe as growth slows.”  The won sank 2.1 percent to 1,192.85 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. local time close, approaching a one-year low of 1,196.13
touched Sept. 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Indonesia’s rupiah slumped 3.6 percent to 9,113, according to
onshore prices compiled by Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar declined
0.6 percent to NT$30.572,  Thailand ’s baht lost 0.9 percent to
31.17 and the Philippine peso fell 0.6 percent to 43.863.  Germany’s Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  said
yesterday that euro-region finance ministers won’t be in a
position to decide on the disbursement of the next tranche of
aid to  Greece  when they meet on Oct. 3. Billionaire investor
 George Soros  said “something needs to be done” to safeguard
Europe’s banks because Greece may be unable to avoid default.  ‘Concrete Actions’  “Asian currencies are going to remain a bit soft until we
get some concrete actions” on Europe’s bailout, said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at Malayan Banking
Bhd. in  Singapore . “European leaders are showing they are more
concerned about the debt situation.”  Thailand’s baht weakened for a fourth day after the central
bank said Europe’s debt crisis and a slowing global recovery may
prompt a cut in growth projections for Southeast Asia’s second-
biggest economy. Thailand may intervene to ease volatility in
the baht, central bank governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said in
 Washington  yesterday.  “If there are abrupt movements, we certainly have the
ammunition to do some market intervention but the aim is not to
change the direction but to lower the sharp volatility at
times,” he said.  South Korean Intervention  International investors sold $521 million more Thai
equities than they bought this month through Sept. 23, and were
net sellers of government debt in the last three days, according
to data from the stock exchange and the Thai Bond Market
Association. The Bank of Thailand expects the economy to grow
4.1 percent in 2011 and 4.2 percent next year.  South Korea’s won fell after rebounding in the final
minutes of trading on Sept. 23 to close 1.1 percent stronger.
The nation’s finance ministry and central bank said last week
that they were ready to intervene.  “The won is weakening today as the government artificially
intervened in the market on Friday, and as nothing has been
solved regarding Europe’s debt issue,” said Lee Jung Hyun, a
currency dealer at the Industrial Bank of  Korea  in  Seoul .
“Still, the government has shown its will to prevent the
currency from falling below the 1,200 level, which will make
investors cautious about betting on a strong dollar.”  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit dropped 0.2 percent to 3.1910
per dollar. Singapore’s dollar weakened 0.4 percent to S$1.3048
and China’s yuan fell 0.2 percent to 6.4006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  