-- 
Asian Stocks Decline, Led by Japanese Shares

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-09-26T10:34:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/asia-stocks-drop-led-by-japan-as-europe-debt-crisis-spurs-growth-concern.html
Asian stocks fell, sending the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to the lowest level since May last year, amid
mounting concern  Europe  won’t resolve its debt crisis and as
companies from Nippon Electric Glass Co. to  China Yurun Food
Group Ltd. (1068)  predicted lower earnings.  Nippon Electric Glass, a maker of parts for flat screen
displays, sank 12 percent after cutting its profit forecast.
China Yurun Food plunged 31 percent after the pork producer said
profit will drop because of higher material costs. Hanjin
Shipping Co.,  South Korea ’s largest shipping line, fell by the
daily limit of 15 percent after saying it will sell new shares.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 2.4 percent to 109.06
at 7:28 p.m. in Tokyo, extending losses for a third day. The
measure slumped 7.1 percent last week, the most in almost three
years, driving the index into a so-called  bear market  after
falling more than 20 percent from a May 2 high.  “Markets have moved well beyond Greece by now and are
really focusing on the outlook for growth and the possible
contagion into the banking sector,”  Mark Konyn , the Hong Kong-
based chief executive officer of RCM Asia Pacific Ltd., told
Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia.”
RCM oversees about $154 billion. “Confidence is continuing to
drain.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average tumbled 2.2 percent to
8,374.13, the lowest since April 2009.  Japan ’s markets were shut
for a public holiday on Sept. 23, when the MSCI Asia Pacific
excluding Japan Index dropped 2 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  fell 2.6 percent and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index retreated
1.5 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1 percent
to 1,141.5 after swinging between gains and losses of as much as
1.3 percent today. The U.S. equity benchmark dropped 6.5 percent
last week.  ‘Catastrophic Risk’  European policy makers face mounting pressure to step up
efforts to contain the sovereign-debt crisis. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned at an annual meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  in  Washington  that failure to combat
the Greek-led turmoil threatened “cascading default, bank runs
and catastrophic risk.” Billionaire investor  George Soros  said
“something needs to be done” to safeguard Europe’s banks
because  Greece  may be unable to avoid default.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, is forecasting that advanced economies will
stall over the next year as Europe slides into a recession.
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, said the worldwide expansion will be
about 2.5 percent, less than the 4 percent forecast by the
International Monetary Fund.  Nippon Electric Glass dropped 12 percent to 656 yen. The
company cut its net income forecast for the half-year ending
Sept. 30 to 24 billion yen ($314 million), 14 percent lower than
its previous outlook of 26.5 billion yen, citing a slump in the
flat-panel display market.  Profits Fall  China Yurun Food plunged 31 percent to HK$7.51. Profit at
the meat processor will drop because of “continual publication
of negative media reports” and an increase in raw material
costs, the company said in an exchange filing. Yurun has fallen
47 percent since its closing price on Sept. 7, the day before
the National Business Daily reported that meat sold by one of
its units contained an illegal additive.  Hanjin Shipping fell 15 percent to 11,650 won, the lowest
intraday price since it began trading in December 2009. The
company plans to sell 40 million new shares, and a 159.8 billion
won ($135 million) stake in an energy venture, to help reduce
its debt-to-equity ratio after posting a first-half loss.  Mining companies retreated as gold futures for immediate
delivery slumped for a fourth day, losing 3.6 percent to
$1,596.72 an ounce. Newcrest Mining Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest
gold producer, dropped 8.5 percent. Zhaojin Mining Industry Co.,
which also produces the metal, plunged 18 percent.  “There’s concern that the European debt crisis will
spread,” said Takashi Hiroki, chief strategist at Monex
Securities in  Tokyo . “Stocks are falling as we get more
concerned about a deceleration of the global economy. A sell-off
in shares sensitive to the economy, such as commodity-related
stocks, are a reflection of investors’ fears.”  Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd. tumbled after
Hong Kong’s government said it initiated proceedings against the
Chinese food producer for market misconduct amid allegations it
overstated its land holdings. The stock plunged 27 percent to
HK$1.10, the lowest level since July 2003, before trading was
suspended.  Investors are getting paid more than ever to hold Asian
stocks compared with the rest of the world. Equity declines have
pushed up dividend yields as much as 37 percent on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
helped send the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s payout to 3.2 percent,
exceeding the MSCI All-Country World Index by the most since at
least 1995, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  