-- 
Asian Stocks Decline, Led by Japanese Shares

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-09-26T00:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/asian-stocks-drop-led-by-japanese-shares-as-europe-spurs-growth-concern.html
Asian stocks fell, with the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index set for its lowest close since June 2010,
amid concern the European sovereign-debt crisis may weaken
economic growth.  Japanese machinery makers Fanuc Corp. and Komatsu Ltd. and
electronics manufacturer Panasonic Corp. lost more than 2.8
percent, leading declines in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Hanjin
Shipping Co., South Korea’s largest shipping line, tumbled by
the daily limit of 15 percent after saying it plans to sell new
shares. Nippon Electric Glass Co. sank 12 percent after lowering
its profit forecast.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned at the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington
that failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.”
Billionaire investor  George Soros  said “something needs to be
done” to safeguard Europe’s banks because Greece may be unable
to avoid default.  “There’s concern that the European debt crisis will
spread,” said Takashi Hiroki, chief strategist at Monex
Securities in Tokyo. “Stocks are falling as we get more
concerned about a deceleration of the global economy. A sell-off
in shares sensitive to the economy, such as commodity-related
stocks, are a reflection of investors’ fears.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.7 percent to 110.96
at 9:39 a.m. in  Tokyo , set for its lowest close in more than a
year. Three stocks fell for every two that rose on the measure,
which has fallen more than 20 percent from a May 2 high,
entering a so-called  bear market  on Sept. 23.  Japan’s markets were closed on Friday, when the MSCI Asia
Pacific excluding Japan Index dropped 2 percent. The regional
gauge climbed 0.1 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  