-- 
Asian Central Banks Signal Rate Rises Off Table as Europe Crisis Deepens

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-26T10:18:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/asian-central-banks-signal-rate-rises-off-table-as-europe-crisis-deepens.html
Central bankers from three
Southeast Asian nations signaled that global financial-market
turmoil will diminish inflation pressures in their economies,
making interest-rate increases unlikely in coming months.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will probably refrain from
boosting rates for the rest of 2011, Governor Amando Tetangco
said in a Sept. 24 interview.  Thailand ’s central bank may cut
its economic growth projections, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul
said the same day. Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said yesterday her country’s inflation has probably peaked.  The reduced likelihood of rate increases may curb demand
for Asian currencies, which already last week tumbled the most
since the region’s financial crisis in 1998, as investors
flocked to the  U.S. dollar  as a haven. Policy makers may turn
to cutting commercial banks’ reserve requirements as their next
response, Standard Chartered Plc economists said today.  “Growth concerns are beginning to outweigh inflation
worries,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , Singapore-based head
of  India  and Southeast  Asia  economics at Credit Suisse Group AG.
“It doesn’t make sense for interest-rate increases given the
stock market rout we’ve seen.”  Stocks Fall  Stocks in Asia dropped today, with the MSCI Asia Pacific
index losing 2.4 percent as of 6:06 p.m. in Singapore. Asian
currencies weakened, led by  South Korea ’s won and the Indonesian
rupiah, on concern that Europe will fail to contain its
worsening debt crisis, damping the outlook for Asian exports and
reducing demand for emerging-market assets. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell toward a 10-month low.  “Stable to potentially falling  interest rates  in Asia
reduces the attractiveness of the region’s currencies,” said
Prior-Wandesforde. “It’s part of the reason why we’ve seen them
decline coupled with the creeping realization that Asia is not
immune to a Western world slowdown.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner warned at the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  that failure
to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened “cascading default,
bank runs and catastrophic risk.” Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co. is
forecasting that advanced economies will stall over the next
year as  Europe  slides into a recession.  Indonesian Intervention  Indonesia ’s central bank said it intervened to curb losses
in the rupiah this month, while policy makers in South Korea and
India said they were prepared to intervene to stabilize their
currencies if necessary. South Korea’s financial regulator
hasn’t decided whether it will add additional capital to a fund
that was set up to stabilize the stock market, Financial
Services Commission spokesman Ernst Lee said by phone today.  Thailand has “ammunition to do some market intervention”
to lessen volatility in the baht, Prasarn said, while the Indian
rupee’s decline in “so short a time” is a concern,  Reserve
Bank  of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in a speech
yesterday.  Malaysia ’s central bank has intervened in currency markets
to limit the swings in the ringgit, Zeti said, without
specifying when officials did so.  “Intervention has already occurred in Asia in increasing
scale to address dollar funding, with the next stage of the
response likely to be the reversal of reserve-requirement
hikes,” Standard Chartered economists wrote in a research note.
“This suggests that policy rate cuts remain some way off, while
a fiscal policy response is further behind still.”  Debt Crisis  Finance ministers recognized the gravity of Europe’s debt
crisis and resolved to do whatever it takes to prevent it from
escalating further, Tharman Shanmugaratnam, chairman of the
International Monetary Fund’s steering committee and  Singapore ’s
finance minister, said Sept. 24 after the annual meetings of the
fund in  Washington .  The IMF said it is ready to “strongly support” European
nations’ efforts to resolve the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “Looking at the current developments in the world market,
you may probably get somewhat lower inflation expectations,”
Prasarn said. “If that were so, we would probably have closed
the gap somewhat” on normalizing borrowing costs, he said. The
Bank of Thailand raised its key rate for a seventh straight
meeting last month to 3.5 percent.  Meantime, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas forecasts inflation
this month will be “somewhat lower” than the bank’s estimate
for August, Tetangco said. Inflation eased for a second month
last month.  Tetangco and his colleagues held their benchmark rate at
4.5 percent for a third straight meeting on Sept. 8 after
increasing it twice earlier this year.  Malaysia is waiting “for greater clarity on the outlook
for growth and inflation before taking any further adjustments”
on rates, Zeti said.  Bank Negara Malaysia  kept its benchmark
overnight policy rate at 3 percent this month after four
increases from early March 2010 to May this year.  Both Malaysia and the  Philippines  ordered lenders to set
aside more cash as reserves earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Washington at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  