-- 
Tata Consultancy Seeks Acquisitions in Germany, France, Japan and the U.S.

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-09-26T11:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/tata-consultancy-seeks-acquisitions-in-germany-france-japan-and-the-u-s-.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  is
weighing acquisitions in  France ,  Germany ,  Japan  and the U.S. as
 Asia ’s biggest computer services provider by market value sees
further rising demand despite global economic woes.  “Acquisitions are necessary because all the capabilities
cannot be built organically,” N. Chandrasekaran, chief
executive officer of Mumbai-based Tata Consultancy, said in an
interview in  London . For example, the company’s life and
pensions business couldn’t have been built “organically,
there’s no way, because it’s a highly regulated environment.”  Tata Consultancy and rivals such as  Accenture Plc  have
benefitted from rising corporate spending on computer services
and consulting. Despite the current global uncertainty, the
company sees good demand from retail, manufacturing and consumer
product companies, Chandrasekaran said. There’s also a “lot of
compliance work” in the financial services industry, he said.  Tata Consultancy, with a workforce of almost 200,000 and
clients such as Microsoft Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and Sony
Corp., said in July that fiscal first-quarter sales surged 34
percent to $2.4 billion while net income gained 31 percent to
$532 million.  Chandrasekaran declined to comment on a Sept. 7 report by
Financial Times Deutschland that Tata Consultancy may learn the
outcome of a bid for a majority share in the information
technology arm of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  after a Sept. 29 board
meeting of the German airline.  Asked about the current global economic problems,
Chandrasekaran said he’s neither “extra confident nor
pessimistic.” There are “opportunities” for Tata Consultancy
and “many companies are profitable” and “doing well.”  U.S. Healthcare Services  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Viju K George says Tata
Consultancy is probably interested in expanding U.S. healthcare
IT services and adding offerings for the manufacturing and
automobile industries in Western Europe.  “In the U.S., healthcare is where the company really
doesn’t have penetration and it’ll want to build capabilities,”
George said in an interview. “It’s seeking opportunities in
France and Germany to try and consolidate in Western Europe.”  Worldwide spending on information technology services is
forecast to rise 6.6 percent to $846 billion this year, after
growing 3.1 percent last year,  Stamford , Connecticut-based
researcher Gartner Inc. said in June.  Tata Consultancy doesn’t have any deadlines for potential
acquisitions and is under no pressure, according to the CEO.
“We look at companies for their market presence, sometimes for
domain knowledge, sometimes for technology platform.”  Visa Costs  In the U.S., Tata Consultancy is tackling increased cost
and delay of business visas with more thorough planning in staff
deployment, Chandrasekaran said. The company got the majority of
its sales from Northern American clients in the year ended March
31.  Along with competitors Infosys Ltd. and Wipro Ltd., Tata
Consultancy needs U.S. visas as some customers ask for on-site
staff to provide technical support. Rejection of visa
applications by the U.S. government had definitely increased,
the company said in July.  “ We are spending excessively more time on that now than
before,” Chandrasekaran said. “It may result in getting visas,
it may result in hiring people locally, it may result in using
tools like video conferencing a lot more than before.”  Tata Consultancy, which is  India ’s largest software
exporter, is not “happy” about the decline of the  Indian
rupee , the CEO said, adding that “I would rather have a stable
currency than having to deal with the volatility” to “really
focus on the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  