-- 
Axa Private Equity Said to Buy $500 Million of Funds From Mizuho

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-09-26T16:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/axa-private-equity-said-to-buy-500-million-of-funds-from-mizuho.html
Axa Private Equity agreed to buy
$500 million of stakes in buyout funds from  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411) ,  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market value, three
people with knowledge of the talks said.  The unit of Axa SA,  France ’s biggest insurer, is buying
commitments to about 20 mainly U.S. and European funds managed
by firms such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co., BC Partners
Ltd. and EQT Partners AB, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the terms of the deals are private. London-
based  3i Group Plc (III)  will manage the holdings for Axa, they said.  Mizuho follows banks such as Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in selling commitments in
leveraged-buyout funds as regulators force them to hold more
capital in reserve against their riskiest assets. Paris-based
Axa Private Equity estimated last month that banks may sell
funds valued at as much as $50 billion.  Axa Private Equity, which is seeking to amass $3.5 billion
for a fund targeting private-equity assets held by banks, bought
the Mizuho stakes at a discount to net value as of Dec. 31, the
people said. The stakes had been built to support the Japanese
bank’s lending activities, one of them said. Officials at Axa
Private Equity, Mizuho and 3i declined to comment on the talks.  Run by Dominique Senequier, Axa Private Equity has
purchased $3.7 billion of private-equity stakes from banks in
the past four months. It acquired a 620 million-euro ($839
million) portfolio from HSH Nordbank AG, a regional German
lender bailed out during the global financial crisis. That
followed the purchase of a $1.7 billion pool from New York-based
Citigroup and 460 million pounds ($750 million) of assets from
Barclays in June.  Division for Sale?  Axa SA (CS)  has hired Credit Suisse Group AG to explore a sale
of Axa Private Equity as it seeks to focus on insurance, a
person with knowledge of the discussions said last week. The
division may be valued at about 500 million euros, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  3i,  Europe ’s biggest publicly traded private equity firm,
last year bought Mizuho Investment Management U.K. Ltd., a team
that oversees 3.7 billion pounds of funds in senior and
subordinated company debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  