-- 
BAE, EADS Slow Typhoon-Fighter Output Amid Job Concern

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-09-26T14:17:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/bae-plans-to-slow-typhoon-production-rate-amid-job-concerns.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  will produce fewer Typhoon war
planes to stretch production until it receives export orders.  BAE, Europe’s largest defense company, is reviewing
employee levels as it slows output, it said today following
media reports of as many as 3,000 job losses. Unite, Britain’s
No. 2 workers’ union, said it’s seeking “urgent” talks.  “We will now work through the impact of this decision and
we remain committed to making Typhoon a success both in the U.K.
and overseas markets,” London-based BAE said in a statement.  The two companies, and additional partner  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,
need an additional order from partner nations by 2013 to
maintain production, according to Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH.
They are also seeking orders from  India  and  Japan , as well as a
follow-on one from  Saudi Arabia , a Eurofighter official said
today. Eurofighter currently produces 50 fighter jets a year.  Results of a companywide review will be communicated to
workers on Sept. 27, BAE said.  One of BAE’s biggest industrial footprints in the U.K. is
its Military Air and Information business, which employs about
15,500 people across 28 industrial sites and Royal Air Force
bases. The unit develops, delivers and supports military air
platforms and technologies for the Typhoon, F-35 Lightning II,
Tornado and Hawk. Among the company’s biggest sites are Warton
and Samlesbury, in Lancashire, northern  England .  Defense Cuts  BAE already pared output in the U.K. this year following a
government spending review. The government decided to terminate
the Nimrod MRA4 and Harrier jumpjets programs. Globally, BAE cut
15,000 jobs in 2009 and 2010 to adjust to global defense cuts,
mainly in  Europe  and the U.S.  The four partner nations confirmed an order for a third and
final batch of Typhoon in 2009, though the tranche was split to
allow them to initially commit to fewer jets. The final order
from European partner nations would be for 124 planes.
Eurofighter did not receive any official cancellation of the
final order. About 3,000 employees work directly on the
Eurofighter program.  The venture is competing for a $11 billion combat-jet order
in India. It is also trying to sell about 40 fighter jets in
Japan, as well as competing for orders in Oman and  Malaysia .
Saudi Arabia, which already ordered 72 planes, might order at
least an additional forty-eight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  