-- 
Banks May Need $202 Billion Euro-TARP Program, Says JPMorgan

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-09-26T11:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/banks-may-need-202-billion-euro-tarp-program-says-jpmorgan.html
Euro zone banks need at least 150
billion euros ($202 billion) of capital provided through a
Europe-wide Troubled Asset Relief Program akin to the U.S. plan,
according to a report by JPMorgan Cazenove.  France  could lead with a capital injection of about 15
billion euros to 20 billion euros for its banks, analysts at
JPMorgan led by Kian Abouhossein said in a note to clients
today.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA would be one of the “key
beneficiaries” if France led the European TARP program, they
said. The minimum required to reopen European bank funding
market is 112 billion euros, according to the note.  “We assume a Euro TARP rather than specific support only
for the most distressed institutions, as we believe a general
solution is required to restore general confidence and reopen
the funding markets for all institutions,” Abouhossein said in
the note.  TARP, a $700 billion program, was started in 2008 to
inject capital into banks following the collapse of the U.S.
housing market and the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  JPMorgan estimates the capital requirement would be about
5.5 billion euros for Societe Generale and about 600 million
euros for  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA.  “We assume that France would move first independently,
given the recent pronounced pressure on its banks funding
costs,” the JPMorgan analysts said. “ Germany  could potentially
also act independently.”  Modeling a European financial rescue on TARP “would be a
good solution,”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President Gary D. Cohn
said at a panel discussion with other bank executives yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  