-- 
Banks’ Online-Payment Program Faces Antitrust Probe by EU

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-26T12:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/banks-online-payment-program-faces-antitrust-probe-by-eu-1-.html
A bank group whose members include
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  faces a European Union
antitrust probe into a system for payments via the Internet.  The European Commission said it’s examining the process to
set up an online-payment standard by the European Payments
Council to “ensure competition is not unduly restricted”
through the exclusion of new entrants who aren’t controlled by a
bank. The EPC was asked earlier this year to provide the
Brussels-based commission with information.  “Use of the Internet is increasing rapidly making the need
for secure and efficient online payment solutions in the whole
single euro payments area all the more pressing,” EU Antitrust
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in a statement today. “We
need to ensure that the standardization process does not
unnecessarily restrict opportunities for non-participants.”  Almunia has  said  banks’ collaboration on a euro payments
system, known as SEPA, raises “complex challenges” for
antitrust authorities. The case is at least the third EU
competition probe this year into the banking industry. It adds
to investigations concerning lenders’ possible collusion over
credit default swaps and the Libor lending rate.  The  European Central Bank  and the commission have called
for banks to accelerate adoption of common standards to ease
payments made in euros. While regulators have said this may
boost trade between the 17 euro area nations as growth stumbles,
antitrust officials have raised concerns over the fairness of
parts of the process, which is led by the Brussels-based EPC.  Developing a Standard  The EPC has been developing a standard to make different e-
payment systems work together.  “The EPC will consult with its members prior to
commenting” on today’s announcement, Gerard Hartsink, the
group’s chairman, said in an e-mailed statement.  A finding that new entrants and payment providers without
links to a bank are excluded from the standardization process
“could breach EU rules on restrictive business practices,”
said the commission.  The probe into standard-setting was triggered by a
complaint from Payment Network AG, a Gauting, Germany-based
online-payment provider, said Robin van der Hout, a lawyer at
Kapellmann und Partner who represent the company. The company’s
website lists customers including  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Dutch airline
KLM.  The commission has no deadline for its investigation. The
opening of such a probe doesn’t indicate a final decision by the
EU regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  