-- 
Buyback Gives Buffett Weapon Against Slump

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-09-26T22:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/berkshire-buyback-gives-buffett-a-weapon-to-play-offense-in-market-slump.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Warren Buffett, who invested more than $15 billion in a month at the
depths of the 2008 credit crunch, is now prepared to spend cash
on his own firm in a market slump.  Berkshire announced a buyback program yesterday that gives
Buffett, 81, the authority to make his first share repurchases
in four decades. Buffett, the chief executive officer since
1970, in February touted Berkshire’s capacity to “ play
offense ” in a crisis. He may have $20 billion at his disposal
to buy shares if markets decline, said David Rolfe, chief
investment officer of Berkshire investor Wedgewood Partners Inc.  “He’s laid the groundwork to swing big and hard if you
wake up some morning and something nasty is going on,” said
Rolfe. “He’s going to be on the phone with his broker saying,
‘Buy the shares.’”  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  posted its biggest weekly
drop since 2008 in the five days ended Sept. 23 amid concerns
that the European sovereign debt crisis would pressure worldwide
economic growth. Class A shares of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire, which slipped below $100,000 in New York trading on
Sept. 22 for the first time since January 2009, traded at the
lowest price-to-book ratio this quarter since at least 1990.  Berkshire Class B shares jumped $5.72, or 8.6 percent, to
$72.09 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
the second-biggest gain the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which
rose 2.3 percent. The buyback is “unexpectedly positive news”
and could total about $15 billion,  Jay Gelb , an analyst with
Barclays Plc, said in a research report.  ‘Not a Dime’  Buffett previously preferred to use the firm’s profits to
buy companies and securities issued by other firms. “Not a dime
of cash” has been spent on buybacks or dividends in four
decades, the billionaire told investors in his annual letter,
published on Feb. 26. Buffett invested $5 billion in Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and $3 billion in General Electric Co. in 2008
when the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failure cut companies off
from traditional sources of funding.  “During the episodes of financial chaos that occasionally
erupt in our economy, we will be equipped both financially and
emotionally to play offense while others scramble for
survival,” Buffett said in the letter, which accompanied
Berkshire’s 2010 annual report. “That’s what allowed us to
invest $15.6 billion in 25 days of panic following the Lehman
bankruptcy.”  Earnings from Berkshire’s businesses have grown to about $1
billion a month, and finding uses for that cash has become more
difficult, Buffett said in April. Last year, Buffett bought the
78 percent of railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  that his
firm didn’t already own in a $26.5 billion deal, funded partly
by issuing Berkshire stock. In 2000, Buffett told investors he
was willing to repurchase shares at or below the market price.  Book Value  Berkshire will buy back Class A and Class B shares for as
much as 110 percent of book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, and refrain from any repurchase that would push
cash holdings below $20 billion, the company said yesterday in a
statement. Berkshire had about $47.9 billion in cash as of June
30. The stock traded at an average of more than 1.5 times book
value since the end of 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The disclosure of Berkshire’s stock-purchase criteria may
aid the company in outperforming the broader market when
equities slump, giving Buffett an edge the next time he
considers issuing shares to fund an acquisition, said Buffett
biographer  Alice Schroeder .  ‘A Floor’  “If people know they’ve got a buyer at 110 percent of
book, who would sell it for less than that?” said Schroeder,
author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett  and the Business of
Life,” and a Bloomberg View columnist. “It puts a floor on the
stock and keeps it at a price that is attractive. And it enables
them to have an acquisition currency.”  Berkshire traded at about 1.1 times the June 30 book value
after yesterday’s gain. Declines this quarter in stock holdings
in  Wells Fargo & Co . and American Express Co. have pressured
Berkshire’s book value since June 30. Buffett’s firm may report
third-quarter data in November.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for an interview e-
mailed to an assistant.  Buffett invited shareholders in 2000 to submit offers to
sell blocks of stock back to Berkshire. In his annual letter
that year, Buffett said he “missed some opportunities” by not
repurchasing shares when Berkshire fell, and he instructed
potential sellers to contact his broker.  Munger’s Wish  Berkshire’s advance in B shares yesterday, the biggest
since a 9.4 percent gain on Aug. 9, contrasts with a decline
that Buffett has said he would expect if the company eventually
declares a dividend. A dividend, Buffett told shareholders at
Berkshire’s annual meeting in April, will be an admission that
the company can’t fully invest profits.  “I think that some of you will live to see a Berkshire
dividend, but I hope I don’t,” Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 87, said at a conference in  Pasadena ,  California  in July
in response to a question from an audience member. “You’re
saying, ‘Do you predict failure?’ And I suppose I do.”  Class A shares surged 8.1 percent yesterday to $108,449,
the biggest jump since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  