-- 
Berkshire to Buy Back Shares as Cash Tops $40B

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-09-26T16:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/berkshire-to-repurchase-shares-saying-stock-is-undervalued.html
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , which has shunned buybacks for four decades, will
repurchase shares for as much as 110 percent of their book
value, saying the stock is undervalued after falling 17 percent
this year. Berkshire jumped in New York trading.  “The underlying businesses of Berkshire are worth
considerably more than this amount,” the Omaha, Nebraska-based
company said today in a statement. “If we are correct in our
opinion, repurchases will enhance the per-share intrinsic value
of Berkshire shares.”  Buffett, 81, previously preferred to use the firm’s profits
to buy companies and securities. The growth of Berkshire’s cash
hoard makes it harder to effectively invest the proceeds,
Buffett told investors at the company’s annual meeting in April.  “He thinks the stock is cheap and he’s putting his money
where his mind is,” said  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire shareholder
and author of “Secrets in Plain Sight: Business and Investing
Secrets of  Warren Buffett .”  Berkshire’s A shares closed at $100,320 Sept. 23 on the New
York Stock Exchange. The book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, is about $98,700 a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Buffett’s firm may repurchase both A and
B shares, according to the statement, and buybacks won’t be made
if they reduce consolidated cash holdings below $20 billion.  Share Rebound  Class A shares climbed 5.4 percent to $105,725 at 11:42
a.m. in composite trading. The stock dropped below $100,000 on
Sept. 22 for the first time in 20 months after natural disasters
including the Japan earthquake pressured reinsurance units and
equity-market declines hurt Buffett’s derivative bets.  “At certain times in the past, I have erred in not making
repurchases,” Buffett told shareholders in a letter published
in 2000. “My appraisal of Berkshire’s value was then too
conservative or I was too enthused about some alternative use of
funds.”  Berkshire had about $47.9 billion in cash as of June 30,
and  General Electric Co. (GE)  has set a date of Oct. 17 for a $3.3
billion payment to repurchase preferred stock sold to Buffett’s
firm in 2008. Berkshire this month completed the acquisition of
engine additives maker Lubrizol Corp. for about $9 billion.  Buffett has said  interest rates  near record lows reduce the
attractiveness of new fixed-income investments.  ‘Different Tools’  “As the firm has grown in scale and reach, they’re going
to have to employ different tools than the ones got them here,”
said  Thomas Russo , a partner at Berkshire investor Gardner Russo
& Gardner. “One of them is shareholder buybacks.”  Buffett said in the  letter  that only one combination of
facts justifies share buybacks.  “First, the company has available funds -- cash plus
sensible borrowing capacity -- beyond the near-term needs of the
business and, second, finds its stock selling in the market
below its intrinsic value, conservatively calculated,” he
wrote.  Buffett said in February that his firm was able to invest
$15.6 billion in the 25 days after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy because Berkshire was so committed to
 accumulating capital  to seize opportunities at times of
distress.  “Not a dime of cash has left Berkshire for dividends or
cash repurchases during the past 40 years,” Buffett wrote in
his most recent annual letter. “Instead, we have retained all
of our earnings to strengthen our business, a reinforcement now
running about $1 billion per month.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  