-- 
Bernanke’s Operation Twist May Be Undermined by Geithner’s Long Bond Sales

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-26T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/bernanke-s-twist-may-be-hampered-by-geithner-s-bond-selling.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  may be
working at cross purposes as one buys Treasury bonds and the
other sells them.  The Fed plans to purchase $400 billion of longer-dated
Treasuries in a bid to reduce yields. At the same time, the
Treasury Department is selling more long-term securities to
decrease its reliance on short-term borrowing. That strategy
puts upward pressure on  interest rates  by adding to market
supply.  The reason for the conflicting approaches: Geithner wants
to reduce the amount of debt that the Treasury has to roll over
each month, a task made more urgent after the U.S. was driven to
the brink of default in August. Bernanke is seeking to prevent
the slowing economy from suffering a Japanese-style lost decade
with growth averaging under 1 percent per year.  “The Fed is worried about the U.S. becoming  Japan , while
the Treasury is worried about the U.S. becoming  Greece ,” said
Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson Plc, whose  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based company is a unit of ICAP Plc, the
world’s biggest broker of trades between banks.  As a result, the central bank’s action may have “a pretty
limited effect” on long-term interest rates and the economy,
according to  James Hamilton , a professor of economics at the
 University of California  at  San Diego .  “We shouldn’t have any illusions that it will radically
change things in any great hurry as far as the economy is
concerned,” said Hamilton, co-author of a paper last year on
“the effectiveness of alternative monetary policy tools.”  $400 Billion  The Fed said Sept. 21 it will carry out its purchases of
$400 billion of Treasuries with remaining maturities of six to
30 years by the end of June 2012. It will sell an equal amount
of debt with maturities of three years or less.  The yield on Treasury 30-year bonds was 2.90 percent on
Sept. 23 in  New York , down from 3.2 percent the day before the
announcement. It was down 41 basis points for the week, the most
since December 2008.  Bond investors had already anticipated the Treasury’s sales
and were reacting to the Fed’s move, as well as increased
concern that the world economy is slowing, Crandall said. Yields
may have dropped even more if not for the Treasury’s planned
sales, Hamilton said.  Treasuries due in 10 or more years have returned 28 percent
in 2011, exceeding the 24.4 percent gain in all of 2008, during
the financial crisis, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Not since 1995, when the securities soared 30.7
percent, have investors done so well owning longer-dated  U.S.
government debt .  Third-Quarter Gains  Most of the gains on long-term Treasuries this year have
come since the end of June, with the securities returning 24.9
percent for the biggest quarterly gain since at least 1978, when
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes began tracking the
debt.  Demand for Treasuries has been fueled by government reports
showing the  U.S. economy  almost stalled in the first six months
of 2011 and added no jobs on August, keeping unemployment at 9.1
percent.  Under Geithner, the Treasury has been pursuing a policy of
extending the maturity of the government debt outstanding by
issuing a greater proportion of longer-dated securities. The
average maturity of U.S. debt rose to 62 months in the second
quarter of this year from 49.4 in the first quarter of 2009.  Won’t Deviate  The Treasury signaled on Sept. 21 that it will not deviate
from that path in the wake of the Fed’s move.  “Our long-standing debt management policy is to finance
the U.S. government at the lowest possible cost over time, and
that policy is unchanged,” the Treasury said in a statement.  That strategy has been endorsed by the 14-member Treasury
Borrowing Advisory Committee made up of banks and bond-market
investors, including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Pacific Investment Management Co., that the department
regularly consults regarding its financing strategies.  Officials have said they would eventually like to extend
the average maturity of the debt to between six and seven years.  The Treasury likely will issue about $430 billion of debt
with maturities of 10 years or more both this year and next,
Crandall said. That would be in line with $433 billion in 2010
and up from $371 billion in 2009.  Chubby Checker Song  The Fed’s strategy to push down longer-term yields has been
dubbed Operation Twist after a similar action in 1961 that got
its name from a hit song, “The Twist,” by Chubby Checker.  That maneuver lowered longer-term Treasury yields by about
15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, according to a 2011
paper by Eric T. Swanson, senior research adviser at the Federal
Reserve Bank of  San Francisco . The Treasury cooperated with the
Fed in 1961 by reducing its issuance of longer-dated debt while
the central bank was buying.  “They were both on the same page” back then, Hamilton
said. “But in this case the Fed and the Treasury seem to be
reading from different scripts of what they are supposed to be
doing.”  He said the Treasury should alter its borrowing strategy to
bring it in line with what the Fed is doing.  Such a step would run the risk of a backlash by investors
who might view it as an abandonment of a prudent financing
policy by Treasury, Crandall said.  “Preserving confidence in  U.S. debt  is one of the most
important policy objectives at this time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  