-- 
Billionaire Prokhorov Tempts Khodorkovsky Fate in Clash With Kremlin

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-09-26T12:02:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/billionaire-prokhorov-tempts-khodorkovsky-fate-in-kremlin-clash.html
Mikhail Prokhorov , Russia’s third-
richest man, is jeopardizing his investments by accusing the
Kremlin of orchestrating a “hostile takeover” of his political
party before national elections, analysts said.  Prokhorov resigned as chairman of Pravoye Delo on Sept. 15
and blamed the first deputy head of the presidential
administration,  Vladislav Surkov , of blocking the pro-business
party’s preparations for parliamentary elections in December.
Yesterday, the Kremlin said it removed Prokhorov from a commission
on modernizing the economy that includes Surkov.  “Being kicked off such a commission means losing access to
the president and prime minister, which billionaires in Russia
need to maintain their wealth,” said Mikhail Vinogradov, head
of the Petersburg Politics Foundation, a research group based in
the country’s second-biggest city.  The Kremlin yesterday replaced Prokhorov and two other
members of the advisory body and appointed billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg , Kaspersky Labs co-founder Natalya Kaspersky and two
government officials. President  Dmitry Medvedev , who on Sept. 24
said he’ll support Prime Minster  Vladimir Putin ’s return to the
Kremlin in elections in March, is chairing a meeting of the
commission today in the Ulyanovsk region on the  Volga River .  ‘Game Over’  Prokhorov said after resigning from Pravoye Delo, or Right
Cause, that he wasn’t afraid of suffering the same fate as
former Yukos Oil Co. billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , who was
convicted of fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005 and oil embezzlement
in December 2010, charges he said were linked to his financing
of opposition parties. Yukos’s main assets, now owned by state-
run OAO Rosneft, were seized and auctioned off by the government
to settle more than $30 billion of tax claims.  “I already know that they will try to create problems for
me,” Prokhorov said in a blog titled “Game Over” that he
posted Sept. 16. “They will crush us in a tough and
uncompromising way. I am ready for this.” The investor’s
fortune, which Forbes magazine puts at $18 billion, includes the
New Jersey Nets basketball team in the U.S. and more than 36
percent of OAO Polyus Gold,  Russia ’s largest maker of the metal.  Such public criticism of the Kremlin could result in
Prokhorov encountering “problems” with his businesses, though
it’s unlikely he’ll lose everything as Khodorkovsky did unless
he takes an even tougher anti-government stance, said Lilit
Gevorgyan, a Russia analyst at IHS Global Insight.  “Clashes with the state never end in a victory for an
oligarch, no matter how powerful they are,” Gevorgyan said by
e-mail.  Bank Raid  Masked law enforcement officers raided the headquarters of
a Moscow-based lender partly owned by Prokhorov, MFK Bank, on
Sept. 8, without saying what they were looking for, said Maxim
Chizhov, a spokesman for Pravoye Delo, which has offices in the
building, at the time.  Three years ago, during a trip to the Russian  Far East ,
Medvedev threatened to strip Polyus of its license to develop
Natalka, the world’s third-largest gold deposit, after its Chief
Executive Officer Evgeny Ivanov complained of a lack of
infrastructure in the region.  “If there are so many difficulties, if it’s so hard for
you to work, then give up the project, let us take away the
license from you,” Medvedev told Ivanov at a meeting then.
“Otherwise work, we do not need whining.” Prokhorov was
chairman of Moscow Polyus at the time.  Polyus, which still holds the license to Natalka, declined
to comment on Prokhorov’s feud with Surkov. Polyus shares fell
0.4 percent to 1,850.40 rubles at 3:15 p.m. in Moscow, valuing
the company at about $10.8 billion. That compares with a 3.4
percent gain, to 1,371.60, in the Micex Index of 30 stocks.  Surkov declined to discuss Prokhorov at a forum in Moscow
yesterday that was organized by the dominant United Russia
party. The Kremlin declined to comment beyond yesterday’s
statement, as did Prokhorov’s press service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 