-- 
Biofuels May Push 120 Million Into Hunger, Qatar’s Shah Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-26T12:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/biofuels-may-push-120-million-into-hunger-qatar-s-shah-says.html
Biofuel policies in countries from
 Australia  to the U.S. may push 120 million people into hunger by
2050 while doing little to halt climate change, said Mahendra
Shah, an advisor to Qatar’s food security program.  So-called first-generation biofuels produced from commodity
crops compete with food for land use and fertilizers, resulting
in higher grain prices and increased deforestation, Shah said at
the MENA Grains Summit in Istanbul today.  World food output will have to rise by at least 70 percent
by 2050 to feed a growing world population, according to Shah.
The use of crops for biofuels is forecast to raise food prices
by 30 percent to 50 percent in that period, Shah said, citing a
study by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
Fund for International Development, or OFID.  “The first generation, we should never have done it,”
said Shah, a policy advisor. “Biofuels will trigger an increase
in agricultural prices. Biofuels will result in another 120
million people hungry, just because we’re growing biofuels.”  Shah said the world food system is in crisis because
natural resources are limited, land quality is worsening and
water is scarce, meaning high food prices are here to stay.  “The era of low food prices that we saw until the
beginning of the millennium is over,” Shah said. “We’re not
going to go back to an era of declining prices.”  Government plans to boost ethanol and biodiesel production
and mandates on using them in transport fuel will increase
deforestation by between 20 million and 24 million hectares (49
milion to 59 million acres) by 2050 and increase fertilizer use
by 10 million tons, the OFID study showed, according to Shah.  Biofuels Versus Food  “Biofuels are also starting to compete with food use, and
the question is, how far we will take these biofuels?” Shah
said. “If you look at the cereal price index itself, prices
will increase substantially over the period. We know that the
first generation is not sustainable in the long run.”  In the U.S., 40 percent of the corn crop is used to make
ethanol, and rising corn prices because of the increased demand
are also lifting wheat and rice prices, according to Shah.  “If you suck corn out of a country’s market like in the
U.S. it will affect the amount of corn available for human
consumption but also feed,” the adviser said.  Climate-change  mitigation from biofuels will be “very
limited” before 2050, partly because the corn and sugar cane
used to make fuel are high in nitrogen-fertilizer consumption,
according to Shah.  “We will make no greenhouse-gases savings for the next 20
years by implementing biofuel policies, because they are working
with first-generation crops,” Shah said. “It particularly
defeats the whole purpose of saying we’ll use biofuels to reduce
climate change.”  Fuel Security  Growing crops for biofuels to reduce reliance on oil may
result in 6 percent to 12 percent transport-fuel security in
2030 and 2050, according to Shah.  “If we focused on efficiency in energy use, within less
than five years we could reach efficiency savings of 20 percent
to 30 percent,” Shah said, adding  energy efficiency  should be a
priority.  The greatest potential for renewable transport fuels to
mitigate climate change is in so-called third-generation
biofuels produced from non-crop sources such as algae, according
to Shah. In the meantime, first-generation biofuels won’t go
away, he said.  “The fact remains that those people who invested in
factories to process corn into biofuels are going to buy corn at
any price,” Shah said. “Industrialists have invested, they’re
not going to step back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Istanbul at  rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 