-- 
Blackstone Fund to Buy Shopping Centers for $473.1 Million

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-09-26T21:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/blackstone-fund-to-buy-36-shopping-centers-for-473-1-million.html
A  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  fund agreed
to buy 36 U.S. shopping centers, most anchored by grocery
stores, from  Equity One Inc. (EQY)  for $473.1 million.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII will buy the
properties, which are primarily in the Southeast, Equity One
said today in a statement. The portfolio was 91 percent occupied
at the end of June, according to the North Miami Beach, Florida-
based developer. The transaction is scheduled for completion in
the fourth quarter.  Retail centers with supermarkets are attracting investors
because of the perceived safety of properties that consumers
have to visit for necessities even in a slow-growing economy.
Sales of U.S. grocery-anchored retail properties in the first
half of this year exceeded the total for all of 2010, according
to research company Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Another fund affiliated with New York-based Blackstone, the
world’s biggest private-equity firm, bought the U.S. real estate
of Australia’s  Centro Properties Group (CNP)  for about $9 billion in
June. The Centro deal included 585 community and neighborhood
shopping centers in 39 states.  Equity One, which builds and operates shopping centers,
plans to use proceeds from the sale to retire debt and pay for
redevelopment and acquisitions.  The properties being sold are in Alabama, Florida, Georgia,
Maryland, North Carolina,  South Carolina  and Tennessee.  Publix
Super Markets Inc. (PUSH) , based in Lakeland, Florida, anchors 20 of
the centers, according to the statement.  Lazard Freres & Co. was Equity One’s adviser, while Eastdil
Secured LLC advised Blackstone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  