-- 
BLOOMBERG LAW AND SCOTUSBLOG ANNOUNCE EXCLUSIVE SPONSORSHIP

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-26T18:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/bloomberg-law-and-scotusblog-announce-exclusive-sponsorship.html
                                
Press Release  Bloomberg Law to Sponsor Award-Winning Website That Provides
Public Access to  Supreme Court  Coverage  NEW YORK -- Bloomberg Law, the legal research system from the
world leader in data and information services, and SCOTUSblog,
the highly regarded online resource dedicated to comprehensive
coverage of the United States Supreme Court, today announced
that they have entered into an exclusive sponsorship agreement.  Bloomberg Law will support SCOTUSblog’s mission to provide
independent, complimentary and high-quality coverage of issues
pertaining to the Court and allow the Site to expand the wide-
ranging, unbiased content created by its respected staff and
contributors.  “SCOTUSblog’s comprehensive and impartial examination of the
Supreme Court is an important public resource and Bloomberg Law
is proud to support their ability to bring this content to the
public, free of charge via the Web,” said Lou Andreozzi,
chairman of Bloomberg Law.  “Bloomberg Law’s support will allow us to reach new readers and
give existing readers new features and enhanced information.
Most importantly, it will allow us to expand the resources we
provide like the significant upgrade of the new SCOTUSblog
platform launching today, without charge and with the same
independence and high ethical standards for which we are known,”
said  Tom Goldstein , SCOTUSblog founder and publisher.  Bloomberg Law and SCOTUSblog plan to collaborate on new features
designed to help law students learn about the Supreme Court and
will work together to develop symposia, webinars and other
events for business and legal professionals. The content
available on the SCOTUSblog website will also be made available
on Bloomberg Law, and SCOTUSblog publisher Tom Goldstein will
provide exclusive business analysis for Bloomberg Law.  About Bloomberg Law
Bloomberg Law is the real-time legal research system that
integrates innovative search technology, comprehensive legal
content, company and client information, and proprietary news
all in one place. This collaborative workspace also includes a
suite of new tools for more effective legal analysis and more
productive client development. For more information, visit
BloombergLaw.com.  About SCOTUSblog
SCOTUSblog is devoted to comprehensively covering the U.S.
Supreme Court.  Established in 2002 by Tom Goldstein and Amy
Howe (who remain as the blog’s Publisher and Editor,
respectively), the blog provides coverage of individual cases, a
daily aggregation of Supreme Court writings, archives, and
analytic features to a readership of attorneys, law students,
academics, business leaders and the general public.  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:
Jill Goodkind, +1 212-617-3669, jgoodkind@bloomberg.net   #<779258.6948811.2.1.95.14779.2660>#
 