-- 
BOE’s Broadbent Says He Was Close to Voting for QE This Month

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-26T10:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/boe-s-broadbent-says-inflation-expectations-broadly-stable-.html
Bank of England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said he almost voted for more stimulus for the U.K.
economy this month as  Europe ’s debt crisis and the cooling
global recovery lower the outlook for inflation and growth.  Broadbent was “reasonably close” to voting for more so-
called quantitative easing at the Sept. 7-8 meeting, he told
reporters in London today after delivering a speech. Earlier, he
said the global environment is “disinflationary” and external
factors are likely to restrain Britain’s recovery.  Broadbent’s first public speech since joining the Monetary
Policy Committee in June comes as officials discuss whether to
add to economic stimulus by buying more bonds. While the MPC
voted 8-1 to keep bond purchases at 200 billion pounds ($310
billion) this month, minutes of the meeting showed most
officials see further stimulus as “increasingly probable.”  “Slow growth in the U.S., the sovereign-debt crisis in the
 euro zone  and its knock-on effects on the cost of finance for
U.K. and European banks all threaten a further tightening in
retail credit and a further slowing in domestic activity,”
Broadbent said in the speech.  He also said these effects “look set to dominate any
remaining ‘pass-through’ from sterling’s depreciation to
domestic inflation.” The pound has fallen about 25 percent on a
trade-weighted basis since the start of 2007.  QE Debate  Broadbent said the MPC is “in a better position than it
was two years ago” to judge what would be the “appropriate”
size of any expansion of bond purchases. He added that while
monetary policy isn’t powerless, “I don’t think it should be
viewed as a cure-all.” The MPC will announce its next policy
decision on Oct. 6.  Asked if there was a limit to how much more QE the Bank of
England could do, he said “not in principle, no.” Still,
policy makers must be aware of reducing liquidity in the  bond
market .  “There’s a stock of gilts and obviously one wants a
certain number freely exchanged in the market for that market to
function,” he said. “But in terms of the central bank’s
balance sheet, no, there’s no constraint.”  The pound remained higher against the dollar after the
comments were published and was up 0.3 percent at $1.5494 as of
10:51 a.m. in London. It has fallen 5.4 percent in the past
month on speculation the Bank of England is preparing more QE.  Inflation Expectations  Broadbent said inflation expectations remain “broadly
stable” and that this is “reassuring” as consumer-price
growth was 4.5 percent in August, more than twice the central
bank’s 2 percent target.  “I see little evidence that, so far at least, high spot
inflation has materially dented confidence in the inflation
target in the medium term,” he said.  He also said the rebalancing of the economy toward external
demand is likely to be hampered “in the presence of a sclerotic
banking system that is finding it hard to reallocate capital.”  “If this is true, it suggests that rebalancing and overall
productivity growth will remain sluggish for as long as the
banking system itself is in poor health,” he said. “It also
implies that, at least for given trends on the demand side,
sterling’s real exchange rate will have to remain weak for some
time to come.”  Broadbent said keeping inflation “rigidly” at the 2
percent target could have hurt the economy and increased
unemployment.  “It is not the job of the MPC -- or, for that matter, any
inflation-targeting monetary authority -- to keep inflation on
target at all times, come what may,” he said. “The credibility
of the U.K.’s inflation-targeting regime looks reasonably
robust. That’s clearly not something that can, or should, be
taken for granted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  