-- 
Boeing Rises Most in Six Weeks as First Dreamliner Delivered to All Nippon

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-09-26T22:35:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/boeing-rises-most-in-six-weeks-with-dreamliner-delivery-at-hand.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  rose the most in six
weeks in  New York  trading as the delivery of the 787 Dreamliner
ended more than three years of delays on the world’s first
jetliner made of composites instead of aluminum.  All Nippon Airways Co. received the plane today at a
ceremony outside Boeing’s widebody-jet factory in Everett,
Washington. Boeing climbed $2.50, or 4.2 percent, to $62.01 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest gain since Aug. 12.  Starting with today’s handover, Chicago-based Boeing will
begin working off an order backlog of 821 Dreamliners. It aims
to boost output fivefold to 10 a month by the end of 2013, a
record for wide-body planes, after the setbacks raised costs,
ballooned 787 inventory to $16.2 billion through June and upset
airlines’ timetables for adding new routes.  “We have a robust plan” to increase production, Chief
Executive Officer Jim McNerney told reporters. “On the new
planes now coming into our factory, the condition of assembly is
equivalent to the condition of assembly we have on our other
airplanes. So things are beginning to move.”  McNerney said the 787 program will be considered profitable
immediately under Boeing’s accounting system, which matches cost
and revenue. The cash break-even point on a unit basis, when
more money comes in for each plane than is spent to build it, is
“a number of years out in front of us,” though will occur this
decade, he said.  Cash-Flow  Gain  “We see profitability on the overall 787 program as
relatively far off,” Richard Tortoriello, a Standard & Poor’s
equity analyst in New York, said in a note to investors. At the
same time, “we expect deliveries to result in a substantial
decrease in 787 inventory and a correspondingly large increase
in cash flow from operations in ‘12,’’ he wrote.  The twin-engine 787 is Boeing’s 11th all-new model and the
 best-selling  ever. It’s also the company’s first new jet in 16
years, after the 777. Boeing doesn’t expect to develop another
new plane until next decade, after deciding in July to upgrade
the engines on the 737 instead of building a replacement jet.  ‘‘The last number of years have reminded us of the risk of
development, particularly with big innovation like this,”
McNerney told reporters. “Those lessons will be fresh in our
mind as we think about our development programs going forward.”  Materials, Manufacturing  Struggles with the composite materials and manufacturing
process pushed back the jet’s entry into service seven times
since 2007. The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  gave its
approval to the model last month, after 20 months of flight
testing.  “Boeing is now in the position of demonstrating that it
can begin the ramp-up,”  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies & Co. analyst
in New York, said in a note to investors. “We figure Boeing can
deliver eight to 12 planes prior to year-end.”  Rubel and Tortoriello both recommend buying Boeing shares.  The Dreamliner is part of Boeing’s strategy to help reclaim
the top spot in industry sales lost to Airbus SAS in 2003. The
composite body is lighter than traditional aluminum, cutting
fuel use, and upgrades such as LED lighting and larger windows
are designed to improve passengers’ in-flight experience.  “Thank you for waiting for this day,” McNerney said in
Japanese to All Nippon President Shinichiro Ito at the ceremony.  All Nippon Service  All Nippon’s first 787 passenger flight will be a special
trip between  Tokyo  and  Hong Kong  on Oct. 26. The jets then will
start on shorter routes within  Japan , because the first ones are
overweight and not as fuel-efficient, according to Satoru Fujiki, All Nippon’s senior vice president for the Americas.  Regular domestic service will start Nov. 1 between Haneda
and Okayama and Hiroshima, followed by intercontinental service
between Haneda and  Frankfurt  in January after the Tokyo-based
carrier receives several more of the jets. With 55 787s on
order, All Nippon would be the biggest operator of the plane.  Carriers have penalty clauses written into contracts for
late deliveries. All Nippon has worked with Boeing to receive
 767s and 777s  to blunt the effect of not getting the 787 in May
2008 as planned. Fujiki declined to give financial details.  After dropping 39 percent since since the Dreamliner’s
first delay in October 2007, Boeing’s stock may be in line for a
boost, said Ken Herbert, a San Francisco-based analyst with
Wedbush Securities.  Following the first delivery of each new model and variant
in the past two decades, Boeing outperformed the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index by an average of 8.1 percent three months
later, Herbert said. The planemaker’s advantage rose to 14
percent a year after each new jet’s debut.  Operating Costs  Boeing has promoted the 787 as being 20 percent cheaper to
operate than comparably sized jets, due to the lightweight
materials and an all-new system for onboard power that relies on
electricity, not air diverted from the engines.  “We absolutely stretched the bounds of technology here,”
said Bob Leduc, president of Hamilton Sundstrand Flight Systems,
which makes the jet’s electrical system. “If we had to do it
all over again, we probably would have wished we would have had
it a little more mature.”  The plane, which seats 210 to 290 people, is being marketed
for long-haul routes such as Tokyo-New York that have been the
domain of larger aircraft.  Boeing drew from a decade of research by psychologists and
architects to make  air travel  more comfortable for passengers.
Bigger windows feature dimming glass instead of window shades;
larger luggage bins will accommodate more bags while allowing
for more headroom; and LED lighting highlights new archways.  Because the carbon-fiber reinforced composite plastics
don’t corrode like metals, cabin air can have more humidity and
be kept at a higher pressure, so travelers feel they’re at a
lower altitude than on other planes.  “This has not always been a smooth journey,” Boeing
Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  told a crowd of
hundreds of employees, airline executives and politicians at the
Everett plant. “But nothing important ever is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Everett,  Washington , at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  