-- 
BP Gulf Drilling Plan Criticized by Environmentalists, Lawmakers

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-09-26T12:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/bp-gulf-of-mexico-drilling-plan-criticized-by-environmentalists-lawmakers.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s plan to resume full
drilling operations in the Gulf of  Mexico  after the worst U.S.
oil spill was criticized by environmental groups and lawmakers.  “We don’t think there is any way they can drill safely,”
Jackie Savitz, a senior campaign director at Washington-based
Oceana, said in an interview. “If we see an opportunity to stop
drilling through litigation, we will seriously consider it.”  BP last week filed its first permit application for new
drilling since the Macondo well spilled almost 5 million barrels
of oil into the Gulf over three months last year. Two of its
rigs have started work near the Atlantis platform and the
company has plans for its three other contracted rigs in the
region, according to people with knowledge of the plans who
declined to be identified because they hinge on gaining
regulators’ approval.  BP was “ultimately responsible” for the accident on the
Deepwater Horizon rig that killed 11 and started the leak,
though rigowner Transocean Ltd. and  Halliburton Co (HAL) , which
provided cement, share some of the blame, a U.S. report said
Sept. 14. The 212-page document issued by the Interior
Department and Coast Guard said BP managers were distracted by
cost overruns and personal conflicts.  ‘Being Premature’  “By filing its first drilling plan a mere week after being
cited for multiple violations of federal regulations by the
government’s investigation team for the Deepwater Horizon
disaster, BP now stands for Being Premature,” said
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat who sits
on the House Natural Resources Committee.  Markey said in statement on Sept. 23 that he will push for
executives to testify on safety and other lessons learned from
Macondo before Congress.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley, who took the helm
almost a year ago, is seeking to revive Gulf production at the
company’s most profitable fields after a 17-month slump. BP has
lagged behind rivals in resuming drilling in the region and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded its recommendation because
of lack of progress.  BP on July 15 said it will implement a higher standard of
safety in its drilling than regulations require. It will now
only use blowout preventers on the Gulf floor with at least two
so-called blind shear rams, which seal wellbores by cutting
through the drill pipe. The blowout preventer for the Deepwater
Horizon had one blind shear ram that failed to cut off oil and
gas from the well. BP will also set up a real-time drilling
operations center in Houston.  Still Washing Up  “BP has not yet cleaned up its mess from the April 20,
2010 BP Macondo blowout, and until it does it should not be
allowed to drill more wells in the  Gulf of Mexico ,” said Davit
Pettit, a senior attorney at the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council.  “There is still oil from the BP
Macondo well washing up on Gulf beaches. BP needs to take
responsibility for this and get that oil out of the Gulf
ecosystem.”  Gulf of Mexico oil is more than twice as profitable as
production from the rest of BP’s portfolio, yielding about $60
in profit to the company when  oil prices  are $100 a barrel. In
2010, the Gulf of Mexico accounted for 28 percent of the
company’s cash flow and just 10 percent of production, according
to research by Citigroup Inc. analyst Alastair Syme.  Production as Collateral  The company’s payments into the $20 billion fund for spill
victims demanded by President  Barack Obama  uses Gulf production
as collateral. BP’s output in the Gulf has dropped to about
250,000 barrels a day from about 390,000 barrels a day before
the spill, according to the company.  BP received permission to plug a well in the Green Canyon
basin on Sept. 8 with the Development Driller II rig, owned by
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , according to data on the website of the U.S.
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement,
or BOERME. The Development Driller III started an abandonment
procedure in July in the same block near the Atlantis platform.
The jobs are scheduled to last into October, the permits show.  The Discoverer Enterprise, also owned by Transocean, is set
to work near the Thunder Horse platform. Ensco Plc’s DS-3 is
slated to drill development wells in the Na Kika prospect, and
Seadrill Ltd.’s West Sirius rig is scheduled for work on
Kaskida, according to two people with knowledge of the plans. BP
hopes all three rigs will be operating this year, another person
said.  BP’s Dudley said July 26 that BP is eager to “get back to
work” in the Gulf, working closely with regulators, and that
the pace of BP’s return depends on getting approvals for new
wells. He said the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Management says BP won’t
be held to a higher standard than its peers in its applications.  “On the basis of activity since Macondo, there’s no
evidence that BP will do a better job than in the past,” said
Charlie Kronick, a climate adviser at Greenpeace U.K., in a
telephone interview. “There’s absolutely no way they should be
drilling again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  