-- 
Branson Seeks Halt to BA ‘Salami Slicing’ of Lufthansa’s BMI

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-09-26T12:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/branson-seeks-halt-to-ba-s-salami-slicing-of-lufthansa-s-bmi.html
Richard Branson , the billionaire
owner of Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., called on regulators to
vet the purchase of operating slots at London’s Heathrow airport
by chief rival British Airways from  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   Virgin will this week write to the U.K. Office of Fair
Trading and the European Commission after BA, already the No. 1
airline at capacity-constrained Heathrow, said Sept. 23 it would
buy six daily takeoff and landing slots from Lufthansa-unit BMI.  “Branson is concerned that BA could be attempting to
salami slice BMI’s key assets, increasing their dominance whilst
leaving just an uncompetitive and unattractive rump for sale,”
Crawley, England-based Virgin said today in a statement.  Branson has himself been pursuing BMI for more than a
decade, and Virgin said today it recently renewed that interest
as Lufthansa Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz looks at
offloading the unit. Virgin added that it didn’t bid for the
slots sold last week because they were advertized as available
only for lease, though BA says it bought them outright.  ‘Non-Core’  Lufthansa is still “looking at all possibilities” for BMI,
spokesman Aage Duenhaupt said by telephone, adding that the
unit’s value isn’t affected by the disposal to British Airways.  “Whatever we have now sold does not impact network quality
or the core value of BMI, because the slots are not part of the
core activities of the BMI portfolio,” Duenhaupt said, declining
to specify whether deals have been done over other slots.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, formed in
January from a merger of British Airways and  Spain ’s Iberia,
rose as much as 4.6 percent and was trading 3.4 percent higher
at 146.90 pence as of 1:27 p.m. in London.  Lufthansa was priced up 2.8 percent at 9.62 euros. The
Cologne, Germany-based carrier acquired BMI under duress in 2009
when then-owner Michael Bishop exercised a  put option  as the
global slump hurt airline values.  At Virgin, which is closely held, Branson considered buying
an initial BMI stake later acquired by Lufthansa in 1999, and
CEO Steve Ridgway said in 2005 a tie-up was “the great undone
deal in aviation,” given the “logic” of combining his company’s
long-haul routes with BMI’s short- and mid-distance network.  BMI controlled 8.2 percent of operating positions at
Heathrow before the sale to BMI, making it the second-biggest
operator. The slot portfolio is worth as much as 460 million
euros ($619 million), Citigroup Inc. analyst Andrew Light says.  Laura Goodes, a spokeswoman for IAG, said the London-based
company wasn’t commenting on Branson’s remarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  