-- 
Brazilian Stock Movers: BM&FBovespa, Petroleo Brasileiro, Vale

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-09-26T20:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/brazilian-stock-movers-bm-fbovespa-petroleo-brasileiro-vale.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Sao Paulo trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 4:15 p.m. New York time.
Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock.  The Bovespa Index rose 1 percent to 53,747.52.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  (BVMF3 BS), the operator of  Latin America ’s
biggest securities exchange, rose 0.4 percent to 9.25 reais,
after earlier dropping as much as 2.9 percent.  Brazil ’s central
bank and  Finance Ministry  disagree about a tax on foreign-
exchange derivatives after the real plunged this month, Valor
Economico reported, citing government officials it didn’t
identify.  The Finance Ministry wants the so-called IOF tax, which was
introduced in July to stem excessive appreciation of the
Brazilian currency, to be approved by Congress, according to the
Sao Paulo-based newspaper. Congressional approval would allow
the government to reduce the rate to zero and then increase it
again when necessary, Valor reported. Central bank officials
believe the provisional measure is preventing the market from
functioning properly, Valor said.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  (PETR4 BS) climbed 3.2 percent to
19.78 reais. Brazil’s state-controlled oil company estimates its
Franco field may have a thicker layer of crude than the
company’s largest deposits. The thickness of the layer of oil
that can be produced from the field, known as net pay, may
exceed that of the Lula and Guara deposits, said Mauro Yuji
Hayashi, who manages the company’s deepwater fields in the
Atlantic Ocean.  Vale SA (VALE3)  (VALE5 BS), the world’s largest iron-ore producer,
declined 1.2 percent to 40.50 reais. Sixty-two percent iron ore
delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin fell 0.7 percent to
$172.90 a metric ton, the lowest since July 11, according to the
Steel Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  