-- 
Brazilian Rate Futures Fall as Investors Bet on Deeper Cuts

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-09-26T16:45:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/brazilian-rate-futures-fall-as-investors-bet-on-deeper-cuts.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts fell as investors bet the central bank
may accelerate cuts in borrowing costs to protect the country
from a worsening global economic slowdown.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013, the
most actively-traded, fell 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage
point, to 10.24 percent at 12:36 p.m. New York time. Contracts
due in November suggest traders are betting central bank
President Alexandre Tombini will lower the benchmark Selic rate
by as much as 75 basis points at the October meeting, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy makers may cut the Selic rate as much as 1
percentage point next month because the global financial crisis
has turned “much worse” than expected, IG news service
reported on Sept. 24, citing bankers and analysts who met
central bankers in  Washington . Central bank directors are
concerned about deflation risks from overseas, according to the
Sao Paulo-based agency.  “You have a climate of  risk aversion  and inflation
slowing,” Eduardo Galasini, head of proprietary trading at
Banco Banif Primus in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview
today. If the central bank “continues this discourse that the
crisis is very serious,” Tombini will “give a sign that he
wants to lower the rate a bit more.”  12 Percent  The central bank reduced the benchmark  interest rate  a half
point to 12 percent on Aug. 31, after raising it at the previous
five policy meetings, citing a “substantial deterioration” in
the global economy. Inflation rose to a six-year high of 7.3
percent in the year through mid-September, above the central
bank’s target ceiling of 6.5 percent for a fifth month.  More than $3.5 trillion was erased from global equity
markets last week, driving stocks into a  bear market  as concern
mounted that the economy is sinking into recession. Commodity
prices, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index,
have lost 8.7 percent in the past month and reached the lowest
level since December 2010.  “There’s speculation that there could be an even bigger
cut if the crisis abroad gets worse,” said  Newton Rosa , an
economist at Sul America Investimentos in Sao Paulo, in a
telephone interview.  The real weakened 0.6 percent to 1.8450 per dollar, from
1.8339 on Sept. 23, extending its decline this month to 14
percent as the worst emerging-market currency. The central bank
sold currency swaps last week, which is the equivalent of
selling dollars in the futures market, for the first time in two
years to stem the real’s decline.  Derivatives Tax  Brazil’s central bank and  Finance Ministry  disagree about
the future of a tax on foreign-exchange derivatives after the
real fell sharply this month,  Valor Economico  reported today,
citing unidentified government officials.  The Finance Ministry wants the so-called IOF tax, which was
introduced in July after the real surged to a 12-year high, to
be approved by Congress, according to the Sao Paulo-based
newspaper. That way the government could reduce the current rate
to zero then increase it again when necessary, Valor said.  The central bank sees the provisional measure as preventing
the market from functioning properly, Valor said. Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega , who returned home one day earlier than
scheduled from International Monetary Fund meetings in
Washington over the weekend, and Tombini will resume talks about
the tax this week, Valor said.  Brazil ’s central bank will miss its inflation target this
year for the first time since 2003, a central bank survey of
economists shows today.  Consumer prices will rise 6.52 percent this year, according
to the median forecast in a Sept. 23 central bank survey of
about 100 analysts published today, as record low unemployment
and a weaker currency fuel consumer price increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  