-- 
Broadcom Rolls Out Near-Field Chips to Target NXP, Samsung

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-26T20:24:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/broadcom-rolls-out-near-field-chips-as-it-targets-nxp-samsung.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  said today that it’s
introducing a new line of near-field communication chips, which
can turn smartphones and consumer electronics into mobile
wallets.  The semiconductors are 90 percent more energy-efficient and
40 percent smaller than competing products, Broadcom Vice
President Craig Ochikubo said in an interview. They’re already
being designed into products by several Broadcom customers, and
the first of these will debut by mid-2012, he said. The chips
will let consumers tap their smartphones on store cash registers
to pay for goods and redeem coupons.  Ochikubo wouldn’t name the manufacturers using the chips,
though  Irvine , California-based Broadcom has supplied components
to companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  Apple has considered putting near-field communication, or
NFC, chips into its products.  “What makes Broadcom unique in this market is we are
coming into it with a connectivity portfolio,” Ochikubo said.
“NFC is poised to become standard in smartphones. There will be
companies next year that buy our complete package.”  Broadcom plans eventually to sell complete packages of
chips, including NFC, global positioning, Bluetooth and other
capabilities, Ochikubo said.  Broadcom’s new offerings could heat up competition with
near-field chipmakers such as NXP Semiconductors NV, Samsung
Electronics Co. and Inside Secure.  ‘Competitive Pressure’  “Broadcom can bring breadth and heft to this industry,”
 Mark Hung , a research director at Gartner Inc., said in an
interview. “It’s going to present significant competitive
pressure.” Broadcom could grab 20 percent of the near-field
chip market within a year, he said.  Broadcom’s move is also a sign of growth in the market for
near-field chips and devices that use them. The value of mobile
payments made with such technologies worldwide  will more than
double to  $670 billion by 2015 from $240 billion this year,
according to Juniper Research.  The U.S. market’s growth is driven by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s recent
debut of its mobile wallet service and by wireless carriers’
efforts to bring near-field payments and promotions into select
cities next year.  Broadcom has offered less-capable NFC chips, which are not
suited to smartphones, in the past. Last year, it  acquired  NFC
chipmaker Innovision Research & Technology Plc for $47.5
million. The new chips are the result of combining Innovision’s
and Broadcom’s technologies, Ochikubo said.  Broadcom dropped 25 cents to $34.28 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have fallen 21 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  