-- 
BT, Marshalls Seek Supply Chain CO2 Cuts, U.K. Carbon Trust Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-09-26T12:27:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/bt-marshalls-seek-supply-chain-co2-cuts-u-k-carbon-trust-says.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s biggest
fixed-line phone company, and the building materials maker
 Marshalls Plc (MSLH)  are among the multinational companies seeking
emissions cuts in their supply chains, the Carbon Trust said.  About 40 percent of U.K. multinationals are already taking
measures to reduce the environmental impact of their suppliers,
and of those that aren’t, 84 percent plan to do so within three
years, according to a statement e-mailed today by the trust,
which advises British businesses on carbon-reduction measures.  The survey showed that 56 percent of the companies polled
expect to stop using suppliers that have a “poor record” on
cutting  greenhouse gases , the trust said. Two-thirds said they
would pay a premium for components or services with low
emissions, and as much as 15 percent said they’re prepared to
pay suppliers to make CO2 cuts.  “As carbon becomes more widely understood as a commodity,
there will be increasing pressure from external sources,
particularly shareholders, to make companies address the carbon-
intensive area of supply chain emissions.” Hugh Jones, managing
director, of the  Carbon Trust ’s Advisory division, said in the
statement.  Marshalls, the U.K.’s largest maker of natural stone and
concrete landscaping products, has used the trust to calculate
the carbon footprint of a range of its products, including the
supply chain, according to the statement. Other companies taking
similar measures include  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) ,  Unilever NV (UNA) ,
PepsiCo Inc. and BT, the trust said.  “We work with around 16,700 suppliers across the world,
spending approximately 12 billion pounds ($19 billion) per annum
with them,” BT Chief Sustainability Officer Niall Dunne said in
the statement. “Getting things right with our suppliers allows
us to pass on sustainable value to our customers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  