-- 
BTA’s Capital Gap Widened 83% Last Month, Central Bank Says

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-09-26T16:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/bta-capital-shortfall-widened-83-last-month-central-bank-says.html
BTA Bank’s capital shortfall
widened 83 percent last month after assets dropped, the Kazakh
central bank said.  The liabilities of the lender, Kazakhstan’s biggest before
it defaulted in 2009, exceeded assets by 73 billion tenge ($494
million) under international accounting standards, from 40.4
billion tenge in July, the central bank’s financial oversight
committee said in a  monthly report  on its website today.  Chairman Anvar Saidenov said Sept. 1 that the bank in July
had a capital surplus of 314 billion tenge in accordance with
Kazakh regulations. BTA maintained positive capital under
domestic standards as of Sept. 1, the Almaty-based bank said in
an e-mailed reply to questions.  BTA and Alliance Bank were brought under state control in
2009, when credit markets froze and Kazakhstan’s property bubble
burst. Last year, both banks restructured their debt by issuing
new bonds and offering shares and cash to creditors.  BTA’s assets fell to 1.766 trillion tenge as of Sept. 1
compared with 1.795 trillion tenge a month earlier, according to
the regulator. The lender’s liabilities rose to 1.839 trillion
tenge from 1.835 trillion tenge on Aug. 1.  The capital shortage grew because of a provisions charge
and losses from current operations, Adil Dosymov, a spokesman
for BTA, said by phone today.  ‘Pessimistic Scenario’  “Under the most pessimistic scenario,” with BTA loan
holdings shrinking and the bank unable to reduce funding costs,
the lender has a year before it’s in violation of Kazakh
regulatory capital requirements, Saidenov said.  Alliance Bank’s capital gap shrank by 82 percent to 2.9
billion tenge, according to the regulator.  Alliance used the proceeds from the sale of bad loans to
narrow the shortfall, Dmitry Shishkin, a spokesman at the
Almaty-based lender, said by phone today. The amount of bad
loans sold by the bank “correlates” with a decree in
provisions of about 40 billion tenge in August, he said.  The following table shows the eight-month performance of
 Kazakhstan ’s six largest lenders by assets, along with 13th-
ranked Temirbank, and their position as of Sept. 1. The data
from the oversight committee are in billions of tenge:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  