-- 
Caffeinated Coffee May Help Women Fight Depression, Study Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-09-26T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/caffeinated-coffee-may-help-women-fight-depression-study-says.html
Drinking  caffeinated  coffee may
help women fight depression, Harvard researchers said,
cautioning that more study is needed before they’d recommend
adding several cups a day as therapy.  Women who consumed four or more cups of caffeinated coffee
a day had a 20 percent decreased risk of developing depression
over the 10-year period compared with those who consumed one cup
or less a week, according to a study released today in the
 Archives of Internal Medicine . The findings applied only to
coffee, which has higher levels of caffeine than teas, sugary
sodas or chocolate, the researchers said.  About one in five U.S. women will be diagnosed with
 depression  in her lifetime, the authors wrote. Today’s study is
the first and largest analysis of caffeine and  depression  in
women, author Alberto Ascherio said. The research adds to
studies that have linked coffee to benefits such as a decreased
risk of prostate cancer and harms such as an association with
miscarriages.  “This is an observational study,” said Ascherio,
professor of epidemiology and nutrition at Harvard School of
 Public Health  in  Boston , in a Sept. 23 telephone interview. “We
can’t translate this into a recommendation, not at this stage.”  It’s unclear how caffeinated coffee may work in the brain
to lower depression risk, Ascherio said. Caffeine is known to
elevate mood. It’s also unclear how long a person needs to drink
coffee to lower the risk, he said.  Coffee Consumption  About 90 percent of U.S. adults consume caffeine daily,
with coffee accounting for about 81 percent of the total daily
intake by people older than age 36, the authors said. Americans
drank 77.4 billion cups of coffee valued at $35.79 billion in
the 12 months ended June 30, according to a Sept. 7 statement by
the research firm StudyLogic.  The study included 50,739 women who were part of the
 Nurses’ Health Study . Researchers looked at questionnaires the
women completed from May 1980 to April 2004 to measure caffeine
consumption. None of the women had depression at the start of
the study in 1996 and they were followed through June 2006.  Researchers found that 2,607 women developed depression
from 1996 to 2006. Ninety-five women who drank four or more cups
of caffeinated coffee a day were diagnosed with depression
during the study period while 670 people in the one cup a week
or less were diagnosed.  More than 560 women who drank two to three cups of coffee
developed depression over the study. That group was 15 percent
less likely to develop the disorder than those who drank one cup
or fewer each week, the study found.  Further Research  “We don’t want to give false hopes to people that drinking
coffee will help them not get depressed,”  Michelle Riba , a
professor of psychiatry at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann
Arbor , who wasn’t connected to the study, said in a Sept. 23
telephone interview. “It does give us some information. Clearly
more needs to be done on this.”  Ascherio said women who are predisposed to depression may
be more likely to avoid caffeine because it affects their sleep
or because they are genetically sensitive to caffeine.  The research also showed that regular coffee drinkers were
more likely to be smokers and consume more alcohol than those
who consumed coffee the least frequently. The regular coffee
drinkers were also less likely to be involved in church,
community groups or volunteer and had lower rates of obesity,
high blood pressure and diabetes, the authors said.  More studies are needed to confirm today’s findings and to
explore whether genetic factors that make people predisposed to
depression also affect how they metabolize caffeine, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  