-- 
Canada Dollar Reaches Weakest Level in More Than a Year on Europe Concern

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-26T21:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/canadian-currency-slides-to-weakest-in-more-than-a-year-on-europe-concern.html
Canada ’s dollar touched the weakest
level in more than a year against its U.S. counterpart in
volatile trading amid concern European officials may fail to
forestall a spiraling sovereign-debt crisis.  The Canadian currency erased losses as stocks climbed
before U.S. markets closed after European officials spoke of
plans to tame the crisis. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said failure to address it may prompt investors to pull money
from banks. A standoff over a U.S. spending bill threatened a
government shutdown.  “It’s the lack of a substantial resolution in  Europe ,
combined with the political uncertainties facing the U.S.”
that’s weighing on the currency,  Jack Spitz , managing director
of foreign-exchange sales at  National Bank of Canada , said by
telephone from Toronto. “The Canadian dollar is a currency that
reacts inversely to volatility.”  Canada’s currency closed at C$1.0251 per U.S. dollar at 5
p.m. in Toronto, up 0.3 percent compared with C$1.0281 at the
end of last week. It dropped 1 percent earlier today to touch
C$1.0386, the weakest level since Sept. 9, 2010. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.55 U.S. cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.3 percent, and crude
oil for November delivery gained 1.9 percent to $81.34 a barrel
in New York. Oil is Canada’s biggest export.  The 14-day relative strength index for the loonie versus
the U.S. currency touched to 26.9, falling below 30 for a third
straight day. A reading lower than 30 signals that an asset may
be due for a rebound.  Implied Volatility  Volatility in the  U.S. dollar  versus its Canadian
counterpart soared. One-month implied volatility on the  currency
pair  touched 15.9 percent, after climbing Sept. 23 to 16
percent, the highest since May 2010. It was 10.1 percent on Aug.
31. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency.  Finance ministers and central bankers who held weekend
talks in  Washington  urged European officials to intensify
efforts to contain the crisis as Greece, which where it began 18
months ago, teetered on the edge of default.  The  European Central Bank  will likely debate restarting
covered-bond purchases and may discuss interest-rate cuts to
ease funding strains, a euro-region central bank official said
today. German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s comment that leaders
must erect a firewall around  Greece  prompted bets there might be
a European version of the U.S.’s Troubled Asset Relief Program.  ‘Can That Be Delivered?’  “What matters is what transpires in Europe,”  Camilla Sutton , director of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia,
Canada’s third-largest lender, said by phone from Toronto.
“Analysts now have a unified view of what needs to be done -- a
bigger aid package, bank recapitalization and a framework for an
orderly default by Greece. The question is, can that be
delivered?”  In the U.S., a standoff between congressional Democrats and
Republicans over a federal spending bill threatened a government
shutdown this week. They disagree over whether to partly offset
aid to victims of  Hurricane Irene  and other national disasters
with spending cuts elsewhere.  Canada’s government bonds dropped for a second day, pushing
yields on benchmark 10-year debt higher by seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.14 percent. They reached a record
low 1.994 percent on Sept. 23 as investors sought the safety of
sovereign securities. The price of the 3.25 percent securities
due in June 2021 tumbled 66 cents to C$109.61.  Second-Biggest Loser  The loonie has lost 3.4 percent this year versus nine
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. Only the Australian dollar has performed
worse, declining 4.8 percent. The economies of both nations rely
on exports of raw materials.  Speculators lowered bets on rising commodities prices by
the most in 19 months as raw materials tip into their first  bear
market  since 2008 and investors anticipate more losses. Money
managers cut the combined net-long position across 18 futures
and options by 20 percent in the week ended Sept. 20, the most
since February 2010, data from the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  