-- 
Canada’s Dickson Rejects Notion That Basel Is Anti-American

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-09-26T17:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/canada-s-dickson-says-basel-capital-rules-not-anti-american-.html
Canada’s banking regulator said new
global  capital requirements  aren’t “anti-American,” arguing
the standards are prudent measures to insulate financial
institutions against another crisis.  Julie Dickson, head of the Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions, was responding to comments by  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , who has
criticized the so-called Basel III rules.  “Basel is anti the old way of doing things, for sure, but
I don’t think I’d call it anti-American,” Dickson told
reporters after a speech in Toronto today. “Jamie Dimon’s
always been quite vocal. It wouldn’t be the first time that
institutions who are opposed to capital increases would talk
about things that would appeal to governments.”  Some banks have been pushing for regulators to delay the
deadline to implement higher capital standards set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision . Dimon has been a vocal critic
of Basel III, telling Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  at a
conference in June that more study is needed to determine the
impact on big banks such as JPMorgan.  At a gathering of bank executives on Sept. 23 in
Washington, Dimon, 55, criticized regulators’ plans to require
the biggest lenders to hold extra capital and got into a dispute
with  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney , said three people with
knowledge of the encounter.  ‘Constructive Dialogue’  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan, and  Jeremy Harrison , a spokesman for the Bank of Canada, declined to
comment on what was said at the meeting. Harrison said in an
e-mailed statement that the central bank has been “engaged in
constructive dialogue with a range of stakeholders, both
domestic and international, as we move forward through this
financial-sector reform process.”  Carney worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for more than a
decade before joining Canada’s central bank and has led a
committee at the Bank of International Settlements that monitors
risks in global financial markets. He said Sept. 25 that new
financial regulations won’t hobble the global economic recovery.  “The implementation timetable for Basel III begins in two
years and ends in 2019,” Carney said in a speech to the
Institute of International Finance in  Washington . “It is
difficult to believe that prolonging this implementation phase
even further would have a material impact on real economic
outcomes.”  ‘More to Come’  Steps to meet the Basel III rules are the “biggest
implementation operations our members have ever experienced, and
there’s more to come,” Terry Campbell, chief executive officer
of the Canadian Bankers’ Association, said in a May 25 speech.  Dickson said her agency, known as OSFI, continues to expect
Canadian financial institutions to meet the capital standards
early in the Basel III transition period, which starts January
2013.  “When it comes to Basel III applying to healthy banks, I
don’t think that the issue is one of going too far, too fast,”
Dickson said. “I think it is just prudent to increase capital
levels as soon as you can.”  Risk Controls  Dickson said in  her speech  that Canadian banks, which have
been judged the world’s soundest by the Geneva-based  World
Economic Forum  for four straight years, must increase
investments in risk controls.  “We must not become complacent in  Canada ,” she said.
“Canadian financial institutions must continue to invest in
their risk controls and systems. In fact, control expectations
are rising and spending must follow, particularly on data
aggregation.”  Dickson warned banks not to act as if they have “more
leeway while others catch up to them, in the meantime allowing
them even more flexibility to grow and expand.”  She said her agency is increasing monitoring of  mortgage
loans  by banks, and added that imprudent lending through
vehicles such as home-equity lines of credit can cause “major
problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Toronto at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  