-- 
Cancer Cost Swells, Risks Becoming ‘Unsustainable,’ Lancet Says

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-09-26T10:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/cancer-cost-swells-risks-becoming-unsustainable-lancet-says.html
Cancer treatment costs are rising
at such a rapid rate that they threaten to become
“unsustainable” even for rich countries, according to an
expert panel assembled by  The Lancet Oncology  medical journal.  About 12 million people worldwide get cancer every year,
and the costs associated with new cases was at least $286
billion in 2009, according to a report compiled by 37 experts
from countries including the U.K., the U.S. and  Germany . By
2030, about 22 million people will be diagnosed with the disease
annually, the panel told a  cancer conference  in  Stockholm  today.  Cancer diagnosis and treatment is becoming more complex,
with a mix of imaging, surgery, radiation and drug therapy
involved in fighting tumors. Experts in those fields need to
come together and discuss with patients, insurers and industry
players the best ways to lower costs without compromising care,
the panel said.  “With an aging global population and an endless conveyor
belt of expensive new drugs and technologies and increasing
financial pressures, the cost of cancer care in high-income
countries is becoming unsustainable,” The Lancet Oncology said
in a statement.  More than half of the $286 billion in costs was related to
treatment, while a quarter was linked to lost productivity, the
report found.  The panel included economists, patient advocates and
physicians, the journal’s editor, David Collingridge, wrote in
an accompanying comment. Input from drugmakers, payers and
educators will be key to future discussions, Collingridge said.  “We are at a crossroads for affordable cancer care, where
our choices, or refusal to make choices, will affect the lives
of millions of people,” said  Richard Sullivan , a professor at
King’s College Integrated Cancer Centre in  London  who presented
the report to the European Multidisciplinary Cancer Congress in
Stockholm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  