-- 
Carter’s Ex-Executive Elles Pleads Not Guilty to Fraud Charges

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 
2011-09-26T20:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/carter-s-ex-executive-charged-with-fraud-at-children-s-clothing-maker.html
Joseph Elles, a former sales
executive at  Carter’s Inc. (CRI) , pleaded not guilty to charges he
reported inflated sales at the world’s biggest maker of
children’s clothing.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Janet King in Atlanta granted Elles
$100,000 bail after his arraignment today on 32 counts including
 securities fraud ,  wire fraud , causing the filing of false
financial statements and falsifying corporate books and records.  Elles, 57, a former executive vice president, “induced”
customers such as  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  to make “substantial purchases”
of Carter’s products at unauthorized millions of dollars in
discounts that he didn’t disclose, according to the indictment
filed Sept. 21.  Elles allegedly hid those discounts, causing the company to
overstate profit, prosecutors said. He also aided others, some
of whom U.S. prosecutors haven’t identified, according to the
indictment.  The U.S. Securities Exchange Commission sued Elles in
December 2010. The SEC charges mirror the indictment by the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Atlanta.  The SEC agreed not to sue Atlanta-based Carter’s because of
the company’s “prompt and complete self-reporting.”  Denies Charges  Raymond Joseph Burby, a lawyer for Elles, said in an e-
mailed statement that his client will defend himself against the
charges and “absolutely denies that he intended to defraud
anyone in connection with the purchase or sale of Carter’s
securities, as alleged in the indictment.”  Prosecutors should have waited to see what the evidence
“revealed about the conduct of all employees at Carter’s and
Kohl’s who were involved in this matter,” Burby said in his
statement.  Prosecutors today asked the judge to set bond at $200,000,
saying that Elles’s financial statements indicated he has close
to $1 million in cash. Attorneys for Elles sought a lower bond,
arguing that their client isn’t a flight risk.  “He came here today to voluntarily surrender,” Burby told
King. “He is going to be here when the court needs him to be.”  Elles faces up to 10 years in prison if convicted,
Assistant U.S. Attorney David M. Chaiken said today in court.  Elles’s employment “terminated in March 2009,” Sean
McHugh, Carter’s vice president of  investor relations , said in
an e-mailed statement.  The departure was “prior to the company becoming aware of
the events alleged in the indictment,” McHugh said in the
statement. The company has “fully cooperated” with the
 Department of Justice  and SEC investigations, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Elles, 11-CR-445, U.S. District Court,
Northern District Court of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net ;
David Beasley at   dbeasley3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 