-- 
Cavalli Chief Sees Luxury-Goods Slowdown

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-09-26T22:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/cavalli-chief-sees-luxury-goods-slowdown.html
Luxury-goods  companies should brace
for weaker growth in 2012 as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
leads to a slowdown in spending, according to Gianluca Brozzetti, chief executive officer for designer  Roberto Cavalli .  “To say it won’t have an effect is madness,” Brozzetti
said in an interview in Milan. The debt crisis “will definitely
have an impact on consumption” of luxury goods, particularly in
Europe, the executive said.  Since Ermenegildo Zegna, CEO of the suitmaker that bears
his name, warned in June of a possible slowdown in 2012, most of
his luxury peers have remained optimistic.  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, and
rival PPR SA said this month that demand isn’t abating anywhere.
Yet as global stocks enter their first  bear market  in two years
on concern about possible Greek insolvency and the effect that
would have on Europe’s economy, the mood may change.  “The luxury sector is not immune,” CA Cheuvreux analysts
including Pierre Lamelin, wrote in a note this month. They
estimate that so-called organic sales growth across the industry
will slow to 9 percent in 2012 from 15 percent in 2011.  Cavalli, the Florence, Italy-based maker of 1,485-euro
($2,000) leopard-print dresses, still plans to open as many as
12 stores next year, though “financially speaking, a
contingency will be put aside,” Brozzetti said.
“Psychologically, it will lead people to be cautious,” he said
in reference to the debt crisis.  Bear Market  The spending habits of luxury shoppers may be affected by
recent plunges in stock prices, the chairman of U.S. retailer
Neiman Marcus Group Inc. said yesterday. For now, spending on
luxury items by U.S. shoppers is “very strong,” Burt Tansky
said in an interview at the World Retail Congress in Berlin.  Luxury stocks slumped last week after the  International
Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for full-year global economic
growth and the U.S. Federal Reserve warned of “significant”
downside risks to the world’s largest economy. The Bloomberg
European Fashion Index, which includes LVMH and  PPR (PP) , slid 5.8
percent on the week, mirroring declines in the broader market.  Luxury companies still have cause for optimism after the
industry grew by 20 percent in the first half of 2011, according
to  Antoine Belge , an analyst at HSBC.  Brunello Cucinelli, founder of the namesake cashmere brand,
said last week that the sovereign debt crisis is unlikely to
derail his plan for an initial public offering in the spring.  ‘More Resilient’  Aeffe SpA, whose brands include Alberta Ferretti and
Moschino, has “positive expectations” for the first part of
2012, after increased orders of its spring pre-collection, which
will hit stores in December, Chairman Massimo Ferretti said.  “The luxury industry is perhaps more resilient now than it
was in 2008,” said Salvatore Ferragamo SpA CEO Michele Norsa.
“The market is still very positive. Sure, there are some
concerns, but we are getting used to being worried.”  Growth in  Asia  and  Latin America , where European luxury-
goods makers have been expanding their store networks, is reason
for optimism. Not only are these countries accounting for an
increasing proportion of sales, Asian and Latin American
tourists are boosting demand in Europe and the U.S.  Luxury-goods sales in  China  are set to rise 18 percent a
year to 180 billion yuan ($28.2 billion) between 2010 and 2015,
consultant McKinsey & Co. has estimated. Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA said this month it sees no signs that demand is
weakening in the country, after posting a 46 percent increase in
Asia-Pacific sales in the five months through August.  For now, companies like Gucci and  Louis Vuitton  consider
they would have more to lose than gain from cutting budgets,
Belge said.  “What would make those companies think really differently
is if they think they’re here for three years or more,
especially if the Asian consumer would be impacted,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  