-- 
Cemex, Rio Alto, Southern Copper: Latin America Equity Preview

-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-26T07:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/cemex-rio-alto-southern-copper-latin-america-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  The MSCI Latin America Index fell 0.6 percent to 3,303.25.  Mexico   Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO MM): Futures traders increased their
bets that the  Mexican peso  will decline against the  U.S. dollar ,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. Cemex, the Mexican cement maker whose debt is
74 percent denominated in dollars, rose 1.9 percent to 4.81
pesos.  Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte SAB (OMAB MM):
Hurricane Hilary remained “powerful” in the Pacific, bringing
swells to southwestern Mexico, while Tropical Storm Philippe may
strengthen in the Atlantic today, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said. Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, whose operations
include airports in the Pacific cities of Acapulco and
Zihuatanejo, fell 1.3 percent to 22 pesos.  Peru   Precious-metals producers: Hedge-fund managers and other
large speculators decreased their net-long position in New York
gold futures in the week ended Sept. 20, according to U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Rio Alto Mining Ltd. (RIO)  , a Canadian gold exploration
company, dropped 7.1 percent to $2.60.  Alturas Minerals Corp. (ALT) 
, a Canadian gold and copper exploration company, jumped
8.3 percent to 13 cents.  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)  : Hedge-fund managers and
other large speculators increased their net-short position in
New York copper futures in the week ended Sept. 20, according to
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. Southern Copper,
Peru’s biggest copper producer, rose 2.7 percent to $26.09.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  