-- 
McGraw-Hill Says S&P Received Wells Notice on Delphinus CDO Transaction

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-09-26T16:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/mcgraw-hill-says-s-p-received-wells-notice-on-delphinus-cdo-deal.html
Standard & Poor’s , the world’s
largest provider of credit ratings, may face U.S. regulatory
sanctions in connection with its rating of a $1.6 billion
collateralized debt obligation in 2007.  The Securities and Exchange Commission’s so-called Wells
notice may lead to the agency’s first action against a ratings
firm for giving top grades to mortgage-backed securities before
they plummeted in value. McGraw-Hill Cos., S&P’s parent company,
said in a regulatory filing today that it received the notice
Sept. 22 that the SEC may seek penalties including disgorgement
of fees related to a collateralized debt obligation known as
Delphinus CDO 2007-1.  Delphinus was highlighted in a U.S. Senate panel’s report
as a “striking example” of how banks and ratings firms branded
mortgage-linked products safe even as the housing market
worsened in 2007. S&P rated six tranches of Delphinus AAA in
August 2007 and began downgrading the securities by the end of
the year, according to the  Permanent Subcommittee  on
Investigations report released in April. By the end of 2008,
they were rated as junk, according to the report.  Ratings firms have been faulted by lawmakers, regulators
and investors for fueling the 2008 credit crisis by giving
inflated grades on debt linked to risky loans. The Dodd-Frank
Act, passed in response to the crisis, required the SEC to set
up an office to oversee raters including New York-based S&P and
its rivals Moody’s Corp. and Fitch Ratings Ltd.  Fitch, a unit of Paris-based Fimalac SA, hasn’t received a
Wells notice regarding the Delphinus CDO, said  Daniel Noonan , a
spokesman for the company. Moody’s also hasn’t received a notice
about the deal, said  Michael Adler , a spokesman for the New
York-based rater.  New Territory  The SEC has previously sanctioned others involved in the
mortgage securitization stream, from loan originators to the
banks who bundled them into securities for sale to investors.  About three-quarters of Delphinus, which was underwritten
by  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and managed by Delaware Asset
Advisors, was based on subprime mortgages, according to a Fitch
Ratings Ltd. report. Magnetar Capital Partners LLC invested in
the deal, according to a ProPublica report. Steven Lipin, a
spokesman for Magnetar, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Mizuho,  Japan ’s third-biggest lender by market value,
stepped up its activity in U.S. mortgage-backed securities in
late 2006 and 2007, just as the housing market began its steep
decline. As defaults on subprime home loans climbed, Mizuho
struggled to find buyers for its CDOs and, as their values
plummeted, had to absorb losses.  ‘Game Was Over’  “Everybody knew the game was over well before then,” said
Gene Phillips, a director at New York-based consulting firm PF2
Securities Evaluations Inc. “Banks were actively trying to get
deals done to clean up their balance sheets.”  Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Mizuho, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment sent outside regular business
hours in Japan.  In e-mails released by the Senate investigations panel led
by Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin , some S&P analysts questioned
whether the Delphinus bonds deserved top grades. The analysts
said the securities backing the deal were different from what
bankers had described, according to the report.  “Um ... looks like the remaining portion is actually all
sub-prime,” one analyst wrote.  “Do you want to address this with them, or let it go?”
another replied.  Cooperating  A Wells notice is neither a formal allegation nor a finding
of wrongdoing, McGraw-Hill said in its statement. S&P has been
cooperating with the SEC in the matter and intends to continue
to do so, according to the statement.  “They’ve won every lawsuit anybody has thrown at them and
they’ve managed to answer every question the SEC has asked in
the past,” said  Edward Atorino , an analyst who follows McGraw-
Hill at Benchmark Co. in  New York .  CDOs are pools of assets such as mortgage bonds packaged
into new securities in which interest payments on the underlying
bonds or loans are used to pay investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  