-- 
Chemotherapy Is Safe for Babies During Pregnancy, Study Shows

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-26T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/chemotherapy-is-safe-for-babies-during-pregnancy-study-shows.html
Chemotherapy is safe for children
born to mothers undergoing treatment for cancer, according to a
study that may result in fewer abortions and premature
deliveries.  Babies born at full-term to women who received  cell-
killing drugs while pregnant had normal health and intelligence
at 18 months, the study found. Children induced prematurely in
order to hasten treatment for the mother, representing two-
thirds of the babies studied, were more likely to have lower
intelligence scores. The results were presented at a cancer
conference in Stockholm today.  The study is the first to examine the effects of
chemotherapy on the cognitive development of children, said
Frederic Amant, a gynecological oncologist at the  University
Hospitals Leuven  in  Belgium , who led the research. That means
there’s no need for pregnant women to delay treatment until
after delivery, abort their babies or be induced, Amant said.  “Frequently, because of the fear of chemotherapy,
clinicians induce delivery and start to treat the mother,”
Amant said at a briefing with reporters in Stockholm. “Our
message is actually that we prefer to give chemotherapy until
the fetus is mature.”  Cancer occurs in as many as 5,000 pregnant women in  Europe 
each year, or about 1 in 1,000, Amant said.  Lower IQ Score  The researchers monitored the general health, hearts and
mental development of 70 children born to women who received
chemotherapy during pregnancy in Belgium, the Netherlands and
the  Czech Republic  between 1991 and 2010. The research was
funded by the Belgian government and the Research Foundation
Flanders Project.  The children born after 37 weeks in the womb, which is
considered a full-term pregnancy, had normal general health,
intelligence, behavior, hearing and growth. Children born before
34 weeks were more likely to have an IQ score below the normal
range, Amant said.  It’s not clear whether chemotherapy may cause premature
delivery, but in many cases early delivery is induced by a
doctor and is the cause of the developmental problems, he said.  “It’s a paradigm shift we see here,” said  Michael
Baumann , president of the European Cancer Organisation, which
includes 24 groups representing researchers, physicians and
patient advocates, at a briefing with reporters in  Stockholm .
“I’m very happy now that there’s also good data for
chemotherapy, supporting that we can really work differently in
this situation.”  A study published last year by Amant and his colleagues
examining Kenyan baboons showed that less than 20 percent of
most chemotherapy drugs in a mother’s blood pass through the
placenta to her offspring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  