-- 
Chilean Peso Gains After Merkel Urges Measures to Limit Greek Debt Crisis

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-09-26T16:51:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/chilean-peso-advances-after-merkel-urges-firewall-around-greece.html
Chile’s peso gained for a second
day after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro-region
leaders must erect a firewall around  Greece  to avert a cascade
of market attacks on other European states.  The peso climbed 1 percent to 512.25 per  U.S. dollar  as of
12:29 p.m. New York time, from 517.36 on Sept. 23. The currency
tumbled 7.2 percent last week as copper, the country’s biggest
export, slumped to a one-year low on signs of slowing demand.  Euro-area countries will do whatever is necessary to end
the debt crisis and ensure the financial stability of the
region, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a statement
after its meetings in  Washington  on Sept. 24. Stocks rose and
copper, which accounts for more than half of  Chile ’s exports,
was little changed after falling 17 percent last week.  “It’s related to Greece, but it seems very transitory,”
said Alejandro Araya, a trader at Banco Santander Chile in
Santiago. “While the weekend meeting was positive, it’s not
enough to support a rally of more than seven pesos. The gap to
507 pesos is a dollar-buying opportunity.”  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market had a
$4.3 billion position in the U.S. dollar versus the peso as of
Sept. 22, according to the central bank.  Swap rates in pesos fell, implying traders expect lower
central bank interest rates. Economists at Santiago-based
brokerage Larrain Vial SA today wrote that they don’t rule out a
fall in the benchmark rate in December 2011 and that rate cuts
could be as fast as 50 basis points a month.  Swaps Fall  The three-month and six-month swap rates in pesos fell 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 5.16 percent and 4.93
percent, respectively. The one-year swap rate fell six basis
points to 4.50 percent. The curve has steepened from a week ago,
suggesting investors expect rates to fall in the short term and
rise in the long term.  Economists at Banco de Credito & Inversiones recommended
paying swaps between six and 12 months. Fair value for the six-
month rate is 5.3 percent and for the one-year is 5.4 percent,
they wrote today in a note to clients, while warning that a
flight to quality could push rates lower still.  The yield on a basket of five-year inflation-linked central
bank bonds rose six basis points to 1.94 percent as of 12:02
p.m. New York time. The yield on five-year inflation-linked
swaps fell one basis points to 1.94 percent, while five-year
swaps in pesos fell two basis points to 4.82 percent.  A stronger peso implies slowed inflation at it tempers
rises in the price of imports such as oil. Chile relies on
imports for almost all its oil and gas needs.  Five-year and two-year breakeven inflation rates were
little changed at 2.83 percent and 2.65 percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  