-- 
Yuan Falls Most in Four Months on Concern Debt Crisis in Europe May Worsen

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-26T09:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/china-sets-daily-yuan-reference-rate-at-strongest-level-since-july-2005.html
China ’s yuan dropped the most in
four months as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen curbed
demand for emerging-market assets.  Failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatens
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk,” U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned at a Sept. 24
meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington.
Benchmark stock indexes slumped across  Asia  today, sending the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index to its lowest close in 16 months.  The yuan dropped 0.18 percent to close at 6.4006 per
dollar in  Shanghai , extending last week’s 0.09 percent decline,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched
6.4049, the weakest level since Aug. 12. In  Hong Kong ’s offshore
market, the currency strengthened 0.38 percent to 6.4875, after
sliding 2.1 percent last week, Bloomberg data show.  “The onshore yuan was behind the curve compared with the
offshore rate, despite the market having been in risk-off
mode,” said Carlos Cheung, a foreign-exchange currency dealer
at Bank of Communications Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Some companies
sold the yuan because they are short of dollars.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan gained
0.06 percent to 6.4015 per dollar, almost matching the spot rate
in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The People
Bank’s of China set its daily reference rate 0.16 percent
stronger at 6.3735, the highest level since July 2005. The yuan
is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the
daily reference rate.  Currency Policy  The yuan is “highly relevant” to China’s international
balance of payments, central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
in  Washington  on Sept. 24, adding that a global economic
slowdown wouldn’t affect its currency policy. The yuan may
become fully convertible in five years,  Li Daokui , an adviser to
the People’s Bank of China, said at a forum in Washington.  China’s growth momentum will remain relatively strong, the
central bank’s Zhou said in a speech posted on the monetary
authority’s website yesterday. The government will maintain
stable consumer prices to prevent major economic volatility,
Zhou said at the IMF meeting.  Zhou said the general tone of the country’s fiscal and
monetary policies won’t be changed as the overall trend in the
economy hasn’t changed that much, China Business News reported
today, citing comments made in an interview. China won’t pursue
economic policies that may lead to a sharp slowdown, Zhou said,
noting that the nation’s economic growth of 8 percent to 10
percent is helpful in supporting a global recovery.  China halted a three-year, 21 percent advance in the yuan
in July 2008 to help exporters weather a global recession. The
currency has strengthened 6.6 percent since the central bank
allowed appreciation to resume in June 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  