-- 
Yurun Plunges Most in Six Years After Saying Profit May Fall

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-09-26T08:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/china-yurun-plunges-after-meat-processor-says-profit-to-decline.html
China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068) , the
country’s second-largest meat processor, fell the most since it
started trading in Hong Kong six years ago after saying it
expects third-quarter profit to decline.  The stock plunged 31 percent, the most since its October
2005 debut, to close at HK$7.51 on the city’s stock exchange.
Yurun has lost more than half of its market value since Sept. 8,
when the National Business Daily reported that meat sold by one
of its units contained clenbuterol, an illegal additive.  China  Yurun’s profit will drop because of “continual
publication of negative media reports” and an increase in raw
material costs, the Nanjing, Jiangsu province-based company said
in a statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange today. A 2008
scandal over melamine-tainted milk powder led China to create a
food safety commission to protect consumers.  “Yurun’s shares are facing a lot of selling pressure as
investors are uncertain about its prospects,” said  Steven Leung ,
director of institutional sales in UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “High production costs are also squeezing the profit
margin of the food-processing industry.”  Unfavorable Factors  A hog that tested positive for clenbuterol, an additive
that induces the growth of lean meat when fed to pigs, was
delivered to one of Yurun’s subsidiaries by the supplier and was
destroyed, it said in a filing to the Hong Kong exchange after
the National Business Daily report.  China said in March it will prevent the use of the
additives in  animal feed , according to a statement posted on a
government website.  Prices of pork, the most-consumed meat in the world’s most-
populous nation, rose 46 percent in China in August,
contributing to inflation of 6.2 percent, according to data from
the National Bureau of Statistics of China.  Yurun faces “increasing difficulty in transferring the
group’s increased operation costs to its consumers,” the
company said. “The board expects that these unfavorable factors
may continue to have an impact on the business of the group in
the fourth quarter this year.”  -- Editors: Subramaniam Sharma, Frank Longid  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  