-- 
China Stocks Fall to Lowest Since July 2010 as Zhou Fans Inflation Concern

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-26T08:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/china-s-stock-futures-decline-after-pboc-governor-calls-inflation-priority.html
China ’s stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark index to the lowest level in more than 14 months, as
comments from the central bank governor that inflation remained
the nation’s “top concern” fanned speculation policies to curb
rising prices will slow economic growth.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. declined 4.3 percent after China
Business News said the city of Chongqing will start imposing a
property tax on existing villas. Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
tumbled the most since November 2008 on speculation shareholder
HSBC Holdings Plc had sold stock in the company. Liquor maker
Kweichow Moutai Co. dropped 3.1 percent on concern a halt on
price increases will hurt earnings.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 39.98 points, or 1.6 percent,
to 2,393.18 at the 3 p.m. close, the lowest level since July 5,
2010. It lost 2 percent last week, its fourth weekly decline.
The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell 2.2 percent to 2,610.92.  “Policymakers are unlikely to relax tightening policies in
the short term so the market is still in the process of seeking
its bottom,” said Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “The market is facing lots of
uncertainty and the biggest risk comes from overseas, such as
the sovereign-debt problems and slowing growth in advanced
economies.”  Inflation Policies  The MSCI All-Country World Index of 45 nations entered a
 bear market  last week for the first time in more than two years
as the European debt crisis and threat of a U.S. recession
raised concerns over global economic growth. The index sank 7.6
percent last week and has dropped 23 percent from its peak this
year on May 2.  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 15 percent this year as
the government raised  interest rates  and reserve-requirement
ratios for banks to cool inflation that’s at the highest level
in almost three years. The measure is valued at 11.1 times
estimated profit, the lowest level on record, according to
weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China has no “immediate” ways to
control inflation because it takes time for monetary policy to
affect prices, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  told reporters at the
 International Monetary Fund  in  Washington  over the weekend. It’s
“too early” to determine how emerging economies can further
help the euro area overcome its sovereign debt crisis because
reforms are still under way, he said.  Developers Slump  September consumer prices may rise less than the 6.2
percent increase posted last month, China Securities Journal
reported, citing an unidentified analyst. Tight monetary policy
has taken effect and the central bank is less likely to continue
raising interest rates or required reserve ratios, it said.  A measure tracking 52 financial companies including
property stocks dropped 3.3 percent today, the most among the
CSI 300’s 10 industry groups. China Vanke Co., the nation’s
biggest listed property developer, retreated 3.4 percent to 7.15
yuan, the lowest since July 8, 2010. Poly Real Estate, the
second largest, slid 4.3 percent to 9.10 yuan, the lowest level
since June 2.  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  lost 3 percent to 5.10 yuan.  The southwestern city of Chongqing will start imposing a
property tax on owners of existing villas from Oct. 1, becoming
the first Chinese city to tax existing homes, China Business
News reported today, citing an unidentified local tax bureau
official.  Villa Taxation  Some Chinese developers, likely small and medium-sized
companies with over-extended balance sheets, face bankruptcy in
coming months as the government tightens control on loans
obtained from  trust companies  and as sales slow, UBS AG said in
a Sept. 23 report.  Ping An, China’s second-biggest insurer, slumped 9.6
percent to 34.37 yuan. Its Hong Kong-listed shares tumbled 13
percent as of 3:47 p.m., set for its biggest loss since October
2008.  “There’s speculation that HSBC is selling Ping An’s shares
on the Hong Kong stock market,” said Cao Hengqian, an analyst
covering the  insurance industry  at GF Securities Co. in the
southern city of  Guangzhou . “It looks like Ping An’s Shanghai-
listed shares are simply following the slump on its underlying
H-shares.”  HSBC held 15.57 percent of Ping An as of June 30, according
to the Shenzhen-based insurer’s first-half report. HSBC’s policy
is not to comment on market speculation, Jessica Lennon, a Hong
Kong-based spokeswoman at HSBC, said in an e-mailed reply to
enquiries from Bloomberg News.  “We’ve noticed the abnormal movement in the company’s
shares today,” Sheng Ruisheng, Ping An’s spokesman, said by
phone. “All business is normal at all units of the group, and
there’s nothing that we should disclose but haven’t disclosed.”  No Price Increase  Kweichow Moutai, China’s biggest producer of baijiu liquor
by market value, retreated 3.1 percent to 188.12 yuan, the
lowest level since June 24. Wuliangye Yibin Co., China’s second-
biggest maker of white liquor by market value, fell 1.9 percent
to 35.75 yuan. Luzhou Laojiao Co., a spirits producer in the
southwestern province of Sichuan, lost 2.8 percent to 38.88
yuan.  The National Development and Reform Commission has told
domestic liquor makers to halt price increases for their
products, according to a Sept. 19 statement on the China
Alcoholic Drinks Industry Association’s website.  Investors should sell Chinese stocks on rebounds because
valuations are not “compelling” in terms of book values, China
International Capital Corp. said.  Price-to-book ratios are still 35 percent higher than the
lows reached during the 2008 global financial crisis, Hao Hong,
a global equity strategist at CICC, wrote in a report today.
Investors should wait until economic fundamentals start to get
better, the report said.  China Coal Energy Co., the nation’s second-largest coal
producer, advanced 1.1 percent to 8.86 yuan. Parent China
National Coal Group bought 5.52 million shares on Sept. 22 and
5.77 million shares on Sept. 23, increasing its stake to 56.51
percent from 56.43 percent, China Coal said in a statement. The
parent will continue to increase its holdings in the next 12
months, the statement said.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors:  Matthew Oakley , Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  