-- 
Chinese Billionaire Huang Plans Nordic Expansion After Iceland Development

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-26T02:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/chinese-billionaire-huang-plans-nordic-expansion-after-iceland-development.html
The Chinese billionaire who is
investing $200 million to develop a resort in Iceland said he
will use the project as a springboard for resorts in other
 Nordic countries .  Huang Nubo, 55, said he plans to establish resorts in
countries such as Denmark, Finland and  Sweden  within five years.
He’s in talks to buy 300 square kilometers (116 square miles) of
land in Iceland for $8.8 million from five farmers and expects
the Iceland government’s decision on the approval of the
purchase within two weeks.  The developer is expanding outside  China  as investors take
advantage of declining global asset prices amid a market rout.
Iceland’s OMX Iceland All-Share Index has fallen 85 percent in
the past three years amid a banking meltdown in the nation and
the 2008 global financial crisis, compared with the 12 percent
drop in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index.  “This deal is attractive, and is also good for my
expansion in the Nordic countries,” Huang said. “Had there
been no financial crisis, they wouldn’t sell the land. Of course
we should buy low.”  Iceland is recovering from a banking crisis in 2008, which
sent the krona down about 80 percent against the euro before the
central bank halted the selloff with  capital controls . Since
then, the country has used the currency restrictions to protect
its economy and to appease creditors seeking to recoup some of
the $85 billion Iceland’s banks defaulted on three years ago.  Smaller Magnitude  Iceland’s second-quarter home prices increased 3.8 percent
from a year earlier, the 19th-biggest gain among 50 markets in a
Knight Frank LLP survey.  “If I have the site in Iceland, then I’ll expand to other
Nordic countries,” Huang, who said he’s a poet and has climbed
 Mount Everest  three times, said in an interview in  Shanghai 
yesterday. “I’ll buy land and build resorts in Nordic countries,
but they won’t be the magnitude of the project in Iceland.”  Huang, founder and chairman of  Beijing Zhongkun Investment
Group Co. , was estimated by Forbes magazine to have a wealth of
$1.02 billion. He said he’s worth more than that “for sure” as
his shopping mall in Beijing alone is valued at more than 43
billion yuan ($6.7 billion).  He said he doesn’t need a share sale to raise funds for his
new ventures. “Why should I?” he said. “I’m not short of
money.”  Huang said his connection with Iceland started 30 years ago
when he was studying at  Peking University . His roommate and good
friend back then was from Iceland and later married a politician.
Huang donated $1 million last year to set up an Icelandic-
Chinese poet-exchange program.  ‘Artistic Style’  In China, Huang is known for helping restore the 200-year-
old villages Xidi and Hongcun around Huangshan mountain in
eastern Anhui province, which are now included on the  UNESCO
world heritage list . He later built and operates resorts near
the villages.  “Huang has an artistic style and his company is good with
tourism properties,” Richard Wang, a Beijing-based director and
head of DTZ Consulting’s North China branch, said in a phone
interview. “It’s a question whether his success inside China
can be replicated overseas.”  If approved, the resort would be the biggest land purchase
by a foreigner in Iceland, and it would be his company’s largest
investment overseas after buying properties in California and
 Tennessee , Huang said.  --Bonnie Cao. With assistance from Omar R. Valdimarsson in
Reykjavik. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  