-- 
Christie to Chide Candidates From Republican Shrine as Run Urged

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/christie-begins-speaking-tour-as-donors-urge-him-to-weigh-white-house-bid.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
who has urged Republican presidential candidates to take a
harder line on spending and debt, will seek to extend his
influence in his party with a speech at the Ronald Reagan
Presidential Library in California.  The governor joined prominent conservatives such as former
President  George W. Bush , former Secretary of State Condoleeza
Rice and Fox News commentator Bill O’Reilly who have appeared at
the forum. His speech today, titled “Real American
Exceptionalism,” is part of the library’s Perspectives in
Leadership series,  While Christie, 49, has denied interest in a 2012 White
House run, party leaders have intensified calls for him to join
the race, according to a Republican close to the governor who
declined to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak
for him. At the least, Christie may affect the party’s choice,
said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute for  New
Jersey  Politics at Rider University in Lawrenceville.  “He’s a major influence in his party and when the
Republicans settle on a nominee, that person is going to have to
go to Chris Christie and make sure he’s on board,” Dworkin said
in an interview. “Every speech the governor gives ends up at
some point with him offering his views on what his party should
be doing and what the candidates for president should be
doing.”  The first Republican elected governor in New Jersey since
1997 began a national round of speeches and fundraising
yesterday even as aides attempted to quash speculation that he’s
reconsidering his decision to sit out the Republican primary.  Aide: No Change  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, said in an e-mail
that “nothing at all has changed.”  During a Sept. 22 appearance with Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels at Rider, Christie ruled himself out of next year’s
race, while saying the current crop of Republican candidates
must address issues such as federal entitlement spending and
debt. Christie said even though he and Daniels aren’t running,
they need to shape the debate in  Washington  in a way current
candidates aren’t.  “We’re not talking about -- on our side or any of the
folks -- these things in a forthright way,” Christie said.
“They’re dancing around on other stuff and just trying to get
four or five sound bites.”  ‘Not Yet’  Daniels said during the appearance that he is “not taking
‘no’” in regards to a Christie presidential bid. “I’m taking
‘not yet,’” he said.  Donors from  Florida  to  Colorado  have helped drive a 12-fold
increase in fundraising this year from other states for the
 Republican Party  in New Jersey, where all 120 members of the
Democratic-controlled Legislature face re-election.  Christie yesterday attended a luncheon for his home state
party in Clayton,  Missouri , and then a dinner at a private
residence for the Missouri Republican Party, according to a
schedule released by the New Jersey party.  Today, he is scheduled to attend a morning event for Ann
Wagner, a Missouri Republican running for Congress, and then
head to  California  for three fundraisers to benefit the New
Jersey Republican Party. Christie’s appearance at the Reagan
Library in Simi Valley, California, will be later today.  On Sept. 29 he will be in  Louisiana  to help raise money for
that state’s Republican Party Victory Fund.  Christie’s appearance at the Reagan Library in Simi Valley,
California, will be later today.  John Wisniewski, New Jersey’s Democratic Party chairman,
said he takes Christie’s word the trips don’t signal any
intention to seek higher office “with a grain of salt.”  Donor Database  The fundraising allows Christie’s political team to begin
compiling a database of donors that can be tapped quickly if he
opts for a late entrance into the race, he said.  “He seems to be really enjoying it, and he seems to really
be lapping it up,” Wisniewski, an assemblyman from Sayreville,
said in an interview. “One has to ask: To what end is he
engaging in all of this drama?”  Drewniak said Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno took over
yesterday when Christie left the state.  “I could easily get used to this, but I don’t think the
governor is running for president,” Guadagno said while signing
a bill in Trenton that moves the state’s presidential primary
back to June from February.  Defeated Democrat  Christie took office last year after defeating incumbent
Democrat  Jon Corzine  in the 2009 race amid voter dissatisfaction
over the state’s high property taxes and sluggish economy.  Christie became a national Republican star after he cut $10
billion in spending on schools, pensions and towns in his first
budget.  The governor campaigned across the nation for his party’s
candidates in the November 2010 elections, when Republicans
captured control of 11 state legislatures.  Since taking office, Christie has headlined Republican
fundraisers in states including  New York  and  Pennsylvania , and
built up a wellspring of support within his party as he
campaigns for Republicans from  Massachusetts  to  New Mexico .  Contributors to New Jersey’s Republican Party this year
include New York billionaire John Catsimatidis, who gave $25,000
in June; Kenneth Langone, co-founder of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , who
gave $10,000 in June; and Paul Fireman, founder of Reebok
International Ltd., with $25,000 in May, according to campaign
finance records.  Christie has said Langone urged him to run for president
during a meeting in June. Langone is one of the donors again
urging Christie to enter the race, the website Politico
reported. Langone has been asking potential donors to hold back
on supporting Texas Governor  Rick Perry  or his top rival, former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , Politico said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 matannen@bloomberg.net . 