-- 
Claire Danes’s CIA Spy Stalks Marine; Burns’s ‘Prohibition’: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-09-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/claire-danes-s-cia-agent-stalks-marine-burns-s-prohibition-greg-evans.html
A hyper-vigilant CIA agent on
Showtime’s “ Homeland ” explains her obsession with a new
terrorist threat this way: “I missed something once before.”  No elaboration necessary. The 9/11 attacks haunt these
characters, and this absorbing new series, with the tenacity of
a hellhound.  Claire Danes  plays agent Carrie Mathison, a case officer
called back to CIA headquarters for going rogue in the  Middle
East . After receiving a disturbing tip that an American soldier
has been “turned” and is working for al-Qaeda, Mathison suspects
the terrorist operative to be a Marine sergeant whose rescue
from an Afghanistan prison has made him a national hero.  Based on the Israeli series “Prisoners of War,” “Homeland”
was developed by “24” producers Howard Gordon and Alex Gansa.
Their new endeavor (three episodes were available for review)
replaces the bomb-under-a-seat contrivances of “24” with a more
thoughtful, nuanced psychological tension.  That’s not to say “Homeland” is any less thrilling. The
sergeant, terrifically played by Damian Lewis, is a walking time
bomb, though not necessarily in the way Mathison thinks. After
eight years of torture, he’s a bundle of post-traumatic stress
harboring more than a secret or two.  Nor is Mathison quite what she seems. Gulping illicit pills,
sneaking off to bars, spying with the zeal of a stalker,
Mathison has a hidden life just as surely as the man she
believes to be a terrorist. Is her theory a plausible deduction
or a paranoid delusion?  “Homeland” keeps us guessing, dolling out revelations that
prompt shifts in our allegiances and send chills up our backs.
The cast is excellent, from Danes, Lewis and Mandy Patinkin (as
Mathison’s mentor) to Morena Baccarin as the sergeant’s wife
with a secret of her own.  “Homeland” airs Sunday on Showtime at 10 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: ****  ‘Prohibition’  The fastest way to get a man to brush his teeth is to outlaw
toothpaste.  So says that quintessential New York reporter Pete Hamill,
neatly summing up the national lunacy of the 18th Amendment to
the U.S. Constitution in PBS’s “ Prohibition .”  Filmmakers Ken Burns and Lynn Novick might lack Hamill’s
concision, but their three-episode, six-hour documentary goes
down as smooth as good scotch. Burns’s trademark blend of
archival photographs, talking-head testimony and well-voiced
readings is as effective as it was with “The Civil War,” even if
the subject matter is less heart-rending.  Valley Forge Rum  “Prohibition” lays out a little-known history that makes the
Volstead Act seem as inevitable as it was boneheaded. The first
installment, “A Nation of Drunkards,” presents an early America
soaked in hard cider and beer.  George Washington  fed his
soldiers at  Valley Forge  a half-cup of rum a day.  From the suffragists who adopted the dry movement to the
Jazz Age gangsters who exploited it, “Prohibition” is loaded
with tales of fascinating Americans -- some famous, many
forgotten.  We’re treated to the writings of flapper Lois Long, who
penned a marvelously libertine nightlife column for the  New
Yorker . And here’s the batty, ax-wielding Carrie Nation, scourge
of saloon keepers: “You don’t know how much joy you will have
until you begin to smash, smash, smash.”  “Prohibition” airs Oct. 2-4 on PBS at 8 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ****  ‘Terra Nova’  Not even CGI dinosaurs,  Steven Spielberg  or a reported $4
million per episode can offset the failure of imagination that
dogs Fox’s sci-fi series “ Terra Nova .”  Spielberg is one of 12 executive producers attached to this
costly disappointment. Mixing “Land of the Lost”-style family
adventure with the tribal rivalries of “Lost,” “ Terra Nova ”
stakes little claim on any new ground.  The story begins in the 22nd century, with the world on the
verge of environmental collapse. Scientists have discovered a
time portal, and a select few are chosen to travel back 85
million years to populate a new colony.  Among the pioneers are the Shannons -- dad Jim (Jason
O’Mara), mom Elisabeth (Shelley Conn) and three children (Landon
Liboiron, Naomi Scott and Alana Mansour).  When not dodging dinosaurs, the Shannons navigate a power
struggle between the colony’s messianic leader (Stephen Lang)
and a band of renegades.  The unconvincing digital dinosaurs might wow the kids.
Adults will be left to ponder mysteries like, why do teens from
the future transported to the past look like they shop at  Old
Navy ?  “Terra Nova” airs tonight on Fox at 8 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 