-- 
Clorox Shares Drop After Investor Carl Icahn Withdraws Slate of Directors

-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-09-26T20:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/clorox-drops-after-carl-icahn-withdraws-slate-of-directors-1-.html
Clorox Co. (CLX)  declined the most in
more than a month after investor  Carl Icahn  withdrew a slate of
directors for the company and said shareholders wouldn’t support
his plan for a sale.  Clorox, based in Oakland,  California , fell $2.96, or 4.3
percent, to $66.44 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the most since Aug 8. The shares have gained
5 percent this year.  Several large shareholders don’t consider it a good time to
try to sell Clorox because of the deteriorating financial
markets and the company’s opposition, New York-based Icahn
Capital LP said Sept. 23 in a filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Icahn had been counting on a buyer to step forward, and
“he miscalculated,” Gregg Fatzinger, who heads Nomura Holdings
Inc.’s consumer and retail investment banking practice, said
today in an interview.  The maker of bleach and Glad trash bags rejected multiple
takeover proposals from Icahn, with the highest valuing the
company at $10.7 billion, or $80 a share. Icahn, who had named
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  as potential
buyers, said on Sept. 23 that a sale of Clorox still is the best
way for the company to boost its value.  Clorox in an e-mailed statement confirmed that Icahn’s
nominees were withdrawn and said it is “confident” its
strategy of focusing on consumer trends will benefit
shareholders.  In July, Clorox rejected Icahn’s second offer, saying that
it was inadequate and that following its strategic plan would
create more value for shareholders. Icahn’s first offer for
Clorox earlier that month valued the company at $10.2 billion,
or $76.50 a share.  Icahn last month said he’d back up his campaign to oust
Clorox’s directors with a $10.3 billion offer that wasn’t
conditioned on financing or due diligence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 Jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net  