-- 
Commodities Rise on Speculation Europe’s Debt Crisis May Ease

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-26T20:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/commodities-drop-as-silver-slumps-on-europe-debt.html
Commodities rose from the lowest
since December as European officials considered plans to curb
the region’s sovereign-debt woes.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
climbed 0.2 percent to settle at 600.37 at 3:46 p.m. in  New
York , snapping a three-session slump. Earlier, the gauge slumped
as much as 2.6 percent to the lowest since Dec. 1.  Next week, European Central Bank policy makers may discuss
restarting covered-bond purchases and other measures to ease
monetary conditions. The S&P 500 Index of equities climbed as
much as 2.4 percent. Cattle, natural gas and coffee led the
commodity rebound.  “It’s a recovery in risk assets,” Nic Johnson, who helps
manage about $30 billion in commodities at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , said in a telephone
interview. “Deleveraging is starting to slow on reduced
concerns about the events in  Europe , and as it does, there’s
some incremental consumer buying that’s starting to move
higher.”  The GSCI has dropped 21 percent from a 32-month high in
April. Money managers cut the combined net-long position in 18
commodity futures and options by 20 percent in the week ended
Sept. 20, the most since February 2010, government data showed.  Today, coffee futures in New York had the biggest gain in
five weeks. Cattle jumped the most allowed by the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange, and natural gas climbed 2.2 percent, ending
a four-session slide.  Prices rose because of “old-fashioned selling
exhaustion,” James Dailey, who manages $215 million at TEAM
Financial Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 