-- 
Corn Futures Gain From Two-Month Low as Prices Lure Investors

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-09-26T06:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/corn-futures-gain-from-two-month-low-as-prices-lure-investors.html
Wheat and soybeans declined,
reversing earlier gains, as concerns over deepening debt crisis
in  Europe  sparked selloffs across commodity markets.  Wheat for December delivery declined 2.5 percent to $6.25 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:52 p.m. in Singapore,
after rising 1.2 percent. Futures tumbled 6.9 percent last week,
the fourth-straight weekly decline.  Commodities fell for a fourth day on speculation Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will worsen, curbing raw-material demand.
European policy makers are facing mounting pressure to step up
efforts to prevent their debt crisis from further roiling the
world’s financial markets and economy.  “It appears to me to be a strong dollar, short commodities
play,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director at Commodity
Broking Services Pty. Worries over European debt crisis dampened
 market sentiment , he added.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned at the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington
that a failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.”
Billionaire investor George Soros said “something needs to be
done” to safeguard Europe’s banks because Greece may be unable
to avoid default.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, forecast advanced economies to stall over the
next year with Europe sliding into recession.  Soybeans for November delivery fell 2.5 percent to $12.27 a
bushel after rising as much as 0.7 percent. The oilseed declined
7.2 percent last week for a third weekly decline.  Corn for December delivery fell 1.3 percent to $6.305 a
bushel, after rising as much as 1.3 percent. The most-active
contract fell 7.7 percent last week, a fourth-straight weekly
decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  