-- 
Crocs to Counter Slowdown With New Styles

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-26T09:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/crocs-to-counter-slowdown-with-new-styles.html
Crocs Inc. (CROX)  plans to counter any
global slowdown by pushing consumers to shift to new, higher-
priced shoe styles from the plastic clogs for which it’s better
known, Chief Executive Officer John McCarvel said.  “Our whole desire is to go upscale,” McCarvel said in an
interview at the World Retail Congress in Berlin today. “This
is many years in the making. It has evolved constantly,
upgrading the line, trying to stretch the consumer up to 40, 45
euros, pounds or dollars.”  Crocs has climbed 55 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
this year, valuing the Niwot, Colorado-based manufacturer at
$2.4 billion, as the company sells more of its resin-material
shoes in  Asia ,  Europe  and the Americas. About 30 percent of
sales come from clogs, with the remainder of the 300-style
lineup including innovations such as the You by Crocs women’s
shoe and men’s casual leather-boot brand, the CEO said.  Shopper traffic at malls in the U.S. has grown by 1 percent
to 2 percent this year, compared with 2008 when it “just died”
with a 20 percent slump, McCarvel said.  “In the middle market in the U.S., you see behavioral
fluctuations, so what we’ve seen through the summer is that more
mass merchants have done a bit better,” he said. “Consumers
are concerned about every dollar.”  New Styles  In Asia, where McCarvel, 55, spent more than five years, 42
percent of sales came from new styles, versus about 20 percent
in Europe and 30 percent in  North America , the CEO said.  “The brand strength in Asia is, we sell from age 2 to
102,” he said. “You don’t lose consumers in their teens
through their 20s.”  That’s not the case in North America and Europe, where the
brand loses its “cool factor” at about age 10, the CEO said.
Consumers from that age up to 27 years old present an
“opportunity” as the company adds products such as women’s
toning shoes, translucent clogs and sneakers. “We’re an impulse
purchase.”  The 400-store company won a patent-infringement ruling in
April aimed at helping it block U.S. imports of Double Diamond
Distribution Inc.’s Dawgs footwear and Waldies Comfy Clogs made
by Effervescent Inc. McCarvel said he was a “bit negative”
about the time taken to impose the ban, which resulted from a
complaint filed in 2006, as the products Crocs was protecting
now represent only 10 percent of sales.  “By the time you get the judgment, business is closed,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in Berlin via 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  