-- 
Crude Oil-Tanker Losses Continue as Vessel Surplus Persists

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-09-26T16:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/crude-oil-tanker-losses-continue-as-vessel-surplus-persists.html
Supertankers hauling 2 million
barrels of Middle East oil to  Asia  narrowed their losses amid a
surplus of vessels.  Rental income for very large crude carriers on the
benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage, the world’s busiest
route for supertankers, was negative at $1,826 a day, compared
with a loss of $2,251 on Sept. 23, according to the  Baltic
Exchange  in London. Rates have been negative since Aug. 26.  “No shortage of ships for now,” Marex Spectron said in an
e-mailed report today.  Global demand for supertankers will expand 5.2 percent this
year to 144.3 million deadweight tons, according to Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker. The fleet will swell almost twice as fast, expanding
9.9 percent to 176.9 million tons, it estimates.  Rental income can be boosted by reducing a ship’s speed on
a return journey after a vessel has unloaded its cargo, saving
fuel costs. The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, advanced 26
percent from the start of the year to $639.12 a metric ton, data
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed.  Charter rates for VLCCs were unchanged for a second
straight session at 44.96 Worldscale points, according to the
exchange. The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of
shipping crude oil that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
declined 0.1 percent to 693 points, according to the exchange.  “Cargoes continue to trickle in the AG market as rates
move sideways with no change expected,” ICAP Shipping
International Ltd. said in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  