-- 
Oil Gains on Optimism Europe Will Tame Debt Crisis, Boosting Fuel Demand

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-27T07:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/crude-oil-advances-in-new-york-on-optimism-europe-debt-crisis-will-ease.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  on speculation European governments will tame their
sovereign-debt crisis, tempering a slowdown in the region’s
economy and demand for raw materials.  Futures gained as much as 2.8 percent, trimming the biggest
quarterly decline since the global financial crisis in 2008.
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted  Europe 
will intensify efforts to contain its debt problems after being
pressured at international meetings in  Washington  last week. The
European Union accounted for 16 percent of global oil
consumption last year, according to BP Plc’s annual Statistical
Review of World Energy.  “If there’s a credible plan that is good enough and
certain enough to restore reasonable confidence to the world,
then a lot of things are going to look cheap at current prices
and that probably includes oil,” said Ric Spooner, a chief
market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.  Crude for November delivery climbed as much as $2.26 to
$82.50 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $82.16 at 3:19 p.m. Singapore time. Oil has
dropped 14 percent from the end of June, the biggest quarterly
loss since the three months ended December 2008. Prices are down
7.5 percent this month and 10 percent this year.  London Brent  Brent futures for November settlement on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange rose as much as $1.80, or 1.7
percent, to $105.74 a barrel. The European benchmark contract is
down 6.5 percent this quarter. It traded at a premium of $22.97
to U.S. futures, down from a record $26.87 on Sept. 6.  “Crude benchmarks were propped up by the rally in equity
markets and a softer  U.S. dollar ,”  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in Melbourne, said in a note today. “Uncertainty over Europe
continued to be a drag on prices, but with most of the bad news
already priced in, oil markets could stabilize after posting
steep declines.”  Geithner said in a television interview on ABC that
comments by European leaders at the annual International
Monetary Fund meetings foreshadowed an “escalation” in
measures to contain the debt crisis.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 2.3 percent in New
York yesterday. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 3.9 percent in
 Tokyo , its first advance in four days. The Dollar Index fell for
a second day, increasing the appeal of commodities priced in the
U.S. currency.  Bollinger Support  Oil in New York has technical support around $80.35 a
barrel, after settling above its lower Bollinger Band yesterday,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably climbed 2.2 million barrels
in the week to Sept. 23 as demand weakened in the world’s
largest oil-consuming nation, according to the median estimate
of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Gasoline inventories are expected to
have risen 1 million barrels to the highest in two months, the
survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  