-- 
Cukurova Seeks to Cancel Turkcell Meeting for Board Change

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-09-26T10:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/cukurova-files-case-to-cancel-turkcell-meeting-board-change.html
Cukurova Holding AS, a shareholder
in  Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone operator Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS, asked a court to cancel an item for board changes
at Turkcell’s extraordinary meeting of shareholders on Oct. 12.  Cukurova also applied to the court to cancel the meeting
and its agenda altogether, Turkcell said in a statement to the
 Istanbul Stock Exchange  today.  Statutory auditors demanded on Sept. 13 that Turkcell hold
an extraordinary meeting, adding an item to discuss replacement
of board members to a dividend-approval measure. Sweden’s
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and Moscow-based Altimo, which along with
Turkey’s Cukurova control Turkcell, blocked the payment of 1.33
billion liras ($717 million) in gross dividends at the company’s
April 21 annual meeting, after failing to oust Chairman  Colin Williams . The Swedish and Russian partners argue that Williams
hampers Turkcell’s growth by favoring its founding shareholder,
Cukurova Chairman Mehmet Emin Karamehmet.  “Although the possibility for the meeting to convene and
agenda items to be approved still remains, it is decreasing with
this kind of news,” Alper Ozdemir, an analyst at Istanbul-based
Oyak Securities, said in an e-mailed note.  Turkcell, the only Turkish company whose shares are also
traded in  New York , rose 16 kurus, or 1.9 percent, to 8.78 liras
at the 12:30 p.m. midday close in Istanbul.  TeliaSonera is “still very committed to resolve the
deadlock,” spokeswoman Cecilia Edstrom said in a telephone
interview. Institutional investors, which hold about 90 percent
of the Istanbul-based mobile operator’s 34.7 percent free float,
expressed concern about the shareholders’ dispute in letters to
its management, Edstrom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  