-- 
Czech Stocks Jump Most in World as Mobius Boosts Region’s Banks

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-09-26T15:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/czech-stocks-jump-most-in-world-as-mobius-boosts-region-s-banks.html
Czech shares jumped the most in 16
months after Templeton Asset Management’s  Mark Mobius  told CNBC
his fund likes banks and commodity companies in central and
eastern  Europe , helping push  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  up 12 percent.  The PX gauge rose 4.4 percent, the world’s best performance
today, to 901.7 at its 4:28 p.m. close in Prague. It rebounded
from a 2 1/2-year low, paring losses this quarter to 26 percent.
 Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  jumped 6.7 percent to 3,190 koruna. Erste and
Komercni have a combined 38 percent weighting in the index.  Banks and insurers led stocks in Europe and America higher
on speculation European leaders will act to contain the region’s
debt crisis. Mobius, who oversees about $50 billion at
Templeton, said Erste and Raiffeisen Bank International AG had
an “incredible scope” in central and eastern Europe, the U.S.
channel reported on its website yesterday.  “Czech stocks are outperforming after they were among the
biggest losers in the previous days” and Mobius’s comment “may
have helped,” Marek Hatlapatka, an analyst at Cyrrus AS, said
by phone today from Brno,  Czech Republic . “The Czech bourse
closes before other European indexes so this is partly a catch-
up effect that we see quite often in Prague.”  The Czech index slumped 3.6 percent at its close on Sept.
23, before European stocks rebounded in late trading. The drop
pushed the 14-day relative strength index to 27.6 on Sept. 23.
Readings below 30 suggest to technical analysts that a security
or an index may rise. The RSI for the PX rose to 37 today.  Safe Haven  New World Resources Plc climbed 4.8 percent to 133.1 koruna
after a 17 percent decline last week. The Czech coal producer
was still down 46 percent this quarter and has lost 51 percent
since the end of last year.  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the country’s largest power
utility, advanced 3.1 percent to 700 koruna.  The Czech market is becoming a new safe haven for investors
because of low government debt, a stable currency, low inflation
rate and  interest rates , CNBC said yesterday on its website,
citing interviews with analysts.  “While we may think CNBC are discovering well-known facts,
this could bring the country to the radar screens of American
investors who perhaps trade European countries as one whole,”
Hatlapatka said. “A lack of foreign investors has been the
biggest drag on the Czech bourse lately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  