-- 
Danish Krone Demand Shows Investors Prize Low Debt Most

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-27T12:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/danish-krone-demand-shows-markets-prize-low-debt-over-liquidity.html
Denmark’s krone is being snapped up
by investors looking for low-debt regions as they seek to escape
the fiscal crisis threatening to destabilize the euro bloc.  The krone, which the Copenhagen-based central bank pegs to
the euro, yesterday reached 7.4318 against  Europe ’s single
currency, close to its strongest level since June 2010,
according to Bloomberg data. The bank targets a rate of 7.46038.  “Investors are focusing very narrowly on debt as the key
indicator now,” said Jacob Graven, chief economist at Aabenraa,
Denmark-based Sydbank A/S. “It’s the opposite situation of the
2008 crisis, when investors moved out of countries with illiquid
markets regardless of those countries’ economic strength.” This
time, “they care less about liquidity,” he said.  Investors are turning to Denmark’s currency market even as
the country’s twin banking and housing crises send credit
default swaps higher. At the same time, the Danish krone
accounts for only 0.6 percent of global turnover, according to
Bank for International Settlements data. The krone’s share of
global turnover has fallen from 1.2 percent in 2001. Still,
 Denmark ’s public debt will this year be about half the euro
area’s average, at 45.3 percent of gross domestic product, the
European Commission estimates.  The krone’s strength has forced the central bank to cut
rates twice since August, in an effort to weaken the currency.
More cuts are likely as monetary easing has so far failed to
stanch investor appetite for the krone, Graven said.  Defending Pegs  “We’re probably heading for another rate cut,” he said.
“It may already be this week or the next couple of weeks.”  The krone slipped to 7.4413 as of 2:25 p.m. in Copenhagen,
from 7.4409 versus the euro yesterday, and was set for its first
decline in a week, according to Bloomberg data.  The central bank lowered the rate it offers on certificates
of deposit to 1 percent on Sept. 15 from 1.1 percent, following
a 10 basis point cut on Aug. 25. The bank has left its benchmark
lending rate at 1.55 percent since July, when it tracked a
quarter-point increase by the  European Central Bank . Graven said
the difference between Denmark’s two main rates may stop
widening as the bank starts cutting its lending rate as well.  Denmark, which has a lower debt-to-GDP ratio than all AAA
rated euro members except  Luxembourg , enjoys the top credit
grade at Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings. S&P affirmed Denmark’s rating on Sept. 19 even after
the Social-Democrat led opposition won this month’s national
election on pledges to increase welfare spending.  Euro Speculation  The country has “a strong track record of commitment to
fiscal discipline and prudent macroeconomic policies, as well as
a prosperous and diverse economy,” S&P said.  The euro, which is down 7 percent against the dollar since
an Aug. 29 peak, has slid as investors question Europe’s ability
to solve its debt crisis. Credit default swaps on Greek debt
show a more than 90 percent likelihood of a default in Europe’s
most indebted nation.  “Some investors are speculating that the euro could break
up,” Graven said. “If that’s the case, there’s a chance that
Denmark’s krone would be re-priced in a stronger peg, either to
a new euro or to a new Deutschmark.”  Danish voter opposition to joining the euro surged to a
record high of 60.6 percent in September, Danske Bank A/S said,
citing a poll conducted by Statistics Danmark.  Banking Crisis  Investors are buying kroner even as a banking crisis rages
in Denmark, making it Scandinavia’s worst-performing economy.
CDS on the nation’s sovereign debt have widened, while debt
yields relative to German bunds have narrowed.  Danish CDS spreads touched a two-year high last week and
have risen 84 percent since the beginning of August, compared
with a 67 percent increase in similar contracts on German debt.  The cost of insuring against a Danish default has soared
almost six-fold since a June low of 28 basis points, according
to CMA. At the same time, the difference in yield between
Denmark’s 10-year  government bonds  and similar-maturity German
bunds narrowed to 21.6 basis points yesterday, compared with
25.1 basis points a week earlier.  “Investors have been buying CDS to get a Danish hedge,
probably not on the government but on the bank sector,” said
Jens Peter Soerensen, chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen.  The country’s banking crisis is deepening as debt investors
balk at the prospect losing money on senior bonds. Two banks
have failed since Denmark in October pushed through the European
Union’s toughest resolution laws. More lenders are likely to
fail over the next three years as funding markets are closed to
all but the biggest banks, S&P said in July.  Extra Liqudity  Denmark’s central bank will expand its collateral base for
lending starting Oct. 1, it said Aug. 16. It hasn’t said how
much liquidity it will provide through the facility.  At the same time, Denmark’s housing market may tumble as
property prices remain 25 percent overvalued, according to
Svenska Handelsbanken AB Chief Economist in Copenhagen, Jes Asmussen. Denmark’s real estate market is frozen, and recovery
prospects are bleaker even than in Iceland, according to a
Nordic survey of realtors published yesterday.  “There has been international mistrust in Danish banks and
the sovereign CDS has been a very cheap hedge against that,”
Soerensen said. “Meanwhile, Danish government bonds are in a
very healthy state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  