-- 
Danish Bank Crisis Deepens as Lender Tax Threatens Capital

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-26T09:26:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/danish-bank-crisis-deepens-as-lender-tax-threatens-capital-1-.html
Denmark ’s banking crisis is
deepening as the new government’s plan to impose a tax on
lenders threatens to deplete capital at a time when most of the
country’s banks have no access to funding markets.  “The banks are under severe stress,” said Jesper Rangvid,
professor of finance at the Copenhagen Business School, in an
interview. Imposing extra taxes on the country’s banks
“definitely does not contribute to banking stability.”  The Social Democrat-led coalition that won this month’s
national election wants to impose an  extra 6 billion kroner 
($1.1 billion) in taxes a year on Denmark’s banks, and has
earmarked the funds for services including health care and
schooling. The proposal is adding stress to banks struggling to
emerge from a crisis that has raged since February, when the
failure of Amagerbanken A/S triggered the European Union’s first
senior creditor losses within a resolution framework.  Lending to Danish businesses fell in August to the lowest
in almost five years, while bank share prices have plunged.
Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s biggest lender, has lost almost half
its value this year even amid a ban on short-selling of
financial stocks in place since 2008. The bank is trading at
about 50 percent of the book value of its equity. Credit default
swaps on five-year senior debt issued by Danske trade about 60
percent higher than equivalent contracts for Stockholm-based
 Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)   Pointed Arrows  “All the arrows are pointing in the wrong direction,”
Henning Kruse Petersen, chairman of the state’s winding up unit,
The Financial Stability Company, said in an interview. The
proposed tax is just “another arrow,” he said.  Some of the country’s biggest banks said they will cut jobs
to adjust to tougher markets. Jyske Bank A/S said Sept. 22 it
needs to fire 150 of its staff with immediate effect, as 250
jobs are cut through 2012. Danske Bank may cut as many as 1,500
jobs through attrition as it adapts its workforce to a higher-
cost environment, the bank’s Danish Chief Executive Officer
Tonny Thierry Andersen said last week.  Spar Nord Bank A/S, Denmark’s fourth-biggest listed bank,
can’t access international debt markets and has had to dump
assets to generate liquidity, Chief Executive Officer Lasse Nyby
said in August. The lender will cut 50 jobs through December.  A financial levy would leave banks no choice but to raise
fees or cut jobs, according to Niels Storm Stenbaek, chief
economist at the Danish Bankers Association.  Bad Buy  “If they put a 2 billion-krone tax on our profits, that
would be an increase of 15 basis points on loans to households
and non-financial companies,” Stenbaek said in an interview.
“If they put the tax on the payroll, 2,000 workers could lose
their jobs.”  Danish bank stocks are poor investments because the lenders
aren’t profitable enough, said Lars Rohde, chief executive
officer at the $80 billion pension fund ATP, the biggest
investor in Denmark’s stock market. ATP owns about 2.1 percent
of Danske as part of a portfolio representing about 3 percent of
all listed Danish stocks.  The  Social Democrats , whose leader Helle Thorning-Schmidt
has yet to conclude three-party negotiations to form a
government after the Sept. 15 election, want to charge banks an
extra 2 billion kroner a year in taxes, while an additional 4
billion kroner will be levied on securities trading.  ‘Distort Liquidity’  Such a plan will “lower turnover and distort liquidity,”
Danske Bank Chief Executive Officer  Peter Straarup  said Sept.
15. He told bankers gathered at a conference hosted by UBS AG in
 Stockholm  this month that he expects a majority of lawmakers in
Denmark’s parliament to block the proposal.  The Social Democrats say such a tax is needed to restore
balance after policies pushed through by the outgoing Liberal
Conservative administration of Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen “first and foremost largely benefited big banks and
oil companies in the  North Sea , which have had the biggest tax
breaks,” according to the party’s website.  Still, the levy pulls in the wrong direction, given the
pressure on banks to build up their capital buffers, Rangvid at
the Copenhagen Business School said.  “The authorities say raise capital, and now they’re going
to take away part of the profits. That will make it all the more
difficult to build capital,” Rangvid said. “It will be
difficult to sell more shares because the banks are less
attractive if their profits are lower.”  Too Many Banks  At the same time, other measures designed to ease Denmark’s
banking crisis have so far failed to help. The fourth bank
rescue package since 2008, passed this month and designed to
help lenders sidestep Denmark’s bail-in laws by spurring
consolidation, may not work, according to the Association of
Local Banks and the Financial Supervisory Authority.  About 75 of the country’s 90 local lenders need to
disappear, Petersen at The Financial Stability Company said.  “There is no need in Denmark for more than 15 to 20
banks,” he said. “It will be extremely difficult for a small
100 million-krone balance sheet bank in the western part of
Jutland. Forget about it!”  Absorbing troubled lenders through mergers will be
difficult as potential buyers recoil at what may be lurking in
balance sheets, FSA Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said.  “There is still a lot of uncertainty relating to the value
of the loan book,” he said in an interview. “That is a show-
stopper.”  European Stresses  Denmark’s banking crisis is getting worse as funding
markets in  Europe  become more squeezed. As long as Europe’s
leaders fail to convince markets they can solve the region’s
debt crisis, in particular  Greece ’s efforts to escape
insolvency, banks in the region will remain at risk, Christian Clausen, chief executive officer at Nordea, the largest Nordic
lender, said Sept. 15.  “This is going to be a very stressful period for funding
markets,” Clausen said. “There needs to be a solution on
Greece.”  That means now is not the time to impose extra taxes on
banks, according to Claus Groen Therp, an analyst at SEB
Enskilda Securities.  “When the global economy is on the edge, the last thing
you should do is penalize the banking sector,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tasneem
Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  