-- 
Dead Sea Scrolls Go Online in Israel Museum Project With Google

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-26T11:08:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/dead-sea-scrolls-go-online-as-google-joins-israel-museum-to-help-scholars.html
The Dead Sea Scrolls, so ancient
and fragile that direct light cannot shine on them, are now
available to search and read online in a project launched today
by the  Israel Museum  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   “Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information
and make it accessible and useful,” said Yossi Matias, managing
director of Google’s R&D Center in Israel.  The people who wrote the scrolls hid them in caves along
the shore of the Dead Sea, probably about the time the Romans
destroyed the temple in Jerusalem in 70 A.D., and are generally
attributed to an isolated Jewish sect that settled in Qumran in
the Judean Desert. The manuscripts, for the most part in 
ancient Hebrew, were discovered between 1947 and 1956.  Sections of the scrolls are on display at Israel Museum’s
Shrine of the book and rotated every three to four months so as
to minimize exposure. Only a facsimile of the Great Isaiah
Scroll is on display. The Google tool on the  Israel  Museum
website makes entire scrolls accessible and allows browsers to
zoom into the text as well as read its translation in English.  “This gives you a way to understand the beginning of
biblical history,” said museum director James Snyder. “Nothing
could be more important.”  The project follows a Google project that went live in
January and put online an archive and search function for photos
from Israel’s Yad Vashem Holocaust museum. The world’s largest
Internet search engine is also working on a project in
collaboration with the Israel Antiquities Authority that will
make available on the Internet fragments of the scrolls so they
can be studied by scholars.  Cultural Opportunity  “The opportunity is amazing here for culture and heritage
information,” Matias said. “We are trying to expand this and
address these historical and heritage archives and there are
great things that can be done here.”  Five of the eight scrolls housed at Israel Museum since
1965 have been digitalized, including the Great Isaiah Scroll,
the Temple Scroll and the War Scroll. The  Great Isaiah Scroll 
can be searched by column, chapter and verse, including the
famous “and the wolf shall dwell with the lamb.” It is
accompanied by an English translation tool and includes an
option for users to submit translations of verses in their own
languages.  “For us, the  Dead Sea  Scrolls couldn’t be a more important
iconic cultural artifact,” said Snyder. “Any opportunity for
us to bring them to the widest possible public audience and
offer the opportunity to really begin to understand what these
amazing documents are all about is something that we embrace.”  Google’s Chief Executive  Larry Page  is pushing into new
markets such as mobile and display advertising, while trying to
preserve the company’s leadership in search, an area that
generates most of Google’s revenue. Shares of Google have
dropped 0.3 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 1.1
percent decline of the  S&P 500 Index .  Both Israel Museum and Google declined to say how much the
project cost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 