-- 
Debt Accord Already at Risk as U.S. Lawmakers Target Supercommittee’s Cuts

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-09-26T19:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/debt-accord-already-at-risk-as-u-s-lawmakers-target-supercommittee-s-cuts.html
Members of Congress already are
trying to weaken the new congressional supercommittee seeking a
$1.5 trillion debt-reduction agreement.  In an appearance yesterday on the “Fox News Sunday”
program,  Senator Lindsey Graham  said he will introduce
legislation to protect the Defense Department from automatic
cuts that would take effect if the panel of 12 members
deadlocks.  “I hope the supercommittee works,” said Graham of  South
Carolina . “But if it fails, let’s don’t destroy the Defense
Department.” Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the second-ranking
Senate Republican and a member of the supercommittee, also has
said he would seek a waiver to protect the Pentagon from
additional cuts.  Graham’s comments mark the start of what’s likely to be a
bipartisan effort to dismantle the automatic spending cuts to
defense and domestic programs scheduled to take effect in 2013
if Congress doesn’t enact a deficit-cutting plan, said Steve Bell, a senior director at the Bipartisan Policy Center in
 Washington  and a former longtime Senate Budget Committee aide.  The threat of $1.2 trillion in across-the-board cuts is
designed to force the six Democrats and six Republicans into an
agreement by inflicting mutual political pain on Republicans,
who champion Pentagon spending, and Democrats, who tend to
promote domestic programs like education and infrastructure.  “It’s the beginning of the unraveling,” Bell said.
“These cuts were becoming so Draconian a lot of people thought
they’d never happen.”  Nov. 23 Deadline  The 12-member supercommittee was created in the Aug. 2 law
that raised the nation’s debt limit and averted a default. The
panel was given a Nov. 23 deadline to find $1.5 trillion in
budget savings over 10 years. Congress would have to decide by
Dec. 23 whether to approve the plan.  There are signs the supercommittee is at risk of failing
even before lawmakers like Graham introduce legislation to
disengage the so-called trigger mechanism.  Supercommittee members are in a standoff on whether
Republicans will agree to Democrats’ insistence on including new
revenue in the deficit-cutting plan, according to two aides
close to the committee who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Lawmakers are holding full-day meetings today and tomorrow,
excluding staff members until they determine whether they can
resolve the revenue question, the aides said.  Upfront Commitment  Republicans are pressing Democrats to agree to $1 trillion
in spending cuts that were on the table during talks between
Vice President  Joe Biden  and lawmakers. Those talks imploded
when Republican leaders refused to consider revenue increases.
This time, Democrats are seeking an upfront commitment from
Republicans on revenue increases before proceeding with talks on
specific spending cuts, the aides said.  The role of new revenue in a debt-reduction agreement took
on new importance last week when President  Barack Obama  proposed
a minimum tax on millionaires and threatened to veto any
agreement out of the supercommittee that cuts entitlement
benefits such as Medicare without raising taxes on the wealthy.
The previous week, House Speaker  John Boehner  underscored that
tax increases should be off the table.  At a Sept. 8 Capitol Hill event, Kyl said he would seek a
waiver to protect the Pentagon from additional cuts.  Unemployment Rate   The Pentagon has said the defense cuts that would be
triggered by a supercommittee stalemate may add one percentage
point to the national unemployment rate.  As much as $1 trillion could be slashed from the Defense
Department over the coming decade, including $330 billion agreed
to under the agreement to raise the nation’s borrowing limit,
the department has said.  Some Republicans are trying to find a compromise on the
revenue issue. Republican lawmakers on and off the
supercommittee are suggesting the solution may be to generate
new revenue through economic growth spurred by overhauling the
 tax code , an idea some Democrats say they will consider as long
as Republicans are willing to guarantee the revenue
materializes.  “We need to get outside that traditional battling
territory,” said Idaho Senator  Mike Crapo , a Republican and
member of a bipartisan group of six senators who agreed to $1
trillion in new revenue as part of a plan based on this model.
“That’s where I believe we can find the solution.”  ’Fundamental’ Tax Changes  In a Sept. 22 hearing, Republicans on the supercommittee
pressed the issue. Lawmakers may be able to agree that
“fundamental” tax changes “can result in both revenue from
economic growth for the federal government and more jobs,” said
Texas Representative Jeb Hensarling, co-chairman of the
committee.  Some Democrats say the idea will work only if Republicans
are willing to guarantee that any shortfall in the new revenue
would be made up by rescinding some of the tax cuts for  wealthy
Americans first enacted under former President  George W. Bush .  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate,
said it’s not enough to simply say “if the economy grows, more
taxes will be paid, so let’s cut taxes.” Asked if an
enforcement mechanism could be a middle ground, he said:
“That’s another story. It could be.”  Ed Lorenzen , a former aide on Obama’s fiscal commission,
said a tax overhaul is the key to a deal.  “Is there a way where you can have  tax reform  that is pro-
growth” and also have “some type of protection to ensure that
those revenues actually do materialize,” he said. “Finding a
compromise on that issue is going to be key.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  