-- 
Deloitte Sued for $7.6B in Taylor Bean Collapse

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-26T22:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/deloitte-touche-sued-for-7-6-billion-in-taylor-bean-collapse.html
Deloitte & Touche  LLP, one of the
so-called Big Four accounting firms, was sued for failing to
detect a fraud that allegedly led to more than $7 billion in
losses at defunct mortgage lender Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp.  Deloitte, which audited Taylor Bean’s financial statements
from 2002 to August 2009, ignored red flags in the company’s
books, allowing the lender’s former chairman,  Lee Farkas , to
orchestrate a fraud that toppled the company, according to the
complaints filed today in state court in Miami. Taylor Bean’s
bankruptcy trustee, Neil Luria, and its Ocala Funding unit are
seeking more than $7.6 billion in damages.  “Deloitte’s negligence, and willful blind eye, was the
fuel without which the looters’ fraud would have sputtered out
long before it resulted in the multibillion-dollar debt under
which TBW collapsed,” according to Luria’s complaint.  The claims are “utterly without merit,” Jonathan Gandal,
a spokesman for New York-based Deloitte, said in an e-mail.
 Taylor Bean  and Ocala were wholly owned private companies
through which “convicted felon Lee Farkas and his co-
conspirators committed their crimes,” Gandal said.  “The bizarre notion that his engines of theft are entitled
to complain of injury from their own crimes and to sue the
outside auditors they lied to defies common sense, not to
mention the law,” Gandal said in the e-mail.  Fake Assets  Taylor Bean, once the 12th-largest U.S. mortgage lender,
collapsed in 2009 after federal regulators began probing a fraud
that involved fake mortgage assets, targeted the federal bank
bailout program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery,
Alabama-based  Colonial Bank .  Farkas was sentenced in June to 30 years in prison for his
role in the fraud that duped some of the largest U.S. financial
institutions. Six conspirators, including former Chief Executive
 Paul Allen , pleaded guilty and were sentenced to prison terms
ranging from three months to eight years.  Deloitte failed to understand the lender’s business,
particularly its financing through Ocala, the trustee and Ocala
said in their lawsuits.  Taylor Bean relied on a variety of credit lines and
financing to process about $30 billion in mortgages a year, the
plaintiffs said. The lender initially relied on banking partner
Colonial Bank and later its subsidiary Ocala, according to court
papers.  Phantom Mortgages  To fund the fraud, Farkas and others caused Taylor Bean to
sell Colonial millions of dollars in phantom mortgages. The
company sold the same mortgage two or three times to Colonial,
Ocala and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., according to
court papers.  Deloitte certified Taylor Bean’s books for seven years,
Steven W. Thomas, an attorney for Ocala and Luria said today in
a phone interview. The auditor can’t simply chalk up its conduct
to ignorance, Thomas said.  “If they do then they’re admitting at least negligence
because part of their job was to understand the business,”
Thomas said.  Ocala issued asset-backed notes based on Deloitte’s clean
audited financial statements from 2005 through July 20, 2009.  Outstanding Notes  The unit, which wasn’t a part of Taylor Bean’s bankruptcy,
has about $1.75 billion in outstanding notes, according to court
papers. About $1.6 billion in notes were sold to BNP Paribas
Mortgage Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG. A bankruptcy judge allowed
the unit to pursue a $1.6 billion claim against Taylor Bean,
according to court papers.  Deloitte allegedly missed glaring red flags in its audits,
including Taylor Bean’s recording of transactions in a mortgage
loan participation facility at Colonial as sales rather than
loans, thereby inflating its accounts receivables, according to
court papers. The accounting firm also certified one audit even
after questions arose minutes before it signed off, Ocala said
in its complaint.  In an e-mail sent during a 2008 audit, a Deloitte partner
questioned the treatment of $6 billion in gross debits and
credits, Ocala said. When questioned, Taylor Bean officials
claimed it had something to do with “off balance sheet”
facilities, Ocala alleged. With minutes to go until a midnight
deadline, Deloitte certified the consolidated financial
statements even as questions remained as to how the $6 billion
should be treated, the funding company said.  ‘No Sense’  “Deloitte missed this fraud because it simply accepted
management’s conflicting, incomplete and often last-minute
explanations of highly questionable transactions, even though
those explanations made no sense,” according to the Ocala
complaint.  Deloitte quit in 2009 after company officials refused to
provide explanations during its audit, both complaints claim.
Federal authorities raided Taylor Bean’s headquarters on Aug. 4
of that year and the company suspended operations the next day,
firing about 2,000 employees.  Lawmakers and regulators are calling for increased scrutiny
of the role of Wall Street’s auditors in the 2008 financial
crisis. The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board , a
nonprofit watchdog for auditors of U.S.-listed firms, said last
month it’s considering whether to force public companies to
routinely replace the firms that audit their financial
disclosures.  The board’s announcement follows a Senate Banking
subcommittee hearing in April on the role of the accounting
firms in the financial crisis and controls that may be needed
for the industry.  The four largest accounting firms are Ernst & Young LLP,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, KPMG LLP and Deloitte & Touche.  The cases are Luria, Plan Trustee of the Taylor, Bean &
Whitaker Trust v.  Deloitte & Touche LLP ; Ocala Funding LLC, v.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, Circuit Court of the 11th Judicial
Circuit, Miami-Dade County,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 