-- 
Dollar Drops as Bets Euro Leaders to Act on Debt; Krona Rallies; Won Drops

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-26T13:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/dollar-drops-as-bets-euro-leaders-will-act-on-debt-fuel-more-risk-demand.html
The dollar dropped for the first
time in four days against a basket of its biggest trading
partners as speculation increased European leaders will do what
is necessary to stem the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The euro pared its drop from a decade low against the yen
after an official said the  European Central Bank  may restart
covered-bond purchases along with further measures to ease
monetary conditions. Norway’s krone and Sweden’s krona rose
against the dollar as demand for higher-yielding assets
increased. The yen traded near a post-World War II high against
the U.S. currency.  “We’re seeing a little bit of an improvement in risk
confidence,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas G-10
currency strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York. “As
risk appetite turns even tenuously positive, that allows these
stronger currencies like Norway and Sweden to outperform not
only against the euro, but against the dollar.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the currency against those of its six biggest trade partners,
dropped 0.3 percent to 78.233 at 9:13 a.m. in  New York , from
78.501 last week. The yen rose 0.3 percent to 76.37 per dollar,
trading within 1 yen of the record 75.95 reached Aug. 19.  The euro fell 0.4 percent to 102.94 yen after declining to
101.94, the weakest level since June 2001. The shared currency
was little changed at $1.3481 after sliding to $1.3363, the
lowest since Jan. 18.  Risk Sentiment  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.2
percent, boosting demand for riskier assets.  Sweden’s krona was the best performer against the greenback
among the major currencies. It added 1.1 percent to 6.8577 per
dollar. The Norwegian krone rose 0.8 percent to 5.8015 per
dollar.  “A risk-on sentiment and gains in stocks benefit the
Swedish and Norwegian currencies which are still heavily equity-
driven,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . “Some people
argue that they have become haven currencies after the moves by
Swiss authorities, but our view is that they are still very much
related to stocks.”  South Korea ’s won lost the most among its major
counterparts as concerns about  Europe ’s crisis intensified and
as traders said authorities scaled back intervention that slowed
declines last week.  Won Declines  The won sank to near a one-year low, slumping 2.2 percent
to 1,192.85 per dollar after losing 4.7 percent last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency gained 1.1
percent in the final minutes of trading on Sept. 23 after the
 finance ministry  and central bank said they were ready to
intervene. It touched 1,196.13 that day, the weakest level since
September 2010.  ECB policy makers are likely next week to debate restarting
their covered-bond purchases, a euro-region central bank
official said.  The reintroduction of 12-month loans to banks will also be
discussed at the ECB’s Oct. 6 policy meeting, said the person,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the information is
confidential. Interest-rate cuts are likely to be discussed,
though they are not on the current agenda, the official said.  The ECB is under pressure to increase stimulus as Europe’s
worsening debt crisis tightens conditions in money markets. The
ECB purchased 60 billion euros ($80 billion) of covered bonds in
a one-year program that expired in June last year and was aimed
at freeing up banks’ balance sheets and encouraging lending
during the region’s worst recession since World War II.  Crisis Address  “There needs to be a global coordinated plan put in place
to address the debt crisis and the capitalization of banks to
re-instill faith in the world’s financial system,” said  Derek Halpenny , London-based European head of currency research at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “Without that, Europe will
keep coming up short.” The euro may weaken to as low as $1.25
by year-end, he said.  Greece  on Sept. 21 became the latest country to authorize
expanded powers for the European Financial Stability Facility
agreed to in July. The countries yet to ratify are  Austria ,
Cyprus, Estonia, Finland,  Germany , Ireland,  Malta ,  Netherlands ,
 Portugal , Slovakia and Slovenia. German lawmakers will vote on
changes to the facility on Sept. 29. The enhanced powers can
only take effect when all 17 euro nations have ratified them.  Finance ministers and central bankers who held weekend
talks in  Washington , where the  International Monetary Fund  and
 World Bank  had their annual meetings, urged European officials
to intensify efforts to contain their 18-month debt crisis as
Greece teetered on the edge of default.  German Data  The euro was also boosted after Germany’s Ifo institute
said its business climate index for Germany dropped to 107.5
from 108.7 in August. That’s less than the economist-forecast
decline to 106.5, according to a Bloomberg survey.  For all the concern about sovereign default in Europe, the
euro remains above its average since being created almost 12
years ago, a sign that foreign-exchange traders see little
chance of a collapse as officials step up efforts to keep the
debt crisis from expanding.  At last week’s close of $1.35, the euro is 12 percent
stronger than its average of $1.2024 since January 1999. While
strategists have cut their forecasts for appreciation, they
still see it rising to $1.43 by the end of 2012, based on the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  