-- 
Drugmakers’ Shares Gain Before Cancer Medicine Data Revealed, Study Finds

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-09-26T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/drugmakers-shares-gain-before-cancer-medicine-data-revealed-study-finds.html
Drugmakers tend to surge in the
market months before they report positive data on clinical
trials of cancer medicines and decline when the trials fail,
raising concerns that  insider trading  may be linked to the
research, a study found.  The study, published today in the Journal of the  National
Cancer Institute , looked at stock price movements before
pharmaceutical companies released results on the third, and
often final, drug trial necessary for approval. Companies that
reported positive news on their experimental cancer medicines
had share gains of 14 percent on average in the 120 days before
the announcement, while companies reporting negative news
declined 0.7 percent, according to the report.  “I was shocked,” said Allan Detsky, a  University of
Toronto   professor  of health policy management, evaluation and
medicine, and an author of the study. “Everybody understands
issues around revealing patient information, but not everyone
understands the issues about revealing clinical trial data.”  Detsky said one explanation for the stock surge may be that
information is leaking from investigators or others involved
with the research. Trading on information about a clinical drug
trial before the results are publicly released is a violation of
the  Securities Exchange Act , the report said.  He suggested that people involved in the trials, from
investigators, employees and outside consultants, sign
confidentiality agreements as a way to help prevent the
possibility of improper advance disclosure.  ‘Warning’ Researchers  “It would at least be warning the people, putting their
signature saying they can’t do something,” he said. “A picture
of  Martha Stewart  would also do.”  Stewart, the founder of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., was convicted in 2004 of obstructing justice for lying to
authorities about a stock trade and spent five months in jail.
Jurors in the case concluded she had deceived investigators
about why she sold about 4,000 shares of ImClone Systems Inc. on
Dec. 27, 2001, just before federal regulators rejected an
application for Erbitux, a cancer drug made by the company.  The study examined stock prices surrounding 23 positive and
36 negative Phase 3 trial announcements of cancer drugs from
January 2000 to January 2009. Detsky wouldn’t say which
companies were used in the study.  The companies were large biotechnology or pharmaceutical
firms, with multiple drugs in development or on the market, so
the stock movements may have been unrelated to news about their
cancer therapies, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 