-- 
Abu Dhabi Stocks Slump to Seven-Month Low on Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-26T13:16:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/dubai-s-stocks-head-for-6-month-low-on-europe-debt-concerns.html
Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark stock index
slumped to the lowest in almost seven months as oil fell amid
mounting concern Europe won’t be able to resolve its debt
crisis, threatening global growth.  The benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  slipped 0.2 percent to
2,531.88, the lowest since March 3, at the 2 p.m. close in Abu
Dhabi. The measure is down 6.4 percent this quarter.  National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest
bank, fell to the lowest since April.  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , the
lender owned by Abu Dhabi’s ruling family, dropped 1 percent.
About 37 million shares traded in Abu Dhabi today, compared with
this year’s daily average of 69 million shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging markets declined as they traded for the first time
since U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said that
failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened “cascading
default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.” Billionaire investor
 George Soros  said “something needs to be done” to safeguard
 Europe ’s banks because  Greece  may be unable to avoid default.  “Negative international sentiment is looming in the market
today especially after the lack of initiative that we saw from
the meetings in  Washington ,” said Samer Darwiche, a financial
analyst at Gulfmena Investments in Dubai.  Europe Recession  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, is forecasting that advanced economies will
stall over the next year as Europe slides into a recession,
underscoring mounting investor concern about the global economic
outlook. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.8 percent at
4:45 p.m. in Dubai. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined as much
as 1.4 percent before rebounding.  Crude for November delivery fell as much as 3.4 percent to
$77.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on
speculation the European crisis will cut demand. Gulf Arab oil
exporters, including the U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia , supply about a
fifth of the world’s oil.  Gold and silver also tumbled for a fourth day, with
immediate-delivery gold falling as much as 7.5 percent to
$1,532.72 an ounce.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi lost 0.5 percent to 10.5
dirhams, the lowest since April 7. First Gulf Bank declined to
14.45 dirhams, the lowest since March 7.  Bahrain’s BB All Share Index declined 0.1 percent and
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  fell 0.2 percent. Oman’s MSM 30 Index slipped
0.3 percent, while Kuwait’s gauge rose 0.4 percent. Dubai’s  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  was little changed and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All
Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  