-- 
Dubai’s Residential Property Prices May Bottom Out Soon, Jones Lang Says

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-09-26T12:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/dubai-home-prices-may-bottom-out-soon-jones-lang-lasalle-says.html
Dubai villa and apartment prices
may soon bottom out as political turmoil elsewhere in the  Middle
East  and North Africa prompts buyers to look for less-risky
investments, Jones Lang LaSalle said.  Apartment prices in most parts of the Persian Gulf emirate
are stabilizing or declining slightly, “indicating that the
market might be very near its bottom,” the U.S. property broker
said in a research report today. Villa sales increased 59
percent by value even as volume fell by nearly a third,
indicating that higher-priced properties are attracting the most
buyers.  The renewed interest hasn’t resulted in rents or property
prices increasing across the board, although some localized
markets are now approaching stability, the report said.  Dubai home prices have dropped 64 percent from their peak
in mid-2008 after the global credit crisis caused mortgage
lending to dry up and drove speculators from the market,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said in June. The  United Arab Emirates , which
includes Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , has largely avoided the “Arab
Spring” political upheavals that unseated regimes and disrupted
investment in countries including Egypt, Libya and Tunisia.  The Arab Spring “has helped push the hotel and retail
sectors into the recovery stage and selected sectors of the
residential market are also improving,” Alan Robertson, chief
executive officer of Jones Lang for the Middle East and North
Africa, said in the report.  Arab Spring  Dubai’s hotel market has seen the biggest benefit from the
regional unrest, according to the report. Average occupancy
rates rose to 78 percent in July from 60 percent in the same
month two years earlier.  Hotel property prices will come under pressure as more
rooms are built, though the pace of development has slowed,
 Jones Lang  said. More than 1,700 rooms were added in the year
through July, increasing the supply by about 3 percent.  Offices have been the emirate’s worst-performing property
market and the least affected by the Arab Spring this year, the
report said. Demand for  office space  may pick up in the future
as companies based in  Bahrain  and other countries in the region
search for new headquarters, the report said.  Recovery in demand could be delayed by concerns over
slowing economic growth in  Europe  and the U.S. The completion of
a further 5,000 homes by the end of this year will also add to
an existing oversupply and may delay any recovery in prices, the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  