-- 
Dynegy Among Junk Issuers Facing Refinancing Snags, Moody’s Says

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-09-26T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/dynegy-among-junk-issuers-facing-refinancing-snags-moody-s-says.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , HD Supply Inc. and ATP
Oil & Gas Corp.are among speculative-grade borrowers that may
have difficulty refinancing bonds maturing in the next four
years if economic growth slows and credit market access
tightens, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  About $191 billion of high-yield bonds are due by the end
of 2015, down 31 percent from $276 billion on Nov. 15, Moody’s
analysts led by  Kevin Cassidy  in New York wrote in a Sept. 26
report. While most borrowers “have largely taken care of near-
term maturities,” HD Supply, ATP and Dynegy are among 10
companies rated B3 with a negative outlook or lower that may
struggle to pay back obligations if the U.S. enters another
recession and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis worsens, the
analysts wrote.  “The robust refinancing of the last couple of years have
really alleviated some of the near-term funding concerns, but
there are still some longer-term issues that center more around
specific companies,” Cassidy said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “What we think now is a bigger issue is company-
specific issues and no longer the daunting maturity wall.”  Corporations have taken advantage of some of the cheapest
borrowing costs ever to extend bond maturities, selling more
than $3 trillion of debt since the end of 2008, when the  Federal
Reserve  cut the target federal funds rate for overnight
interbank loans to a range between zero and 0.25 percent. High-
yield offerings have dwindled in the past two months as Greece
teeters on the edge of default and evidence mounts the U.S. may
enter another recession, sapping demand for riskier assets.  HD Supply  HD Supply, the construction-supply unit that Home Depot
sold for $8.5 billion in 2007 to a group of buyout firms
including Bain Capital LLC and  Carlyle Group , has $4.1 billion
of bonds maturing in 2014 and 2015, according to Moody’s. That’s
the most of the lower-rated companies identified in the report,
which didn’t include loan maturities.  The Atlanta-based company, graded Caa2, “may have an
untenable long-term  capital structure  relative to its operating
performance,” the Moody’s analysts wrote. “ A restructuring to
realign its capital structure may be needed,” they wrote.  ATP, the Houston-based Gulf of Mexico petroleum and gas
producer that’s graded Caa2 with a “negative” outlook, shows a
“high likelihood” it may face some type of restructuring, the
analysts wrote. The company’s asset base and cash flows are
“not sufficient to cover” its $1.5 billion of second-lien
notes due in 2015, according to the report.  Commodity Cycle  Houston-based Dynegy, the third-largest power producer, has
$640 million of debt due in 2012 and 2015 and shows a “high
likelihood of default through some form of distressed
exchange,” the analysts wrote. The ability of the Caa3 rated
company to pay back its borrowings “is largely dependent upon
the recovery of the commodity cycle for power,” according to
the report.  Two units of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , Energy Future Holdings Corp.,
American Airlines Inc., Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority, Alion
Science & Technology Corp. and  USEC Inc. (USU)  also have the highest
amount of bonds maturing through 2015 of companies rated B3 with
a negative outlook or lower, according to the report.  “Most of the companies, except for those with very low
ratings, should be able to refinance their near-term maturities
despite weak market conditions,” the Moody’s analysts wrote.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s . Relative
yields on such securities have jumped to 801 basis points as of
Sept. 23 from 541 at the start of the year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Sales have declined to at least $3.9 billion this month and
$1 billion in August, compared with the average monthly volume
of $28.5 billion this year through July, Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade companies have $519 billion of bonds
maturing through 2015, down from $575 billion in Moody’s
previous report on Jan. 31, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  