-- 
ECB Said to Consider Covered-Bond Purchases to Inject Liquidity in Markets

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-09-26T15:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ecb-said-to-consider-covered-bond-purchases-to-inject-liquidity-in-markets.html
European Central Bank policy makers
are likely to next week debate restarting their covered-bond
purchases along with further measures to ease monetary
conditions, a euro-region central bank official said.  The reintroduction of 12-month loans to banks will also be
discussed at the ECB’s Oct. 6 policy meeting, said the person,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the information is
confidential. Interest-rate cuts are likely to be discussed,
though they are not on the current agenda, the official said.  The euro rose half a cent against the dollar to as high as
$1.3543. Yield spreads between covered bonds and interest-rate
swaps tightened. A spokesman for the Frankfurt-based ECB
declined to comment.  European officials are under pressure to intensify efforts
to contain their 18-month debt crisis as Greece teeters on the
brink of default. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
called on governments to unite with the ECB to beef-up the
capacity of their 440 billion-euro ($594 billion) bailout fund,
warning that failure to act threatened “cascading default, bank
runs and catastrophic risk” for the global economy.  With money markets tightening, the official indicated the
ECB is more likely to try non-standard measures first before
resorting to rate cuts. It wouldn’t make sense to re-widen the
rate corridor by cutting the deposit rate without also reducing
the benchmark rate, the official said. The ECB raised its key
rate twice this year to 1.5 percent.  ‘Appropriately Accommodative’  ECB rates remain “appropriately accommodative,” ECB
council member Athanasios Orphanides from Cyprus said in  New
York  today.  The ECB purchased 60 billion euros of covered bonds in a
one-year program that expired in June last year and was aimed at
freeing up banks’ balance sheets and encouraging lending during
the region’s worst recession since World War II.  ECB council members  Ewald Nowotny  from  Austria  and Luc Coene from  Belgium , attending the  World Bank  and International
Monetary Fund annual meetings in Washington over the weekend,
said the central bank may look at stepping up efforts to boost
growth as soon as next month. They both identified renewed 12-
month lending to banks as an option. The ECB last offered a 12-
month loan in December 2009.  “For liquidity, we are there” and “ready to do what is
needed,” ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in
New York today. “We need to reassure the markets.”  Bond Purchases  As euro-area politicians procrastinate over how to solve
the crisis, the ECB was forced to resume buying  government bonds 
on the secondary market last month to reduce borrowing costs in
Italy and  Spain .  The 2.5 trillion-euro market for covered bonds -- assets
backed by mortgages or public-sector loans -- underpins much of
 Europe ’s real estate lending, which almost ground to a halt in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
September 2008.  Tensions have reemerged, driving to a record the risk
premium investors demand to buy the securities. Investors are
demanding 237 basis points of extra yield above the safest
government bond, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. That’s one basis point below a Sept. 22 record and
compares with 201 basis points a month ago.  Yield spreads between covered bonds and interest-rate swaps,
the benchmark used to price the notes, tightened between 3 and 5
basis points on news of the possible ECB purchases, said Armin Peter, head of covered bond syndicate at UBS AG in  London .  “The ECB sees the covered bond as some kind of silver
bullet for funding problems at European banks,” said Bernd Volk,
head of covered-bond research at Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
AG. “Since the market is now in trouble, it is the right timing
to put this tool on the table. It would have positive effects on
the spreads and trigger new issuance.”  Banks have sold 14.5 billion euros of covered bonds so far
this month, according to Bloomberg data, the lowest amount sold
in that September period since 2003.  The official said ECB policy makers haven’t decided on the
size of the potential new covered-bond purchase program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  Washington  at  gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  