-- 
ECB to Shun Managing Euro Region’s Bailout Fund, Halpenny Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-26T18:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ecb-to-shun-managing-regional-bailout-fund-halpenny-says-tom-keene.html
European Central Bank members will
push for politicians to take control and expand the region’s
rescue fund to contain its sovereign debt crisis, said Derek Halpenny of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  “What the markets are looking for is some kind of firewall
to obviously isolate the risks of contagion if, as expected, at
some point in time, we get a default in  Greece ,” Halpenny, the
London-based European head of currency research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi, said in a television interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.  “That, of course, requires a much larger fund and how that
is managed is the question,” Halpenny said. “There’s political
constraints in  Germany , in regard to increasing the size, and
there’s constraints in the ECB over its opposition to getting
involved in policies like that.”  Policy makers are discussing beefing up the 440 billion-
euro ($591 billion) European Financial Stability Facility,
seeking a way to prevent the 18-month crisis from spreading as
Greece teeters on the brink of default.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called on
governments to unite with the ECB in increasing the capacity of
the bailout fund, warning that failure to act threatened
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk” for the
global economy. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro-region
leaders must erect a firewall around Greece to avert a cascade
of market attacks on other European states and said expanding
the powers of the EFSF, was necessary to avert contagion.  “There would be substantial opposition amongst a fairly
large number of the council for the ECB to get involved in that
way with the EFSF,” London-based Halpenny said. “They’ll be
pushing for politicians to take full control of the EFSF and
coordinate a larger fund solely through government.”  The euro dropped 0.5 percent to 102.93 yen in  New York 
after declining to 101.94, the weakest level since June 2001.
The shared currency fell 0.3 percent to $1.3463 after sliding to
$1.3363, the lowest since Jan. 18.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 2.8 percent while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  