-- 
ECB’s Knot Says Joint Euro-Area Bonds May Be ‘Unavoidable’

-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 
2011-09-26T14:08:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ecb-s-knot-says-joint-euro-bonds-are-unavoidable-in-long-run.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Klaas Knot said joint euro-area bonds may be
“unavoidable” as some countries face soaring borrowing costs
as a result of the debt crisis.  “You see  interest rates  for southern European countries
rise so much that these countries get into immediate problems,”
Knot was cited as saying in the September issue of the Dutch
central bank’s magazine, published on its website today. “That
can no longer happen with eurobonds.”  Knot also said such bonds should only be a “last resort”
and countries must first improve their budget discipline and
reduce sovereign debt burdens to within the  Europe  Union’s limit
of 60 percent of gross domestic product.  The  International Monetary Fund  said after a meeting at the
weekend that it is ready to “strongly support” Europe’s
efforts to resolve the debt crisis and that it was
“encouraged” by governments’ determination. German government
officials including  Chancellor Angela Merkel  have repeatedly
said they oppose joint debt issuance.  Knot, who is head of the Dutch central bank, said the euro
area may need an independent budget authority to manage
countries that continue to breach fiscal rules, the magazine
reported. He also said the ECB has gone “way too far” in
intervening in the financial markets, adding that he
“understands” why this happened.  “We’re in an extreme crisis situation, which requires
extreme measures,” he said.  Countries that fail to stick to European budget agreements
for an extended period should lose their sovereignty in this
area, the Dutch-language magazine cited Knot as saying. It
should then be possible for an independent budget authority to
enforce a binding recovery program, he said.  “ Greece  isn’t a hopeless case,” Knot said. “If the
country privatized its economy as has already happened in
northern Europe, then the national debt would be immediately
reduced to manageable proportions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  