-- 
ENRC to Pick Machkevitch, Helping Resolve Dispute, Analysts Say

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-09-26T11:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/enrc-to-pick-machkevitch-helping-resolve-dispute-analysts-say.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.
will probably select billionaire founder Alexander Machkevitch
as chairman, helping resolve a dispute over board appointments
and bringing clarity to decision-making, according to analysts.  “Machkevitch becoming chairman is an event that most
investors and analysts expect,” said Anindya Mohinta, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. “It’s not a bad thing when you look
at Russian and CIS companies like Kazakhmys.” London-listed
 Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , Vedanta Resources Plc and Antofagasta Plc have
founding shareholders who also serve as their chairmen.  ENRC is preparing to announce the result of a three-month
corporate governance review that began June 8 after shareholders
voted against rehiring independent directors Richard Sykes and
Kenneth Olisa. The exercise also followed the Feb. 4 resignation
of Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis after board conflicts. He
has remained in the post while the company seeks a replacement.  A row between independent directors and major shareholders
began August 2009 as Chairman David Cooksey was replaced by then
CEO Johannes Sittard, and Vulis was hired, Olisa said June 10.  “That appointment shifted the gravity of the board from
independent chairman, independent non-executives and therefore
independent board to basically dependent chairman and dependent
directors,” he said of the producer of metals in  Kazakhstan .  Machkevitch applied for U.K. Listing Authority clearance to
be chairman, the Observer said Sept. 11.  Paul Judge , one of two
U.K. independent directors, opposes the bid and plans to become
chairman himself, it reported. The authority wouldn’t comment on
the matter and Machkevitch didn’t respond to e-mailed questions.
Charlotte Kirkham, an ENRC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  ‘Only Solution’  “Machkevitch as chairman is the only solution,” said
Leila Kulbayeva, an analyst at Kazakhtan-focused brokerage Visor
Capital. “That will bring clarity to the decision-making.”  It would end any misunderstanding over whether the board is
dominated by the main shareholders or independent directors.  ENRC’s three founders, Machkevitch, Alijan Ibragimov and
Patokh Chodiev, hold 14.6 percent of London-based ENRC, which
makes ferroalloys,  iron ore , aluminum and power in Kazakhstan.  “ENRC seemed to have an independent board of directors but
the shareholders’ influence became obvious,” Kulbayeva said.
“For this, minority shareholders decided to punish the company
by selling off. So what’s the solution to that? Just officially
put those influencing the strategy on the company’s board.” It
won’t be the only London-listed company that does so, she said.  The company needs to explain its management deficiencies
and how to resolve them in its review, Mohinta said. It should
also “urgently” hire a CEO and more independent directors.  Weak in Front  “ENRC has a strong asset base but very weak corporate
structure in the front,” he said. “People are generally
confused about how decisions are made and if the board is really
independent. There are lots of questions you get from investors
on this. That’s the perception they need to change.”  The company, which also mines copper and cobalt in the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo and has projects in  Brazil , may
seek to spin off its foreign operations, Kulbayeva said.  “Some investors may prefer a CEO with more experience in
Africa and Brazil,” she said. “I think appointing Machkevitch
as chairman and Felix Vulis as CEO and then spinning off the
international business would be a positive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ; 