-- 
EPA Boosts Water Policing as Worst Fears Realized

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/epa-boosts-water-policing-as-farmers-say-worst-fears-realized.html
Fifth-generation farmer Kenny
Watkins ran afoul of the U.S. clean-water police in 2009. His
infraction: Planting hay in a pasture.  The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers ordered Watkins to stop
cultivating a 160-acre (65-hectare) tract in central California
because he might destroy seasonal ponds and harm the San Joaquin
River. Watkins has defied the decision and the federal
government’s control over what he can grow on his farm.  His battle is cited by agriculture groups as they try to
fend off a proposal by the Corps and the Environmental
Protection Agency to enlarge the U.S. role in guarding waterways
against contamination. The two agencies are reviewing a plan
that would require permits under the  Clean Water Act  for work on
wetlands or small channels that are usually dry. They say
they’re clarifying authority they already have and critics say
it’s a power grab.  “Our worst fears are being realized,” Watkins, 48, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Government, predicting his
experience may be repeated on cropland across the country.
“They keep coming up with more tools to use against us.”  Farmers aren’t the only ones complaining. Homebuilders,
railroad companies and steelmakers say the added bureaucracy
would make them spend thousands of dollars seeking permits and
increase costs. They would need to get U.S. approval to dig out
new basements, repair bridges or dispose of waste, they say.  Unsafe Rivers  Redefining the government’s reach “is part of the
problem,” and an example of the “uncertainty out there,” Bill Kovacs, senior vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
said in an interview.  About one-third of American rivers and lakes aren’t
healthful for swimming or fishing, according to the EPA. The
added enforcement would help “ensure a safe supply for
drinking, irrigation and livestock watering,”  Nancy Stoner , the
agency’s acting assistant administrator for water, said in a
Sept. 23 e-mail.  For decades, government officials and businesses have
disputed the meaning of one phrase -- the “waters of the  United
States ” -- in the 1972 anti-pollution law.  The two agencies, which are jointly responsible for
enforcement, unveiled an interpretation in April that lets them
oversee wet patches linked to larger bodies, such as the
Chesapeake Bay, whether or not connections are visible on the
surface.  300,000 Comments  The authority would “help restore protection to our
waters” and “provide clearer, more predictable guidelines,”
EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson said in an April 27 statement.  The proposal prompted 300,000 comments, more than any
change in the  Clean Water Act ’s 39 years, according to the EPA.
While most of those were organized by environmental groups who
are supportive, according to a compilation published on the
government website Regulations.gov, the Republican-led U.S.
House of Representatives is trying to kill the effort through
the budget process.  The water plan would be prevented under an appropriations
bill passed July 15 by the House. The Senate would need to
approve the measure before it could be sent to President  Barack Obama .  The lawmakers’ action is consistent with a broader
Republican attempt to restrain the EPA. On Sept. 23, the House
adopted legislation to kill two pending air-pollution rules and
delay a dozen more while their effect on the economy is studied.  Supreme Court  The guidelines would add less than 3 percent to the area
under Clean Water Act jurisdiction, the EPA said in an analysis
published on its website. Increased oversight would cost
government and industry about $171 million, while resulting in
benefits of $162 million to $368 million, according to an EPA
report.  In 2006, the U.S. Supreme Court ordered a new round of
hearings for Michigan landowners whose efforts to build on their
property had been stymied by the Corps. In the case, Rapanos v.
U.S., Justice  Anthony Kennedy  said the government could regulate
waters with a “significant nexus” to major waterways. Justice
 Antonin Scalia , who joined the majority in the decision, called
that reasoning “opaque.”  “The  Supreme Court  confused the issue,” Jon Devine,
senior attorney at the  Natural Resources Defense Council  in
 Washington , said in an interview. The EPA is now “trying to
bring some clarity into the realm where lawyers like me are
arguing.”  Bridges, Culverts  That plan amounts to a longer reach for the government,
companies such as steelmaker Nucor Corp. and oil producer
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  said in comments filed with the EPA.  The proposed guidelines “create a regulatory environment
in which it would be difficult to find a tributary or wetland
water even a hundred miles away from a navigable water” that
would escape government oversight, according to unsigned
comments submitted in July by Omaha, Nebraska-based  Union
Pacific Corp. (UNP)   Applying for permits would slow or prevent repair and
inspection of the railroad’s 20,000 bridges, 100,000 culverts
and its dikes, levees and access roads, Union Pacific said.  Agriculture has led the opposition, with state farm bureaus
organizing write-in campaigns against the rules.  According to the  American Farm Bureau Federation , a 48-
square mile area in  Kentucky  contained 40 miles of permanent
streams. The bureau said the EPA and Corps proposal would bring
an additional 360 miles of so-called ephemeral waters, which are
dry except when snow melts or heavy rains fall, under U.S.
purview.  All Tied Up  “You go from being able to do some economic activity, to
having all economic activity tied up,” Don Parrish, senior
director for regulatory relations at the Washington-based farm
trade group, said in an interview. “It’s huge and it’s broad.”  The permit process may cost up to $30,000, Parrish said.  The new guidelines wouldn’t change any longstanding
exemptions, such as ornamental ponds, Stoner said.  To reassure critics, the EPA also published a bulletin
saying it won’t target “normal, ongoing” farming or ranching.  That wouldn’t have helped Watkins, who was changing the use
of his land. He’d been grazing cows on the tract where he wanted
to capitalize on rising feed prices by expanding his crops. He
turned a separate pasture into a walnut grove.  Watkins,  first vice president  of the  California  Farm Bureau
Federation, said he hired consultants to avoid violating any
rules on his farm 12 miles from Stockton.  Aerial Photos  For his troubles, his family got a “cease and desist”
notice from the Corps’ California Delta Branch.  The Corps used aerial photos to trace the discharge of
pooled water on Watkins’s field to a slough that feeds the
river. Because of the linkage, the U.S. had the right to stop
plowing, which could ruin the ponds and hurt the salamanders and
fairy shrimp that live there, according to Krystel Bell, project
manager in the agency’s Sacramento district.  Bell said Watkins refused permission for an on-site
inspection. “We were willing to explore” allowing the hayfield
and orchard, she said in an interview.  Watkins gave up on the oats, barley and rye grass he wanted
to raise for grain hay. He said he’s kept the walnut trees and
hopes the Corps will take him to court -- so he can challenge
its orders.  While he waits for his chance at a trial, he said he is
forgoing $70,000 a year in sales and worrying that the plans in
Washington could give the government more sway over his 2,000-
acre farm.  The federal officials “want to increase their empire,”
Watkins said. “That’s what their ambitions are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  