-- 
Escaping Crisis Gets Colonial for Portuguese as Economy Worsens

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/escaping-debt-crisis-gets-colonial-for-portuguese-as-economic-gap-worsens.html
Paulo Almeida gave up waiting for a
job at an employment office in Lisbon, crossing the city to join
a longer line for a visa to Angola.  “There are no decent jobs in  Portugal  anymore, it’s only
getting worse,” the 28-year-old engineer said as he stood
outside the oil-producing African country’s consulate where job-
seekers sometimes camp overnight to be first in line.  It’s not only investors who are abandoning countries at the
heart of Europe’s debt crisis. More people are leaving Portugal
than at any time since the end of the Estado Novo regime in
1974, while Greeks are heading to Australia and the U.S. and the
Irish are migrating in numbers not seen since the late 19th
century when they were still part of Britain.  With Portugal predicting its economy will remain mired in
recession for the next two years and  unemployment  at the highest
since at least 1983, workers and companies are turning to the
former Portuguese colonies of Angola,  Mozambique  and  Brazil .  Fourteen of the 20 members of Lisbon’s benchmark PSI20
stock index are either present or planning to set up operations
in at least one of the three faster-growing markets. They
include  Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal SGPS SA (CPR) , Portugal’s biggest
cement maker, and  Mota-Engil SGPS SA (EGL) , its largest builder.  “When we lost the colonies, people thought Europe would be
the solution,” Antonio Barreto, a historian and former
Portuguese education minister, said at a meeting with reporters
on Sept. 8. “Now we’re in trouble again and people seem to
think that the former colonies are the way out of the crisis.”  Wealth Divide  The gap in per-capita gross domestic product between
Portugal and the three countries combined is at its narrowest
since 1997, according to estimates based on data published by
the  World Bank .  Portugal was the third country after Greece and Ireland to
be bailed out by the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund . The government is freezing salaries for state
workers, raising taxes and selling stakes in some of the
country’s biggest companies to comply with the terms of the 78
billion-euro ($105 billion) aid package.  The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds reached a euro-
era record of 10.78 percentage points on July 12 and was at
10.23 points yesterday, double the 5.11 points when former Prime
Minister Jose Socrates sought the rescue on April 6.  The 10-year bond yield was at 12.03 percent yesterday, up
from 10.14 percent at the start of this month amid concern among
investors about contagion from a potential Greek default.  Swapping Roles  Angola ’s state  oil company  Sonangol has invested in
Portugal and former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva , on a four-day visit to Portugal beginning on Sept. 5,
urged Brazilian companies to invest in its once colonial master.  “A weak economy in Portugal means we need to continue to
take advantage of business opportunities in the former colonies
and other high-growth markets,” said Francisco Lacerda, chief
executive officer of Lisbon-based Cimpor-Cimentos, which derives
about 30 percent of its revenue from Brazil as well as its two
biggest shareholders.  Like Greece and Ireland, Portugal, with a  resident
population of about 10.6 million , has been a country marked by
high rates of emigration. About 5.1 million Portuguese or people
of Portuguese origin live outside the country, according to the
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  in Lisbon.  Overseas Empire  Emigration is currently running at about 40,000 citizens
per year, in addition to non-nationals who are leaving the
country, according to Barreto, who is also chairman of a
foundation that owns  Pordata , a center in Lisbon for statistics
on Portugal and  Europe .  The rate was last that high in the 1960s through the mid-
1970s when Portugal sent troops to try to retain its African
colonies during the tail end of the authoritarian rule by
Antonio de Oliveira Salazar and his successors, he said.  The Portuguese empire spanned six centuries from the
capture of Ceuta in northern  Africa  in 1415 to the handover of
Macau to  China  in 1999.  The number of  Portuguese citizens registered in Angola , the
biggest oil producer in Africa after  Nigeria , rose 64 percent to
91,854 by the end of 2010 from two years earlier, according to
the  Emigration Observatory in Lisbon . These numbers include
people who acquired Portuguese nationality though marriage and
Portuguese nationals born abroad.  In  Mozambique , that number increased 23 percent to 20,413
last year compared with 2008, while the number of Portuguese
registered in  Brazil  grew 9 percent to 705,615, the data showed.  Angolan Allure  Almeida, a Lisbon resident whose father is already in
Angola, took a string of low-paid jobs since graduating five
years ago from a university. He was dismissed in January after
the construction company he worked for went bankrupt.  Antonio Posser de Andrade, 33, was a general manager of a
shipping company in Angola before he gave up his well-paid job
and returned to Portugal for the birth of his second child in
July. Once in Portugal, he quickly realized there were few
“decent jobs” available at local companies.  He turned to a head-hunter who advised him to find an
employer doing business in Angola or other faster-growing
market. “It looks like my situation will be resolved soon,”
Posser de Andrade said by telephone on Sept 23.  Portugal’s economy will contract 2.2 percent this year and
1.8 percent in 2012 before returning to growth in 2013,
according to government forecasts. It expanded at an average
rate of less than 1 percent a year for the past decade.  World Cup  Host  Brazil, which will host soccer’s 2014 World Cup and 2016
summer Olympics, will grow by 3.8 percent in 2011 and 3.6
percent the following year,  the IMF predicts .  Angola, which is still rebuilding from a 27-year civil war
that followed independence from Portugal in 1975, is expected to
expand by 3.7 percent this year and 10.8 percent in 2012,
according to the lender’s  World Economic Outlook published this
month . Growth in Mozambique will probably be 7.25 percent this
year and remain at an average 8 percent, the IMF predicts.  Angola accounted for 15 percent of Mota-Engil’s 3.4
billion-euro order book in the first half of 2011, the Porto-
based construction company said in a filing on Aug. 31.  “It’s one of our key markets,” CEO Jorge Coelho said.  The business relationship between the former colonial power
and one-time colony is also working both ways.  Angolan Stakes  Flush with money from oil exports, state-owned Angolan oil
company Sonangol owns 12.4 percent of Banco Comercial,
Portugal’s second-biggest publicly traded bank.  Isabel dos Santos, daughter of Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos, owns  9.9 percent of Portugal’s Banco BPI SA 
and  10 percent of Zon Multimedia SGPS SA , Portugal’s biggest
cable television operator.  “With the economy booming, it’s normal that Angolan
companies and investors start investing in Portugal and other
foreign markets,”  Bornito de Sousa , Angola’s minister of
territorial administration, said in a Sept. 16 interview.  In August,  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) ,  Latin
America ’s largest publicly traded utility, said it was in talks
with the  Portuguese government  to buy a stake in EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA, the country’s biggest energy company.  While the government fosters doing business with the
faster-growing former colonies, it’s doesn’t want to lose all
its engineers and business managers.  “If nothing is done, we will certainly all have
emigrated,” Alvaro Santos Pereira, a former economics
professor, said in his book “Portugal in the Hour of Truth”
published in April this year. “The government is totally
committed for that not to happen.”  In Ireland, emigration rose to the highest since the 19th
century in the year through April. Athens-based newspaper
 Kathimerini  said Sept. 15 that Greeks are attracted to countries
such as  Canada  and  Australia  that have large Greek communities.  Almeida now plans to join his father in Angola, who also
works in construction, and has promised to find him a job.  “Once I get settled in Angola, I plan to come back and
take care of my mother’s visa so she can join me and my
father,” he said. “The whole family will be moving there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 Acullen8@bloomberg.net . 