-- 
Message in a Bacterium May Be Next “Invisible Ink,” Study Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-26T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/message-in-a-bacterium-may-be-next-invisible-ink-study-says.html
Scientists encrypted a secret
message into genetically-engineered  E. coli  bacteria using a
method that one day may be useful for preventing counterfeiting
or covert communications.  The E. coli were modified to glow and express one of seven
colors, which were used to create a coding system that allowed
for the entire alphabet, the digits 1-9 and some symbols,
according to a paper in the journal  Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences .  E. coli, better known as a source of food poisoning, when
encoded can be used like “invisible ink,” containing messages
that can’t be detected until the recipient unlocks the secret
message imprinted on paper with a special bacteria-growing
solution. The method may be more effective than transmitting
sensitive data electronically, researchers said.  “It’s another layer of protection, a way of sending secure
messages, preventing counterfeiting and providing
authentication,” said  David Walt , the study’s head author and a
chemist at Tufts University in Medford,  Massachusetts . “We
haven’t thought out all the different applications yet. We could
put a time-encoded message so things develop at different times,
so you could have one message initially and then another. Or you
could have a self-destructing message like in ‘ Mission
Impossible .’”  The research was funded by the U.S. Department of Defense
through its  Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency .  Bacterial Broth and Paper  E. coli messages are grown in bacterial broth, and then
copied onto a white, paper-like membrane. The membrane
containing the undeveloped message is then sent to a receiver,
who can stamp it onto a growth plate to develop the bacteria and
then translate the color coding back into language. In the
experiment, the deciphered message read, “this is a bioencoded
message from the Walt lab at  Tufts university  2011.”  Frequently targeted by hackers, companies and governments
find it increasingly difficult to keep electronic data private
from those who might “eavesdrop” on its transmission, Walt
said. In very sensitive circumstances, such as espionage,
encrypting information using microbes may prevent such attacks,
he said.  For added security, the sender and receiver agree on growth
conditions -- certain chemicals in the growth medium. If the
message is intercepted and grown without the right chemicals,
the message will read as gibberish, or as a different message,
the paper showed.  The simplest way to encode a message without using
sophisticated instruments was to use color, he said. Future
research may focus on using time-encoded messages, where it
takes days or months for the message to be grown in the
bacteria, Walt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 