-- 
European Gas Flows Safe as Russia, Ukraine Haggle, Tigipko Says

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-26T07:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/european-gas-flows-safe-as-russia-ukraine-haggle-tigipko-says.html
Ukraine will ensure gas flows to
 Europe  continue uninterrupted as it seeks to revise supply
contracts with  Russia , avoiding a repeat of cutoffs that have
twice left European consumers without heat.  “We’ll pay on time for gas, and in that regard Europe
needn’t be concerned,” Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko 
said yesterday in an interview in Washington. “This is a
slightly different government, a more responsible one, I’d say.
A government that won’t allow any gas supply disruptions for its
people or for Europeans.”  Disputes between Russia and Ukraine over gas pricing and
transport costs have interrupted supplies of the fuel to Europe
twice since 2006. People in at least 20 countries lost heat for
about two weeks in freezing temperatures in January 2009. Russia
and Ukraine made “substantial progress” during talks outside
Moscow this weekend, Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s
press office said.  Yanukovych, who replaced his Western-backed rival,  Viktor
Yushchenko  in 2010, is asserting Ukraine’s independence from its
neighbor by rejecting an offer to hand over control of Ukrainian
state gas company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy in return for a new
contract.  The president is also refusing to join a customs union with
Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, in return for subsidized gas
prices, as this would jeopardize his efforts to negotiate a
free-trade accord with the 27-nation EU as a first step toward
membership.  Political Concessions  “I don’t think Ukraine will agree to any political
concessions or economic concessions,” Tigipko said. “If we
can’t reach an agreement, we’ll meet the conditions and pay the
price that’s written into the agreement.”  Ukraine is paying more for Russian gas than some consumers
in Europe, which “isn’t right,” Tigipko said. The country must
pay 150 percent for unused gas that it is obligated to buy in
summer months and 300 percent in the winter, he said.  The current agreement between the two nations, which
requires Ukraine to buy at least 33 billion cubic meters a year,
was signed by then-Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  in January
2009 to resolve the most recent gas cutoff. She is now awaiting
trial on charges including abuse of power by agreeing to overpay
for Russian gas.  Ukraine announced plans this month to break up Naftogaz to
force a renegotiation of the terms under which it buys gas from
Russia. Tigipko, who was attending the International Monetary
Fund’s annual meeting in the U.S. capital, said he wasn’t sure
what progress had been made in Yanukovych’s talks with Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  No New Topics  “I don’t think there will be any new topics,” he said.
The negotiations will revolve around the gas-pricing formula,
penalties for unused gas and the “fairly modest” payments
Ukraine gets for letting Russia export through its pipelines.  “These are the questions that may be up for discussion,”
Tigipko said. “It would really be nice to see some sort of
actual progress.”  This month, Russian gas export monopoly OAO Gazprom started
pumping fuel through the Nord Stream pipeline that runs from
Russia to  Germany  under the  Baltic Sea . The $10 billion route
was created to make European energy supplies more secure by
bypassing transit states such as Ukraine. About 80 percent of
Russian gas headed for the European Union passes through Soviet-
era pipelines in Ukraine.  Ukraine’s budget won’t suffer major losses from the gas
flows sent through the new route, Tigipko said. The government
is seeking to lessen its dependence on Russian supplies by
developing Ukraine’s gas reserves and promoting energy-
efficiency programs, he said.  “We can cooperate successfully with Russia, and I would
even say that we absolutely must,” Tigipko said. “We have
major economic interests there, and Russians have major economic
interests in Ukraine. Inflexibility on these things never leads
to anything good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in  Washington  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  