-- 
European Lenders Gain, Led by Erste, Deutsche Bank, Intesa

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-09-26T13:59:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/european-bank-stocks-gain-led-by-erste-group-intesa-sanpaolo.html
European banking stocks climbed,
led by  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , Deutsche Bank AG and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) , as finance ministers and central bankers pushed for
stronger efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index jumped 2.6 percent at 3:44 p.m. in Frankfurt after gaining
as much as 5.2 percent during the session as it extended Sept.
23’s 3.4 percent advance. Erste rose as much as 14.2 percent,
Intesa 13.7 percent, Deutsche Bank 9.8 percent and  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA 9 percent.  Financial shares gained as government officials worldwide
stepped up their rhetoric about the need to find a solution to
Europe’s debt crisis as Group of 20 leaders prepare to meet in
Cannes,  France , on Nov. 3-4. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner warned at the annual meeting of the  International
Monetary Fund  that failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil
threatened “cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic
risk,” while U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
said a solution must be in place by the Cannes meeting.  “Probably a correct conclusion is that various people who
are in a position to act are under pressure to act given the way
the market has been behaving,” Neil Smith, a banking analyst at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, Germany, said in a phone interview.  Investors that have been more negative on the outlook for
European banks will worry that steps by policy makers to address
the crisis may cause a rebound in prices, said  Simon Maughan ,
head of sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd. in London.  “You can’t wait for these guys to blindside you,” Maughan
said in a phone interview. “If you’ve been short on the banks,
you’ve already made a lot of money.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in an interview on ARD
television late yesterday that euro-region leaders must erect a
firewall around Greece to avert a cascade of market attacks on
other European states and said expanding the powers of the
region’s rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility,
was necessary to avert contagion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  