-- 
Dollar, Yen Decline on Optimism European Leaders Will Act to Stem Crisis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-27T21:07:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/euro-falls-against-most-major-peers-before-spain-italy-sell-bonds-today.html
The dollar and the yen declined as
stocks rallied around the world on optimism European leaders are
close to an agreement to contain the region’s debt crisis,
damping demand for refuge.  The euro gained for a third day versus the dollar after
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said her nation would help
Greece meet the terms of its bailout agreement and Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  won support in parliament for an
expansion to the region’s rescue fund.  South Africa ’s rand,
 South Korea ’s won and Mexico’s peso were among the best
performers against the greenback.  “Incrementally, there seems to be momentum toward a new
bailout or something along those lines and the markets are
reacting positively,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a New York-based
analyst at the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd. “However,
I think the gains are short lived. We hear these claims and they
stoke the fire, but without any action they’re not going
anywhere.”  The dollar fell 0.4 percent against the 17-nation euro to
$1.3591 at 5:03 p.m. in New York. The greenback rose 0.6 percent
to 76.81 yen.  Leaders, Losers  The U.S. currency weakened 2.3 percent to 7.8679 rand, and
lost 1.6 percent to 1,173.55 Korean won.  Mexico ’s peso rose 1.3
percent to 13.3658 U.S. cents.  Australia ’s dollar advanced 0.8
percent to 99.08 U.S. cents, and added 1.4 percent to 76.10 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained as much as 2.8
percent and the MSCI World Index, a measure of equities in
developed nations, advanced as much as 3.8 percent. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials rallied 2.7
percent.  Investors bought the most dollars last week since June,
according to Bank of America Corp. flow data. The dollar buying
was led by selling of emerging-market currencies, though
positions still remain high in those assets, currency
strategists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch led by Richard Cochinos wrote in a note to clients.  Foreign exchange traders were net long the dollar against
eight of its most-traded counterparts for the first time since
July 2010 in the week ended Sept. 20, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission reported last week. A long position is a bet
an asset will increase in value.  Bloc Rally  “It’s not a coincidence that the dollar-bloc currencies
are rallying, they’ve lost the most in the past few days,” said
 Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “The fact that the
European stock market is up for the third consecutive day, risk
is coming back on.”  The euro has lost 5.2 percent against the yen this month,
set for the sharpest monthly drop since May 2010. The shared
currency’s 10.4 percent decline versus the yen during the past
three months is the worst since the quarter ended June 2010,
when it also slumped against the dollar to a four-year low of
$1.1877.  The yen has gained 9.9 percent in the past three months
against a basket of nine developed-market peers, the best
performer tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The
dollar has appreciated 3.8 percent while the euro has
depreciated by 1.8 percent.  Greece  Help  Greece is ready to fulfill the conditions laid down by the
so-called troika assessing Greek progress at meeting the terms
of its international rescue, Merkel told reporters in Berlin
today at a joint press briefing with Papandreou.  The Greek leader won a vote today in parliament to approve
a new property tax, bolstering his chances of pushing through
austerity cuts aimed at securing further international financial
aid for the country. The vote also approved a bill to expand the
European Financial Stability Facility, which was approved by
euro zone members on July 21.  Greece became the eighth nation to ratify the changes to
 Europe ’s rescue fund after Slovenia approved it earlier today.
All 17 euro nations need to approve the changes before they can
go into effect. Merkel said she remained confident of winning a
majority among her coalition lawmakers for a vote on the EFSF in
parliament on Sept. 29.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  declined to rule
out further changes to the EFSF, saying that if we “have to
enhance the EFSF” it will be done in the “most efficient
way.” At the same time, he said that increasing the size of the
fund would damage the AAA rating of some euro-area members.  Fund Discussions  “We’re seeing a lot of discussion on potential changes to
the EFSF, but at this point nothing has been implemented,” said
Brian Kim, a currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “If there is any talk of
solution, we would be cautious because there’s an implementation
risk.”  The yen has strengthened against 15 of its 16 major
counterparts this month, prompting concern  Japan  will intervene
in the foreign-exchange market to halt its advance.  Japan is ready to take bold action on the currency if
needed, Finance Minister Jun Azumi said today.  Japanese companies are “increasingly expressing their
concern about the appreciation of the yen,”  Robert Rennie ,
chief currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “The pressure on
the cabinet to do something and make some bold steps will
increase in the days ahead, so the yen is another safe haven I’d
be avoiding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  