-- 
Dollar Falls Amid Signs of an Accord in Euro Zone, Demand for Risk Assets

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-26T21:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/euro-falls-to-decade-low-versus-yen-on-persisting-european-crisis-concern.html
The dollar dropped for the first
time in four days against a basket of its biggest trading
partners as stocks gained after European leaders said they would
support the union, increasing demand for higher-yielding assets.  The euro gained against the dollar and pared a drop that
took it to a decade low against the yen after an official said
the  European Central Bank  may restart covered-bond purchases
along with further measures to ease monetary conditions.
Sweden’s krona and  Norway ’s krone gained against the dollar. The
yen traded at almost a post-World War II high against the U.S.
currency.  “During the U.S. day and even the European day there was a
lot of risk-on sentiment,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “It’s going to be a
short-lived bounce unless we see a clear and decisive plan.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the currency against those of its six biggest trade partners,
dropped 0.7 percent to 77.980 at 5:02 p.m. in New York, from
78.501 last week. The yen rose 0.3 percent to 76.36 per dollar,
trading within 1 yen of the post-World War II record 75.95
reached Aug. 19.  The euro was little changed at 103.38 yen after declining
to 101.94, the weakest level since June 2001. The shared
currency rose 0.2 percent to $1.3533 after sliding to $1.3363,
the lowest since Jan. 18.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.3 percent after
losing 6.5 percent last week.  Sweden ’s krona was the best performer against the greenback
among the major currencies as investors sought higher-yielding
assets. It added 1.9 percent to 6.8026 per dollar. The Norwegian
krone rose 1.7 percent to 5.7521 per dollar.  Risk Appetite  “As risk appetite even tenuously turns, that allows these
stronger credits like Norway and Sweden to outperform not only
against the euro but against the dollar,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas G-10 currency strategy at Bank of
America Corp. in New York. “We’re seeing a little bit of
improvement in risk confidence.”  Canada ’s dollar reversed its drop to the weakest level in
more than a year versus its U.S. counterpart. The Canadian
currency was little changed at C$1.0254 per  U.S. dollar . It
earlier touched C$1.0386, the weakest since Sept. 9, 2010.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said European leaders should consider an expansion of
the European Financial Stability Facility.  “We are just now discussing an extension of this EFSF,”
Nowotny said in a lecture at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts  today. While this “might not be a trillion”
euros, “it is clearly something more than it is now and I think
this makes sense.”  Euro Maneuvers  The Netherlands and  Finland  have no plans to increase their
commitments to the euro area’s bailout fund, the prime ministers
of both nations said today. The comments were echoed in  Germany ,
where Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said that the
government sees no need to expand the European Financial
Stability Facility beyond the 440 billion euros ($592 billion)
agreed by euro-region leaders on July 21. Six nations have
already approved the changes, which need to be ratified by all
euro-member countries.  “You’ve got conflicting stories out of  Europe  on a bigger,
more decisive bailout package,” said  Richard Franulovich , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in  New York .
“But then on the same token you’re getting pushback out of
Germany. We’re caught between a rock and a hard place.”  ECB policy makers are likely to next week debate restarting
their covered-bond purchases, a euro-region central bank
official said.  Loans Policy  The reintroduction of 12-month loans to banks will also be
discussed at the ECB’s Oct. 6 policy meeting, said the person,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the information is
confidential. Interest-rate cuts are likely to be discussed,
though they are not on the current agenda, the official said.  South Korea ’s won lost the most among its major
counterparts as concerns about Europe’s crisis intensified and
as traders said authorities scaled back intervention that slowed
declines last week.  The won sank to near a one-year low, slumping 2.2 percent
to 1,192.85 per dollar after losing 4.7 percent last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency gained 1.1
percent in the final minutes of trading on Sept. 23 after the
 finance ministry  and central bank said they were ready to
intervene. It touched 1,196.13 that day, the weakest level since
September 2010.  For all the concern about sovereign default in Europe, the
euro remains above its average since being created almost 12
years ago, a sign that foreign-exchange traders see little
chance of a collapse as officials step up efforts to keep the
debt crisis from expanding.  Euro History  At last week’s close of $1.35, the euro is 12 percent
stronger than its average of $1.2024 since January 1999. While
strategists have cut their forecasts for appreciation, they
still see it rising to $1.43 by the end of 2012, based on the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The Russian ruble dropped to the lowest level in more than
two years against the dollar as President  Dmitry Medvedev 
dismissed Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin after accusing him of
“insubordination” for questioning the Russian leader’s
spending policies.  The ruble fell 1 percent to 32.4040 per dollar and reached
32.5225, its weakest intraday level since August 2009.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said Sept. 24 he’ll swap
roles with his protégé, Medvedev, by running again for  Russia ’s
presidency in March. Kudrin, the longest-serving finance
minister in the Group of Eight nations, said later he wouldn’t
serve in a Medvedev government because he disagreed with his
plans to increase military spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  