-- 
European Stocks Climb as Banks, Insurers Rally; U.S. Futures Pare Losses

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-26T16:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/european-stocks-decline-amid-debt-crisis-u-s-futures-asian-shares-drop.html
European stocks rose for a second
day as foreign governments and central banks urged policy makers
in Europe to intensify efforts to contain the region’s debt
crisis following meetings with the  International Monetary Fund .  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s biggest insurers, jumped
the most in more than a year. Deutsche Bank AG led lenders
higher amid speculation the  European Central Bank  may cut
 interest rates  and as executives called for a U.S.-style
Troubled Asset Relief Program in Europe.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  tumbled
6.9 percent as silver had the biggest three-day drop since 1980.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 1.9 percent
to 220.28 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, rebounding from an
earlier loss of 1.4 percent, as the IMF said that euro-area
countries will do whatever is necessary to end the region’s
government-debt crisis.  “Nothing concrete has come out of the IMF meeting, but
there is a lot of talk about the  Europe  TARP and rate cuts so
that has led to optimism in some quarters,” said Ioan Smith, a
director at Knight Capital Europe Ltd. in London. “I still
think there is a long way to go.”  More than $3.5 trillion was wiped from equity values
globally last week amid concern policy makers are struggling to
contain a debt crisis that has Greece teetering on the edge of a
default. The Stoxx 600 has lost 24 percent from this year’s high
on Feb. 17, leaving the gauge trading at about 9.3 times the
estimated earnings of its companies, near the lowest valuation
since March 2009, Bloomberg Data shows.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes rallied in all 18 western
European markets today, except Greece and Norway.  Germany ’s DAX
gained 2.9 percent and France’s CAC 40 rose 1.8 percent. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 advanced 0.5 percent as mining companies limited
the increase.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro-region leaders
must erect a firewall around Greece to avert a cascade of market
attacks on other European states and said expanding the powers
of the region’s rescue fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, was necessary to avert contagion.  The fund’s permanent successor, due to take effect in mid-
2013, is needed “so we can in fact let a state go insolvent,”
she said late yesterday on ARD television.  Policy makers can make the EFSF more “efficient” by
leveraging it without involving the ECB, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said over the weekend. He also raised the
prospect of bringing in the permanent backstop before 2013.  Bank Capital  A report by JPMorgan Chase & Co. today said euro-area banks
need at least 150 billion euros ($203 billion) of capital
provided through a Europe-wide TARP akin to the U.S. The $700
billion program was started in 2008 to inject capital into banks
following the collapse of the U.S. housing market and the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. President Gary D. Cohn said at a
panel discussion with other bank executives yesterday that
modeling a European financial rescue after the U.S. Treasury
Department’s TARP “would be a good solution.”  Allianz and Axa surged 10 percent to 65.01 euros and 8.2
percent to 8.98 euros, respectively. Insurance companies were
the best performers in the Stoxx 600 today, advancing 6.4
percent as a group for the biggest jump since May 2010.  Deutsche Bank and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  rose 8.7 percent to 25.12
euros and 7.8 percent to 1.76 euros, respectively.  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA, France’s biggest bank, rallied 4 percent to 26.33 euros.
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  climbed 8.3 percent to 1.10 euros in Milan.  ECB Rates  BofA Merrill Lynch said in a report the European Central
Bank may cut interest rates by 50 basis points at its next
meeting on Oct. 6 instead of November or early 2012 following
meetings with the IMF. ECB Governing Council member Ewald
Nowotny said in an interview with Market News International that
he cannot exclude that the bank will lower rates, while Yves
Mersch said speculation about a 50 basis-point cut was
unfounded.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  advanced 6.6 percent to 1.40 euros after Les Echos
reported the lender is ready to sell 20 billion euros of bond
assets to continue as a viable business. The newspaper cited an
unidentified person close to the matter.  The bank yesterday denied reports in the French press that
a split of the bank is under consideration. Le Figaro said that
Dexia shareholders La Banque Postale and state-owned Caisse des
Depots et Consignations are working to form a new lender to
French municipalities, with Dexia as an investor.  “The long-running rumour of a tie-up between Dexia and CDC
and La Banque Postale to create a joint venture for the
financing of local authorities has re-emerged as concerns over
the solvency and liquidity of banks, notably French banks, have
grown,” Alex Koagne, an analyst at Natixis, wrote today.  Bayer Advances  Bayer AG (BAYN)  jumped 4.3 percent to 41.10 euros in  Frankfurt 
after a study showed the company’s prostate cancer drug cut
death risks by 30 percent.  Fresnillo dropped 6.9 percent to 1,524 pence as precious
metals tumbled after CME Group Inc. increased margin
requirements on gold and silver.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  fell 3.9 percent
to 782 pence and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  slid 3.9 percent to 1,070
pence as copper retreated for a seventh day in London.  Kloeckner & Co. SE fell 3.8 percent to 9.25 euros, the
lowest close since May. The German steel trader is expecting a
weak third quarter due to lower orders and isn’t likely to reach
its earning goals for 2011, Deutsches Anleger Fernsehen
reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Gisbert Ruehl in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  