-- 
Teva to Meet 2015 Sales, Profit Targets, CFO Desheh Says

-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 
2011-09-26T13:47:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/teva-expects-to-meet-2015-growth-targets-cfo-desheh-says.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest generic drugmaker, expects to meet
2015 sales and profit targets and aims to benefit from a larger
presence in  Japan , said Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh.  The company “absolutely” is on course to increase revenue
by 2015 to $31 billion and net income to $6.8 billion, Desheh
said in an interview. The company reported net sales of $16.1
billion last year and forecast in July an increase to between
$18.5 billion and $19 billion in 2011.  “We have created this plan and we stand behind it,” he
said by telephone. “The plan will be composed of organic growth
as well as acquisitions.”  Teva posted the biggest gain since Sept. 7 after saying it
will buy the 50 percent interest it doesn’t own in Japanese
joint venture, Teva-Kowa Pharma Co., from Kowa Co. for $150
million. Teva, located in Petach Tikva,  Israel , outside of Tel
Aviv, and Kowa have turned the three-year-old venture into one
of the top five generic players in Japan, the Israeli company
said in a statement.  Teva expects the deal to have a longer term impact on the
company and not initially affect earnings.  ‘Bigger Presence’  “The additional contribution of the deal is not expected to
have an impact on earnings per share in the fourth quarter,”
Desheh said. “Going forward, Teva will benefit from a much
bigger presence in the Japanese market, and a much bigger
product portfolio, which will give us a bigger edge as a large
generic player in the Japanese market.”  The deal may contribute about $50 million in fourth-quarter
sales, “too minor to actually impact the picture of 2011
numbers,” said Jonathan Kreizman, an analyst at Clal Finance
Brokerage Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  Desheh said the Japanese generic market, one of the fastest
growing in the world, is “definitely a big focus for Teva.”
The company is also looking for opportunities in India and
 China , he said.  Teva completed the acquisition of Taiyo Pharmaceutical
Industry Co. Ltd., the third-largest generic drug manufacturer
in Japan with 2010 sales of about $530 million, in July for
$934 million. With this latest transaction, Teva’s operations in
Japan are expected to generate annual sales of more than $800
million, the company said in the statement.  Teva shares climbed 2.6 percent in Tel Aviv to 133.80
shekels in Tel Aviv.  Shares Sink  The shares have tumbled 28 percent this year compared with
a 20 percent drop for the benchmark TA-25 Index amid concern
over the future of its best-selling multiple sclerosis drug,
Copaxone. The drug, an injected treatment that accounted for 23
percent of Teva’s second-quarter revenue, is facing competition
from the first approved multiple sclerosis pill from Novartis
AG.  Desheh said the threat to Copaxone isn’t immediate.  “Our patent protection of Copaxone until 2015 is very strong
and we believe that a Food and Drug Administration approval for
a generic version is not coming anytime soon,” he said.  Desheh said he expects Teva shares will recover as the
current price doesn’t “represent the real value of the
company,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  