-- 
Exxaro Resources, Tronox to Combine Mineral Sands Operations

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-26T09:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/exxaro-resources-tronox-to-combine-mineral-sands-operations-1-.html
Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , a coal and
iron ore miner in  South Africa , and Tronox Inc. will combine
their mineral sands operations in a business valued at 27.8
billion rand ($3.3 billion) to benefit from economies of scale.  Exxaro will gain about 38.5 percent in New Tronox in
exchange for its 50 percent share in the Tiwest venture with
Tronox in  Australia  and a 74 percent stake in KZN Sands and
Namakwa Sands in South Africa, the company said in a statement.
Oklahoma City-based Tronox, a titanium pigment producer, will
hold the remainder.  The combined business is likely to save $30 million a year
because of greater efficiency in administration and logistics,
the two companies said today in separate statements. The
transaction will secure feedstock supplies to support growth
strategies of Tronox and Exxaro.  “The transaction will add security to the future of the
KZN Sands and Namakwa Sands operations as it will, to a large
degree, limit market cyclicality and surety of demand and will
ensure continued ability to operate these assets and protect
jobs,” Sipho Nkosi, chief executive officer of Exxaro, said in
the statement.  Exxaro shares advanced 2.1 percent to 182.72 rand at 11:45
in Johannesburg. They’ve gained 34 percent this year.  New York Listing  Exxaro’s mineral sands business contributed about 27
percent of its 17.2 billion rand in sales in the 2010 financial
year, according to Bloomberg data. The company is one of the
biggest global suppliers of titanium dioxide feedstock, used in
paint, and zircon, used mostly in ceramic tiles, it said.  New Tronox will be an Australian holding company with
Tronox owning Class A shares and Exxaro, based in  Pretoria ,
holding Class B shares. The Class A shares may be listed on the
New York Stock Exchange, Exxaro said.  Exxaro will retain 26 percent of the KZN and Namakwa assets
to ensure compliance with black economic empowerment legislation
in South Africa. Once black ownership is no longer a legal
requirement, Exxaro would have the option to increase its stake
in New Tronox by about 3.2 percent, the companies said. The
South African government hasn’t said when the black-ownership
requirement will end.  Following the transaction, Tronox will have a production
capacity of about 465,000 metric tons of titanium dioxide
pigment, 265,000 tons of zircon and 220,000 tons of  pig iron , it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  