-- 
MF Global Fined for Market Manipulation Over Fortis in 2008

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-09-26T10:53:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/mf-global-fined-for-market-manipulation-on-fortis-afm-says.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) ’s U.K.
unit, along with a former equity sales trader, was fined by a
Dutch regulator for spreading misleading information before the
breakup of Fortis in 2008.  MF Global UK Ltd. was fined 384,000 euros ($516,000) for
market manipulation, the Amsterdam-based financial markets
regulator known as AFM said in statement today. Equity sales
trader Willem Kadijk was fined 24,000 euros on the same grounds.  MF Global is appealing the decision, according to London-
based spokeswoman Sam Harris. Kadijk has also filed an appeal,
Guido Roth, an Amsterdam-based lawyer at Spigthoff, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The ex-trader of the New York-based brokerage sent a
message to investors in July and September 2008 that contained
“incorrect and misleading” information on a potential share
sale by Fortis, the price of the shares to be issued and the
firm’s capital requirements, AFM said. Fortis fell as much as 19
percent in intraday trading on July 15 and 16 percent on Sept.
15, 2008, and the firm issued two statements denying it was
planning a share sale.  “The information in the messages was firm, concrete and
detailed and was presented as fact,” said AFM, adding that it
was spread by other employeees. “The credibility of the
communications was enforced by the unrest on the financial
markets. The credibility attached to the name MF Global also
played a part.”  An Opinion  Fortis was later forced to sell parts of the company in a
state-organized breakup in 2008 to avert collapse as the credit
crunch worsened, customers pulled deposits and investors lost
confidence.  The messages represented an opinion, said Roth, adding that
Kadijk’s contention that Fortis needed more capital than it had
communicated to the market proved “completely right.”  “The reproach that Kadijk misguided the market, is the
world turned upside down,” Roth said.  The Dutch government on Oct. 3, 2008, bought assets from
Fortis in the Netherlands, including its stake in ABN Amro NV
and two days later Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA agreed to take
control of the bank and insurer in  Belgium  and Luxembourg. That
came after a capital injection from Belgium, the Netherlands and
Luxembourg on Sept. 28.  The remnants of Fortis are now grouped in Brussels- and
Utrecht, Netherlands-based insurer  Ageas. (AGS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  