-- 
Faes Farma Said to Be Near Japan Agreement to Sell Bilastine

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-09-27T15:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/faes-farma-said-to-be-near-agreement-to-sell-bilastine-in-japan.html
Faes Farma SA (FAE) , the Spanish
pharmaceutical company whose stock has sunk about 59 percent in
the past year, is close to signing a deal with a Japanese
drugmaker to market the allergy treatment bilastine, a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  Negotiations to license bilastine in  Japan  have been going
on for months and the talks have sped up in the last few weeks,
said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
information is confidential. A deal would boost Faes’s earnings,
because Japan is one of the biggest markets for allergy
medicines, the person said.  Faes rose 1.6 percent to 1.30 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close
in  Madrid  today, giving the company a market value of 253.6
million euros ($345.1 million).  “The potential deal in Japan has a huge relevance for Faes
Farma as we are talking about a very big market for allergy
treatments,” Francisco Jose Rodriguez, a Madrid-based analyst
at Banco Sabadell SA, said by telephone today. “The stock has
been battered and any positive news flow about bilastine is key
for the company’s future because it will be a boost for sales.”  Faes has sold bilastine in  Spain  since April under the
brand Bilaxten and it had a 9.5 percent  market share  in June,
the Leioa-based company said in a July statement. The drugmaker
expects to sell bilastine in at least France, Italy and  Portugal 
during the fourth quarter after it reaches agreements on prices.  First-half net income fell 18 percent to 10.4 million
euros, the company said in July. Margins were hurt by discounts
imposed by the Spanish and Portuguese governments in 2010 and
because the company began selling new products.  Faes would have posted profit growth without government
austerity measures, the company said. Prices were cut by 7.5
percent in Spain and by 6 percent in Portugal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  