-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says Long-Term Growth May Be Lower After Bust

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-26T16:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/fed-s-bullard-says-long-term-economic-growth-may-be-lower-following-bubble.html
St. Louis Federal Reserve President
 James Bullard  said the long-term rate of U.S. economic expansion
may be lower than anticipated in part because the house price
bubble last decade created unrealistic expectations for growth.  “It is not reasonable to expect the economy to climb
rapidly back to the 2007, Q4 peak since part of that peak was
due to artificial growth driven by bubble behavior,” Bullard
said today in New York. “A more reasonable interpretation is
that fundamental potential growth in the U.S. has been somewhat
lower than previously thought.”  Fed policy makers are trying to ascertain why economic
growth has fallen short of their expectations during the past
two years following the end of the deepest recession since the
1930s. Growth averaged less than 1 percent in the first half of
this year, and Wall Street economists have raised their odds for
the possibility of another recession.  The Fed’s “asset purchase program clearly drove both
inflation and inflation expectations higher and closer to the
Committee’s implicit target over the last year,” Bullard said
to an event hosted by Medley Global Advisors and the Financial
Times. Given that actual real economic performance was weaker,
“this should have meant less inflation, not more,” he said.  The gap between long-run U.S. growth and the potential
growth, sometimes called the “output gap,” may be
“considerably smaller than previously thought,” Bullard said.
In addition, “the output gap has considerably less influence on
inflation than commonly thought,” he said.  Concerns Over Capital  During a question period with the audience, Bullard said he
had confidence in European banks amid concerns over their
capital.  “I don’t think it’s reasonable” to think  Europe  would
abandon its banks, he said. “The Europeans are fully committed
to backing their banks.”  Europe’s political process in handling the debt crisis has
been “slow moving” and that “is not going to change,”
Bullard said.  Bullard also said tolerance for accelerating price gains
isn’t the way to revive U.S. housing. “I don’t think high
inflation is a very good solution to this problem,” he said.  Policy makers voted Sept. 21 to extend the average
maturities of the Treasuries in the Fed’s portfolio by
purchasing $400 billion of long-term debt while selling an equal
amount of shorter-term securities. The operation is an attempt
to push down mortgage and other loan rates to spur growth.  Stocks Declined  Stocks fell for two days last week as investors weren’t
persuaded the so-called Operation Twist, similar to an action in
1961, would help to lift growth. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
his policy-making colleagues also cited “significant downside
risks” to the outlook.  “ Monetary policy  is ultra loose right now, and
appropriately so,” Bullard said in response to an audience
question.  Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  also voiced support for
current policy, saying the weaker-than-anticipated boost to U.S.
growth and employment from record stimulus shouldn’t discourage
the central bank from further easing.  While the effects of Fed actions have been “somewhat more
muted than I might have expected,” that shouldn’t imply that
additional easing “would be unhelpful,” Raskin today in a speech
in  Washington . “Indeed, the opposite conclusion might well be
the case -- namely, that additional policy accommodation is
warranted under present circumstances.”  Stocks Rose  U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increasing 1 percent to 1,148.09 at 12:05 p.m. in  New York 
trading. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.9 percent.  Bullard reiterated that he favored a “meeting-by-meeting
approach” to setting the size of asset purchases so a program’s
size responds to changes in the economy. The policy committee
could change the date of the planned first  interest rate  hike
from mid-2013 as a “communications tool,” he said.  Bullard, 50, doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year. He
joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in 1990 and
became president of the regional bank in 2008.  Economists have cut their forecasts for growth, according
to a Bloomberg News survey taken from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7. The
median forecast calls for a 1.8 percent annual pace of expansion
in the third quarter, down from 2.1 percent in the previous
month’s survey. Growth next year is forecast to average 2.2
percent, down from 2.4 percent.  Economy Faltering  Stagnant payrolls in August have added to data over the
past month showing the economy is faltering, including slowing
manufacturing, plunging  consumer confidence , falling home values
and lower bond yields and stock prices.  The Fed maintained its pledge made in August to hold its
benchmark interest rate near zero through the middle of 2013 so
long as unemployment stays high and the inflation outlook is
“subdued.” The target rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  