-- 
Fed to Buy Treasuries 13 Times a Month, Sell Six Times in Operation Twist

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-09-26T20:38:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/fed-to-purchase-treasuries-13-times-per-month-sell-six-times.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it will
buy Treasury securities 13 times a month and sell its holdings
of U.S. government debt six times under its plan to lower
borrowing costs known as Operation Twist.  The Fed will sell $8 billion to $9 billion of nominal
Treasuries five times a month per operation and $1 billion to
$1.5 billion of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or
TIPS, in one operation, according to a  statement  today from the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York . The Fed will buy Treasuries 12
times a month and TIPS once a month.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said last week that it
would replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio
with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to further reduce
borrowing costs and counter rising risks of a recession. The so-
called Operation Twist drew three dissents as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  struggled to find consensus to help an economy plagued
by 9.1 percent unemployment.  The action “should exert downward pressure on longer-term
 interest rates  and help make broader financial conditions more
accommodative, thereby supporting a stronger economic
recovery,” Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said today in a
speech in  Washington , reiterating a point from the FOMC’s
statement. The panel cited “significant downside risks to the
economic outlook, including strains in global financial
markets.”  10-Year Yields  Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note increased 6
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.90 percent at 4:01
p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
That’s down from a yield of 1.94 percent on Sept. 20, the day
before the Fed announced Operation Twist.  The Fed also announced last week that it would switch the
reinvestment of its holdings of maturing housing debt to
mortgage-backed securities from Treasuries. The  New York Fed 
said today it plans to buy $10 billion of agency mortgage-backed
securities between Oct. 3 and Oct. 13.  “Our announcement appears to have been successful in
narrowing the spread between rates on agency MBS and  Treasury
securities  of comparable maturity,” a spread that had “widened
substantially since earlier this year,” threatening to raise
home-loan costs, Raskin said today, referring to mortgage-backed
securities.  The difference between yields on  Fannie Mae ’s current-
coupon 30-year fixed-rate securities and 10-year Treasuries
shrank to 1.05 percentage point as of 4 p.m. today in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That gap has narrowed
from 1.22 percentage point the day before the plan was
announced, after ending last year at 0.84 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  