-- 
Fed’s Kocherlakota Says Central Banks Could Guarantee Debts

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   B l a i r   E u t e n e u e r
-- 
2011-09-26T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/fed-s-kocherlakota-says-central-banks-could-guarantee-debts.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President Narayana Kocherlakota said a central bank seeking to
control inflation needs to find a balance between supporting a
government’s debt issuance and allowing for sovereign default.  “It may turn out to be optimal for central banks to
guarantee fiscal authority debts in some situations,”
Kocherlakota said today in a panel discussion in  Chicago . If so,
economists may need to consider control of inflation as
“something that is done jointly by the fiscal authority and the
central bank.” He didn’t back such guarantees, saying a central
bank furthers its independence by avoiding “interventions.”  Kocherlakota, 47, who dissented this month and last month
from the Fed’s expanded use of unconventional monetary tools to
ease credit, didn’t comment on the economic outlook or interest
rates in his prepared remarks. The comments weren’t focused on a
particular situation, such as the prospect of a default by
 Greece  or an increase in the U.S. debt limit.  A central bank can have a “large amount of control over
the price level” if it’s “willing to commit to letting the
fiscal authority default,” Kocherlakota said in the text of
comments at a panel discussion for the CME Group-MSRI Prize in
Innovative Quantitative Applications.  “Such a commitment may expose the country to risks of
short-term and medium-term output losses,” the former
 University of Minnesota  economics professor said. “How this
trade-off should best be resolved awaits future research.”  The award is being given to Thomas Sargent, an economist at
 New York University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Blair Euteneuer in Chicago at 
 beuteneuer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  