-- 
Fed Officials Express Doubt About Faster Inflation as Tool to Boost Growth

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-27T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/fed-s-bullard-raskin-voice-skepticism-on-faster-inflation-to-boost-growth.html
Two Federal Reserve policy makers
voiced wariness about the idea of spurring growth by letting
inflation accelerate as they reiterated support for the central
bank’s unprecedented monetary easing.  Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the central bank’s use
of tools has been “completely appropriate” and that she would
be “quite leery” of allowing higher inflation or price
expectations in an attempt to lower real interest rates. St.
Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said faster inflation won’t
reduce the housing glut. He also said “monetary policy is
ultra-loose right now, and appropriately so.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and colleagues have discussed
adopting specific levels of inflation and unemployment as
conditions for keeping interest rates near zero. Only Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  has public supported the idea of
allowing price increases faster than 2 percent annually as a way
to lower unemployment.  “One of the explicit mandates of Congress is  price
stability , and keeping inflationary expectations anchored is, in
my mind, extremely important,” Raskin, 50, said in response to
an audience question yesterday in  Washington  after a speech to
the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said Sept. 21 it will buy
$400 billion of Treasury securities with maturities of six to 30
years through June while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less.  Policy Tools  It was the second straight expansion of unconventional
monetary tools, following the August decision to say the
benchmark  interest rate  will stay close to zero until at least
mid-2013 instead of the previous, less-specific “extended
period” language that had been in place since March 2009.  Raskin indicated she might support unspecified further
stimulus. While the effects of Fed actions have been “somewhat
more muted than I might have expected,” she said, that
shouldn’t imply that additional easing “would be unhelpful.”  “Indeed, the opposite conclusion might well be the case --
namely, that additional policy accommodation is warranted under
present circumstances,” she said in a speech, her first devoted
to monetary policy since the former  Maryland  chief financial
regulator joined the Fed almost a year ago.  The FOMC at its Aug. 9 meeting considered conditioning its
pledge to keep interest rates at record lows “on explicit
numerical values for the  unemployment rate  or the inflation
rate,” according to minutes released Aug. 30.  More Clarity  “Some members argued that doing so would establish greater
clarity regarding the committee’s intentions and its likely
reaction to future economic developments, while others raised
questions about how an appropriate numerical value might be
chosen,” the minutes said.  The commitment should be contingent on joblessness falling
to around 7 percent or 7.5 percent as long as inflation stays
below 3 percent in the medium term, Evans said Sept. 7. Fed
policy makers aim for long-run inflation of about 1.7 percent to
2 percent.  Bullard, 50, referring to unsold homes, said yesterday that
“I’m not sure inflation is really going to help you work that
off.”  Keeping prices stable “is the way to go here,” Bullard,
who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, said at a forum
in  New York  hosted by Medley Global Advisors and the Financial
Times. “I don’t think high inflation is a very good solution to
this problem.”  Economic Changes  Bullard repeated that he favored a “meeting-by-meeting
approach” to setting the size of asset purchases so a program’s
size responds to changes in the economy.  U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increasing 2.3 percent to 1,162.95 in New York trading, as
European officials discussed ways to tame the region’s debt
crisis. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.9 percent as of 5:50 p.m. in New
York.  One drawback to the commitment to keep the benchmark rate
near zero is that it “may encourage a Japanese-style outcome in
which the policy rate simply remains near zero and markets come
to expect a mild rate of deflation,” Bullard said in his
presentation yesterday.  The so-called Operation Twist announced last week “should
exert downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and help
make broader financial conditions more accommodative, thereby
supporting a stronger economic recovery,” Raskin said,
reiterating a point from the FOMC’s statement. The FOMC cited
“significant downside risks to the economic outlook, including
strains in global financial markets.”  The Fed also agreed to switch the reinvestment of its
holdings of maturing housing debt to mortgage-backed securities
from Treasuries.  “Our announcement appears to have been successful in
narrowing the spread between rates on agency MBS and  Treasury
securities  of comparable maturity,” which had “widened
substantially since earlier this year,” threatening to raise
home-loan costs, Raskin said yesterday, referring to mortgage-
backed securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in New York at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  