-- 
Fischer Rate Cut May Push Teva, Elbit Higher: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-09-27T07:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/fischer-rate-cut-may-push-teva-elbit-higher-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
and  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  may benefit from a jump in exports after
Israeli central bank Governor Stanley Fischer’s surprise
 interest rate  cut drove the shekel to an eight-month low.  Israel’s benchmark stock index, the TA-25, advanced for a
third day, climbing 1.6 percent to 1,079.79 at 10:00 a.m. in  Tel
Aviv . Elbit Systems increased 3.1 percent in Israel after
climbing 5.5 percent in the U.S. yesterday. Teva, the world’s
largest maker of generic drugs, fell 1.4 percent in Israel. The
shares rebounded from a four-year low yesterday in New York.  The shekel strengthened 0.6 percent to 3.7083 after
declining to as low as 3.7420 per dollar yesterday as Fischer
cut the benchmark interest rate for the first time in 2 1/2
years. Israel joined countries including Turkey and  Brazil  in
reducing borrowing costs as the global economy slumps. The
currency’s weakness will help companies that get most of their
revenues in dollars and pay salaries in shekel, said Gilad Alper, an analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd.  “The sectors that tend to benefit most from the rate cut
are exports and technology,” Alper said by telephone from Ramat
Gan, Israel, citing Teva, Elbit and  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE)  “Still,
this is not a good sign, it means that the economy is slowing.”
The shekel has dropped 5.5 percent versus the dollar this year.
It last fell more than that in a year in 2005, when it lost 6.1
percent. Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said on Sept. 20 that
the currency’s depreciation is sufficient to benefit the
economy.  Two-year interest rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for the benchmark in that period, tumbled 19 basis
points to 2.74 percent, the lowest since September 2010, showing
that traders are betting on another reduction. They were little
changed today.  Export Industry  “The current level is fine,” Steinitz, 53, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “We’re happy
about it. It was very difficult for the export industry to
handle a very strong shekel.”  Steinitz said further declines in the currency could affect
inflation. “If it’s too weak, then the cost of living is going
up, the imported commodities will be more expensive.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index, the benchmark for the
largest New York-traded Israeli companies, added 1 percent to
78.10 yesterday, the most in seven days.  Elbit Systems,  Israel ’s largest non-government defense
contractor that gets most of its orders from the U.S., climbed
to 148.1 shekels, or $39.94, after jumping to $38.61 in the U.S.
yesterday.  Elbit Systems received 32 percent of its income from the
U.S. last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company said its board authorized the repurchase of as many as 1
million shares over the next year.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva, Israel, declined to 131.9
shekels, or the equivalent of $35.57. The shares increased 0.6
percent to $35.46 in New York yesterday.  Revenue Increase  Teva, which mostly relies on the U.S. market, got 62
percent of its revenue from  North America  in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The drugmaker expects to meet 2015
sales and profit targets and aims to benefit from a larger
presence in  Japan , said Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh.  The company “absolutely” is on course to increase revenue
by 2015 to $31 billion and net income to $6.8 billion, Desheh
said in an interview yesterday. The company reported net sales
of $16.1 billion last year and forecast in July an increase to
between $18.5 billion and $19 billion in 2011.  Nice Systems, a maker of digital surveillance and
monitoring systems, gained 3.6 percent, the most in a week, to
116.7 shekels, or $31.47. The U.S. shares added 2.1 percent to
$30.48.  Lower Rate  Fischer lowered the rate by a quarter point to 3 percent,
the Jerusalem-based central bank said on its website yesterday.
Only two of the 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
decision, while the remainder predicted no change. Investor bets
on a rate cut helped push yields on the government’s benchmark
shekel bond to the lowest level in two weeks.  More than $3.5 trillion was wiped from equity values
globally last week amid concern policy makers are struggling to
contain a debt crisis that has  Greece  teetering on the edge of
default, and threatens to spill into other economies.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 reduced its
forecast for global growth and predicted “severe”
repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S.
policy makers deadlock over a fiscal plan.  Alon, Ceva  Israeli inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in August from a
high this year of 4.3 percent in March. The government’s annual
target range is 1 percent to 3 percent. Economists’ 12-month
inflation expectations declined to 2.3 percent in September, the
lowest since February 2010.  “Investors in equities might view it as a negative
signal,” said Terence Klingman, the head of research at Meitav
Brokerage in Tel Aviv.  “The  Bank of Israel  is expecting a
weakness in the economy which will hurt company profits.”  Alon Holdings Blue Square Israel Ltd., the country’s
second-largest food retailer, declined 1.4 percent to 20.70
shekels, or the equivalent of $5.58. The U.S. shares fell the
most in nine days, dropping 5.6 percent to $5.53.  CEVA Inc. (CEVA) , the developer of chips available in most iPhones
and iPads, retreated 1.3 percent to $25.45 in the U.S.
yesterday.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s largest company by market value, is
cutting orders to vendors in the supply chain for its iPad
tablet computer, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report. Several
supply-chain vendors indicated in the past two weeks that Apple
lowered fourth-quarter iPad orders 25 percent, the first such
cut that analysts at JPMorgan’s electronic manufacturing
services team in  Hong Kong  said they have ever seen.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies listed on  Nasdaq , the most
of any country outside North America after  China .  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  