-- 
Fischer Cuts Israel Benchmark Rate, Citing Risks to Growth

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-09-26T16:14:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/fischer-unexpectedly-cuts-israeli-rate-as-growth-slows-1-.html
Bank of Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer cut the benchmark  interest rate  for the first time in 2
1/2 years, joining countries including Turkey and Brazil in
reducing lending costs on the threat of a global slowdown.  Fischer lowered the rate by a quarter point to 3 percent,
the Jerusalem-based central bank said on its website today. Only
two of the 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
decision, while the remainder predicted no change. Investor bets
on a rate cut helped push yields on the government’s benchmark
shekel bond to the lowest level in two weeks.  “The market priced in a rate cut amid a slowdown in the
global economy,” Amir Kahanovich, chief economist at Clal
Investment Management Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by telephone.
“Although inflation expectations have eased, housing costs are
still high which could pose a risk.”  Fischer said last week that Israel’s two-year monetary
tightening cycle is probably over and that there was room to cut
the rate. The Bank of Israel last week reduced its growth
forecast for next year to 3.2 percent from 3.9 percent, saying
export growth may slow.  The yield on the Mimshal Shiklit bond due January 2020,
which has declined for the last five days, fell three basis
points to 4.51 percent today, the lowest since Sept. 11. Two-
year interest rate swaps, an indicator of investor expectations
for the benchmark in the next two years, fell 19 basis points to
2.74 percent in Tel Aviv, the lowest since September 2010. The
shekel extended declines after the rate cut and was down 0.8
percent to 3.7336 per dollar at 7 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  Brazil  Action  Fischer’s action follows rate cuts in Brazil and Turkey,
which reduced their benchmarks in August citing risks from a
slowing global economy. The  European Central Bank , which
tightened policy twice this year, said Sept. 15 that risks to
the economic outlook have shifted to the downside, and central
bankers in Norway and the  Czech Republic  have signaled they may
cut rates.  More than $3.5 trillion was wiped from equity values
globally last week amid concern policy makers are struggling to
contain a debt crisis that has  Greece  teetering on the edge of
default, and threatens to spill into other economies.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 reduced its
forecast for global growth and predicted “severe”
repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S.
policy makers deadlock over a fiscal plan.  Annual Target  Israeli inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in August from a
high this year of 4.3 percent in March. The government’s annual
target range is 1 percent to 3 percent. Economists’ 12-month
inflation expectations declined to 2.3 percent in September, the
lowest since February 2010.  Along with the slowing of the global economy, the Israeli
economy is also facing geopolitical risks. Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas asked the United Nations on Sept. 23 to
recognize a Palestinian state and ruled out a return to
“business as usual” in peace negotiations. Fischer said Sept.
18 that if violence erupts as a result of Israeli-Palestinian
tensions, it may “cost”  Israel  economically.  The TA-25 benchmark share price index has slid about 20
percent since the beginning of the year led by Discount
Investment Corp., a holding company with interests in
telecommunications, retailing and manufacturing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 