-- 
France’s Pre-Louis XIV Government System Caps Debt Cost Amid Euro Turmoil

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-09-27T08:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/france-s-pre-louis-xiv-government-system-caps-debt-cost-amid-euro-turmoil.html
France is paying less to borrow now
than at the start of the year, aided by a political consensus on
deficit reduction and a centralized system of government dating
back before Louis XIV’s reign.  As investors seek shelter from the political and debt
turmoil in markets such as Greece and Italy, yields on 10-year
French  government bonds  have fallen to 2.6 percent, down from
3.4 percent at the beginning of January and less than half the
post-euro-creation high of 5.76 percent on Jan. 18, 2000.  “For centuries the French state has been a predatory
one,” said Michel Martinez, an economist at Societe Generale SA
in Paris. “It’s not a country where there is implementation 
risk. When the government decides to do something, it happens.”  A slowing economy and concern about French financial firms’
debt holdings -- the biggest exposure to  Europe ’s troubled
economies -- have raised the yield premium France pays over
 Germany  and caused its debt service cost to surpass the U.K.’s
this year. Yet with only six euro states retaining AAA credit
ratings, alternatives are limited for investors, suggesting the
euro area’s second-largest economy can continue to benefit from
costs of credit that are among the world’s lowest.  “There are not many alternatives in terms of large, liquid
markets with a full curve available,” said Laurent Bilke, head
of inflation strategy at Nomura International in  London .
“ France  has a captive market. In the context of very strong
 risk aversion  this situation can persist.”  Budget Law  In the euro zone, only Germany, the Netherlands and Finland
pay less than France. Germany pays 1.7 percent to borrow for 10
years, while the U.K. pays 2.4 percent. The Netherlands, the
third-biggest of the euro area countries with AAA ratings behind
France and Germany, pays 2.2 percent.  France set out to issue about 180 billion euros ($242
billion) of bonds in 2011. The government’s debt management
office will update investors on its plans for bond sales in the
rest of the year and 2012 tomorrow, when the finance ministry
tables its budget law for the coming year.  France has only 9 percent of its 2011 bond issuance
outstanding, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, compared with
26 percent of a 226 billion-euro plan for  Italy  and 30 percent
of an estimated 93.8 billion euros  Spain  is still to auction.  At 1.6 trillion euros, France’s debt outstanding will be
about 85 percent of its gross domestic product by year end,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . That compares with
120.6 percent for Italy and 98.3 percent for the U.S.  Credit-Default Swaps  The specter of a default has boosted Greece’s 10-year
yields to more than 23 percent. Borrowing costs for Italy and
Spain have risen on default worries and credit rating cuts, with
their 10-year bond yields at 5.6 percent and 5.17 percent
respectively.  Standard & Poor’s  cited political concern for cutting
Italian credit ratings to A from A+ with a negative outlook on
Sept. 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds, the region’s
benchmark government securities, widened to 418 basis points on
Aug. 5, the most since the euro was introduced in 1999. The
Italian-German spread hit a record 416 basis points that day.  While French yields remain low, the yield spread with
Germany has widened to as much as 88 basis points this year from
about 28 basis points in April. Also, the premium demanded for
insuring French debt has been rising, with credit-default swaps
on government borrowings at a record.  Investor Shift  Concerns about the economic risks that its membership of
the euro zone creates for France, especially in its banking
system, linger.  At the end of March, French lenders had $671.7 billion in
government and private debt in  Greece , Portugal, Ireland, Italy
and Spain, according to Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements.  That’s the biggest exposure to the euro area’s troubled
countries and almost a third more than that of German banks.
France’s four largest banks have 5.9 trillion euros in total
assets, including loans and bond holdings, or about three times
France’s gross domestic product.  “The French  bond market  remains vulnerable to a shift in
investor sentiment,” said Olivier Bizimana, an economist at
Morgan Stanley in London. “The sovereign debt crisis in the
euro zone has escalated” and concern about contagion to France
has increased, he said.  Political Consensus  For now, consensus across the French political spectrum on
the need to shrink the deficit distinguishes it from countries
such as Greece.  In Greece, government efforts to impose austerity have met
with objections from opposition parties and strikes, while in
the U.S. the government faced possible shutdown this year as
lawmakers haggled over tax and spending.  In contrast, France’s main opposition Socialists have said
they’ll honor the  deficit-reduction  pledge made by President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  if they win next year’s general election.  Sarkozy has promised to slash the  budget deficit  to 5.7
percent of GDP this year, 4.5 percent next year and 3 percent in
2013. Last month he announced an additional 12 billion euros of
measures to trim the deficit. France’s low borrowing costs make
more drastic budget cuts less imperative, especially ahead of
the presidential elections in May next year.  Consistent View  Also unlike Greece, France has no trouble collecting taxes.
French tax receipts increased to 160.6 billion euros in the
first seven months of this year from 159.7 billion euros last
year and 133.8 billion euros in the same period in 2009 even as
economic growth fell short of government forecasts. The
government collects more than 49 percent of GDP in tax and pays
12 percent of the state budget in  interest charges .  “If the growth is there, the  tax revenue  is there,”
 Societe Generale ’s Martinez said. “The problem of France is one
of political will but once the political choice is made, the
machine is very powerful.”  Much of that machine draws on systems put in place by Louis
XIV, who built on his predecessors’ work to create a centralized
state when he began his personal rule of France in 1661. Fiscal
reforms he undertook with his Controleur general des Finances
Jean-Baptiste Colbert reduced the national debt through
taxation, including  customs duties  and levies on salt and land.  The legacy has given France a well-oiled system of
controls.  “Just ask a small business,” said Martinez. “There are
very few that will take the risk of trying to cheat the taxman.
The tax inspectors are feared and investors sense this.”  The three major credit-rating companies have confirmed
France’s top AAA rating in recent months.  “The market has a very consistent view of the credit
risks’ for the French government,” said Christoph Kind, the
head of  asset allocation  in  Frankfurt  at Frankfurt Trust.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  