-- 
Free Checking Falls to 45% of Accounts: Bankrate

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-09-26T15:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/free-checking-declines-to-45-of-customer-accounts-in-u-s-bankrate-says.html
Free checking has dropped to about
45 percent of U.S. customer accounts, compared with 65 percent
last year, a Bankrate.com  study  found.  The average monthly fee on non-interest checking accounts
is $4.37, compared with $2.49 last year, according to the survey
released today. The average balance required to avoid the charge
has more than doubled to $585.  “Just because banks are eliminating free checking doesn’t
mean you’re going to be stuck paying the fee,” said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com, a unit of
Bankrate Inc.  Legislation capping debit-card swipe fees charged to
merchants and restrictions on overdraft charges are driving
banks to stop offering free checking as a way to raise revenue,
McBride said. Changes to debit-card swipe fees may cut annual
revenue at the biggest banks by $8 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg Government show.  Debit-card fees are still rare, McBride said. Less than 2
percent of accounts surveyed charge a monthly or annual fee for
using a debit card and 4 percent apply a point-of-sale fee when
swiping it.  “We’re going to see more fees for having  debit cards  or
more fees for using a debit card but such fees will likely still
be the exception rather than the rule,” McBride said.  Bankrate, based in  North Palm Beach ,  Florida , surveyed 243
interest-bearing checking accounts and 238 non-interest accounts
nationwide.  In addition to the 45 percent of accounts that are still
free, another 47 percent will waive the fee for customers if
they use direct deposit of paychecks or maintain certain minimum
total balances, McBride said.  ATM Surcharges  The average automated teller machine surcharge assessed by
a bank on non-accountholders hit a record $2.40 this year,
compared with $2.33 last year, the study said. The average fee
charged by a customer’s own financial institution for going
outside the network is unchanged at $1.41.  Denver has the highest ATM fees, averaging $2.75, while
 Cleveland  has the lowest at $2.06, the survey said.  Fees on interest-bearing checking accounts, and balance
requirements to avoid them, also have increased, McBride said.
The average monthly fee is $14.15 and the balance required to
avoid the fee jumped about 44 percent to $5,587 this year, the
study said.  “The typical interest-bearing checking account is not an
efficient use of consumers’ cash,” McBride said. “You have to
tie up a big balance at a very low yield to avoid a fee.”  The average interest-bearing checking account is yielding
0.08 percent, according to Bankrate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 