-- 
Fukushima Desolation Worst Since Nagasaki as Residents Flee

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r ,   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-09-27T08:30:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/fukushima-desolation-worst-since-nagasaki-as-population-flees.html
Beyond the police roadblocks that
mark the no-go zone around  Japan ’s wrecked Fukushima nuclear
plant, six-foot tall weeds invade rice paddies and vines gone
wild strangle road signs along empty streets.  Takako Harada, 80, returned to an evacuated area of Iitate
village to retrieve her car. Beside her house is an empty cattle
pen, the 100 cows slaughtered on government order after
radiation from the March 11 atomic disaster saturated the area,
forcing 160,000 people to move away and leaving some places
uninhabitable for two decades or more.  “Older folks want to return, but the young worry about
radiation,” said Harada, whose family ran the farm for 40
years. “I want to farm, but will we be able to sell anything?”  What’s emerging in Japan six months since the nuclear
meltdown at the  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. plant is a radioactive
zone bigger than that left by the 1945 atomic bombings at
Hiroshima and Nagasaki. While nature reclaims the 20 kilometer
(12 mile) no-go zone, Fukushima’s $3.2 billion-a-year farm
industry is being devastated and tourists that hiked the
prefecture’s mountains and surfed off its beaches have all but
vanished.  The March earthquake and tsunami that caused the nuclear
crisis and left almost 20,000 people dead or missing may cost 17
trillion yen ($223 billion), hindering recovery of the world’s
third-largest economy from two decades of stagnation.  Compensation Costs  A government panel investigating  Tokyo Electric ’s finances
estimated the cost of compensation to people affected by the
nuclear disaster will exceed 4 trillion yen,  Kyodo News  reported
today, without saying how it got the information. The stock fell
6.2 percent to 243 yen, the lowest since June 13.  The bulk of radioactive contamination cuts a 5 kilometer to
10 kilometer-wide swath of land running as far as 30 kilometers
northwest of the nuclear plant, surveys of  radiation hotspots  by
Japan’s science ministry show. The government extended
evacuations beyond the 20-kilometer zone in April to cover this
corridor, which includes parts of Iitate village.  No formal evacuation zone was set up in Hiroshima after an
atomic bomb was dropped on the city on Aug. 6, 1945, though as
the city rebuilt relatively few people lived within 1 kilometer
of the blast epicenter, according to the  Hiroshima Atomic Bomb
Museum . Food shortages forced a partial evacuation of the city
in the summer of 1946.  Chernobyl Explosion  On April 26, 1986, an explosion at the Chernobyl reactor
hurled 180 metric tons of nuclear fuel into the atmosphere,
creating the world’s first exclusion zone of 30 kilometers
around a nuclear plant. A quarter of a century later, the zone
is still classed as uninhabitable. About 300 residents have
returned despite government restrictions.  The government last week said some restrictions may be
lifted in outlying areas of the evacuation zone in  Fukushima ,
which translates from Japanese as “Lucky Isle.” Residents
seeking answers on which areas are safe complain of mixed
messages.  “There are no simple solutions,” Timothy Mousseau, a
professor of biological sciences at the University of  South
Carolina , said. Deciding whether life should go on in radiation
tainted areas is a “question of acceptable risks and trade
offs.”  To Mousseau, one thing is clear.  ‘Consequences’  “There will be consequences for some of the people who are
exposed to levels that are being reported from the Fukushima
prefecture,” Mousseau said by e-mail from Chernobyl, where he
is  studying radiation effects .  Japan abandoned any ambition to develop atomic weapons
after the 1945 bombings. Two decades later, the nation embraced
nuclear power to rebuild the economy after the war in the
absence of domestic oil and gas supplies.  Tokyo Electric’s decision in the 1960s to name its atomic
plant Fukushima Dai-Ichi has today associated a prefecture of
about 2 million people that’s almost half the size of  Belgium 
with radiation contamination. In contrast, Chernobyl is the name
of a small town near the namesake plant in what today is
Ukraine.  The entire prefecture has been stained because of the link,
according to Governor Yuhei Sato.  “At Fukushima airport you don’t see Chinese and Korean
visitors like before because of negative associations,” he
said.  Stigmatized  The fear of radiation was prevalent after the Hiroshima and
Nagasaki bombings and it stigmatized the survivors, known as
hibakusha, or people exposed to radiation. Many hibakusha
concealed their past for fear of discrimination that would
prevent them finding work or marriage partners, according to the
 Japan Confederation of A-and H-bomb Sufferers Organization.   Some people believed A-bomb survivors could emit radiation
and others feared radiation caused genetic mutations, said Evan
Douple, Associate Chief of Research at the Radiation Effects
Research Foundation in Hiroshima.  An examination of more than 77,000 first-generation
children in Hiroshima and Nagasaki after the bombings found no
evidence of mutations, he said.  While radiation readings are lower in Fukushima than
Hiroshima, Abel Gonzales, the vice-chair of the International
Commission on Radiological Protection, said similar prejudices
may emerge.  “Stigma. I have the feeling that in Fukushima this will be
a very big problem,” Gonzales said in a symposium held in
Fukushima City on the six-month anniversary of the disaster.  Bullying  Some children that fled Fukushima are finding out what
Gonzales means.  Fukushima schoolchildren were being bullied at their new
school in Chiba prefecture near Tokyo for “carrying
radiation,” the Sankei newspaper reported in April, citing
complaints made to education authorities. An 11-year-old
Fukushima boy was hospitalized in Niigata prefecture after being
bullied at his new school, Kyodo News reported April 23.  Produce from Fukushima’s rich soil is also being shunned.
Peaches, the prefecture’s biggest agricultural product after
rice, have halved in price this year. Beef shipments from the
prefecture were temporarily suspended and contamination concerns
stopped the town of Minami Soma from planting rice, according to
local authorities.  Fallow Land  Some land around the Fukushima reactors will lie fallow for
two decades or more before radiation levels fall below Japan’s
criteria for evacuation, the government said Aug. 26.  Radiation risks in the 20 kilometer zone forced the
evacuation of about 8 percent, or 160,000, of some 2 million
people who live in Fukushima. Almost 56,000 were sent to areas
outside Fukushima, prefecture spokesman Masato Abe said by
phone. More than 8,000 left on their own accord because of
radiation fears, Abe said.  Inside the evacuation areas, levels of radiation higher
than the government’s criteria for evacuation have been recorded
at 89 of 210 monitoring posts. At 24 of the sites, the reading
was higher than the level at which the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  says increases the risk of cancer.  Japan Atomic Energy Institute researcher Toshimitsu Homma
used Science Ministry data to compare the geographic scale of
the contamination in Fukushima with Chernobyl.  He estimates the no-go zone in Fukushima will cover 132
square kilometers, surrounded by a permanent monitoring area of
264 square kilometers, assuming Japan follows the criteria set
by the  Soviet Union  in 1986.  The two areas combined equal about half the size of the
five boroughs that comprise  New York  City. In the case of
Chernobyl, the two zones cover a land mass 25 times greater,
according to Homma’s figures.  Intermittent Information  While scientists knew back in March that radiation
contamination would create an uninhabitable zone in Fukushima,
information to the public has come intermittently, said Hiroaki
Koide, a nuclear physics scientist at  Kyoto University .  “Many people in Fukushima have to face the reality that
they cannot go back to their homes for decades,” Koide said.  Masaki Otsuka said it may be worse than that.  “I don’t think I can ever go back to my house, because it
was just 4 kilometers from the Dai-Ichi reactors,” the 51-year-
old pipe welder said in an interview at an evacuation center in
Azuma, Fukushima city, where he has lived for six months.  People’s distrust of politicians and scientists, as well as
conflicting commentary, makes it harder for residents to decide
whether to stay or leave, said Michiaki Kai, a professor in
environmental health science at Oita University of Nursing and
Health Sciences.  Official Contradictions  Similar circumstances affected residents near Chernobyl and
those close to the nuclear accident at Three Mile Island in the
U.S. in 1979.  “Contradiction in some official statements, and the
appearance of non-scientifically based ‘expert’ voices, confused
and added stress to the local populations in each case,” said
Evelyn Bromet, distinguished professor in the department of
psychiatry at Stony Brook State University of New York.  “Lies got told, contradictions got told. In the end it’s
easier to believe nobody,” Bromet said in an interview, citing
mental health studies she did on people in the areas.  What radiation hasn’t ruined, the earthquake and tsunami
devastated. Fukushima prefecture welcomed 56 million domestic
and overseas visitors in 2009, equal to 44 percent of Japan’s
population.  Surfing Canceled  The coastal town of Minami Soma this year canceled its
annual qualifying stage for the world surfing championship, part
of a waterfront that lured 84,000 beachgoers in July and August
last year, said Hiroshi Tadano, head of the town’s economic
division. This year, nobody visited the beaches in the two
months.  “Most of the beaches are destroyed,” Tadano said. “And
of course, radiation played its part.”  The area’s biggest festival, Soma Noma Oi, a re-enactment
of samurai battles, attracted 200,000 visitors last year. This
year 37,000 came. Of the 300 horses typically used in the event,
100 were drowned in the tsunami and another 100 were evacuated
due to radiation, Tajino said.  Minami Soma resident Miyaguchi, 54, lost his home and
parents in the tsunami. He quit his job at Tokyo Electric,
leaving him unemployed and housed in an evacuation center.  Still, he has no plans to move away. “Most people who
wanted to move away have done so, but I can’t live in big cities
like Tokyo,” he said, declining to give his first name.  The future of Fukushima is in the hands of residents like
Miyaguchi and Harada who say they want to stay and work to
reclaim their land from disaster.  A giant banner in the playground of the closed Haramachi
elementary school in Minami Soma makes that a promise: “To all
of you wherever you are, we say we won’t give up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  