-- 
Gasoline Advances as ECB May Buy Bonds, Equities Rebound

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-09-26T19:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/gasoline-heating-oil-advance-as-european-debt-fears-lessen.html
Gasoline rose on speculation that
the  European Central Bank  will boost efforts to contain the
region’s debt crisis, bolstering economic growth and fuel
demand.  Prices advanced as the ECB will likely debate next week
restarting covered bond purchases and other measures, a euro-
region central bank official said, as Greece teeters on the
brink of default.  “There’s optimism that  Europe  is moving closer to some
action to resolve the Greek debt crisis,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for October delivery rose 1.47 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2.5694 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the first increase in four days. Prices
have fallen 15 percent in September and in the third quarter.  The reintroduction of 12-month loans to banks will also be
discussed at the ECB’s Oct. 6 policy meeting, said the person,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the information is
confidential.  Futures also gained as the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock
index rose 1.6 percent at 3:17 p.m. in  New York  after an earlier
loss of 0.5 percent.  “We’re just following equities,” said Fred Rigolini, vice
president of Paramount Options Inc. in New York. “A second
recession is on the back of everyone’s mind and you’re going to
see a lot of this back-and-forth the next couple of days.”  Tighter Supplies  October gasoline’s premium to the November-delivery
contract increased 1.07 cent to 4.1 cents a gallon on
speculation that supplies will tighten after production dropped
3 percent in the week ended Sept. 16 to a 10-week low. Weaker
margins on the Gulf Coast may push gasoline output even lower.  “There might be some anxiety over supply,” said  Sander Cohan , an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  Gulf Coast gasoline was at a $2.89 per barrel discount to
Louisiana Light Sweet today, based on data compiled by Bloomberg
as of 2:12 p.m. in New York, and has not traded at a premium
since Sept. 13.  Heating oil fell as reports that U.S. economic activity
slipped in August and new-home sales dropped to a six-month low
raised concern that demand for diesel will slip.  New-Home Sales  Purchases of new houses declined 2.3 percent in August,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today.  The Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago index, which draws on
85 economic indicators, was minus 0.43 in August versus 0.02 in
July. A reading below zero indicates below-trend economic
growth. The  “This is a market that is trading more on emotion than
anything else,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago .  October-delivery heating oil declined 0.43 cent to settle
at $2.7915 a gallon on the exchange. Heating oil has lost 9.3
percent in September and is down 4.8 percent this quarter.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, declined
1.2 cents to $3.493 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.
It was the 16th straight decline and the lowest price since
March 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  