-- 
Geithner Says Obama Jobs Plan Would Rebuild Infrastructure

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-26T18:41:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/geithner-says-obama-jobs-plan-will-rebuild-u-s-infrastructure.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said President  Barack Obama ’s $447 billion jobs
proposal would boost economic growth by renovating the nation’s
roads, airports and railways.  One of the most important parts of the plan “is to put
people to work right now rebuilding America’s infrastructure,”
Geithner said today in a statement from Louisville, Kentucky.
“To be as productive and efficient as possible, American
businesses need the foundation of a strong, reliable, modern
infrastructure -- and that means they need government to do its
part.”  Geithner met with leaders from businesses including  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and Louisville-based logistics company Houston-Johnson
Inc. to discuss the jobs proposal, and to tour operations of
package-delivery company  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  At the same
time, Obama is on a three-day trip to  Washington  state,
California and Colorado to raise money for his re-election
campaign and promote his package aimed at reducing the 9.1
percent unemployment rate.  The plan, which has drawn opposition from Republicans and a
mixed reaction from Democrats, is a combination of tax cuts and
spending that includes an extension of benefits for the long-
term unemployed and aid for states and local governments to
avert layoffs of teachers, police and firefighters.  ‘Better Job’  “Infrastructure spending is like a tax cut,” Geithner
told reporters after his tour. “You do a better job repairing
roads and bridges, highways, airports, railways. It makes
companies more competitive, lowers their costs.”  Spending on infrastructure “does not make government
bigger,” he said. “It’s very good for  job creation  now, but it
leaves a lasting gain for the economy as a whole.”  Asked about the European debt crisis, Geithner said “the
world would like them to move as quickly as possible. Certainly
we would like them to move as quickly as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Louisville, Kentucky, at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  