-- 
Geithner Tells Europe to ‘Get On With It’ After Global Chiding Over Crisis

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-27T03:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/geithner-predicts-europe-will-move-with-more-force-to-resolve-debt-crisis.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that European governments will step up their
response to their region’s debt crisis after a chiding from
counterparts around the world.  “They heard from everybody around the world” in
Washington meetings last week, Geithner said on ABC’s “World
News With Diane Sawyer” program. Europe’s crisis is “starting
to hurt growth everywhere, in countries as far away as  China ,
 Brazil  and  India , Korea. And they heard the same message from us
they heard from everybody else, which is it’s time to move.”  Geithner’s remarks maintain pressure on Europe ahead of
finance minister and central bank gatherings next week and a
decision on whether to disburse a loan Greece may need to avoid
default. Speculation that rescue efforts will be strengthened
spurred a rally in stocks even after Dutch and Finnish officials
said they won’t boost commitments to a euro-area bailout fund.  Europe  has “some time, but not very much time,” Geithner
said in the interview late yesterday. “If you listen carefully
to what they said this weekend, not just to us in private, but
what they said publicly, they’re foreshadowing now the
escalation that’s going to come. And we’d like them to get on
with it.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific index of stocks gained 2.9 percent as
of 11:48 a.m.  Tokyo  time, after national benchmark indexes
rallied yesterday in all 18 western European markets except
Greece and Norway. Futures contracts on the U.S. Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.3 percent. The euro headed for a
third session of gains, up 0.2 percent at $1.3554.  Europe’s Pledge  Euro-region finance chiefs committed at a gathering of the
Group of 20 in  Washington  Sept. 22 to boost the flexibility of
their rescue fund and “maximize its impact” by the time of the
next G-20 conclave. Euro-area finance ministers meet Oct. 3.
European Central Bank officials have indicated they will
consider expanding liquidity provisions when they meet Oct. 6.  Geithner set the tone at the annual meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  by warning that
failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened “cascading
default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.” That gathering
followed the G-20 session.  People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said at the
talks that the euro-area crisis “needs to be resolved
promptly.”  Japan ’s Finance Minister Jun Azumi said many G-20
members urged Europeans to implement a July plan to expand
powers of the European Financial Stability Facility.  Japan Aid  Azumi told reporters in Tokyo today that Japan may weigh
expanding its support to Europe through a regional bond fund if
nations implement their pledged fiscal measures.  European leaders “recognized the need to escalate,”
Geithner said in the ABC interview. “They’re going to have to
put a much more powerful financial framework behind this. I
really believe that you’re going to see them do that, but we
wanted to make sure they do it as quickly as they can and as
definitively as they can.”  German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Sept. 25 that euro-
region leaders must erect a firewall around  Greece  to avert a
cascade of market attacks on other European states and said
expanding the powers of the region’s rescue fund, known as the
EFSF, was necessary to avoid contagion.  The challenge of debt sustainability in Europe is in part a
consequence of the 1999 inception of the euro as a single
currency, the U.S. Treasury chief signaled.  Euro’s Legacy  European governments took advantage of the lower  interest
rates  “that came with monetary union, and they borrowed a lot.
And they spent too much. And the governments got very big.
Benefits got very generous,” he said.  Turning to the U.S., Geithner said “there’s a very good
chance” Congress will approve President Barack Obama’s $447
billion jobs proposal. The plan, incorporating payroll-tax cuts
and a $105 billion infrastructure program, is designed to help
pull down the nation’s 9.1 percent unemployment rate.  Geithner was in Louisville,  Kentucky , yesterday to meet
with leaders from businesses including  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to discuss
the jobs proposal and to tour operations of package-delivery
company  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   The European crisis “hurts us not just because it means
that growth around the world will be slower and we’ll export
less, but it hurts people very directly and very quickly when
stock prices fall and the value of their pensions fall,”
Geithner said on ABC. “It makes people more tentative. And
that’s why it’s so important to us that they move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  