-- 
German Business Confidence Tops Forecast

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-09-26T08:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/german-business-confidence-tops-forecast.html
German business confidence fell
less than economists forecast in September, suggesting  Europe ’s
largest economy may avoid recession even as the region’s debt
crisis worsens.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped for a
third straight month to 107.5 from 108.7 in August. That’s the
lowest since June 2010. Economists forecast a decline to 106.5,
according to the median forecast of 41 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Germany’s benchmark DAX share index has plunged 29 percent
over the past two months as the global outlook worsened and
Europe’s debt crisis eroded confidence in the region’s banks.
Governments from  Spain  to Ireland have toughened austerity
measures, damping demand for German exports. While the
Bundesbank said last week that the economic outlook “has
clouded more than previously expected,” it still anticipates
“robust” growth in the current quarter.  “ Germany  will see an economic slowdown but we don’t expect
a recession so far,” said David Milleker, chief economist at
Union Investment GmbH in Frankfurt. “However, if credit supply
were hampered in Germany, the economic outlook would change
rapidly.”  The euro, which has dropped more than 9 percent against the
dollar since early May, rose slightly after the report to trade
at $1.3442 at 10:43 a.m. in Frankfurt. Stocks gained.  ‘Remarkable Difference’  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation decreased to 117.9
from 118.1, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
slid to 98, the lowest since July 2009, from 100. Both sub-
indexes fell less than economists had predicted.  “It’s a remarkable difference between the assessment of
the current situation and expectations,” Ifo President Hans- Werner Sinn said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
Francine Lacqua. “The current business situation is still
rather robust.”  The European Commission on Sept. 15 cut its euro-region
growth forecasts for the second half and warned the economy may
come “close to standstill at year-end.” The  International
Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 lowered its growth forecasts for both
Germany and the euro region this year and next.  Germany’s economy will expand 2.7 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2012, the IMF predicted.  Investor Confidence  German investor confidence fell to the lowest in more than
2 1/2 years in September. Exports unexpectedly declined for a
second month in July, underscoring signs the economy is losing
momentum as the global recovery falters.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output shrank for the
first time in more than two years in September and  consumer
confidence  tumbled to the lowest in two years on increasing
recession fears.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  on Sept. 20 cut its full-
year profit forecast and said it would deepen capacity cuts this
winter after latest results were weaker than expected as the
growth slowdown hampered forward bookings.  Some companies aren’t feeling the slowdown yet.  Lanxess AG (LXS) ,
Germany’s largest publicly traded specialty-chemicals maker,
said last week business improved in the third quarter from a
year earlier on higher demand for synthetic rubber.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest maker of heavy-duty
vehicles, expects truck sales to keep growing, and Adam Opel
GmbH raised its sales forecast for its Zafira model after
receiving a positive response at the International Motor Show
for the car.  The euro’s decline against the dollar in recent months
could boost export returns. The Bundesbank is still predicting
economic growth of 3 percent this year as falling unemployment
bolsters household spending.  “There’s no reason to panic even though the German economy
is likely to cool considerably,” said Lothar Hessler, an
economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in Dusseldorf,
Germany. “Domestic demand could cushion the downturn somewhat
and Germany is better positioned than others in terms of
competitiveness and debt problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  