-- 
GM’s OnStar Tracking Needs Probing: Senator

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-09-26T17:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/gm-s-onstar-tracking-needs-probing-senator.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
should investigate  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s OnStar vehicle
navigation system over collecting data from customers who have
canceled the service, a U.S. senator said.  OnStar told its subscribers in an e-mail last week that it
may continue collecting information from vehicles that no longer
use the service. Customers who cancel the service after Dec. 1
must contact OnStar to stop the company from gathering data
under the revised policy, according to the e-mail.  The FTC should investigate the OnStar policy to determine
if it represents an unfair or deceptive trade practice, Senator
 Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, wrote to the agency’s
chairman Jon Leibowitz in a letter today. Schumer called on
OnStar to abandon the changes in a separate letter to the GM
unit.  “By tracking drivers even after they’ve canceled their
service, OnStar is attempting one of the most brazen invasions
of privacy in recent memory,” Schumer said in a news  release .  The senator sent a separate letter to OnStar asking it to
reconsider its customer-data policy change.  Under its revised policy, OnStar may sell or share
“anonymized” data, including a vehicle’s location, speed and
safety-belt usage to third parties “for any purpose,” the GM
unit said in a privacy statement posted on its website.
Anonymized data doesn’t identify an individual customer or a
customer’s vehicle, OnStar said.  Selected Third Parties  OnStar shares “selected” information with third parties
including law enforcement agencies, wireless-service providers
and data-management companies, the notice states.  The FTC has received Schumer’s letter and “can neither
confirm nor deny an investigation,” agency spokesman Claudia Farrell said in an interview. The agency “takes privacy issues
very seriously,” she said.  OnStar spokesman Adam Denison said the company is “working
directly with Senator Schumer” and declined to comment on the
letter.  Democratic senators  Al Franken  of  Minnesota  and Christopher Coons of  Delaware  in a Sept. 21 letter to OnStar said the
company’s customer-data policy appears to “violate basic
principles of privacy and fairness.” The senators asked OnStar
whether it had experienced any leaks of customer information and
what it does to protect that data.  OnStar delivers navigation and security features such as
emergency assistance to GM cars and other vehicles using the
global-positioning system. The service has more than 6 million
customers in the U.S.,  Canada  and  China , according to the
company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  