-- 
Greenheart Group Seeks Lifting of Hong Kong Trading Halt

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-26T17:49:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/greenheart-group-seeks-lifting-of-hong-kong-trading-halt.html
Greenheart Group Ltd., a unit of
tree-plantation operator  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , applied to resume
trading in  Hong Kong  today after giving more details about its
operations in Suriname and its ties to the parent.  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission ordered the
Hong Kong exchange to suspend the shares on Aug. 29 after it
raised questions about the expiry of a logging license in
Suriname, Greenheart said in a regulatory filing yesterday. The
SFC continues to investigate, Greenheart said.  “The SFC was concerned this matter was not disclosed in
the company’s announcement to the Stock Exchange on 9 June
2011,” said Greenheart. The logging license was eventually
renewed on Sept. 2, the company said. Greenheart said it denies
assertions raised in South China Morning Post article about the
“validity and legality” of the company’s Suriname operations.  Greenheart has fallen 69 percent in Hong Kong trading since
June 1, the day before short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters
LLC alleged Sino-Forest, based in Hong Kong and Mississauga,
Ontario, overstated its China timber holdings. Sino-Forest,
which owns 63.6 percent of Greenheart, denied the allegations
and established an independent committee to probe the
accusations.  Yesterday, Greenheart said that Chief Operating Officer
Andy Fyfe and Chief Financial Officer Daphne Tse, neither of
whom are connected to Sino-Forest’s directors or shareholders,
run the company day-to-day. Only Chief Executive Officer Judson Martin and  Simon Murray  also sit on the parent’s board.  Other ties to the parent include joint ownership of
Greenheart Resources Holdings Ltd., its western Suriname unit,
held 60.4 percent by the company and 39.6 percent by Sino-
Forest, according to yesterday’s filing. Greenheart sells logs
to a Sino-Forest unit, and the parent has loaned $40 million
loan to a Greenheart unit.  The Ontario Securities Commission,  Canada ’s main securities
watchdog, suspended Sino-Forest shares on Aug. 26. The OSC said
some officers and directors of Sino-Forest may have engaged in
acts “related to its securities” that they “knew or should
have known” perpetuated a fraud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 