-- 
Miami’s Hip Larry Land Quarter Thrives on Art Deco Madness

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-09-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/miami-s-hip-larry-land-quarter-thrives-on-art-deco-madness.html
The monarch of Larry Land has
survived malls, condos and the rise and fall of  Florida ’s
plastic pink-flamingo population.  When others lost their heads to the whims of greater
Miami’s $230 billion real-estate industry, 79-year-old Larry Mizrach, president of  Mizrach Realty Associates , so resolutely
kept his focus on Art Deco and other historic design properties
that locals decided to rechristen the city’s blossoming Wynwood
quarter in his name.  Mizrach arrived in Wynwood in 1944, a 12-year-old  New
Yorker  whose family drove south to open a clothing factory under
the Miami sun. The $1,972 Art Deco Series 62 Cadillac Club Coupe
was the tropical car of choice then, and  Al Capone  was living in
a 6,103-square-foot Mediterranean Revival mansion on Palm Island
that cost the mob boss $40,000.  Life magazine dubbed neighboring Miami Beach “Babylon
U.S.A.,” with snapshots of showgirls hopping the Miami Biltmore
Special train down from Broadway for “chance meetings with
thick-walleted gentlemen,” who in 1947 poured $220 million into
the local economy.  “Nabisco, Coca-Cola, RC Cola, all of the big postwar
companies played on the Beach and rushed across the rail tracks
to Wynwood to build factories and warehouses in the
architectural style of the day,” Mizrach recalls on a stroll
through the former Puerto Rican slum that decades of Miami boom
times had left alienated and anonymous.  Southern SoHo  “Now we have more than 100 art galleries,” Mizrach says
of the 1-square-mile manufacturing and residential district he
has helped broker into the SoHo of the south, a 15,000-person
supervillage of artist lofts, stylish eateries, rare wood
bungalows and home to some of the world’s most celebrated names
in the art market.  Mizrach takes a breath at the Downtown Towing Co. and maps
his realm with a finger.  “Look, there’s the  Rubell Family  gallery and museum,” he
says in a satisfied voice. “ Bernice Steinbaum  and  Zadok  are
around the corner. It’s great. Makes me feel 40 years younger.”  And in the path of what Bank of Coral Gables Chairman
William Kerdyk Jr. calls a $21.5 billion hurricane of direct
foreign investment that in 2008 hit Miami with an eye to buy
into Mizrach’s passion: ephemeral real estate, provenanced
properties that have outlived their original purpose.  Foreign Buyers  Kerdyk, president and chief executive officer of Kerdyk
Real Estate Inc. which opened in Coral Gables in 1926, waves a
handful of papers in a variety of languages. “I have commercial
and residential clients from  Switzerland ,  France ,  China , Brazil,
Britain,  Japan  and  Russia  investing in Miami and seeking
properties with artistic motifs -- and paying a 15 percent
premium,” he says. “Twenty years ago, 70 percent of our
clients were Americans. That’s now 45 percent and dropping.”  Art Deco economics made it happen. The 1925 Exposition
Internationale des Arts Decoratifs et Industriels Modernes in
Paris introduced the world to a new design form that used luxury
materials to feature angular, voluptuous and elaborate motifs of
fountains, flora and naked women.  Kerdyk says Miami immediately embraced the art form and
reckons the 86-year-old love affair has helped make the city
second only to  New York  as a U.S. center for international
banking as well as the cultural hub of  Latin America  and a
magnet for foreign tourism.  As Kerdyk tells it, 40 percent of all investment in Miami
now comes from abroad, with Brazilians buying 300 condominiums a
month at distressed prices. “Everybody is interested in a
trophy architectural property,” he says of the art rush that
has grown to include Mission Modern, Miami Modern and Streamline
Modern properties. “South Beach,  Coral Gables , Coconut Grove,
Larry Land. The architecture is sexy.”  Historic Hotel  Kerdyk points to a faded photograph on his office wall.
“That’s the  Biltmore Hotel , an architectural gem,” he says.
“It took 11 months and $10 million to build in 1925. Investors
want that look, but today you can’t even pull a building permit
in 11 months. Coral Gables has 16,000 residential units and only
3,500 come with architectural provenance.”  Mizrach prefers to focus on square footage. “I’m still
renting historic at $15, selling at $120,” he says at lightning
speed. “It’s $25 to $45 to rent in the Gables and $250 to $350
to buy. You want South Beach: $60 to rent; if you’re buying, get
out your second checkbook.”  Amy Tancig, executive director of the  Miami Design
Preservation League , says that Larry Land is Miami’s final
architectural frontier for investors and a marquee draw for the
10,000 tourists who each month since October 2010 have signed up
for the league’s walking tour of local design destinations.  Art Deco Shades  “Some 80 percent of our customers are foreigners,” says
Tancig, pouring coffee in her air-conditioned office on the
second floor of the Ocean Auditorium, a 1950s dance hall
converted into Miami’s bustling Art Deco headquarters.
Downstairs in the gift shop, Art Deco sunglasses sell for $14,
reduced from $48. The place is packed. Business is brisk and
overwhelmingly conducted in Parisian French, Venezuelan Spanish
and Brazilian Portuguese.  “It’s cheaper to buy in Miami,” says Brazilian interior
designer Paulo Bacchi, co-owner of the Sao Paulo-based luxury-
furniture chain Artefacto. Bacchi has 25 outlets in  Brazil  and
is pouring tumblers of sugar-cane “cachaca” rum in his U.S.
flagship store in Coral Gables. “Brazilians also like the
architecture, so we’re coming in herds.”  A summer survey by www.oceandrive.com shows nine daily
direct flights between Miami and  Sao Paulo  to accommodate the
275,000 Miamians who are Brazilian. The city has 14 Portuguese-
language publications and Dr. Constantino Mendieta daily
performs four  “Brazilian Butt Lifts,”  a cosmetic procedure
which, boosters say, transforms an otherwise horizontal derriere
into a museum-quality exemplar of living Art Deco.  Cultural Draw  Back at the dance hall, Tancig says design is Miami’s main
attraction. “The beach is popular,” she says of the 8.5-mile
stretch of sand outside her window. “Yet our research continues
to show that the buildings and the cultural events we stage in
Larry Land and around  South Beach ’s 700 historic buildings are a
marquee attraction.”  Miami’s 1976 Art Deco revival lit the surge, Tancig says.  “The artists were the first to move in,” she says of the
program that in 1992 lured Italian fashion designer Gianni Versace to restore and move into Casa Casuarina, the
Mediterranean Revival mansion built in 1930 by Standard Oil heir
Alden Freeman. Other celebrities followed.  “Then prices forced the artists to pull out and make their
way to Larry Land,” Tancig says. “It’s always the artists who
first see history as a platform for economic growth.”  Art Education  Mizrach’s partner Danny Zelonker calls the process the
physiognomy of real estate, the notion that culture is etched
into the landscape and that modern real-estate agents need to be
as educated in art and heritage preservation as they are in
zoning codes and brokerage fees. The University of Miami  School
of Architecture  offers a post-graduate curriculum that leads to
a Master’s Degree in Real Estate Development and Urbanism.  “We have 30 fantastic architectural properties for lease,
three of them classic Art Deco,” says the 61-year-old French-
Cuban-American Zelonker outside Dolly’s Cafe in Larry Land.
“The more I learn about their provenances, the more I want our
properties preserved for the future.”  Information:  http://www.mizrachrealtyassociates.com ,
 http://www.artefacto.com ,  http://www.mdpl.org ,
 http://www.rfc.museum ,  http://www.kerdyk.com ,
 http://www.bankofcoralgables.com .  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas at   ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 