-- 
Libya Infighting Hampers Drive to Form Cabinet, Defeat Qaddafi Forces

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-09-26T12:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/libya-government-formation-hampered-by-infighting-as-qaddafi-forces-dig-in.html
Political infighting and the
doggedness of Muammar Qaddafi’s loyalists are hampering the
drive by  Libya ’s interim leaders to complete the liberation of
the North African nation and form a new government.  Political struggles should be postponed until “the soil of
Libya is fully liberated,” Qaddafi is arrested and a
constitution drawn up, National Transitional Council Prime
Minister Mahmoud Jibril said in an interview with Saudi
newspaper Al Hayat. “Many have forgotten or deliberately ignore
the fact that the land is not yet liberated and that the battle
is not over. They began their political struggle too early.”  The announcement of an interim Cabinet has been repeatedly
postponed since the NTC took Tripoli in late August, with
officials saying last week that another week may be needed.
Qaddafi’s forces have held off council fighters, backed by  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization  airstrikes, in his hometown of
Sirte and Bani Walid for about a month.  NATO destroyed targets in the center of Sirte that it said
were being used to attack civilians, according to a Sept. 24
 statement  on its website.  ’Hostage-Taking’  “Among the reports emerging from Sirte are executions,
hostage-taking and the calculated targeting of individual
families and communities,” according to NATO, which started its
campaign in March, about a month after the uprising began.  Anti-Qaddafi forces units pulled back from Sirte yesterday
after a request from NATO, said an opposition fighter from the
city of Misrata, whose military council is leading the
operation.  “NATO told them to pull back, they wanted to bomb,” Ben
Ahmeda said in an interview. “NATO saw the firing places of the
Qaddafi guys so they know where their guns are.”  Opposition forces, which first entered Sirte on Sept. 8,
have been unable to capture loyalist strongholds, including the
Ouagadougou Hall complex, where Qaddafi held meetings of African
and Arab leaders.  Qaddafi loyalists are especially determined to hold their
positions in Sirte because Mutassim Qaddafi, one of the former
leaders’ sons, is there, according to another fighter.  ’Big Fight’  “We caught one of their commanders,” said Hakim Muktar of
Al Moharb brigade, who fought in Sirte yesterday. “He told us
that Mutassim is there. He is in command. That is why there is
such a big fight.”  Another of Qaddafi’s sons, Saif-al-Islam, is inside Bani
Walid, 90 miles (145 kilometers) southwest of Tripoli, according
to reports on Television Misrata yesterday that cited
intercepted radio traffic.  Senior members of the NTC are meeting in the eastern city
of Benghazi today for a second of day of talks on forming the
Cabinet.  “Differences in opinion on the priorities of the
portfolios exist at this stage,” Jibril told  Al Arabiya 
television in an interview yesterday.  The challenge is ensuring the representation of all Libyans
in the new government, he said.  ’Important Posts’  “The divisions are about regional affinities, city-based
affinities, ties to former regime, about ensuring that people
are represented in important posts,” Shashank Joshi, a Libya
expert at the  Royal United Services Institute  in London, said
today in an interview. “It’s going to be a challenge, but they
will eventually do it.”  The NTC has decided to extend the term of the current
administration until the remaining pockets of armed Qaddafi
loyalists are defeated and the whole country is under the
council’s control, according to Al Arabiya.  “They set the wrong expectations, they over-promised and
under-delivered,” Joshi said. “They should have been lowering
expectations, and telling people how difficult it would be. At
least the negotiations are taking place in a peaceful framework
so far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Misrata, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  