-- 
Micex Climbs on Europe, ‘Patriotic’ Buying Bets as Putin Runs

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-09-26T16:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/micex-climbs-on-europe-patriotic-buying-bets-as-putin-runs.html
Russian stocks rose, snapping three
days of declines, amid speculation investors bought the cheapest
shares in emerging markets in support of Prime Minister  Vladimir
Putin ’s plan to run for president again.  OAO Magnit,  Russia ’s largest food retailer by market value,
jumped 2.3 percent. OAO Rosneft and OAO Lukoil, Russia’s largest
oil producers, rallied 2 percent and 2.9 percent, respectively.
The 30-stock Micex Index advanced 1.5 percent to 1,346.86 by the
6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, erasing an earlier loss of as much as
3.6 percent. The dollar-denominated RTS Index was little changed
at 1,315.25.  Stocks gained after a euro-region  central bank  official
said the European Central Bank is likely to debate restarting
covered-bond purchases and may discuss  interest rates  to ease
funding strains. State-linked Russian investors may be buying
shares to support the market after Putin’s decision over the
weekend to run as president, according to Julian Rimmer, a
trader of Russian equities at CF Global Trading in  London .  “I suspect that there are some ‘patriotic elements’
related to the state which are encouraged to buy certain stocks
because having the Russian equity market open down 3 percent on
the announcement of Putin’s presidential candidature was
embarrassing,” Rimmer said in an e-mail.  Russia’s benchmark Micex index slipped 12 percent last
week, pushing down valuations on the measure’s 30 shares to an
average 4.7 times member-company estimated earnings, the
cheapest among 23 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Attractive Valuations  “Barring a real catastrophe in the global economy, these
valuations are very attractive,” Mattias Westman, managing
director of Prosperity Capital Management, the largest Russia-
focused equity investor with about $5 billion under management,
said on Sept. 23. “Because of the violence of the decline in
2008, there’s a feeling that if something bad happens around the
world then it will be very bad in Russia.”  The Micex, which has fallen 20 percent this year, slumped
67 percent in 2008, compared with the 41 percent slump in
 Brazil ’s Bovespa index. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined
38 percent in 2008.  Putin, who relinquished the presidency in 2008 because of a
limit on more than two consecutive terms, said he will contest
the top job again, after some investors bet that the incumbent,
 Dmitry Medvedev , would seek a second term.  “It’s not the outcome most people were hoping for but the
uncertainty was holding us back and many investors will be
relieved to know who will be in charge,” Westman said by phone
from London yesterday.  Kudrin Won’t Serve  Medvedev  -- a corporate lawyer and former chairman of OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s largest company -- endorsed Putin’s candidacy
and said he may take over as prime minister. Finance Minister
Alexei Kudrin, who helped steer Russia out of its 1998 debt
default, said in  Washington  over the weekend that he won’t serve
in a Medvedev government because of disputes over defense
spending.  The earlier selloff on the Micex was “principally to do
with the global environment, but the market is clearly not happy
with the idea that Kudrin is leaving the government,”  Kingsmill
Bond , chief strategist at Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said by
phone today. “Putin’s return to president was fully priced in
whereas Kudrin’s potential departure is a key area of concern.”  Kudrin, who helped Russia cut state debt to less than 10
percent of gross domestic product since the $40 billion default,
said that Medvedev’s push for a 2.1 trillion-ruble ($65 billion)
boost to military spending through 2014 creates “additional
risks for both the budget and the economy.”  ‘Impolite’  Medvedev told Kudrin to either support his policies or
resign from government today. Medvedev said Kudrin’s criticism
of his spending policies over the weekend was “impolite” and
“unjustified,” at a meeting in the Ulyanovsk region. Kudrin
said he’ll consult with Putin before making a decision.  “This row certainly doesn’t improve sentiment, but the
markets are not really concerned on internal affairs as of
now,” Michael Kart, a managing partner at hedge fund firm
Spectrum Partners Ltd., said in e-mailed comments.  The Micex Index pared gains after Kudrin and Medvedev’s
exchange today. The move also coincided with a drop in crude oil
traded in  New York .  Europe  needs to find a solution to prevent  Greece  from
defaulting, a move that would pose risks for countries including
Spain and  Italy , Kudrin told reporters in the U.S. capital.  ‘Cascading Default’  Failure to deal with the European sovereign debt crisis
threatens “cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic
risk,” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said at the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington.
Geithner urged governments to unite with the  European Central
bank  to “create a firewall against further contagion” and
defuse the “most serious risk now confronting the world
economy.”  Urals crude, the nation’s chief export blend, dropped 2
percent to $103.48, the lowest level since Aug. 10. Oil and
natural gas sales contribute about 17 percent of Russia’s gross
domestic product and as much as 40 percent of budget revenue,
Kudrin said in June.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  