-- 
Michael Vick’s Non-Throwing Hand Is Bruised, Not Broken, Eagles Coach Says

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-26T16:48:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/michael-vick-s-non-throwing-hand-is-bruised-not-broken-eagles-coach-says.html
Philadelphia Eagles quarterback
 Michael Vick  suffered a bone bruise, not a break, in his right
hand in the National Football League team’s 29-16 loss to the
 New York Giants  yesterday, coach  Andy Reid  said today.  The injury to Vick, 31, was originally diagnosed as a
broken right hand because a blood vessel on the bone obscured
the X-ray images, Reid said. Vick throws left-handed.  Reid said the swelling is about the same as it was
yesterday, and that the quarterback’s injury is a “day-to-day
thing.”  “We’ll see if we can get the swelling where it’s
manageable,” Reid said during a televised news conference.
“It’s not to say that he can’t play with the swelling, it’s
just got to be where he can bend his hand and work with it.”  Last month the Eagles signed Vick to a six-year, $100
million contract, with about $40 million guaranteed. He left the
team’s Week 2 game against the  Atlanta Falcons  in the third
quarter after experiencing concussion symptoms. The Eagles were
beating the Falcons and the Giants when he left the games.  Vick bruised his hand yesterday in the third quarter, after
being hit by Giants defensive lineman Chris Canty following a
throw. He tried to return to the game and was unable to
continue.  ‘Marked Man’  During his post-game press conference yesterday, Vick said
he doesn’t get the same protection as other NFL quarterbacks
when it comes to game officials calling the opposing defenses
for late hits or roughing-the-passer. He said a penalty flag
should have been thrown on the play when he was injured.  Reid declined to comment on Vick’s critique of the
officiating, and said that he knows opposing teams target the
quarterback.  “I know he’s a marked man, so I think it’s important that
we all keep a close eye on him when he’s playing,” Reid said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 