-- 
Michael Vick Is ‘Frustrated’ by Broken Hand, Calls as Eagles Lose Again

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-26T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/michael-vick-is-frustrated-by-broken-hand-calls-as-eagles-lose-again.html
Michael Vick  watched the
 Philadelphia Eagles  lose for the second straight week as he sat
on the bench in the fourth quarter with an injury.  The Eagles’ quarterback vented his frustration after a 29-
16 home defeat to the  New York Giants  yesterday, when Vick
suffered a fractured bone in his non-throwing hand after what he
said was a late hit.  Vick, who left the Eagles’ loss the previous week with a
concussion, said he doesn’t get the same protection as other
National Football League quarterbacks when it comes to game
officials calling the opposing defenses for late hits or
roughing-the-passer. Vick said a penalty flag should have been
thrown for the play during which he was injured, as he was hit
by Giants’ Chris Canty after completing a third-quarter pass.  “More precaution should be taken when I’m inside the
pocket,” Vick said at a news conference. “If you look at all
the replays, I’m on the ground every time. I’d be lying I said I
wasn’t frustrated right now because of that.”  While he doesn’t blame the referees for his injury, Vick
said they “have to do their jobs as well.” He said he doesn’t
know if he’ll be available for the Eagles’ Oct. 2 game against
 San Francisco .  “I don’t know anything right now except my hand is broken
and we have to figure out the next move,” said Vick, who ranks
second in NFL history to Randall Cunningham in rushing yards by
a quarterback.  Eagles 1-2  After an offseason that included the acquisitions of
cornerbacks Nnamdi Asomugha and Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie,
defensive tackle  Cullen Jenkins  and defensive end  Jason Babin ,
the Eagles started the season tied as third-favorites among
oddsmakers to win the  Super Bowl . Three weeks into the season,
Philadelphia has a 1-2 record.  The Eagles gave up 14 fourth-quarter points after Vick was
injured in a 35-31 loss to Atlanta on Sept. 18 and yesterday
were outscored by the Giants 15-0 over the final 15 minutes with
Vick on the sidelines.  The Giants’ defense limited Vick to 176 passing yards and
intercepted him once in snapping a six-game losing streak
against the Eagles, their NFC East division rivals.  “Everything isn’t going to be all fine and dandy, we
understand that, this is the NFL,” Vick said. “Things can
change drastically in the next couple weeks and I think they
will. It’s up to us to get it turned around.”  Vick tried to play after getting injured, though he said it
became hard to take the snap from center and have any motion in
his right hand as it became more swollen.  “Every time I throw the ball I’m on the ground, get hit in
the head,” Vick said. “I don’t know why I don’t get the 15-
yard flags like everybody else does.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  