-- 
Tiger Woods Hires Joe LaCava as New Caddie After Split With Steve Williams

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/tiger-woods-hires-joe-lacava-as-new-caddie-after-split-with-steve-williams.html
Tiger Woods  hired Joe LaCava as the
third full-time caddie of his golf career, turning to a U.S.  PGA
Tour  veteran who spent 20 years working for  Fred Couples  before
joining Dustin Johnson briefly this season.  Woods took two months to find a replacement after splitting
with his former caddie  Steve Williams , with whom he won 13 of
his 14 major championships and 72 tournaments worldwide, in July.
LaCava’s first event with Woods will be the Oct. 6-9 Frys.com
Open in San Martin, California.  “Joe is an outstanding caddie, and I have known him for
many years,” Woods, whose last win came at the Australian
Masters in November 2009, said last night on his  website . “I’ve
personally seen the great job he did for Freddie. I’m anxious
for us to be working together.”  LaCava started working on the PGA Tour in 1987 as the
caddie for his cousin, Ken Green. In 1990 he joined Couples,
whose 15 PGA Tour titles included a win at the 1992 Masters
Tournament. Couples is captain of the U.S. Presidents Cup team
and selected Woods as part of the squad that will face an
international team at Royal Melbourne Golf Club from Nov. 17-20.  Woods, 35, is playing at the Frys.com Open in part to
prepare for the Presidents Cup.  Woods has slipped to 49th in the Official World Golf
Ranking during his winless streak and is behind 19 Americans
including  Jason Dufner , Bo Van Pelt and Gary Woodland.  LaCava in June started working for Johnson, who was the
runner-up at the British Open and last month won the PGA Tour’s
first playoff event. Woods said he called Johnson after LaCava
first informed Johnson in person that he’d be working for the
former No. 1 golfer in the world.  “This is a unique opportunity to be part of something very
special,” LaCava said in a statement. “Tiger and I have been
friends for a very long time, and I know what he can do.”  Woods’s only other caddie since turning professional was
Mike “Fluff” Cowan, who carried Woods’s bag during his first
major victory, the 1997  Masters Tournament .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  