-- 
Labour’s Miliband Pledges to Tax U.K. Asset Strippers, Reward Innovation

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-27T16:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/miliband-pledges-to-tax-u-k-asset-strippers-reward-innovation.html
Ed Miliband , the leader of the main
opposition  Labour Party , called for higher taxes on “asset-
stripping” companies in a speech outlining a “new bargain”
for Britain.  Miliband, addressing his party’s annual  conference  today in
Liverpool, northwest  England , said there should be tax breaks
for scientific innovation and job creation, while companies that
rely on short-term business plans to make a “fast buck” should
be penalized.  “The 21st-century choice is: are you on the side of the
wealth creators or the asset strippers?” Miliband said. “For
years as a country we’ve been neutral in that battle. They’ve
been taxed the same, regulated the same, treated the same,
celebrated the same. They won’t be by me.”  A year into his leadership of the party, Miliband is
seeking to shift the terms of the political debate in Britain.
With the next general election fixed for May 2015, he is seeking
to develop a critique of the policies of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government that raises Labour’s support
among voters.  “Labour will always stand as the voice of the people, our
people: their values will be heard and we will challenge the
vested interests that benefit when the wrong values are
rewarded,” Miliband said. “Never again should they be able to
take advantage of a system which doesn’t work to the values and
instincts of decent people in our country.”  ‘Simplistic and Wrong’  “We would like to know how Ed Miliband plans to identify
and reward ‘good’ companies over ‘bad’ ones,” Miles Templeman,
director general of the Institute of Directors, said in an e-
mailed statement. “He should have more faith in customers and
investors to decide. Instead of proposing that the state makes
choices that are likely to be simplistic and wrong he would be
wiser to find ways of boosting competition so that the customer
remains king.”  Miliband also took a swipe at  Mervyn King , governor of the
 Bank of England , for backing the government’s deficit-reduction
strategy. “Lots of people thought the government was taking the
right course,” he said. “The governor of the Bank of England,
the  International Monetary Fund . But one person in particular
stood outside the consensus, Labour’s shadow chancellor,  Ed Balls . He was right.”  Goodwin Versus Rose  The Labour leader said the U.K. had gone wrong in
emphasizing the importance of the banking sector, “the triumph
of finance over industry.” He said that Fred Goodwin, the
former chief executive officer of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, which had to be bailed out by the previous government, had
been paid three times as much as John Rose, the former chief
executive of Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc.  “ Fred Goodwin  shouldn’t have got that salary,” Miliband
said. He said the last Labour government was wrong to give
Goodwin a knighthood.  “Britain’s future will be built not on credit-default
swaps but on creative industries, not low wages and high
finance, but low carbon and high tech, not financial
engineering, but real engineering,” Miliband said, adding that
banks “must change so that they are part of the solution to our
economic future, not part of the problem.”  A ComRes Ltd. poll for the Independent newspaper published
last night put Cameron’s Conservative Party ahead of Labour for
the first time in a year. It showed the Tories at 37 percent,
Labour at 36 percent and the Liberal Democrats at 12 percent.
Asked if Miliband was a credible prime minister-in-waiting, 24
percent agreed and 57 percent disagreed. ComRes interviewed
1,000 adults by phone Sept. 23-25. No margin of error was given.  Southern Cross   Miliband cited Southern Cross Healthcare Plc, Britain’s
biggest operator of care homes, which announced its closure on
July 11 because it was unable to pay its bills, as an example of
a bad business.  “Stripping assets for a quick buck and treating tens of
thousands of elderly people like commodities to be bought and
sold,” he said. “They may not have sold their own grandmothers
for a fast buck. But they certainly sold yours. They aren’t the
values of British business. It must change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in Liverpool, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Liverpool, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net . 