-- 
IMF Rejects Ukraine Bid to Avoid Raising Household Energy Prices

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-26T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/imf-rejects-ukraine-bid-to-avoid-raising-household-energy-prices.html
Ukraine failed to convince the
International Monetary Fund to accept alternatives to higher
household energy tariffs, a condition for restarting a $15.6
billion loan program, Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said.  “There’s one position that still hasn’t been agreed on and
that is essentially holding up the tranche,” Tigipko said
yesterday in an interview in  Washington , where he was attending
the fund’s annual meeting. “Now we’re facing a fairly tough
choice, which I believe we need to make.”  The IMF released $3.4 billion of the loan in two
installments before freezing the next tranche, due in March,
over the government’s failure to raise natural-gas rates for
households. The lender delayed a visit to the east European
country scheduled for August to late October. Ukraine, which
said this month it would seek to sell $2.5 billion in Eurobonds
before year-end, needs the IMF program because  Europe ’s debt
crisis is roiling financial markets, Tigipko said.  “We see what’s happening with the market, which is rapidly
deteriorating, and what’s happening with the economy of our main
partner, the European Union,” he said. “We can’t do without
the International Monetary Fund’s program.”  The Ukrainian economy, which shrank almost 15 percent in
2009, is among those most at risk of a new credit crisis in
central and eastern Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in August. The current-account gap widened
to $1.6 billion in the second quarter, according to the central
bank, from a $512 million surplus a year earlier.  ‘Difficult Question’  “During the entire visit we were proposing compensation,
primarily budget compensation, over the tariffs,” Tigipko said.
“For any government representing a poor population, utility
prices are always a difficult question.”  Ukraine reformed its pension system and included a cap on
maximum payouts that was not required under any of its aid
programs, said Tigipko, 51, a former governor of the central
bank. The government also proposed measures to offset revenue
expected to come from higher gas prices.  “They made it clear to us that we wouldn’t get the loan”
without agreeing to the increases, he said. “We tried to do it
from a number of different angles, but the position of our
partners, the  International Monetary Fund , was absolutely clear
and rigid.”  The government is still in talks with VTB Group,  Russia ’s
second-largest bank, on prolonging a $2 billion loan agreement
signed last year and already extended twice, Tigipko said.  Extending VTB Loan  “The loan is due in December but under the terms of the
credit it can be extended and the rate of the loan can also be
revised,” he said. “Naturally, we intend to extend this loan
for as long as possible under terms that are acceptable to us.”  Ukraine would have funds available to repay VTB should the
state-run lender decide not to extend the accord, he said. The
 World Bank  may provide as much as $850 million under two
programs that are “practically ready” while the European Union
might offer 610 million euros ($816 million), he said.  “I’m certain that in the nearest future we’ll unlock all
of these programs,” Tigipko said.  Ukraine aims to cut its  budget deficit  to 3.5 percent of
gross domestic product from 15 percent when the current
government came into office 1 1/2 years ago, Tigipko said. Next
year the shortfall may narrow to 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Washington at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  