-- 
India Mergers, BofA Suit, Chilton on Commodities: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-26T14:26:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/india-mergers-bofa-suit-chilton-on-commodities-compliance.html
India ’s market regulator said
investors can raise their holdings in companies to as high as 25
percent without having to offer to buy additional shares from
the public starting next month.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India raised the limit
from 15 percent, according to a statement on its website.
Investors who exceed the limit will have to buy an additional 26
percent, according to SEBI.  The regulations will help companies attract investors amid
a fall in the stock market. India’s benchmark stock index had
its biggest two-day drop in 31 months with the BSE India
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, declining 1.2 percent Sept. 23. The
gauge retreated 4.6 percent last week.  In  Japan , the trigger for an open offer is 33.3 percent,
while in  Hong Kong  it is 30 percent and in Singapore 29.99
percent. In all three, breaching the limit requires an acquirer
to make an offer for the entire company.  Compliance Policy  Insurers, Asset Managers May Face EU Curbs on Use of Ratings  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial-services
chief, said he may propose rules to combat “potential
overreliance” of the insurance and asset-management industries
on assessments by credit-ratings firms.  Barnier said the measures may be added to other proposals
to rein in banks’ use of external credit ratings. He was
responding to a written question from a member of the  European
Parliament  published on the assembly’s website.  While the  European Commission  is examining the “high
concentration in the rating industry,” it “has no concrete
evidence” that ratings companies are abusing their dominant
position in the market, Barnier added.  European Bank Capital Raising Not the Answer, Goldman Sachs Says  Recapitalizing 16 European banks, which came close to
failing stress tests, won’t ease the financial crisis because
the banks are small and the market’s attention is on larger
French lenders,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts said.  The banks that didn’t achieve a core Tier-1 capital ratio
of at least 6 percent under the European Banking Authority’s
tests are “individually small,” and they weren’t examined for
their entire investments in sovereign debt, which is now the
market’s concern, the analysts led by Jernej Omahen in  London 
wrote in a note to clients Sept. 23.  European Union officials may speed up the recapitalization
of the 16 banks, the Financial Times reported Sept. 22. The EBA
is pushing banks to raise more and better capital to meet the
Basel III guidelines and boost investor confidence in the
industry amid the sovereign debt crisis.  “The current bank crisis is a symptom of markets’
skepticism in sustainability of European public finances; to
this, recaps do not provide an answer,” the note said.  The 16 banks include  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ,  Espirito
Santo Financial Group SA (ESF) ,  Germany ’s HSH Nordbank AG and
Norddeutsche Landesbank.  Compliance Action  Staffing Woes Harm Fannie and Freddie Oversight, Watchdog Says  Regulators lack the staff to effectively oversee  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  and have scaled back examinations of the two
mortgage companies as a result, a government watchdog reported.  A hiring campaign by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  has
missed targets and, when completed, will still leave the agency
shorthanded. Those conclusions were part of a report released
Sept. 23 by the FHFA’s Office of Inspector General.  The report singled out the agency’s monitoring of the
housing inventory that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own. Despite a
surge in foreclosures that has increased Fannie Mae’s inventory
sixfold since 2007, “FHFA has yet to conduct a targeted
examination” of how the companies manage repossessed homes,
known as real-estate owned properties or REO, the report said.  The FHFA this year set out to recruit and hire 26 people to
join its team of about 120 examiners. Even if those hires are
completed, agency executives told the inspector general they
will have only about half the examiners they need.  FHFA Deputy Director Stephen M. Cross said the agency has
hired 18 examiners since January. Noting that the inspector
general’s conclusions were based on interviews with unnamed FHFA
officials, Cross said the report offers “no evidence” that the
agency’s oversight has been compromised.  S&P May Face SEC Sanctions Over 2007 Rating of Subprime CDO  McGraw-Hill Cos. said the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may recommend a civil injunction against the
company’s  Standard & Poor’s  unit in connection with its rating
of a 2007 mortgage-linked security.  The SEC’s so-called Wells notice is related to a $1.6
billion collateralized debt obligation known as Delphinus CDO
2007-1, New York-based McGraw-Hill said today in a statement.
Agency staff may recommend civil penalties, disgorgement of fee
and other actions, the company said.  Delphinus was highlighted in a U.S. Senate panel’s report
as a “striking example” of how banks and ratings firms branded
mortgage-linked products safe even as the housing market
worsened in 2007. S&P rated six tranches of Delphinus AAA in
August 2007 and began downgrading the securities by the end of
the year, according to the report released in April by the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. By the end of
2008, they were rated as junk, according to the report.  About three-quarters of the CDO, which was underwritten by
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and managed by Delaware Asset
Advisors, was based on subprime mortgages, according to a Fitch
Ratings Ltd. report. Magnetar Capital Partners LLC invested in
the deal, according to a ProPublica report.  “S&P has been cooperating with the commission in this
matter and intends to continue to do so,” McGraw-Hill said in
the statement. A phone call to Steven Lipin, a spokesman for
Magnetar, wasn’t immediately returned.  Clearwire Is Latest U.S. Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  is the latest U.S. stock halted by circuit
breakers implemented in June 2010.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. equities before
prices rebounded. New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5,
2011, would shift the market to a limit-up/limit-down system
that prevents shares from moving more than a certain amount.  China’s Banking Regulator Reviews Trust Loans to Developers  China’s banking regulator is looking into financing of
developers through trust companies as part of a broader
evaluation of real estate lending, a person familiar with the
matter said.  The inquiries by the China Banking Regulatory Commission
are part of regular monitoring and aren’t targeting any
individual company, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the regulator’s queries were meant to be
private.  Chinese property developers led by  Greentown China Holdings
Ltd. (3900)  plunged in Hong Kong trading for two days last week on
concern tightened access to loans will force them to cut prices.
Greentown said it hasn’t received any notice following a Reuters
report that the banking regulator ordered trust companies to
report dealings with the developer.  Greentown, the largest builder in the eastern province of
Zhejiang, said it has no trouble financing its loans and it
hasn’t been queried by the banking regulator.  For more, click here.  Courts  BofA Case May Be Followed by More Mortgage Suits by Counties  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is among a group of lenders that may
face a wave of new lawsuits claiming cash-strapped counties were
cheated out of millions of dollars by a system used for more
than a decade to register mortgages.  Dallas County District Attorney Craig Watkins said state
attorneys general and county officials across the U.S. have
expressed interest in his lawsuit against Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems Inc. and Bank of America, filed in Texas
state court on Sept. 21. Dallas County could be owed as much as
$100 million in filing fees, he said.  MERS, a unit of Reston, Virginia-based Merscorp Inc., says
on its  website  that its aim is to place every mortgage in the
country on an electronic, rather than a paper, system that
allows members to buy and sell mortgages.  MERS acts as the lender’s nominee and remains the mortgagee
of record as long as the note promising repayment is owned by a
MERS member. Dallas County claims this allows banks to buy and
sell loans without properly recording transfers with counties
and paying the fee.  “The MERS business model and practices are legal and
comply with the recording statutes and regulations of Texas,”
Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Merscorp, said in an e-mail. The
claims in the lawsuit “are without legal or factual merit.”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by
assets, declined to comment on the suit.  Liability in the Dallas case could exceed $1 billion, based
on the number of mortgages in the county, Peterson said. Local
laws impose substantial penalties, as well as back payments of
fees and taxes, if false documents were filed in land
transactions, said Christopher L. Peterson, associate dean and
professor at the University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law,
who has advised private plaintiffs making similar claims.  Faulty mortgages and foreclosures have already cost the
five biggest home lenders $66 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Commodity Rules Needed to Control Speculation, Chilton Says  Regulation of international commodities markets will
control price volatility and benefit consumers by making trading
more efficient and effective, said  Bart Chilton , a commissioner
at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The commission is writing rules on market regulation as
supply and demand fundamentals can’t explain the high price
volatility seen this year and in 2008, Chilton said in a speech
to the United Nations Sept. 22, according to transcript of his
comments on the CFTC’s website. Policy makers globally should
work together so regulations and position limits correspond
internationally, he said.  “We need to ensure that to the extent that we can,
respecting sovereignty of course, we do our best to harmonize
rules and regulations,” Chilton said. “Those nations that do
so will reap a reward in my judgment in that they will make
themselves more competitive, more efficient and effective.”  Comings and Goings  Barclays Says Rake to Replace Broadbent as Independent Director  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets,
said Michael Rake will become senior independent director
replacing Richard Broadbent, who retires on Sept. 30.  Rake is chairman of the lender’s audit committee and takes
up the new role on Oct. 1, the London-based bank said Sept. 23
in a statement. Barclays said in May that Broadbent, who is also
deputy chairman, would step down after accepting the position of
chairman at  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)   Broadbent joined Barclays’s board in September 2003, after
retiring as executive chairman of the U.K.’s customs office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 