-- 
India’s Rupee Drops as Europe Debt Concern Spurs Share Sales

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-09-26T12:40:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/india-s-rupee-drops-as-european-debt-concern-spurs-share-sales.html
India ’s rupee fell for the fifth
time in six days as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will escalate
deterred risk-taking, spurring sales of emerging-market assets
by overseas investors.  The currency extended this quarter’s loss to 9.7 percent,
the most since 1992, after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  warned over the weekend that failure to combat the
Greek-led turmoil threatened “cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk.” Overseas investors sold $253 million of
Indian equities more than they bought on Sept. 22, the most in
four weeks, exchange data show. They have cut holdings of local
stocks by $2 billion from $104.4 billion recorded on July 28.  “We expect portfolio flows to stay choppy in the near term
until global investor sentiment stabilizes,” analysts at
Standard Chartered Plc including Mumbai-based Priyanka Kishore
wrote in a research note published today. “This would add to
the short-term concerns surrounding the rupee.”  The rupee was 0.1 percent weaker at 49.46 per dollar at the
5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
after falling as much as 0.7 percent earlier.  Growth in emerging economies will be “interrupted” if
problems caused by the risks of a U.S. recession and Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis are not resolved,  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on Sept. 24, according to a
speech posted on the central bank’s website.  ’Risks of’ Intervention  The rupee pared declines today on speculation the central
bank will seek to slow the currency’s slide. Policy makers will
monitor exchange-rate movements and will consider intervening in
the  currency market  “as and when” required, Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee  said in  Washington  on Sept. 24. Central bank
Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said today the currency’s rapid
drop is a concern.  Implied volatility on one-month, dollar-rupee options was
unchanged today after jumping to 13.5 percent on Sept. 23, the
highest level since June 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The risks of significant intervention have increased in
the wake of the sharp increase in volatility over the last few
days,” Mumbai-based Kishore and Chakraborty wrote.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 50.32 to
the dollar in three months, from expectations of 50.27 on Sept.
23. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price
and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  