-- 
Monsoon Rainfall Exceeding Forecast to Boost India Crops

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-09-26T08:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/india-monsoon-rainfall-exceeds-50-year-average-for-second-year.html
Monsoon rainfall in  India , the
world’s second-biggest producer of rice, wheat and sugar, was
above normal for a second year, boosting prospects of bigger
harvests and increased exports.  Rainfall totaled 89.27 centimeters (35.1 inches) between
June 1 and Sept. 25, compared with the 50-year average of 86.4
centimeters, data from the  India Meteorological Department 
showed. The average rains in the June-September period between
1951 and 2000 were 89 centimeters, according to the forecaster.  Increased supply of rice, corn, sugar and oilseeds may
accelerate a decline in India’s food-price inflation, the
highest among the biggest emerging markets, and cap global food
costs monitored by the  United Nations  that climbed 26 percent in
the past year.  “There is some cushion as far as supplies are concerned
because of the rains,” Anand James, chief analyst at brokerage
Geojit Comtrade Ltd., said by phone from Kochi. “We will be in
surplus in some commodities but exports will depend on global
prices.”  Commodities fell to their lowest in almost 10 months on
speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen, curbing demand for
food and raw-materials. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index
ended last week down 21 percent from the almost three-year high
in April, the common definition of a  bear market . The last time
the index fell that much was in 2008 when the global economy
sank into its worst slump since World War II.  Global Economy  “The state of the global economy that we are seeing now is
worse than what we had three to six months ago,” Dominic Schnider, global head of commodity research for UBS AG’s wealth-
management unit, said today by phone in  Singapore . He predicted
benchmark commodity indexes will drop a further 10 percent to 15
percent from now.  Rains are 103 percent above average so far this year,
exceeding a forecast for 95 percent precipitation in the four-
month rainy season, according to data from the forecaster. That
has spurred farmers to boost planting of cotton, soybeans and
rice, according to the farm ministry.  Production of monsoon-sown food grains may climb 3 percent
to 123.9 million metric tons from a year earlier, the ministry
said on Sept. 14. Oilseed output will gain to a record 20.9
million tons, the cotton harvest may surge 8 percent to an all-
time high of 36.1 million bales of 170 kilograms each (374
pounds), while the sugar cane harvest may rise to 342.2 million
tons, from 339.2 million tons a year earlier, it said.  Wheat Exports  The government allowed wheat exports by private companies
for the first time in four years on Sept. 8 after four straight
years of record harvests. It also scrapped a ban on rice
shipments after state reserves climbed.  The food-grain production may reach 245 million tons in the
year that began on July 1, compared with 241.6 million tons a
year earlier, according to the farm ministry.  India may have a surplus of as much as 4 million tons of
sugar for exports in the year beginning Oct. 1 as output climbs
to the highest level in five years, the National Federation of
Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd. said last week.  Production may climb to 26.5 million tons next year,
compared with an estimated 24.3 million tons in this year,
Managing Director  Vinay Kumar  said on sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  