-- 
Subbarao Signals Persistent Focus on Fighting ‘Stubborn’ Indian Inflation

-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-09-27T05:50:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/inflation-in-india-has-been-fairly-stubborn-rbi-governor-subbarao-says.html
India’s inflation rate remains
above the level the central bank deems acceptable, Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao  indicated, underscoring that pressure remains
for monetary tightening in Asia’s third-largest economy.  “Inflation has been fairly stubborn,” Subbarao  said  in
 New York  yesterday. “Above a threshold, you can’t accept high
inflation to have higher growth,” he said, adding that the
price-rise limit is as much as 6 percent for the nation.  The Reserve Bank of India on Sept. 16 extended its record
interest-rate increases to tame the fastest inflation among the
so-called BRICS economies. Eleven of 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predict a quarter-percentage point
increase in the repurchase rate by end-December to 8.5 percent.  “The RBI continues to view high inflation as a key
problem,” said Devika Mehndiratta, a Singapore-based economist
at Credit Suisse Group AG. “There will be inflation pressure in
the near-term as rupee’s decline increases the cost of imported
goods.”  India ’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
a 13-month high of 9.78 percent in August, and higher food and
fuel costs and weakness in the rupee may further boost prices.  The rupee, which has depreciated 9.3 percent this year and
is the worst performer among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies,
rose 0.4 percent to 49.28 per dollar as of 10:38 a.m. in Mumbai
today. The benchmark Sensitive Index of stocks rose 1.8 percent,
while the yield on the 7.8 percent securities due April 2021
rose one basis point to 8.32 percent.  Comfort Range  A rate of “4 to 6 percent is the short-term comfort
range” for inflation, Subbarao said. “We expect inflation to
slow by March 2012, but more slowly than initially expected.”  The governor has raised borrowing costs by a total of 350
basis points starting mid-March 2010, the fastest round of
increases since the  Reserve Bank of India  was established in
1935, Bloomberg data show.  India’s stance contrasts with Asian nations from South
Korea to Malaysia that kept borrowing costs unchanged this month
as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery cloud the
outlook for expansion. India’s benchmark wholesale-price
inflation of 9.78 percent in August compares with consumer price
gains of 7.2 percent in  Brazil , 8.2 percent in  Russia , 6.2
percent in  China  and 5.3 percent in  South Africa  last month from
a year earlier.  High Inflation  “We are having structural supply shocks,” Subbarao said
yesterday in remarks at New York University’s Stern School of
Business.  India needs to control rising prices to protect purchasing
power and sustain growth, the  Reserve Bank  has said.  “Inflation remains high, generalized and much above the
comfort zone of the Reserve Bank,” the RBI had said in its Sept.
16 statement. “A premature change in the policy stance could
harden inflationary expectations, thereby diluting the impact of
past policy actions. It is therefore imperative to persist with
the current anti-inflationary stance.”  The task of mitigating inflation also may be complicated by
the weakening in the rupee. The currency has weakened 9.3
percent this quarter, the most since 1992, as concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will escalate deterred risk-taking,
spurring sales of emerging-market assets by overseas investors.  Policy makers will monitor exchange-rate movements and will
consider intervening in the  currency market  “as and when”
required, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in  Washington 
on Sept. 23. Central bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said this
week that while the rupee’s rapid drop is a concern, it has to
be seen as part of “a global phenomenon” and “there is
nothing specific in the country that is driving this process.”  “Intervention in forex markets brings unexpected
consequences,” Subbarao said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Benson in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  