-- 
Insurers Can Contest Stranger-Sourced Policies

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-09-26T13:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/insurers-can-contest-stranger-originated-policies-delaware-court-rules.html
Insurers can challenge life
policies that pay investors when the subject of the policy dies,
the Delaware  Supreme Court  ruled, citing state policy, as well
as 18th-century British law.  The federal court in Wilmington had asked the state high
court to interpret Delaware law on the question of honoring such
policies, according to two opinions filed Sept. 20. The insurers
said such so-called stranger-originated life insurance policies
are invalid because the beneficiaries were part of a “multi-
layered trust scheme” in which investors paid the premiums.  “Under Delaware common law, if a life insurance policy
lacks an insurable interest at the inception” it is void, even
after a two-year contestability period, because it violates
state policy against wagering, the justices decided.  The decision arose from two cases filed since 2009 in
federal court -- one involving a $6 million policy from Lincoln
National Life Insurance Co. on Joseph Schlanger, and the other a
$9 million policy on Price Dawe from PHL Variable Insurance Co.
(Phoenix), according to court papers. Both people have died.  Life insurance dates to the 16th century, the justices
wrote, and in  England , “dead pools and the use of insurance to
wager on strangers’ lives actually became a popular pastime.”  The British Life Assurance Act of 1774 prohibited the
practice, and in 1881, the U.S. Supreme Court said such a wager
provided “a sinister counter interest in having the life come
to an end,” according to the Delaware decision.  The two lawsuits filed by the insurers are continuing in
federal court in Wilmington.  The cases are Variable Insurance v. Price Dawe Insurance
Trust, 10-CV-964; and Lincoln National v. Joseph Schlanger 2006
Insurance Trust, 09-CV-506, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 