-- 
Intercell in Talks With Private Equity After Patch Drug Failure, CEO Says

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-09-27T15:41:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/intercell-in-talks-with-private-equity-after-patch-drug-failure-ceo-says.html
Intercell AG (ICLL) , the Austrian biotech
whose shares plunged 89 percent after research setbacks, is in
talks about selling a stake to a private-equity firm, the chief
executive officer said. Shares gained the most in a month.  It’s too early to say how much of the company a private-
equity partner might purchase, CEO Thomas Lingelbach said in an
interview in Vienna yesterday. Shareholders have authorized the
company to sell as many as 16 million new shares. Intercell has
48.59 million shares outstanding.  “We are in exploratory talks,” he said, without naming
the other parties. “We’ve put the company into a state that
enables us to say ‘We are ready to go.’ That means that inside a
few hours or days we would be ready to go into a financing mode
should the possibility present itself.” The company hasn’t made
a final decision on whether to sell a stake, he said.  Intercell shares sank after the company said Dec. 12 it was
scrapping development of a vaccine patch to prevent diarrhea in
travelers. The patch failed in two patient studies. A second
setback followed in April, when a safety panel told Intercell
and partner Merck & Co. to stop enrolling patients in a test of
an experimental vaccine against a deadly hospital infection.
Merck and Intercell terminated the study in June.  Intercell rose 12 percent to 2.07 euros at 5:30 p.m. close
of trading in Vienna, it’s biggest gain since Aug. 16. This
gives the company a market value of 100.6 million euros ($137
million).  Cutting Costs  “We are a bargain,” Lingelbach said. Intercell’s Ixiaro
vaccine for Japanese encephalitis alone is worth more than the
current share price, subtracting cash on hand and debt, he said.  The company cut research and development costs by 58
percent in the first half and fired about 20 percent of its
employees.  Intercell took back rights to the traveler’s diarrhea
vaccine patch technology it had licensed to  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
after last year’s failed trials, Lingelbach said. Glaxo and
Intercell are still conducting a joint study of the patch in
pandemic flu.  The company is seeking a new partner for the patch in
different indications, he said. Intercell also is looking for a
partner for technologies including vaccine-boosting adjuvants
and a discovery system for  monoclonal antibodies , which mimic
substances produced by the human immune system to fight
infection. Intercell hopes to be in final-stage talks with at
least one prospect by the end of the year, he said.  There has been no discussion of changes to the equity
stakes of Intercell’s drug-company shareholders, Lingelbach
said.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  owns about 15 percent of the company, and
Glaxo holds 1.9 percent.  Former CEO Gerd Zettlmeissl, who resigned in May, has
retained his shares in the company, Lingelbach said. As of Dec.
31, Zettlmeissl had a 0.5 percent stake in Intercell, according
to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  