-- 
Investors Betting Israel Rate Cut Won’t Be Last

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-09-27T08:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/investors-bet-fischer-interest-rate-cut-won-t-be-israel-s-last.html
Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  reversed monetary policy late yesterday, reducing rates
for the first time in 2 1/2 years. Investors are betting it
won’t be his last cut.  Fischer lowered the rate by a quarter point to 3 percent,
the Jerusalem-based central bank said on its website. Two-year
interest rate swaps, an indicator of investor expectations for
the benchmark in that period, have fallen 19 basis points this
week to 2.74 percent, the lowest since September 2010, showing
that traders are betting on another reduction.  Israel joins countries including  Brazil  and  Turkey  that
have lowered rates in a bid to shore up growth and shield their
economies against a global slowdown. The risk is that the move
undermines the Bank of  Israel ’s fight against inflation which
has exceeded target levels since the start of the year.  “Fischer chose to initiate a dose of preventative medicine
for the Israeli economy, against the background of the negative
developments in the global economy,” said Yair Drori, head
analyst at Tachlit-Discount Portfolio Management Ltd. “We don’t
expect Fischer to hurry to bring down  interest rates  and we
assume he will wait a few months to see what develops in Israel
and globally.”  More Cuts  Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Inc. said Fischer may not
wait long. Citigroup said in a report today that the Bank of
Israel will probably make another quarter-point cut this year.
Goldman said it expects a half-point of cuts by year-end.  Fischer said last week that Israel’s monetary tightening
cycle is probably over and that there was room to cut the rate.
The Bank of Israel last week reduced its growth forecast for
next year to 3.2 percent from 3.9 percent, saying export growth
may slow. Fischer had increased the rate 10 times since August
2009 as the economy recovered from recession.  The yield on the Mimshal Shiklit bond due January 2020 fell
four basis points to 4.47 percent at 10:50 a.m., its sixth
straight decline. The shekel strengthened 0.6 percent to 3.709
per dollar, after sliding 0.8 percent yesterday. The currency
has weakened by about 5 percent this year after gaining more
than 7 percent in 2010.  Fischer isn’t the only central banker to reverse course.
The  European Central Bank , which tightened policy twice this
year, said Sept. 15 that risks to the economic outlook have
shifted to the downside, and central banks in  Norway  and the
 Czech Republic  have signaled they may cut rates.  Brazil, Turkey  Brazil’s central bank last month unexpectedly cut interest
rates by a half-point to 12 percent, after raising them at each
of the previous five meetings. Turkey’s central bank cut its key
rate by half a percentage point to 5.75 percent on Aug. 4. The
Turkish lira yesterday weakened to a record low against the
dollar.  The risk Fischer is taking is that lower rates may weaken
the shekel and push prices higher. While Israeli inflation
slowed to 3.4 percent in August from a high this year of 4.3
percent in March, it’s still above the government’s annual
target range of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Protests against high living costs, especially in housing,
have drawn as many as 400,000 Israelis onto the streets in the
past three months.  Housing Price Danger  “We wouldn’t rush to cut the rate at a time when we see
the  danger of an explosion in housing prices in Israel,” said
Amir Kahanovich, chief economist at Clal Investment Management
Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  A panel appointed by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in
response to the protests yesterday recommended that Israel
should raise taxes on companies and on individuals who earn more
than about $130,000 a year, as well as increasing the stock of
affordable housing and opening markets to more imports.  Fischer can point to falling inflation expectations to
justify yesterday’s move. In the latest monthly survey of
economists published by the central bank, the expected rate in
12 months’ time declined to 2.3 percent, the lowest since
February 2010.  Along with the slowing of the global economy, the Israeli
economy is also facing geopolitical risks. Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  asked the  United Nations  on Sept. 23 to
recognize a Palestinian state and ruled out a return to
“business as usual” in peace negotiations. Fischer said Sept.
18 that if violence erupts as a result of Israeli-Palestinian
tensions, it may hurt the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 