-- 
Irish Home Prices Fall 1.6% as Property Decline Advances

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-09-26T11:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/irish-home-prices-fall-1-6-in-august-drop-14-from-year-ago.html
Irish  home prices  fell 1.6 percent
in August from July, continuing a decline that started with the
collapse of Ireland’s property boom in 2007.  Residential property prices fell 13.9 percent from a year
earlier, the  Central Statistics Office  in Cork said on its
website today. National home prices, which fell 0.8 percent in
July, last rose in September 2007, according to today’s
statement.  Property prices in Ireland continue to drop as employment
stays above 14 percent and the government plans further
austerity measures to cut its  budget deficit  in line with its
bailout program.  Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 19
falling house prices will increase losses on defaulted loans as
higher unemployment pushes home owners into arrears.  “Falling prices reflect distressed vendors being forced to
sell despite weak market conditions,” Davy Chief Economist
Conall Mac Coille said in a note today. “Residential property
prices are likely to continue falling through 2011.”  Residential property prices in Dublin have fallen 51
percent since their February 2007 peak, with apartments in the
capital down 57 percent, according to the CSO.  The decline in residential property prices outside Dublin
has been about 40 percent, bringing the overall national index
down 43 percent, according to the CSO.  Ireland’s Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday
that the deposit position of Irish banks covered by government
guarantee has “stabilized” as the country returns to
“significant levels of growth” on exports.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.6 percent in the second
quarter from the first, when it expanded 1.9 percent as exports
grew, the CSO said in a report last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  