-- 
Israel Panel Proposes Raising Tax on Companies, High Earners

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-26T16:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/israel-panel-proposes-raising-tax-on-companies-high-earners-1-.html
Israel should raise taxes on
companies and on individuals who earn more than about $130,000 a
year, according to a panel appointed by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in response to protests over the cost of living.  The committee, headed by economist Manuel Trajtenberg,
proposed that corporate taxes be raised to 25 percent next year
and 26 percent in 2013, from 24 percent this year. It said the
top rate of income tax should be increased to 48 percent, and
that the country must increase its stock of affordable housing
and open its markets to more imports.  “The new Israelis of the summer of 2011 gave us a great
opportunity to make a change and we need to take up this
opportunity with both hands,” Trajtenberg said at a news
conference in  Jerusalem . “We absolutely believe that
implementing these recommendations will bring about real
change.”  Netanyahu tapped Trajtenberg to come up with the
recommendations after a citizens protest movement set up tent
camps in  Tel Aviv  in mid-July and organized street rallies
across the country that attracted as many as 400,000 people.  The proposed tax increases would raise 30 billion shekels
($8 billion) over five years, and the money should mostly be
spent on education, the panel said. It also proposed cuts to the
 defense budget .  Israeli consumer prices rose 0.5 percent in August, more
than forecast, as rental costs climbed, government-regulated
electricity fees increased and the weakening of the shekel
helped push up import and travel prices. Annual inflation stayed
at 3.4 percent, above the government’s target of 1 to 3 percent.  Netanyahu called the report an “important milestone” and
said the recommendations if adopted would “allow the citizens
of  Israel  to buy more with their money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Jerusalem at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 