-- 
Italian Consumer Confidence Drops to 3-Year Low

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-26T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/italian-consumer-confidence-declines-to-3-year-low-on-austerity.html
Italian  consumer confidence  fell to
the lowest in more than three years in September as austerity
measures and  Europe ’s debt crisis sparked concern that the
economy may slip into a recession.  The sentiment index fell to 98.5, the lowest since July
2008, from 100.3 in August, national statistics office Istat
said in Rome today. That matched economists’ prediction in a
Bloomberg News survey, according to the median of 16 forecasts.  The government led by  Silvio Berlusconi  has pushed through
two packages of deficit cuts since July totaling about 100
billion euros ($134 billion). The plans included a levy on
incomes over 300,000 euros and a 1 percentage-point increase in
the value-added tax. The measures, passed to stem surging
borrowing costs amid Europe’s debt crisis, may erode  consumer
spending  and contain growth, retailers lobby  Confcommercio  said
on Sept. 18.  The deficit-cutting steps didn’t stop  Standard & Poor’s 
from lowering Italy’s credit rating for the first time in five
years on Sept. 19. The week before, Moody’s Investors Service
said Italy’s rating remained under review for possible downgrade
given the “increasingly challenging economic and financial
environment and fluid political developments in the euro area.”  Lower Forecasts  The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its forecasts
for Italian growth this year and next. On Sept. 22, the
government also revised its estimates, saying the euro region’s
third-biggest economy will grow 0.7 percent in 2011 instead of
the 1.1 percent forecast in April and 0.6 percent in 2012 rather
than 1.3 percent. That compares with the IMF’s forecasts for a
0.6 percent expansion this year and 0.3 percent in 2012.  The austerity moves also extend a freeze on civil servants’
wages, speed an increase in the retirement age and cut funding
for regional government and ministries. The measures prompted
the CGIL, the country’s biggest union, to hold a general eight-
hour strike on Sept. 6.  Growth in  Italy  is being hurt by the global economic
slowdown, rising borrowing costs from the debt crisis and the
effects of “deficit-cutting measures that are indispensible
without an alternative to quickly improve the public accounts,”
employers’ lobby  Confindustria  said in a Sept. 15 report.  Retail sales fell in July for a third month, declining 2.4
percent from a year earlier, Istat said on Sept. 23. The
government also forecast household spending to slow, saying that
“in the medium term, the dynamic of the labor market could
represent a risk factor” for consumer demand. Italy’s jobless
rate was unchanged at 8 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  