-- 
JSW Steel Cuts Output on Iron Ore Shortage in South India

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-09-26T12:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/jsw-steel-cuts-output-on-iron-ore-shortage-in-south-india-1-.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,  India ’s third-
biggest producer, cut production at its Karnataka plant after
the nation’s top court limited iron ore sales in the southern
state to online auctions.  The Vijayanagar plant is operating at 30 percent of
capacity after the nation’s top court rendered long-term iron
ore purchase contracts with  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC)  void, Mumbai-based JSW
said today in an e-mailed statement. NMDC, the only miner
allowed to operate in the state, must conduct its sales through
online auctions, the  Supreme Court  ordered on Sept. 23.  JSW has faced a raw-material shortage after the Supreme
Court banned mining in the three districts of Karnataka that
produce most of the state’s iron ore. The company, which buys
more than 80 percent of the raw material from NMDC and other
miners in the state, had to cut output last month as supplies
dried up following the ban. The court allowed state-run NMDC to
restart mining last month.  The auctions will take place irrespective of the long-term
contracts entered into by NMDC, the order said.  JSW shares fell 2.2 percent to 618.60 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai. The shares have dropped 47 percent this
year, compared with a 22 percent decline in the benchmark
Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  JSW Steel, which operates a 10 million metric ton factory
at Vijayanagar in the state, has requested a court-appointed
panel to ensure adequate supply of  iron ore  at a fair price to
restore normal production, it said in the statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  