-- 
Justin Bieber Rockin’ Tour Bus May Top Holiday Toy Sales

-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 
2011-09-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/justin-bieber-rockin-tour-bus-may-top-holiday-toy-sales.html
The Justin Bieber Rockin’ Tour Bus,
which lets teenage girls relive the pop star’s concert
experience for $79.99, and an iPad-like $99.99 LeapPad tablet
may be among the top-selling holiday gifts this year.  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) ’s $17.99 Nerf Vortex Proton Blaster, which
comes with three long-distance discs, and Screenlife’s Scene It?
Harry Potter: The Complete Cinematic Journey, a $29.99 board
game, are also among the toys on the “Hot 20” list compiled by
Toy Insider, a shopping guide released today.  “Last year we worked really hard to keep our prices under
$50,” said Laurie Schacht, the Toy Insider’s co-publisher, in a
telephone interview. “We allowed ourselves to price it a little
higher but the economy is still tight.”  Consumer spending  remains restrained amid 9.1 percent
unemployment and fears of a double-dip recession. Toymakers
typically generate at least a third of annual revenue from
fourth-quarter holiday sales.  The sixth annual Toy Insider, featuring 110 toy
recommendations divided by age group, will be published in the
Nov. 17 issue of Woman’s Day magazine. Other items will be
listed on the group’s website.  Toy sales this year will be flat compared with last year,
said Gerrick Johnson, a toy industry analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in  New York .  “Retailers are being really cautious,” Johnson said in a
Sept. 23 phone interview. “They are not bringing a lot of
product in for the holiday season.” Last year, many retailers
were stuck with excessive inventory, he said.  U.S. toy sales rose to $21.7 billion last year, compared
with $21.5 billion in 2009, according to NPD Group Inc., a  Port
Washington , New York-based researcher.  Consumer demand will remain similar to last year’s, with
people buying fewer items because prices have gone up about 5
percent to 6 percent this year, Johnson said.  The Toy Insider’s “Hot 20” Toys for the 2011 Holiday Season  0-2 Years: Elefun Busy Ball Popper - Playskool
Let’s Rock Elmo - Hasbro
Little People Zoo Talkers Animal Sounds Zoo – Fisher-Price
Pocoyo Swiggletraks - Bandai  3-5 Years: Chuggington Interactive Railway – Learning Curve
Lazer Stunt Chaser – Thinkway Toys
Mini Lalaloopsy Treehouse – MGA Entertainment
LeapPad LeapFrog Lite Sprites - WowWee
PlasmaBike - PlaSmart  6-8 Years: Angry Birds Plush – Commonwealth Toy & Novelty Co.
Justin Bieber Rockin’ Tour Bus and Concert Stage – The Bridge
Direct Nerf Vortex Proton Blaster - Hasbro
Radica Fijit Friends - Mattel
Redakai Championship Tin – Spin Master Skylanders
Spyro’s Adventure - Activision  9+ Years: Alien Conquest: Alien Mothership – Lego Systems
Paper Jamz Pro Series Microphone - WowWee
Scene It?  Harry Potter : The Complete Cinematic Journey –
Screenlife
uDraw Game Tablet - THQ  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  