-- 
Executives Expect Scandal From Undisclosed Campaign Donations

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-09-27T11:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/keeping-campaign-money-secret-will-lead-to-scandal-report-says.html
Undisclosed campaign money that
began pouring into political groups during last year’s
congressional elections will, without reform, only grow and lead
to scandal, a group of business leaders and university
professors said yesterday.  An estimated $500 million was spent to influence
congressional elections in 2010 by non-profit groups, trade
associations, labor unions and corporations with no trace of
where the money came from or how it was used, according to the
report by the Committee for  Economic Development .  “This lack of transparency poses a grave threat to our
democracy,” concluded the report, which was signed by 32
business leaders and university professors, including
representatives from  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Avaya Inc. and  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU)   The group says the  Federal Election Commission  watered down
disclosure rules against the advice of the U.S.  Supreme Court ,
opening new routes for secret money to get into elections. It is
calling on Congress to pass legislation to require disclosure of
all money spent to influence elections and discouraging its
members from giving to such groups.  “The system we have now takes good men and women who are
elected and corrupts them,” said Edward Kangas, the former
chairman and chief executive officer of Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu, at a panel discussion yesterday about the committee’s
reform proposal.  Executives from pharmaceutical companies Merck & Co. and
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , and from American Electric Power Co., also spoke at
the event in support of more disclosure.  Citizens United   The Supreme Court, in a 2010 case known as Citizens United,
allowed corporations and unions for the first time to spend
unlimited money on ads advocating the election or defeat of a
candidate.  In the decision, the high court expressed confidence that
interested voters could easily discern the identities of those
paying for campaign ads.  “With the advent of the Internet, prompt disclosure of
expenditures can provide shareholders and citizens with the
information needed to hold corporations and elected officials
accountable for their positions and supporters,” Justice
Anthony Kennedy wrote for the 5-4 majority.  Disclosure Requirements  The FEC, however, loosened requirements for disclosure of
donors, making groups report the names of contributors only if
they are paying for a particular ad, the group said.  “The FEC, the agency responsible for implementing campaign
finance law, has eviscerated the disclosure regulations applied
to campaign advertising,” the report said. “Instead of
promoting transparency, the agency has added a new element of
secrecy in campaign finance.”  The risks to companies of publicly supporting a political
candidate became clear immediately after Citizens United when
 Target Corp. (TGT)  made a $150,000 donation to MN Forward, a business
advocacy group which in turn ran ads supporting a gubernatorial
candidate who opposed gay marriage. Gay rights groups boycotted
the company and Target CEO Gregg Steinhafel apologized.  That incident showed that “there’s a big risk for
companies to go out and be so public politically,” said Barbara
Bonfiglio, senior corporate counsel at Pfizer. “It’s just not a
place that too many companies are going to be comfortable
playing in.”  However, they may be comfortable if their donations aren’t
made public, said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a
Washington-based group that advocates for limits to money in
campaigns.  Electioneering Communications  In the 2010 election cycle, 308 non-party groups reported
spending money to influence voters, and only 166 of those
reported where the money came from. The U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, which reported $31 million in “electioneering
communications” spending to the FEC, won’t name any of the
companies or individuals who gave it the money.  Independent groups are already raising money for the 2012
elections, with their sights set even higher.  American Crossroads and Crossroads Grassroots Policy
Strategies -- created with support from  Karl Rove  and  Ed Gillespie , former aides to President  George W. Bush  -- set an
initial goal to raise $120 million for 2012 and then doubled
that target earlier this month.  They gathered $71 million in 2010, according to spokesman
Jonathan Collegio. Crossroads GPS keeps its donor list secret.  Priorities USA and Priorities USA Action, two groups
founded by  Bill Burton  and  Sean Sweeney , former aides to
President  Barack Obama , are trying to raise $100 million to help
keep the president in the White House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  