-- 
Kenyan Shilling Weakens to Record Low, Passing 100 Per Dollar

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 
2011-09-26T08:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/kenyan-shilling-weakens-to-record-low-passing-100-per-dollar.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened to a
record low, breaching 100 per dollar on concern that  Europe  will
struggle to contain its debt crisis, curbing demand for riskier,
frontier-market assets.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 1.7 percent to 100.5 per dollar and was trading 1.6
percent lower at 100.38 by 11:08 a.m. in Nairobi, the capital.  “The weakening of the shilling is a reaction to the
unresolved euro debt crisis which is causing all emerging-market
currencies to weaken, and with businesses’ month-end obligations
coming through it’s likely to remain under pressure,” Jeremiah
Kendagor, acting head of trading at Nairobi-based Kenya
Commercial Bank Ltd., said by phone  Emerging-market stocks fell to a two-year low and most
European equities retreated as Europe’s finance ministers and
central bankers urged policy makers to intensify efforts to
contain the region’s debt crisis.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned at the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  that failure
to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened “cascading default,
bank runs and catastrophic risk.”  Kenya’s central bank said it injected liquidity into
domestic financial markets last week and vowed to take further
action to smooth currency volatility after the shilling fell to
a 17-year low. The shilling has depreciated 20 percent this
year, making it the world’s second-worst performer against the
dollar as inflation in East Africa’s biggest economy soared to
16.7 percent, more than triple the government’s target.  Market Rate  Central Bank of Kenya said it is “committed to a market-
determined  exchange rate  as long as it is supported by
fundamentals,” Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said in an e-mailed
statement from Nairobi on Sept. 23.  “The central bank statement may spook investors who may
interpret it to mean the regulator may impose any type of
currency restriction,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , head of Rich
Management, a Nairobi-based advisory company, said by phone.  The shilling may weaken to as low as 110 shillings per
dollar, he said, without giving a timeline. “One hundred is a
totemic number that captures the market’s imagination and that
of every single Kenyan,” Satchu said. 