-- 
Kenyan Nobel Peace Prize Winner Wangari Maathai Dies

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-26T19:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/kenyan-nobel-laureate-environmental-activist-maathai-dies-2-.html
(Corrects name of university and year degree earned in
10th paragraph.)  Kenyan Nobel laureate Wangari Maathai, whose environmental activism earned her the wrath of
former President Daniel Arap Moi and plaudits from international
organizations, died after battling ovarian cancer. She was 71.  Maathai died at about 11 p.m. yesterday at the Nairobi
Hospital, Lucy Wanjohi, her personal assistant, said by phone
from the city today. She is survived by three children, who were
at her bedside during her final moments, and a granddaughter.  “Wangari Maathai was a force of nature,” United Nations
Environment Program Executive Director Achim Steiner said in an
e-mailed statement. “While others deployed their power and life
force to damage, degrade and extract short-term profit from the
environment, she used hers to stand in their way.”  Maathai became the first African woman to take the Nobel
Peace Prize and is one of 12 female winners of the award. She
was given it in 2004 for her work to promote democracy and fight
poverty through the Green Belt Movement, which has planted more
than 47 million trees since she founded the organization 34
years ago. The trees have been used to provide wood for cooking
and fodder for livestock, as well as protect watersheds and
stabilize soil in rural areas of  Kenya , boosting agriculture.  Skyscrapers, Forests  Maathai is “a global icon who has left an indelible mark
in the world of environmental conservation,” Kenyan President
Mwai Kibaki said in an emailed statement today.  She fought for democratic change and was beaten and jailed
several times during Moi’s presidency, who ruled Kenya for 24
years, Macharia Munene, a history professor at the United States
International University in Nairobi, said by phone today.  In 1989, Maathai opposed plans announced by Moi for a 60-
storey skyscraper to be built in Uhuru Park in the center of the
city. Ten years later, she was arrested by the police for
campaigning to stop the subdivision of the state-owned Karura
Forest Reserve, home to bushbucks, monkeys and more than 200
species of birds, for real-estate development. She also joined a
Kenyan group of mothers demanding the release of their children
as political prisoners, Munene said.  “She was on the frontline for being an environmentalist,
but she was a non-conformist in whatever she did as a woman and
an activist,” Munene said. Maathai is divorced from Mwangi
Mathai, a former politician who served in the Moi
administration, he said. After her ex-husband demanded she drop
his surname, Maathai added a third “a” to it.  Veterinary Doctorate  After Moi’s departure in 2002, she was elected to
parliament and served as an assistant environment minister.  Born in Nyeri in central Kenya on April 1, 1940, Maathai
earned a degree in biological sciences at the Mount St.
Scholastica College in  Kansas  in 1964 and received a Masters
degree in Science from the  University of Pittsburgh  in 1965.  She became the first woman in East and Central Africa to
earn a doctorate when she obtained a Ph.D in veterinary anatomy
from the University of Nairobi in 1971.  In 2005, Maathai was named by Time magazine as one of the
100 most influential people in the world and by Forbes magazine
as one of the world’s 100 most powerful women, according to the
Green Belt Movement’s  website .  ‘African Fighter’  Tributes poured in from all over the world for Maathai on
her Facebook page, with many describing her as a “heroine” and
an “African fighter.” The Nelson Mandela Foundation and former
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan offered their
condolences.  “Prof. Maathai has left a lasting legacy in greater
awareness and work in protecting our environment and the
world,” Achmat Dangor, chief executive officer of the South-
Africa based foundation, said in an e-mailed statement.  Developers will continue work on a project Maathai started
to launch the Wangari Maathai Institute for Environmental
Studies at the University of Nairobi, Wanjohi said. Arrangements
are being made for the funeral service, she said.  “She is an exemplary character in the environmental
movement,” Anne Lamont, interim executive director of
Greenpeace Africa, said in an e-mailed statement today. “Her
legacy will be felt by many future generations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 