-- 
Kodak Tumbles After Drawing Down $160 Million From Revolving Credit Line

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-09-26T14:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/kodak-shares-decline-after-drawing-160-million-from-credit-line-last-week.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  fell the most in
more than two years after the 131-year-old camera maker drew
down $160 million from its revolving bank line.  Kodak declined 54 cents, or 23 percent, to $1.84 at 10:01
a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
earlier slumped as much as 24 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since January 2009. Before today, Rochester,  New York- 
based Kodak had slumped 56 percent this year.  The company is borrowing money after Chief Executive
Officer Antonio Perez said last month that the patents Kodak is
seeking to sell have generated interest from potential bidders.
Kodak is trying to raise cash to continue funding inkjet
printing and other digital businesses that it has projected will
generate operating profits by 2013.  “Investors are selling first and asking questions later,”
 Mark Kaufman , an analyst at Rafferty Capital Markets Inc. in New
York, said today by telephone. He recommends buying the shares
and said expecting a patent sale “in such a short period of
time would be naive. I’ve been thinking more along the lines of
November or December.”  Kodak will pay interest beginning at 1.5 percentage points
more than the  base rate , the company said Sept. 23 in a
regulatory filing. It may repay the money at any time without
penalty.  The company entered into a restated credit agreement in
April for the five-year asset-based revolving line for up to
$400 million. Proceeds may be used for general corporate
purposes, including the purchase of its 7.25 percent bonds due
in 2013, Kodak said in an April 27 regulatory filing.  The credit facility “has been a part of Kodak’s cash-
management tool kit for quite some time,” Christopher Veronda,
a spokesman for Kodak, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
purpose of the revolving credit facility is to bridge timing
differences between cash outflows and inflows, which is a common
practice at many corporations.”  While Veronda declined to disclose the company’s current
cash balance, he said we “certainly have not consumed $957
million in cash since June 30th.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 