-- 
Korean Finance Regulator May Boost Forex Stress Tests for Banks

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-09-26T08:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/korean-finance-regulator-may-boost-forex-stress-tests-for-banks.html
South Korea ’s financial regulator
may increase stress testing of foreign-currency liquidity at the
nation’s banks amid growing concern over financial market
turmoil and a global economic slowdown.  The  Financial Supervisory Service  may review the banks’
ability to meet their foreign-currency debt obligations and
accesses to such assets on a monthly basis if needed, more than
the current quarterly review period, the agency said in an e-
mailed reply to Bloomberg queries.  The regulator has called on the country’s banks to secure
“enough” foreign-currency liquidity to avoid the funding
crunch that hit the lenders in 2008. Moody’s Investors Service
said additional testing would be positive for the country’s
banks after about two thirds of 18 tested lenders failed the
latest review, it said, citing the conversions with local banks.  “The FSS is using the current stress-testing regime to
steer domestic banks toward stability and away from pricing when
they access foreign currency funding,” Moody’s analyst Heejin Kwon wrote in a report dated today. “In the long run, we see
this as an initiative that will help prepare the banks for
coming Basel III liquidity coverage ratio requirements.”  The regulator guided local lenders to improve their
foreign-currency liquidity by borrowing more long-term debt and
securing committed credit lines, the FSS e-mail said, without
specifying a deadline. It also denied Moody’s comment saying
stress tests are not based on a pass-or-fail scheme.  Financial Supervisory Service Governor Kwon Hyouk Se told
lawmakers on Sept. 23 that South Korean banks are prepared to
cope with the “worst-case scenario” on foreign-currency
liquidity. The governor said the tests have been conducted so
they can weather severe conditions for three months.  Domestic banks’ foreign-currency soundness exceeded the
regulators recommended level with the banks’ three-month foreign
currency liquidity ratio stood at 100.1 percent, above the
regulator’s recommended 85 percent level, the agency said on
Sept. 16 statement on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  