-- 
Nestle Borrows at 4-Year Low as KitKat Maker Favored in Crisis

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-09-26T11:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/nestle-s-borrowing-cost-is-lowest-rate-in-four-years-for-european-company.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, won the lowest rate on a European company loan in four
years amid speculation larger companies are better able to
withstand a stagnant economy.  The maker of Nescafe and KitKat chocolate bars agreed to
pay 10 basis points more than the euro interbank offered rate to
draw a 4 billion-euro ($5.4 billion) one-year revolving credit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest
interest margin since a $2.25 billion deal for chemicals maker
BASF SE in April 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Large companies with international operations have about
twice as much cash as short-term loans and are well-placed to
meet debt redemptions amid  Europe ’s deepening crisis, according
to Alberto Gallo, senior credit strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. The average interest margin of 53.5 basis
points more than Euribor on high-grade loans may rise as lenders
pass on their own increased funding costs, Bloomberg data show.  “We prefer large firms because we think they will have
more bargaining power in negotiating loans with banks, and they
will benefit from better liquidity,” London-based Gallo said in
a note to clients.  A gauge of yield premiums on European bank bonds widened to
a record last week on concern the financial system is in
jeopardy as the economy slows and Greece flirts with default.
The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
economic growth to 4 percent this year and next, compared with
June forecasts of 4.3 percent in 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012.  ‘Pressure’  “Pricing is heading higher, that’s for sure,” said
Ashu Khullar, London-based co-head of EMEA loan structuring and
syndication at Citigroup Inc. “It’s a slow process and the
impact will be less for the global investment-grade companies
with large banking wallets. You may also see banks start
talking about charging more for drawings in dollars because
that’s where the pressure is for a lot of European banks.”  The Barclays Capital Euro Aggregate Banking Senior Index
rose 17 basis points last week to 339 basis points more than
government debt. That takes it above the 325 reached in December
2008 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Nestle’s new revolving credit, a backstop to its global
commercial paper program, will replace a 2 billion-euro seven-
year credit line signed in 2005 that paid an interest margin of
7.5 basis points on drawn funds, Bloomberg data show. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Nestle would pay a margin of 40 basis points to use all the
funds in the facility. Lenders will receive a commitment fee
of 1 basis point to join the deal coordinated by Citigroup Inc.,
according to Bloomberg data. The Vevey, Switzerland-based
company is rated AA by Standard & Poor’s and Aa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service.  Three-Tier Fees  Citigroup’s Khullar said lenders may start a three-tier
utilization fee structure instead of two, meaning the fee will
kick in once the borrower uses the money.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest luxury
carmaker, agreed to utilization fees of 20 basis points
fee to use more than one-third of a new 6 billion-euro five-year
revolving credit, and 40 basis points to draw more than two-
thirds. That’s 30 percent more than the fees paid by rival
 Daimler AG (DAI)  for a 7 billion-euro credit line signed last year.  BMW’s new revolving credit can be extended by a maximum of
two years and renews an $8 billion financing signed in November
2005, according to a statement from coordinators of the
transaction BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG
and UniCredit SpA.  “Banks are starting to be more disciplined in pricing deals," 
said Alvaro Huete, head of global syndicate at Societe Generale CIB.
"We are starting to see banks demanding better protections and 
incentives to cover high funding costs on lines that are not meant
to be drawn,either through utilization fees or other mechanisms”.  SocGen expects high-grade refinancing in Europe to fall by
50 percent next year as about 70 percent of these companies have
renewed credit lines due by 2013, London-based Huete said.  “If you have refinancing to do, it’s prudent to get on
with it now because I don’t think there is certainty that things
will improve anytime soon,” said Khullar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  