-- 
Netflix Reaches DreamWorks Pact, Boosting Service’s Film-Streaming Content

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r ,   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-26T20:19:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/netflix-reaches-agreement-for-film-streaming-with-dreamworks-animation.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the movie-rental
service that angered customers after raising prices, gained
rights to stream films from  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
maker of “Madagascar” and “Shrek.”  The agreement covers new releases from Glendale,
California-based DreamWorks Animation starting in 2013, the
companies said today in a statement. Netflix, the world’s
largest online film-rental service, will replace the cable
channel  HBO  as the studio’s partner.  The deal marks a high-profile addition to the Netflix
library after the company’s talks to renew movies from the Starz
cable channel broke down. Los Gatos, California-based Netflix
estimates it lost more than a half-million U.S. customers after
raising prices by 60 percent for those who purchased both online
streaming and DVDs by mail. The company is splitting the
business into two separate companies.  “This deal will be just one of a number of deals we’re
likely to see over the next six months as Netflix continues to
spend on streaming,” said James Cordwell, an analyst at
Atlantic Equities in  London  who recommends buying the shares.
“That will be what drives a return to stabilization and
subscriber growth.”  Netflix and DreamWorks Animation didn’t disclose the
financial terms of their agreement. Netflix, which has fallen
more than 50 percent from a July 13 high of $298.73, rose $2.86
to $132.22 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. DreamWorks Animation gained 14 cents to $18.88 and has
lost 36 percent this year.  Content Spending  Netflix has money to spend on content after failing to come
to an agreement with Starz on deal that could have been worth
$300 million, according to analysts at Piper Jaffray Cos. The
company’s spending will rise to more than $2 billion in 2012
from about $800 million this year, according to  Michael Pachter ,
an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles .  The DreamWorks Animation deal probably won’t affect near-
term customer churn at Netflix because it doesn’t add new films
until 2013, Cordwell said.  The studio is scheduled to release three films theatrically
in 2013: “The Croods” in March, “Turbo” in June and “Me and
My Shadow” in November, according to a March 8 statement.
Netflix will also have access to certain catalog titles such as
“Kung Fu Panda” over time, the companies said.  The agreement, which is only for U.S. Netflix customers,
lets DreamWorks Animation separately sell films electronically
to consumers, according to  Jeffrey Katzenberg , the studio’s
chief executive officer.  Future Deals  “From a content owners’ point of view, this will allow us
to get significantly greater value than we would have in a pay-
TV deal,” said Katzenberg, who intends to discuss future deals
with Google Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and other companies that are
interested in content from Hollywood studios.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO, which has added Summit
Entertainment films to its premium-cable programming, agreed to
allow DreamWorks out of contract that runs through 2014, paving
the way for the move to Netflix, a person with knowledge of the
situation said on July 24.  Netflix has signed digital distribution deals giving it
streaming rights to films from  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  Paramount Pictures ,
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and Miramax.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  