-- 
Netflix Gets 57% Cheaper for Amazon-to-Google Acquirer: Real M&A

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-26T20:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/netflix-proves-57-less-expensive-for-amazon-to-google-acquirers-real-m-a.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s biggest slump in
seven years is making the mail-order and streaming movie service
a 57 percent cheaper takeover target for companies from
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The  Los Gatos , California-based company has lost almost $9
billion in market value since July, before a price increase and
the rebranding of its DVD-by-mail service as Qwikster alienated
customers and drove away investors. Netflix, which still earned
more per dollar invested than 99 percent of the biggest American
companies in the past year, was valued at $129.36 a share last
week, half its record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Netflix may have lost more than a half-million U.S.
subscribers after boosting rates, the company has more paying
customers for movies and TV shows than Amazon, Google and  Sony
Corp. (6758)  Amazon could now pay a 50 percent premium for Netflix’s
streaming service and still get the entire company for 26
percent less than its value just two weeks ago, according to
data compiled by Wedbush Securities and Bloomberg.  “It’s an attractive asset,” Todd Lowenstein, who helps
oversee $17.2 billion for Highmark Capital Management Inc., said
in a telephone interview from Los Angeles. “There would be some
interested suitors taking a look at it, especially given the
substantial pullback in the share price.”  Steve Swasey , a spokesman for Netflix, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.  Rise and Fall  Today, Netflix climbed 2.2 percent to $132.22 in  New York .  Separately, Netflix said in a statement that it secured
rights to stream films from DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc., maker
of “Madagascar” and the “Shrek” films.  Netflix, which had 24.6 million U.S. users at the end of
June, had surged more than 1,000 percent in the past five years
to a record $298.73 on July 13.  Netflix more than tripled last year for the biggest gain in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark gauge for
American common equity. The company had a return on equity in
the past 12 months of 84 percent, versus a 15 percent average
for S&P 500 companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Since July, Netflix has tumbled as customers panned the
pricing change, which increased the rate for users of both the
online and DVD services by 60 percent, talks broke down with the
Starz movie channel and pay-TV operator  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) 
started a competing service with Blockbuster Movie Pass.  Hulu Offers  The drop accelerated in the past two weeks, with a 38
percent tumble over five days through Sept. 21, as the company
cut its U.S. subscriber forecast and Chief Executive Officer
Reed Hastings separated and renamed the DVD business.  Netflix’s decline may give companies with designs on the
market such as Amazon and Google a reason to consider buying the
online entertainment leader rather than build their own
services. Both were said to have made first-round offers for
Netflix rival Hulu LLC, people with knowledge of the situation
said on Sept. 2.  Hastings may have split the business in order to sell the
streaming service to Seattle-based Amazon, the world’s largest
Internet retailer, according to  Michael Pachter , an analyst at
Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles , who upgraded Netflix to
“outperform” last week.  Amazon, which offers online movie rentals free to customers
who buy its $79-a-year Amazon Prime shipping service, may be
willing to pay $130 a share for the streaming alone, Pachter
wrote in a report to clients dated Sept. 22. His estimate
includes a 50 percent takeover premium. Pachter projects the
Qwikster DVD business would get $25 a share.  ‘Logical Sense’  “For someone like Amazon to add additional content, it
might be a way to do it,”  Peter Sorrentino , a senior  money
manager  at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a
telephone interview. The firm oversees $14.8 billion. “So much
has been delivered over the Internet. Another distribution
channel would make logical sense.”  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Amazon, didn’t respond to an
e-mail and a telephone call seeking comment.  Google, owner of the YouTube video website, expanded its
YouTube Movies rental service to  Canada  in the past month. The
company last year introduced Google TV, a service that allows
consumers to watch movies from the Internet through their
television sets.  “The name that would pop in my mind first is Google,” Tim Ghriskey, who oversees $2 billion as chief investment officer of
Solaris Group LLC in  Bedford Hills , New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Google loves to throw money at ideas and
companies that they think have the potential to be game changers
and become major players.”  Relative Value  Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg, spokeswoman at  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, declined to comment on whether it is
considering a purchase of Netflix.  Brett Harriss, an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New
York, says that potential buyers are more likely to wait until
Netflix gets cheaper before making a bid.  Including net debt, Netflix is valued at 16.6 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
almost twice as much as the average company in the  S&P 500 ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “At some point, this does get cheap,” Harriss said in an
interview. “But I don’t think we’re down there yet.”  Netflix may need financial backing as competition for
content and customers intensifies, said Frank Biondi, the former
Universal Studios CEO and Viacom Inc. president who now sits on
the boards of RealD Inc. and Cablevision Systems Corp.  ‘The Only Independent’  Netflix had $376 million of cash at the end of the second
quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
current and future accounts payable for streaming content of
$687 million, as well as $2.2 billion of content commitments
that didn’t meet recognition requirements, according to Wedbush.  Amazon has $6.36 billion in cash and equivalents, while
Google holds $39.1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I don’t think Reed Hastings wants to be the only
independent in a world where Amazon or Google can bring so many
resources and have so much money,” Biondi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at +1-323-782-4228 or  apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 