-- 
New Ways to Make Money Talk in Campaign Finance Disclosure: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-26T00:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/new-ways-to-make-money-start-talking-in-campaign-finance-disclosure-view.html
Justice  Anthony Kennedy ’s majority
decision last year in  Citizens United , which allowed
corporations to contribute unlimited sums toward electioneering,
was controversial. But the court’s vision of campaign finance
disclosure, which was endorsed by every justice except  Clarence Thomas , was not.  The court’s call for full disclosure of political
contributions is supported by the Obama administration and
Democratic leaders in Congress. In the past, it had been openly
embraced by Republican leaders  John Boehner  and  Mitch McConnell .
Unfortunately, it still bears no relationship to the current
reality of American politics.  Congress failed to pass a disclosure bill last year and
Boehner, now speaker of the House, has not let another near the
floor. The  Federal Election Commission  could rectify the
situation simply by requiring disclosure, as the  Supreme Court 
expected it would, but the six-member commission has been
stymied by its three Republican members, who typically block
even routine action.  The deadlock has opened the way for anonymous cash in the
political system.  Karl Rove ’s burgeoning Crossroads empire
announced this month that it has doubled its fundraising target
for the 2012 election, from $120 million to $240 million. Former
Obama administration aide  Bill Burton  has entered the anonymous
sweepstakes from the Democratic side, hoping to imitate Rove’s
success.  For those wary of anonymous, unlimited donations -- count
us among them -- all is not lost. Although Congress and the FEC
have shown themselves unwilling to regulate election money,
there is still a path through the campaign finance morass.  First, the Obama campaign should maximize its own
transparency by going beyond the demands of the law and
disclosing the names of donors who contribute $200 or less. In
the past, disclosing small donations was a nuisance. But digital
technology now makes such disclosure viable. In addition, the
president should call on all Democrats -- including those now
soliciting anonymous funds -- to adhere to the principle of full
disclosure of all donations.  Second, in a promising development last month, 10 law
professors  petitioned  the Securities and Exchange Commission,
requesting that the SEC require corporations to disclose to
stockholders their political spending. A favorable rule by the
SEC wouldn’t resolve all campaign disclosure issues, but in one
blow it would make both U.S. business and politics more
transparent, enabling shareholders and voters to hold more
private- and public-sector leaders accountable.  Finally, the stampede of lobbyists seeking to influence the
congressional supercommittee charged with cutting the federal
budget should be subject to timely public scrutiny. The
committee of six senators and six House members, which must make
its recommendations to trim at least $1.2 trillion by Nov. 23,
has the ability to affect every corner of the  U.S. economy .
Under current rules, by the time the public finds out who
lobbied or made campaign contributions to members, the panel’s
work will be done.  The committee should follow the self-imposed rules that
regulatory agencies adopted last year after Congress passed the
Dodd-Frank financial reform law. The SEC, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and other agencies agreed to list on their
 websites , within two weeks of the event, every meeting between
regulators and lobbyists seeking to influence how the law is
carried out.  The FDIC goes even further with its “open door policy,”
which allows the public to track Dodd-Frank rulemakings. The
commission  releases  the names and affiliations of everyone who
met in the previous two weeks with senior officials to discuss
interpretations or implementation of the law.  Congress should reveal the details of all lobbyist visits
or campaign contributions to supercommittee members within 24
hours. If Congress feels compelled to vest its power in a
supercommittee, the panel should follow supertransparent rules.
In lieu of a functional FEC, or of congressional leaders willing
to abide by their own endorsements of political disclosure,
that’s the very least this Congress can do.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 