-- 
FDA Chemist Faces New Insider-Trading Charges

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-26T22:51:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/new-charges-filed-against-fda-chemist-in-insider-trading-case.html
U.S. prosecutors filed new charges
involving an alleged  insider-trading  scheme against a Food and
Drug Administration chemist, a move the government said in
earlier court papers would be the prelude to a plea agreement.  Cheng Yi Liang, who worked for the FDA’s  Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research , was charged today in federal court in
Greenbelt, Maryland, with one count of insider trading and one
count of false statements and aiding and abetting. The charges
were filed as a criminal information, which prosecutors told
U.S. Magistrate Judge William Connelly in a motion last week
would mean a plea agreement had been reached.  Liang is accused of reaping at least $3 million from
trading on nonpublic information related to drug-approval
applications. Liang faces a maximum penalty on the insider-
trading charge of 20 years in prison and a $5 million fine and
five years on the false statements charge.  Prosecutors are seeking almost $3.8 million in forfeitures
from Liang, who lives in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Liang and his son Andrew Liang were initially charged in
March with conspiracy,  wire fraud  and  securities fraud .  Plea Agreements  Marcia Murphy, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein in Baltimore, said the office never comments on plea
agreements before defendants appear in court. A hearing for
Liang on the new charges has yet to be scheduled, she said.  Andrew Liang pleaded guilty last week to possession of
child pornography found in the course of the fraud
investigation. Liang faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in
prison and a $250,000 fine when he is sentenced in December.
Liang must also register as a sex offender.  Today, prosecutors filed a motion seeking to dismiss the
securities case against Andrew Liang.  Cheng Yi Liang’s lawyer, Andrew Carter, didn’t immediately
respond to a voicemail and an e-mail seeking comment on the
filing and possible plea agreement.  The cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi Liang, 11-cr-0530; and U.S.
v. Andrew Liang, 11-cr-00501, U.S. District Court, District of
 Maryland  (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 