-- 
New Amsterdam Targets CLO Acquisition From Banks Scaling Back

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-09-26T14:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/new-amsterdam-targets-clo-acquisition-from-banks-scaling-back.html
New Amsterdam Capital Management
LLP is seeking to buy collateralized loan obligations as the
European credit manager looks to expand when banks cut
lending to high-risk borrowers.  “We would be interested in adding one or two CLOs and I am
hopeful that many banks which don’t have the scale in their CLO
business would want to sell outright,” said John Seal, a
partner at London-based  New Amsterdam,  which he founded in 2002
with Don Procter and Jeroen Zuurmond. “There is a lot of
opportunity to grow.”  CLO managers are increasingly looking to form partnerships
with their peers in the region and in the U.S., creating bigger,
more cost-effective businesses which may help attract more
investors such as pension funds. Sales of CLOs, which package
debt used to fund leveraged buyouts, evaporated in 2009 after
investors shunned the hard-to-value assets that contributed to
the demise of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Regulations that require managers of European CLOs to
retain at least 5 percent of credit risk in deals have also
stymied fund creation. European Capital in June raised the only
fund-managed CLO in  Europe  this year. The unit of Bethesda,
Maryland-based based  American Capital  retained about two-thirds
of the 858 million-euro ($1.2 billion) deal.  Capital Burden  “From the people I know in the working group that is in
discussions with regulators in Brussels is that the rules are
not going to change anytime soon,” Seal, formerly a director of
Barclays Capital’s high-yield capital markets group, said in an
interview in London. “The regulators are aware of the issue
that new rules may be creating some unintended consequences but
it’s just not important enough for them to want to go through
the trouble to change the law.”  Banks are seeking ways to jettison risky assets that carry
the highest capital burden after the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  proposed last year they triple provisions to absorb
losses. BNP Paribas SA, Caja  Madrid  and Natixis are among
European banks that manage CLOs, according to  Fitch Ratings .  New Amsterdam Capital, which oversees more than 1.4
billion euros through three Mercator CLOs and NAC EuroLoan
Advantage I Ltd., is unlikely to buy funds from sellers who
require significant cash payment, he said.  “We would probably pay market prices but use management
fees from the acquired CLOs to pay the seller instead of paying
the price upfront,” Seal said. “If a seller wants to sell its
CLOs to get quick cash, it would be hard for us to
participate.”  New Amsterdam raised 825 million euros from bonds in 2006
for its Mercator I and Mercator II funds, 300 million euros for
Mercator III in 2007. It sold 630 million euros of bonds for NAC
EuroLoan CLO in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  