-- 
News Corp. Faces Fresh Round of Phone Hacking Claims Dating From 2008

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-26T14:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/news-corp-facing-more-hacking-claims.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , former publisher of the
shuttered News of the World tabloid, was hit last week with
accusations that reporters hacked into voice mails as late as
2008, a year after a reporter and detective were jailed for the
offense.  Jade Goody, the reality TV star who died of cervical cancer
in 2009, may have had her phone hacked by News of the World
reporters in the months leading up to her death, according to
 Max Clifford , her former public-relations representative.  If proven true, the allegation indicates hacking continued
two years after private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  and former
royal reporter  Clive Goodman  illegally accessed story subjects’
voice mails. Goodman and Mulcaire were jailed in 2007 for
hacking.  James Murdoch , deputy operating chief of News Corp. and
head of the company’s U.K. publishing unit, has repeatedly said
he didn’t know hacking was widespread at the tabloid and that
wrongdoing took place before he joined the company in 2007.  “If it was going on as late as 2008, serious questions
will be asked as to what procedures were in place to stop it
from happening again internally,” said Niri Shan, the head of
media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in London. Murdoch “is in
charge, so he’s ultimately responsible.”  News Corp.’s directors will also be sued in the U.S. by
victims of News of the World hackers, lawyer  Mark Lewis  said in
an interview broadcast on  Sky News  last week. Lawyers are
looking at what directors at the New York-based corporation
should have known about hacking activities and will seek to
speak with James Murdoch and his father, News Corp. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , Lewis said in a separate
interview on the  BBC .  Coulson  Andy Coulson , an ex-News of the World editor who also
served as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s communications chief,
separately filed a lawsuit against News Corp.’s U.K. publishing
unit. Coulson, who resigned after Mulcaire and Goodman pleaded
guilty to hacking, is fighting News Corp.’s decision to stop
paying his legal fees, a person familiar with the case said.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for the unit, News
International, declined to comment on the accusations about
Goody’s phone, the U.S. case or the Coulson lawsuit.  At least 16 people have been arrested in the U.K. police
probe into hacking since it resumed earlier this year, including
Coulson and Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer
of News International.  Clifford settled his own suit against the tabloid last year
for about 1 million pounds ($1.6 million), according to a person
with knowledge of the settlement who declined to be identified
because the deal is private.  Milly Dowler  Claims about the breadth of hacking at the tabloid gained
momentum when it was revealed News of the World staff hacked
into the voice mail of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler while
she was missing in 2002. Companies pulled their advertisements
from the tabloid, which was the largest Sunday newspaper in the
U.K. at the time, and it was shuttered in July.  News Corp. agreed to pay 3 million pounds to settle the
Dowler family’s claims, a person with knowledge of the matter
said last week. A lawsuit by Goody’s family may require a
similarly large settlement, Shan said.  “To hack into the phone of someone with a terminal cancer
is not going to go well,” Shan said. “If a claim is brought,
they’re going to have to pay a lot of money to get rid of it.”  Accusations have spread from there. Reporters may also have
paid police for stories,  London ’s Metropolitan Police said in
July. There are also indications News of the World wasn’t the
only paper that participated. A reporter who was recorded
getting instructions on how to hack into phones while working
for the Evening Standard was arrested this month.  U.S. Prosecutors  News Corp., which faces a U.K. parliamentary probe of phone
hacking by its employees, is also the subject of criminal
investigations in the U.S. Prosecutors are examining whether
employees of Rupert Murdoch’s company tried to access the voice
mails of victims of the 9-11 terror attacks, broke antitrust or
related laws and, according to a person familiar with the probe,
bribed U.K. police for information.  The third line of inquiry was disclosed in a U.S. letter to
the company requesting information on any bribes paid by News of
the World, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter isn’t public. The letter is part of a Justice
Department effort to determine whether News Corp. violated the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  