-- 
Nextel, Leeds Morelli Lawsuit Reinstated by Appeals Court

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-26T23:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/nextel-leeds-morelli-lawsuit-reinstated-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
A lawsuit claiming Nextel
Communications Inc. conspired with the law firm Leeds Morelli &
Brown PC against the interests of 587 Leeds Morelli clients was
reinstated by a U.S. appeals court in  New York .  A three-judge panel of the court ruled today that U.S.
District Judge George Daniels in  Manhattan  was wrong in March
2009 when he dismissed the suit, filed by clients who hired
Leeds Morelli to represent them in discrimination claims against
Nextel, a unit of  Overland Park , Kansas-based  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)   “LMB was being paid by Nextel in effect to ignore its duty
to represent clients as individuals with differing claims and
interests that might require differing amounts of time and
preparation vigorously to purse a recovery,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Ralph Winter Jr. wrote in an opinion today.  The plaintiffs claim a 2000 agreement required Nextel to
pay as much as $7.5 million to Leeds Morelli as part of a deal
“by which Nextel secretly bought LMB’s loyalty.” The appeals
court sent the case back to the lower court to prepare it for
trial.  ‘Strong Message’  “It sends a strong message,” Angela Roper, a lawyer for
the former Leeds Morelli clients, said in a telephone interview
about the ruling today. “Maybe attorneys will think twice now
before blessing transactions that are less than appropriate.”  Lawrence Sandak, a lawyer for Nextel, and Shari Lewis, a
lawyer for Leeds Morelli, didn’t immediately return phone
messages seeking comment on the ruling.  The agreement between Leeds Morelli and Nextel called for
the company to pay $2 million to the  law firm  to persuade its
587 clients to agree to waive their rights to a trial and to
claim punitive damages, according to Winter. The plaintiffs also
were required to agree to mediate and arbitrate their claims.
Leeds Morelli would get an additional $3.5 million as clients’
claims were settled.  Once all the claims were resolved, Nextel would hire Leeds
Morelli as a consultant for two years for $2 million. The firm
agreed not to file additional claims against Nextel.  The payments to Leeds Morelli weren’t tied to any legal
services or money recovered for the firm’s clients. The
agreement “created enormous incentives on LMB’s part to obtain
from each and every one of its clients waivers of important
rights,” Winter said in the opinion.  Winter said that the conflict of interest created by the
arrangement was so serious, the clients couldn’t be permitted to
agree to it.  The case was originally filed in state court in  New Jersey 
in October 2006. The defendants moved the case to federal court
and Leeds Morelli, based in New York, got the case transferred
to Manhattan.  The case is Johnson v. Nextel Communications Inc., 09-1892,
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 