-- 
Nigeria Bourse Plans Exchange-Traded Funds, Shorting in 2011

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-09-26T15:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/nigerian-bourse-to-have-exchange-traded-funds-this-year.html
The  Nigerian Stock Exchange ,
 Africa ’s second-biggest bourse, plans to start exchange-traded
funds and short-selling before the end of this year to boost
trading, Chief Executive Officer Oscar Onyema said.  The exchange will also introduce  securities lending  and
market-making this year, while trading in options will start in
2013 and financial futures in 2015, Onyema said today at a
conference in Lagos, the commercial capital.  Onyema assumed his duties last April as part of measures to
reposition the West African nation’s bourse after a banking
crisis resulted in the main index dropping 64 percent in the two
years through 2009. Daily transactions fell from a peak of about
60,000 in 2008 to about 5,000 at the end of 2010, Onyema said.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria , led by Governor Lamido Sanusi,
started a clean-up of the nation’s banking industry in 2009,
firing the chief executives of eight of the country’s 24 lenders
after a debt crisis threatened to collapse the industry. It set
up Asset Management Corp. of  Nigeria , or Amcon, to buy non-
performing debt from banks and set a Sept. 30 deadline for the
eight lenders to recapitalize.  Short-selling, or the sale of stock borrowed from
shareholders in the hope that they will profit by repurchasing
the security at a lower price and returning it to the holder, is
illegal in Nigeria, Onyema said. “What we will ban is naked
short selling,” he said. “You will have to locate the security
first before short-selling it.” Naked short-selling occurs when
traders short shares without ever actually taking possession of
them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  