-- 
Northern Trust Ties ETFs to Morningstar Indexes

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-09-26T17:46:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/northern-trust-launches-four-etfs-based-on-morningstar-indexes.html
Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the Chicago-
based asset manager and custody bank, opened four exchange-
traded funds, including two based on indexes built by fund
research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The funds, which trade under the FlexShares brand name,
will invest in natural resources, U.S. equities and Treasury
inflation-protected securities, the company said today in a
statement. The funds began trading Sept. 22, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The new funds are Northern Trust’s second venture into the
ETF market. The firm previously ran 17 funds that tracked
international, single-country indexes. With combined assets of
$33 million, the funds were closed in February 2009 because of
their “inability to attract significant market interest,” the
company said in a statement at the time.  Morningstar created the indexes used by the FlexShares
Morningstar Global Upstream Natural Resources Index Fund and the
U.S. Market Factor Tilt Index Fund, which will buy U.S. stocks
with a “rules tilt” toward small companies and those seen as
undervalued.  Markit Group  Markit Group Ltd., which is based in  London , built the
indexes for the FlexShares iBoxx 3-Year Target Duration TIPS
Index Fund and the 5-Year Target Duration TIPS Index Fund.  Northern Trust managed $684 billion in client investments
and oversaw $4.4 trillion in custody assets at the end of June.
Chicago-based Morningstar tracks about 400,000 investment
products and is known for its star ratings of mutual funds.  U.S. ETFs have grown more than 13-fold since 2001 to $1.09
trillion at the end of July, according to data from the
 Investment Company Institute  in  Washington . ETFs typically track
an index and, unlike mutual funds, trade like stocks throughout
the day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  