-- 
Obama Says Jobs Proposal Would ‘Jump Start’ Economic Growth

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-26T22:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/obama-jobs-plan-would-jump-start-growth.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
$447 billion jobs proposal will give the  U.S. economy  the “jump
start” it needs to revive job growth.  Answering questions at a forum organized with LinkedIn
Corp., the social and business networking website in Mountain
View, California, Obama said the nation can’t afford to wait
until the presidential and congressional elections next year to
act on boosting growth.  He cited forecasts from independent economists that say the
plan to cut payroll taxes for workers and employers, spend money
on infrastructure repairs and give aid to states to stem teacher
layoffs would add as much as 2 percentage points to economic
growth next year and 1.9 million jobs.  “It’s the right step to take right now,” Obama said of
the proposal he announced earlier this month.  Obama is on a three-day swing through  Washington  state,
California and  Colorado  to raise money for his re-election
campaign and promote his package of infrastructure spending,
 payroll tax  cuts and other steps to boost the economy and reduce
the 9.1 percent unemployment rate.  The president is seeking to revive enthusiasm among his
core supporters and draw support from independents as he builds
toward his 2012 campaign.  Campaign Issue  The economy will be the top issue for voters, and Obama is
confronting persistently high unemployment and sluggish growth.
The White House Office of Management and Budget forecast in
August that the economy will expand 2.6 percent next year with
the jobless rate averaging 9 percent. That didn’t take into
account the impact of the jobs plan.  Employment was the main topic of questions from the
audience at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View.
Several of the questioners said they had recently found jobs
after periods of unemployment or were still looking for work.  “We’ve got a short-term challenge, which is how do we put
people back to work right now,” Obama said. The tax cuts and
spending proposals in his jobs package “can have ripple effects
and help the economy take off.”  Republicans, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio ,
have said they oppose the spending proposals in Obama’s plan and
have questioned the value for job creation of the payroll tax
cuts he’s proposing.  Taxes and Spending  The payroll-tax cuts, the centerpiece of the plan, cover
the first $106,800 in earnings and are evenly split between
employers and employees. Obama would reduce the portion paid by
workers next year to 3.1 percent from 6.2 percent. The rate had
been cut 2 percentage points under the terms of a tax deal
reached last year, which is set to expire Dec. 31.  The package also would include a $105 billion
infrastructure proposal for school modernization, transportation
projects and rehabilitation of vacant properties, as well as $35
billion in state aid to save teachers’ jobs.  Obama also promoted his proposal for raising taxes on the
wealthiest taxpayers by letting the rate cuts passed during
former President  George W. Bush ’s administration expire, and
increasing levies on those with incomes of $1 million or more.  The rates would return to those in the 1990s, when Democrat
 Bill Clinton  was president, a period in which “the rich got
richer, the middle class expanded, people rose out of poverty,
because everybody was doing well,” Obama said.  Impact of Europe  The president said the difficulties in the U.S. reflect
what is happening in the global economy. The financial crisis
brought on by the European debt crisis “is scaring the world,”
he said.  European governments are “trying to take responsible
actions, but those actions haven’t been quite as quick as they
need to be,” Obama said.  As European officials discussed plans to tame the 18-month
debt crisis, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 2.3 percent
to 1,162.93 according to preliminary closing figures at 4 p.m.
in  New York . Ten-year U.S. Treasury note yields increased six
basis points to 1.90 percent, rising from near a record low.  Of nine stops on Obama’s three-day trip, seven are devoted
to raising money. The campaign is seeking to raise at least $4
million before a Sept. 30 deadline to file campaign finance
reports.  Obama left  Mountain View  for a fundraiser in  San Diego  at
the home of Mason Phelps, an ex-Marine who is a local
philanthropist and art collector. The president warned
supporters that the 2012 campaign would be difficult.  Voters are “frustrated” because of the economy, he said,
and they’ve “got to be convinced, got to be persuaded, and I
can’t do it alone. You guys are my ambassadors, my advocates, my
shock troops.”  He’s also scheduled two more campaign events in Los Angeles
tonight. He spoke to donors last yesterday in the Seattle area
and in Silicon Valley.  The trip marks Obama’s 10th stop in California, his fourth
in Colorado and third in Washington, since becoming president in
January 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Mountain View,  California , at   rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 