-- 
Crude Oil Rises From Seven-Week Low on Hopes for European Rescue Measures

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-26T12:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/oil-declines-for-fourth-day-on-speculation-european-crisis-to-cut-demand.html
Oil rose from its lowest in almost
seven weeks in  New York  on speculation that renewed measures by
the  European Central Bank  may alleviate the region’s sovereign
debt crisis, supporting economic growth and fuel demand.  Futures reversed losses of as much as 3.4 percent after a
euro-region central bank official, who declined to be
identified, said policy makers are likely to debate the
resumption of covered-bond purchases next week.  Saudi Arabia ,
the world’s largest crude exporter, may cut production to
prevent prices falling below $90 a barrel in  London , according
to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “If the world economy manages to generate some growth,
albeit it at a slower pace, we would expect oil prices to remain
well supported above $90 to $100” for  Brent crude , said Amrita Sen, a commodities analyst at Barclays Plc in London.  Crude for November delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  advanced as much as $1, or 1.3 percent, to $80.85 a
barrel. Earlier it fell $2.74 to $77.11 a barrel, the lowest
price since Aug. 9, and was at $80.03 at 12:54 p.m. London time.
Oil is down 12 percent this year in New York.  Brent futures for November settlement gained 63 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $104.60 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $24.59 to U.S. futures, compared with a record $26.87
on Sept. 6, based on front-month settlement prices. conditions,
a said.  Loans to Banks  The reintroduction of 12-month loans to banks will be
discussed at the ECB’s Oct. 6 policy meeting, according to the
central bank official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the information is confidential. Interest-rate cuts are
likely to be discussed, though they are not on the current
agenda, the official said.  The European financial crisis and general fears about the
global economy have weakened demand for crude, Qatari Oil
Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada said yesterday in Doha. Supplies
are adequate and the nation is pleased that  Libya  is starting to
produce and export oil, he said.  Harouge Oil Operations, a joint venture between Libya’s
state-owned National Oil Corp. and PetroCanada, will begin
pumping crude from the country’s Amal field in a “few weeks,”
the company’s chairman said. Full output of 100,000 barrels a
day is expected to be reached by year’s end, Abdulwahab Elnaami
said yesterday at his office in the Libyan capital Tripoli.  Hedge Fund Bets  Fighting in the North African nation since February has
reduced the availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low
density and sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000
barrels a day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates,
compared with the 1.6 million barrels a day the nation pumped in
January.  Oil prices  lost 7.4 percent last week in London even as
 hedge funds  and other money managers raised bullish bets on
Brent crude by 6.2 percent in the week ended Sept. 20, according
to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 73,270
contracts, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report. Net-long positions rose by 4,276
contracts, from 68,994 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  