-- 
Oil Gains First Day in Four in N.Y. on Optimism Europe Crisis Will Ease

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-09-26T20:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/oil-pares-decline-from-seven-week-low-on-hopes-for-european-union-rescue.html
Oil advanced for the first time in
four days in  New York  amid speculation that the  European Central
Bank  may alleviate the region’s sovereign debt crisis, boosting
growth and fuel demand.  Futures gained 0.5 percent after a euro-region central bank
official, who declined to be identified, said policy makers are
likely to debate the resumption of covered-bond purchases next
week. Oil reached the lowest level since Aug. 9 in intraday
trading on concern that the crisis would trigger another
recession.  “There’s some talk that the European policy makers are
putting together some new measures to ease the region’s debt
crisis,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity
Futures Inc. in New York. “That’s making the markets a little
more stable.”  Crude for November delivery rose 39 cents to settle at
$80.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the first
increase in four sessions. Prices ranged from $77.11 to $81.29.
Oil is down 9.6 percent this month and 16 percent in the third
quarter.  Implied volatility for at-the-money options expiring in
November, a measure of expected price swings in futures and a
gauge of options prices, jumped to 49.2 percent at 2 p.m. in New
York, the highest level for the contract nearest to expiration
since Aug. 9.  Brent futures for November settlement slipped 3 cents to
$103.94 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Euro, Commodities  The reintroduction of 12-month loans to banks will be
discussed at the ECB’s Oct. 6 policy meeting, according to the
central bank official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the information is confidential. Interest-rate cuts are
likely to be discussed, though they are not on the current
agenda, the official said.  “There’s a little optimism in  Europe , optimism that they
are getting a new Greek package together,” said  Peter Beutel ,
president of trading advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in
New Canaan,  Connecticut . “It’s not enough to get this market to
move around strongly.”  The euro traded at $1.3492 at 3:19 p.m. in New York, little
changed from $1.35 on Sept. 23. Earlier, it touched $1.3363, the
lowest level since Jan. 18. A weaker euro curbs the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment to the  U.S. dollar .  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities gained
0.2 percent to 600.37. Earlier, it touched 583.68, the lowest
intraday level since Dec. 1. Metals including lead and gold led
the decliners.  U.S. Home Sales  Prices fell in intraday trading after a report that
purchases of new houses in the U.S. declined in August.  Sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, dropped 2.3
percent to a 295,000 annual pace, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of 73
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a decline to
293,000. The median price slumped 7.7 percent from August 2010,
the steepest 12-month drop since July 2009.  “People are scared,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president for
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Oil is acting weak right now
but if the European situation gets settled, I think oil will go
back up. The housing numbers were weak. We were trying to get
optimistic and then were blinded by a bad economic number.”  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest crude exporter, may cut
production to prevent prices falling below $90 a barrel in
London, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The European financial crisis and general fears about the
global economy have weakened demand for crude, Qatari Oil
Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada said yesterday in Doha.  Libyan Supplies  Harouge Oil Operations, a joint venture between  Libya ’s
state-owned National Oil Corp. and PetroCanada, will begin
pumping crude from the country’s Amal field in a “few weeks,”
the company’s chairman said. Full output of 100,000 barrels a
day is expected to be reached by year’s end, Abdulwahab Elnaami
said yesterday at his office in the Libyan capital Tripoli.  Fighting in Libya since February has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a
day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared with
the 1.6 million barrels a day the nation pumped in January.  “If the world economy manages to generate some growth,
albeit it at a slower pace, we would expect  oil prices  to remain
well supported above $90 to $100” for  Brent crude , said Amrita Sen, a commodities analyst at Barclays Plc in  London .  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 485,351
contracts as of 3:21 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 797,647
contracts Sept. 23, 20 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.37 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  