-- 
Crude Trades Near 6-Week Low on Speculation European Crisis to Cut Demand

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-26T03:34:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/oil-pares-gain-as-investors-speculate-demand-will-falter-amid-ample-supply.html
Oil traded near the lowest in more
than six weeks in  New York  as investors speculated  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis will cut fuel demand amid ample supplies.  Futures fluctuated close to $80 a barrel after finance
leaders at the annual International Monetary Fund meeting in
 Washington  urged European policy makers to step up measures to
counter the crisis. The region’s woes have helped slow demand
for crude, Qatar’s oil minister said yesterday. Declines may be
limited as New York oil approaches technical support levels,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Everyone now fully understands the implications of  Greece 
defaulting,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “The big key is
whether or not the measures are going to help and I think that’s
what we have to wait and see.”  Crude for November delivery was at $79.90 a barrel, down 5
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:31 p.m. Sydney time. Front-month prices last week slid 9.2
percent to $79.85, the lowest settlement since Aug. 9. Oil is
4.4 percent higher the past year.  Brent futures for November settlement slid 19 cents, or 0.2
percent, to $103.78 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $23.88 to U.S. futures, compared with a record $26.87
on Sept. 6, based on front-month settlement prices.  “Adequate” Supply  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said at the IMF
meeting that governments and the  European Central Bank  must
defuse the “most serious risk now confronting the world
economy.”  The European financial crisis and general fears about the
global economy have weakened demand for crude, Qatari Oil
Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada said yesterday in Doha. Supplies
are adequate and the nation is pleased that  Libya  is starting to
produce and export oil, he said.  Harouge Oil Operations, a joint venture between Libya’s
state-owned National Oil Corp. and PetroCanada, will begin
pumping crude from the country’s Amal field in a “few weeks,”
the company’s chairman said. Full output of 100,000 barrels a
day is expected to be reached by year’s end, Abdulwahab Elnaami
said yesterday at his office in the Libyan capital Tripoli.  Fighting in Libya since February has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a
day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared with
the 1.6 million barrels a day the nation pumped in January.  Crude in New York has long-term technical support at $76.28
a barrel on the weekly chart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the 38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement of the
drop to $32.40 in December 2008 from a record high of $147.27 in
July that year. Buy orders tend to be clustered close to chart-
support levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  