-- 
Kaiser Charity Sought Solyndra Plant After Billionaire Founder Aided Obama

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 
2011-09-26T18:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/oil-billionaire-s-charity-backing-obama-sought-solyndra-in-tulsa.html
George B. Kaiser, a billionaire
oilman whose foundation has the biggest stake in failed solar-
panel maker Solyndra LLC, might have had more than money tied up
in the venture.  He may also have been angling to bring jobs to his hometown
of Tulsa,  Oklahoma .  A bankruptcy filing Sept. 6 by the Fremont, California-
based company, which had a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee, has
spurred inquiries from Republicans in Congress who say President
 Barack Obama ’s administration may have rushed the support in
part because of Kaiser, a campaign donor.  Kaiser, 69, hasn’t commented on his family foundation’s
involvement with Solyndra or the controversy created by its
collapse, which may leave taxpayers on the hook for as much as
$528 million. Some clues can be found in the hometown of the oil
and banking executive with a passion for alternative energy,
early childhood education and, especially, helping Tulsa.  A Solyndra regulatory filing suggests the $340 million
invested in the company was viewed by the charity partly as a
way to bring jobs to a city where Kaiser’s wealth has
underwritten projects from parks to preschools. The company said
that following a July 2009 financing involving Kaiser foundation
funds, it agreed to give preference to Tulsa for a new factory.  Providing Tulsa Jobs  “George saw Solyndra as an investment and as something
that could provide jobs in Tulsa,” said Mayor Dewey Bartlett, a
Republican who said he learned from Kaiser last year of
Solyndra’s potential expansion in his city. “He’s the best
thing that’s happened to Tulsa.”  Kaiser wanted Solyndra to put a plant in the city’s
economically ailing north side, Bartlett said. The $4 billion
George  Kaiser Family Foundation  helped start the National Energy
Policy Institute, based at the University of Tulsa, to promote
U.S. energy independence. The oilman also has spoken out
publicly both to urge support for alternative power sources and
ending tax breaks for fossil-fuel producers.  “He’s challenging the federal government to get smarter
about what it is doing to reduce its dependency on what he
profits from most, oil and gas,” Steven Dow, the executive
director of the Community Action Program of Tulsa, said by
telephone. “It’s utterly contrarian, which is consistent with
how he thinks.”  Obama Fundraiser  Kaiser’s generosity has supported endeavors from riverfront
parks and the University of Tulsa to early-childhood education
programs. He also donated $2,300 to Obama’s 2008 presidential
campaign during a fundraiser he hosted at his home that brought
in $50,000 to $100,000 for the candidate in 2007. Kaiser has
been to the White House 16 times since 2009, according to
official visitor logs.  “Kaiser’s meetings at the White House were about not-for-
profit initiatives,” Ken Levit,  executive director  of the
family foundation, said Sept. 21 in a telephone interview. Levit
said he attended some of the meetings.  “George Kaiser is not an investor in Solyndra and did not
participate in any discussions with the U.S. government
regarding the loans,” Levit said.  Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives probing
the taxpayer support Solyndra received have questioned Kaiser’s
role, in part because of his support for Obama. The company was
the first to win a loan guarantee to solar manufacturers in
September 2009, as the administration sought to help U.S.
producers against subsidized Chinese competitors.  FBI Raid  Two days after Solyndra sought bankruptcy court protection,
FBI and Energy Department agents raided its offices.  The Kaiser foundation owns almost 36 percent of Solyndra,
mostly through its Argonaut Ventures I investment fund.
Investors including Argonaut and Boston-based Rockport Capital
Partners moved ahead of taxpayers earlier this year in exchange
for new loans to the company in a deal sanctioned by the U.S.
Energy Department, according to congressional documents.  The philanthropist, who is also chairman and majority owner
of  BOK Financial Corp. (BOKF) , a Tulsa-based bank holding company, has
also given aid to imprisoned mothers and to the medical schools
of both Oklahoma State and the University of Oklahoma. His
family charity is set up as a “supporting organization” to the
Tulsa Community Foundation, which Kaiser helped start in 1998.  Foundation ‘Loophole’  Because of his family charity’s supporting role to the
community group, Kaiser’s tax bill may be lower, according to
Paul Streckfus, a former tax-law specialist in the Internal
Revenue Service’s Exempt Organizations Division. U.S. tax law
lets individuals deduct as much as 50 percent of adjusted gross
income for gifts to supporting organizations, the same as for
public charities, he said. Deductions on gifts to private
foundations are typically limited to 30 percent.  “It’s a statutorily created loophole that allows
organizations that certainly smell like and look like private
foundations to be treated as public charities,” said Streckfus,
who edits the online EO Tax Journal in  Pasadena ,  Maryland .  The Kaiser family foundation and the Tulsa civic group have
some overlaps in staff: Levit also is on the board of the
community charity, while Phil Lakin, the chief executive officer
of the Tulsa foundation, is one of three board members of the
Kaiser entity.  The family charity is structured differently than private
foundations, which must hand out at least 5 percent of their
assets annually to retain their tax-exempt status, Levit said.
The foundation expects to meet or exceed the 5 percent threshold
depending on the success of the programs it supports, he said.  Seeing What Works  “This approach is very consistent with our overall
philosophy that all charitable investments must be scrutinized
for effectiveness before they are expanded, he said. “We’ve
started a lot of things and we’re going to see what works.”  In 2009, the Kaiser foundation distributed $46.4 million in
grants, or about 1.2 percent of assets, according to its latest
publicly available federal tax return. If it had faced the
giving requirement of a private foundation, it would have had to
distribute about $150 million more that year, according to Aaron Dorfman, executive director of the National Committee for
Responsive Philanthropy in  Washington .  “We have urgent problems in the world,” Dorfman said.
“If people have received a tax deduction for their gifts, those
assets ought to be put to use sooner rather than later.”  Obama Fundraiser  Kaiser’s giving has drawn Obama’s attention. One nonprofit
group, Tulsa Educare, started by organizations including
Kaiser’s family charity, got $302,779 from the Tulsa Community
Foundation in 2007, and shares the same address as its two
benefactors. Candidate Obama visited a Tulsa Educare Center in
March 2007, when he traveled to the city for a fundraiser at
Kaiser’s home, according to Levit, the family foundation head.  The Oklahoman and his charity are unrelated to the Henry J.
Kaiser Family Foundation, based in Menlo Park,  California .  Talking about the need for early childhood development
programs, George Kaiser described himself as “a robber baron
from Red State America” in a 2005 speech at a Chicago
conference. The text was printed in the  New York  Times in 2007.  Tulsa Educare’s two centers provide full-day services to
more than 350 at-risk children in the community, according to
the organization’s website. It lists the Kaiser and Tulsa civic
foundations among its creators.  “He is a passionate philanthropist who is dedicated to the
cause of eliminating the cycle of poverty of our citizens and
serving the highest aspirations of his community and the
state,”V. Burns Hargis, Oklahoma State University’s president,
said in a statement. Hargis was vice chairman of BOK Financial’s
Bank of Oklahoma before taking the academic post in 2008.  Refugee Family  Kaiser built his fortune on the Tulsa-based Kaiser-Francis
Oil Co., started by his father and an uncle. His family fled
Nazi  Germany  in 1938, settling in Oklahoma. George took over the
drilling and prospecting firm from his ailing father in 1969.  Under his management, Kaiser-Francis has become the 23rd
largest nonpublic energy exploration company in the U.S.,
producing the equivalent of 6.5 million barrels of crude oil
last year, according to researcher  IHS Inc. (IHS)  in Houston. The
company’s 1,348 wells produced more than $217 million in oil and
gas last year, based on Bloomberg calculations and prices for
benchmark oil and gas futures traded in New York.  As his  oil company  thrived, Kaiser acquired a failing bank
in  Oklahoma City  in 1991 for less than $100 million, which has
grown into today’s BOK Financial, with assets of $24 billion.
His 61.5 percent stake in the bank-holding company has grown to
about $1.9 billion, based on its market value on Sept. 23.  While he is BOK Financial’s chairman, Kaiser maintains a
low profile in the Tulsa financial community.  Remaining Unseen  “I’ve never run into him at a banking-related meeting and
I’m out and about a lot,” said Roger Beverage, president of the
Oklahoma Bankers Association.  The graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Business School
has an estimated net worth of about $10 billion, according to
Forbes magazine, which ranked him 31st on its list of the
wealthiest Americans on Sept. 21. He lives in Tulsa, in a $1.6
million two-story home behind gated walls in the city’s South
Lewis Park neighborhood. In July 2010, Kaiser joined a group
that includes  Bill Gates  and  Warren Buffett  in pledging to give
away at least half his assets.  “I suppose I arrived at my charitable commitment largely
through guilt,” Kaiser said at the start of a “Giving Pledge”
letter. “I recognized early on, that my good fortune was not
due to superior personal character or initiative so much as it
was to dumb luck.”  Helping Children  Kaiser, who is married to  Myra Block Kaiser , a curator and
consultant specializing in fiber art, credited his good fortune
to being born of talented and caring parents in a country
dedicated to opportunity for all. He said he would focus his
giving largely on helping children in their earliest years to
provide “the greatest opportunity for self-fulfillment for each
child.”  Kaiser-Francis today fills two five-story buildings behind
a small retail development in south Tulsa. Three blocks away,
his family charity shares a sixth-floor office with the Tulsa
foundation. The civic group has become the wealthiest of its
sort in the nation, according to its 2010 annual report.  On at least two occasions in previous years, the financier
has made public statements about how his foundations helped
bring $40 million in extra federal economic-stimulus funds to
Oklahoma in 2009.  Winning Federal Aid  “There’s never been more money shoved out of the
government’s door in world history, and probably never will be
again, than in the last few months and the next 18 months, and
our selfish parochial goal is to get as much of it for Tulsa and
Oklahoma as we possibly can,” Kaiser said in a recorded portion
of a July 2009 speech to the Rotary Club of Tulsa.  “We made multiple trips to Washington to tell the story in
education, in health care and energy to the respective cabinet
secretaries in each of those areas and almost all the key
players in the west wing of the White House,” Kaiser said.  Yet the philanthropist tends to stay out of the limelight
in Tulsa.  “I’ve never seen him at a business or political event,”
said Terry Simonson, Mayor Bartlett’s chief of staff.  While Kaiser is publicly an “invisible man,” his
influence transcends political parties, said state Senator Judy Eason McIntyre, a Tulsa Democrat who said she has received
campaign contributions from Kaiser.  There to Help  “Anything involving progressive programs that are helping
people in Tulsa, George Kaiser is going to be there,” McIntyre
said. “He doesn’t just ramrod things, he researches issues,
talks to people and then acts.”  Kaiser attended a fundraiser in Tulsa last year for Nevada
Senator Harry Reid’s re-election campaign, McIntyre said. Reid
leads the Democratic majority in Congress’s upper chamber.  “That’s the kind of high-level event that he might
attend,” McIntyre said. Kaiser gave $2,400 to Reid in June 2010
and $30,400 to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in
October 2010,  according  to the Center for Responsive Politics in
Washington, which tracks political giving.  Kaiser also showed up at the state Legislature in 2009 to
push for limits or repeal of various tax breaks for the oil and
gas industry, calling for the additional revenue to be directed
to schools, said Cody Bannister, a spokesman for the  Oklahoma
Independent Petroleum Association . Lawmakers didn’t respond to
his pleas, which the industry opposed.  Declined Comment  The philanthropist declined to comment on Solyndra, his
foundation’s investment in it or the probe of the federal loan
guarantees by Congress, according to Renzi Stone, a spokesman
for Kaiser based in Oklahoma City.  The loan guarantee was used to finance construction of a
300,000 square-foot (28,000 square-meter) factory in California
that shut down Aug. 31 as Solyndra prepared to seek bankruptcy
court protection. In exchange for additional investments in July
2009 by Argonaut Ventures I, a fund controlled by Kaiser’s
family foundation, Solyndra agreed to give preference to Tulsa
for its next manufacturing site, a regulatory filing shows.  Republican lawmakers sought to question company managers on
Sept. 23 about the loan guarantees. Brian Harrison, Solyndra’s
CEO, and Wilbur G. Stover Jr., the chief financial officer,
claimed their Fifth Amendment rights in declining to respond at
a hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s oversight
and investigations panel.  Investor Testimony Sought  The panel also should hear from major Solyndra investors,
according to the senior Democrat on the full committee,
Representative Henry Waxman of California, and his party’s
leader on the oversight panel, Diana DeGette of  Colorado .  In a Sept. 19 letter to Representative Cliff Stearns, the
Florida Republican who leads the subcommittee, the two Democrats
asked him to invite Steven R. Mitchell, a managing director of
Argonaut Private Equity LLC in Tulsa, and Jameson McJunkin, a
managing member of Madrone  Capital Partners  LLC in Menlo Park,
California, to testify on why they invested in the company.  Both investors sit on Solyndra’s board. Mitchell oversees
the Kaiser foundation’s Argonaut Ventures fund, while McJunkin’s
fund owned at least 11 percent of the solar manufacturer,
according to a March 2010 regulatory filing.  A Sept. 14 Republican report from the subcommittee said
“political pressure to approve the Solyndra deal appears to
have caused” administration officials to have missed or
disregarded signs of the company’s financial difficulties. The
report cited visits to the Fremont plant site by Obama, Energy
Secretary Steven Chu and a speech to workers by Vice President
Joe Biden via satellite.  Supported Republicans Too  Representative John Sullivan, a Tulsa Republican on the
oversight panel, declined to comment on the Kaiser foundation’s
investment in Solyndra. Kaiser gave $1,000 to Sullivan’s
campaign last year, according to the Responsive Politics group.  Kaiser’s “philanthropic work is well known throughout
Tulsa and the state of Oklahoma and he has been a benefactor to
several organizations,” Sullivan said by e-mail. “We will
follow wherever the investigation leads to find out why the
administration chose to green-light this questionable loan
guarantee in the first place.”  Since 2008, the Kaiser family charity has given more than
$16 million annually to Tulsa’s Community Action program, a 550-
employee agency that provides 2,000 low-income, pre-kindergarten
children with seven hours of care for 50 weeks a year, according
to Dow, the executive director. Before that, federal funding
paid for serving 104 children, Dow said.  Must Show Effectiveness  Kaiser has pledged similar support as long as the program
shows effectiveness, Dow said. The two men meet every three
months or so, he said.  “The implication that George is somehow benefiting
personally from this transaction is incomprehensible to people
like me who know him,” Dow said, referring to Solyndra. “He’s
the most-powerful person in the state, yet what is at the top of
his agenda is the interest of the least-powerful people in
Oklahoma.”  Tulsa residents such as Rosalea Sudlow remain grateful for
Kaiser’s philanthropy. Sudlow walks her two dogs along the
Arkansas River as many as four times a day through a riverfront
park and trail project that Mayor Bartlett said has received $75
million from the oilman.  “This used to just be one little dirt path,” said Sudlow,
who wasn’t familiar with the Solyndra controversy when
interviewed Sept. 15. “Now it’s hard to find a parking space
here on Saturdays because there are so many people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin,  Texas  at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Robison in  Seattle  at 
 robison@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 