-- 
Olympics Group Said to Start Accepting Media Center Bids Starting October

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-09-26T15:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/olympics-group-said-to-start-accepting-media-center-bids-starting-october.html
The company selling real estate
that’s being built for the  London  2012 Olympic Games will start
accepting bids for two media centers next month, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The  Olympic Park Legacy Company  will take offers for the
91,689 square meters (987,000 square feet) of space until the
end of the year, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. Neither would
disclose an asking price for the properties, which will cost 350
million pounds ($543 million) to construct.  “There is a huge amount of commercial interest in the
press and broadcast centers and we intend to formally go out to
the market in the autumn,” Andreas Christophorou, a spokesman
for the company, said by e-mail.  London Olympic officials are seeking buyers for buildings
and sports facilities erected for the Games as they try to avoid
the legacy of previous host cities like  Athens  that were left
with underused or dormant structures. At least one tenant will
be found for the sites by the second quarter of 2012, the people
said.  The media centers, located in the northwest corner of the
Olympic Park, will have space for 8,000 journalists during the
six-week event. The legacy company last month agreed to sell the
Olympic Village, which cost 1.1 billion pounds to build, to
Delancey and Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. for 557
million pounds.  The Broadcast Centre has 8,872 square meters of  office
space  over five floors and 53,362 square meters of commercial
area. The five-story Press Centre has around 29,455 square
meters of office space.  The legacy company is responsible for ensuring that the
560-acre (227-hectare) Olympic Park is used to benefit east
London, which includes some of the city’s most deprived areas.
The company is being advised by Los Angeles-based  CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 