-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Decline Amid Europe Concern; Developers Slide

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-09-26T08:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/hong-kong-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-developers-rise.html
Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index fell to
its lowest close in more than two years, as Europe-related
shares declined on concern the region won’t resolve its debt
crisis, and as property developers slid.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the clothier that gets most of its
revenue from  Europe , slid 3.7 percent.  Henderson Land 
Development Co., the Hong Kong builder controlled by billionaire
Lee Shau-kee, tumbled 6.1 percent after the city’s weekend used-
home transactions fell. Jiangxi Copper Co.,  China ’s largest
producer of the metal, sank 9.3 percent after commodity prices
slid.  China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068) , a meat processor, tumbled 31
percent after saying it expects third-quarter profit to decline.  The Hang Seng Index fell 1.5 percent to 17,407.80, its
lowest close since July 2009. About four stocks dropped for each
that gained in the 46-member gauge. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong
retreated 3.3 percent to 8,735.40.  “The world economy is going down the path of long slowdown
and recession,” said Francis Lun, managing director at Lyncean
Holdings Ltd., an investment holding company in Hong Kong.
“It’s continuing bad news for the market. Investors should be
cautious and should not rush in to buy anything yet.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  tumbled 9.2 percent last week on
concern policy makers are running out of tools to avert
recession as Europe’s debt crisis worsens and economic growth in
the U.S. slows. Shares on the index traded at 9.3 times forecast
earnings, compared with 11.4 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index swung between
gains and losses today. In  New York , pared losses to 6.5 percent
last week amid speculation that policy makers will act to
prevent a global financial crisis from getting worse.  Greek Debt  Esprit declined 3.7 percent to HK$7.93.  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13) , which owns ports in Germany and Spain and receives more
than half of its revenue from Europe, sank 3.8 percent to
HK$59.80.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
lender by market value, sank 1.9 percent to HK$151.80.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said at the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington 
that failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.”  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said “something needs to
be done” to safeguard Europe’s banks because Greece may be
unable to avoid default.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel, speaking on German
television, declined to rule out a sovereign default once the
euro area’s permanent rescue fund for indebted countries is in
place, saying the region must erect a “barrier” around Greece.  Home Sales Contract  Hong Kong developers fell after Centaline Property Agency
Ltd. said the number of used-home transactions in 10 of Hong
Kong’s biggest private developments recorded on Sept. 24 and 25
dropped to 10 from 22 a week earlier.  Henderson Land sank 6.1 percent to HK$37.25.  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest developer by market value,
retreated 3.4 percent to HK$90.30.  Chinese developers also declined. Guangzhou R&F Properties
Co., the biggest developer in the Southern Chinese city, fell
6.9 percent to HK$5.57, and Shimao Property Holdings Ltd., which
gets all its sales from the mainland, fell 4.3 percent to
HK$5.99 on speculation the nation’s government will not ease its
tightening policies in the near term.  Inflation remained China’s “top concern,” the nation’s
central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in a statement to the
International Monetary Fund meeting.  Overseas Risk  “Policymakers are unlikely to relax tightening policies in
the short term so the market is still in the process of seeking
its bottom,” said Wu Kan, a fund manager at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “The market is facing lots of
uncertainty and the biggest risk comes from overseas, such as
the sovereign-debt problems and slowing growth in advanced
economies.”  Jiangxi Copper slid 9.3 percent to HK$12.52 after commodity
prices declined. Minmetals Resources Ltd., a copper and alumina
producer, lost 11 percent to HK$2.66.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum retreated 3.2
percent on Sept. 23.  China Yurun tumbled 31 percent to HK$7.51, its steepest
drop on record, after saying it expects third-quarter profit
will decline because of “negative” media reports on the
company and an increase in raw-material costs.  Market Misconduct Proceedings  Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings Ltd. (682) , the Chinese food
producer defending a claim from Next Magazine that it overstated
its land holdings, retreated 27 percent to HK$1.10 before being
suspended. Hong Kong’s Financial Secretary initiated proceedings
against the company in the city’s Market Misconduct Tribunal,
according to government spokeswoman Shirley Wong. Tribunal
secretary William Chow declined to elaborate on the specific
allegations or people involved.  Ping An Insurance Group Co., the nation’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, tumbled 14 percent to HK$42.50, the
steepest drop in the Hang Seng Index, on speculation that
shareholder  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  sold shares in the company.  “There’s speculation that HSBC is selling Ping An’s shares
on the Hong Kong stock market,” said Cao Hengqian, an analyst
covering the  insurance industry  at GF Securities Co. in the
southern city of  Guangzhou . “It looks like Ping An’s Shanghai-
listed shares are simply following the slump on its underlying
H-shares.”  Futures on the Hang Seng Index retreated 1.9 percent to
17,425. The HSI Volatility Index fell 0.2 percent to 43.60,
indicating options traders expect a swing of 12.5 percent in the
Hang Seng Index in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  