-- 
Oracle May Buy Industry-Specific Software Makers, Hurd Says

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-26T21:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/oracle-may-make-deals-to-purchase-industry-specific-software-hurd-says.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , facing mounting
competition from smaller, “boutique” rivals, may make more
deals to purchase industry-specific software companies, co-
President  Mark Hurd  said.  Oracle is focused on so-called vertical markets, such as
financial-services customers, and acquisitions could be a part
of that strategy, Hurd said today in his first interview with a
business publication since joining the company. Still,  Redwood
City , California-based Oracle doesn’t feel pressure to tap its
$31.7 billion in cash to make a deal, he said.  “There’s a lot of value in these industry verticals we’ve
invested in over the years,” said Hurd, referring to software
for the banking, telecommunications and retailing industries.
“It’s hard to beat the returns the company gets.”  Oracle, the world’s largest maker of  database software ,
also is seeking to spur sales by appealing to budget-minded
businesses. The company’s hardware and software can boost
efficiency, letting customers reduce the number of servers and
databases they ran, Hurd said. Oracle plans to unveil new
computer systems packaged with database software and other
programs at its OpenWorld  conference  next week in  San Francisco .  OpenWorld Show  The company also will release new software applications in
its Fusion line at OpenWorld, stepping up competition with
boutique companies that focus on specialized software
applications, Hurd said. The company aims to repeat the success
it’s had with last year’s crop of new products, he said.  “If you went back a year ago and looked at the amount of
technology released at Oracle OpenWorld, you’d have to say it’s
a tremendous yield,” Hurd said. “Next week we’ll announce even
more.”  Oracle rose 81 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $29.71 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have
climbed 10 percent during the past 12 months.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  has spent more than
$40 billion on acquisitions since 2005, including last year’s
$7.4 billion acquisition of computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc.
The takeover spree has also added programs that let companies
manage human resources, operations and other complicated
computing tasks.  Ellison also introduced a new computer system, the Sparc
Supercluster, at an event at the company’s headquarters today.
The product includes a Sparc T4 processor that can run Oracle’s
database and a user’s applications faster than older Sun
machines, Ellison said at the event.  “We think lots and lots of people are going to upgrade from
their current Sparc systems,” Ellison said. “This is a really
fast computer.”  Hurd joined Oracle last September, a month after he was
ousted as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s CEO. Hurd was replaced at
Hewlett-Packard by  Leo Apotheker , who was forced out himself
last week and replaced by former EBay Inc. CEO  Meg Whitman . Hurd
declined to discuss Hewlett-Packard in today’s interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  