-- 
Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Chinastockwatch.com, Gas Drilling in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-26T11:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/morgan-stanley-citigroup-natural-gas-drilling-in-court-news.html
Hedge fund Oasis Management LLC
sued Morgan Stanley for C$9.5 million ($9.3 million) over
options in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  bought before the Toronto-listed
timber company’s stock plunged 71 percent in two days in June.  Morgan Stanley failed to settle the options contracts in an
effort to “limit its liability,” Oasis said in a lawsuit filed
in  London  in July. Hong Kong-based Oasis bought options to sell
Sino-Forest at C$19 on May 12, three weeks before shares fell to
C$5.22 on allegations it had overstated forestry holdings.  Shares in Sino-Forest have fallen 74 percent since June 1,
the day before short-seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC
research firm said the company had overstated its holdings.
While investors including hedge fund manager  John Paulson  and
billionaire Richard Chandler took losses when Sino-Forest shares
sank, holders of put contracts could reap returns from selling
stock at prices far above the present value.  The Oasis deal will cost  Morgan Stanley (MS)  C$7.5 million to
settle, the hedge fund said in its court filing. The put options
are valued at C$9.5 million, compared with C$2 million for the
equivalent shares, it said in the lawsuit. Oasis paid Morgan
Stanley a premium of C$770,000 for the options in May.  New York-based Morgan Stanley claimed the options were
terminated because trading in Sino-Forest’s shares was
suspended, Oasis lawyers said in the filing. The bank offered
Oasis C$3.8 million to cancel the deal, the hedge fund said in
the lawsuit.  Morgan Stanley spokesman Michael Wang declined to comment
Sept. 23. Katie Bolton, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Oasis,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Citigroup Sued by IKB Over $4.2 Million in Mortgage Notes  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank, was sued for
fraud by IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG over a sale of $4.2
million in residential mortgage-backed securities.  An IKB unit took part in the purchase of million of notes
in a transaction underwritten and sold by New York-based
Citigroup, according to court papers filed Sept. 22 in  New York 
State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  IKB, based in Dusseldorf, accused Citigroup of fraud,
negligent misrepresentation, unjust enrichment and breach of
contract in the one-page filing. The German lender asked a judge
to rescind the sale and award unspecified punitive damages.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the complaint.  The case is  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB)  v. Citigroup
Inc., 652609/2011, Supreme Court of the State of New York,
County of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-NBA Player Tate George Charged in $2 Million Ponzi Scheme  Tate George, a former player with the National Basketball
Association’s  New Jersey  Nets and Milwaukee Bucks, was charged
with running a $2 million Ponzi scheme that targeted former
professional athletes.  George, 43, raised more than $2 million for his company,
The George Group, after telling investors his real-estate
development portfolio was worth $500 million, according to a
Federal Bureau of Investigation complaint charging him with wire
fraud.  “In reality, The George Group had virtually no income
generating operations,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a
statement.  George used the money he raised to pay early investors in
his company and to fund living expenses such as mortgage and
child-support payments, restaurant meals, clothing and gas,
according to the FBI complaint.  George faces as many as 20 years in prison for the scheme,
which prosecutors said ran from 2005 to March. His attorney,
Thomas Ashley, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. George, 11-mag-03197, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Silvercorp Sues Chinastockwatch.com Over Stock Manipulation  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , a Canadian miner of silver in
 China , sued two websites and their operators for allegedly
spreading false information in an effort to drive down the
company’s stock price.  Chinastockwatch.com, a New York-based  website  that posts
reports on public companies, and operator Jerry Katz published
“false, defamatory and fraudulent statements,” Silvercorp said
in the complaint filed Sept. 22 in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan.  Alfredlittle.com , website operator Alfred Little and an
editor, Simon Moore, also were named as defendants in the
lawsuit. Silvercorp seeks punitive damages of at least $10
million and compensatory damages of more than $1 million.  The defendants sought “to artificially drive down the price
of Silvercorp common stock in order to obtain illicit profits on
short sales,” the Vancouver-based company said in the
complaint. Short investors sell borrowed shares with plans to
buy them back later at a lower price.  No contact information was listed on Chinastockwatch.com
and Katz couldn’t be immediately reached to comment on the
lawsuit. The complaint is “frivolous” and Alfredlittle.com has
“nothing to do with” Chinastockwatch.com, Moore said.  “Every statement that was made in every single report that
was published on Silvercorp from Alfredlittle.com is completely
factual,” Moore said in a telephone interview. “Absolutely
nothing in any of our previous reports on other companies that
we’ve published on including Silvercorp has ever been
exaggerated.”  The case is  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM)  vs. Chinastockwatch.com,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan),
150374/2011.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  AT&T Judge Sets Expert Reports Deadlines in Antitrust Case  The judge overseeing the U.S. Justice Department’s
antitrust lawsuit seeking to block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion
takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. gave both sides until Dec. 28 to
file reports by expert witnesses.  Responses to those reports must be filed by Jan. 9,
according to the order issued Sept. 23 by U.S. District Judge
Ellen Segal Huvelle. Rebuttal reports must be delivered by Jan.
16, according to the order.  The judge’s order resolved a dispute between the government
and AT&T over deadlines for the expert reports. On Sept. 23 the
U.S. Justice Department asked Huvelle to give it until Jan. 5 to
prepare its reports, while AT&T had pressed for a Nov. 15
deadline. The trial is set to begin Feb. 13.  The expert reports will likely be central to the case, said
Howard University law professor Andrew Gavil.  “The government will have to lay out how the merger will
be anticompetitive and the only way to present those models is
with economists,” Gavil said in a phone interview. “To the
extent there is a difference of opinion between the government
and AT&T, this is the area that is likely to heat up and be
critical ground for discussion.”  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Last week, seven states joined the government’s
effort to block the deal.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Madoff Trustee Renews $91 Million Sterling Partner Suit  The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm filed a revised
lawsuit against money management firm American Securities LP
that demanded $91.9 million dollars of funds taken out of the
con man’s firm since January 2000.  American Securities, after meeting Fred Wilpon and Saul
Katz, owners of the New York Mets Major League Baseball team,
joined with their Sterling Equities Inc. in 1991 to create a
$4.5 billion-asset real estate investment company, Sterling
American Property Inc., according to Madoff trustee  Irving
Picard . Madoff was among the investors, Picard said in a court
filing Sept. 23.  Closely held American Securities and its executives had
access to the con man and should have responded to so-called red
flags warning of fraud, Picard said in an amended complaint
filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Of the money Picard is demanding, about $10 million was
fake profit, he said.  A call seeking comment on the complaint from Charles Klein,
a founder and managing director of American Securities, wasn’t
immediately returned.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina.  The case is Picard v. American Securities, 1:10-ap-05415,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  News Corp. (NWSA)  to Be Sued in U.S. by Victims of Phone Hacking  News Corp. (NWS)  directors will be sued in the U.S. by victims of
phone hacking by reporters at the News of the World tabloid, a
lawyer said.  Legal action will be started in the U.S. within 10 days,
Mark Lewis, a lawyer representing phone-hacking victims in
London, said in an interview broadcast on Sky News Sept.23.  Lewis represents phone-hacking victims including the family
of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler. Revelations that Dowler’s
mobile-phone messages were deleted while she was missing in 2002
led to the closure of the News of the World and forced News
Corp. to drop a takeover bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc. (BSY)   U.S. lawyers will make the final decisions on the
defendants to include in the lawsuit, Lewis said in a separate
interview on BBC News. He said that lawyers are looking at areas
that should have been part of the knowledge of directors of a
large corporation. Lawyers would seek to speak with News Corp.
Chairman Rupert Murdoch and Deputy Chief Operating Officer James
Murdoch, Lewis said.  Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for News Corp. in London,
declined to comment on the U.S. lawsuits. Lewis didn’t return a
call from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Obama Health-Care Law Leaves Appeals Court With Questions  President Barack Obama’s health-care law got a mixed
reception in its fourth review by a federal appeals court as
three judges grappled with questions about the law’s
constitutionality and their own authority to rule on it.  In a two-hour argument Sept. 23 in Washington, two judges
of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit said a ruling upholding the law, which requires that
most Americans buy insurance or face a tax penalty, could leave
the government with unprecedented power over its citizens.  “In 220 years there has been a whole lot of laws and a lot
of crises, yet Congress has never once mandated a purchase,”
said Judge Brett Kavanaugh, adding that the “lurking next
step” might be a law requiring investment in private retirement
accounts.  Kavanaugh also questioned whether federal courts could rule
on the law before any taxpayer had been assessed a penalty.  The Washington appellate panel may be the last to rule on
the law before it reaches U.S. Supreme Court. The Obama
administration must signal next week whether it will seek high
court review of another court’s opinion declaring the insurance
mandate unconstitutional.  Two federal appeals courts have ruled on the insurance
mandate. A Cincinnati panel in June decided Congress’s authority
to regulate interstate commerce extended to enacting the
insurance mandate. The U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta threw
out the mandate on Aug. 12, concluding Congress can’t compel
people to buy a product for their entire lives.  An appeals panel in Richmond, Virginia, decided on Sept. 8
that it was blocked by a statute that generally bars challenging
taxes before they’re collected or assessed.  The case argued Sept. 23 was brought in June 2010 by five
individuals who claimed they and their families could face
collective penalties of more than $27,000 for failing to obtain
insurance.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler in February dismissed
their suit, finding the mandate constitutional.  The U.S. calls the insurance mandate the linchpin of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, claiming that
without expanding the pool of younger, healthier customers the
insurance industry can’t meet its obligations for coverage under
the law.  The case is Seven-Sky v. Holder, 11-5047, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Marcellus Gas Drillers Face ‘Chaos’ in Land Law Ruling  A Pennsylvania appeals court ruling has raised questions
about who can claim ownership of natural gas embedded in the
 Marcellus shale  formation, potentially putting in doubt the
legitimacy of thousands of drilling leases, Bloomberg News’  Jim
Polson  and Mike Lee report.  The state’s Superior Court said Pennsylvania law governing
ownership of oil and gas rights isn’t clear and a lower-court
judge should solicit expert opinions in a case pitting current
landowners against the heirs to an 1881 deed.  “Dozens of energy companies have invested billions of
dollars in leasing shale gas production rights in
Pennsylvania,” Larry Nettles, an attorney with the Houston-
based law firm Vinson & Elkins LLP, said in a telephone
interview. “This opinion calls into question whether they have
those rights.”  For more than a century, Pennsylvania has required
landowners to consider oil and gas rights separate from more
general “mineral rights” when transferring ownership of
resources beneath the surface of their property. The defendants
in the title dispute argued shale gas is different and should be
considered part of the mineral rights because it is contained
inside rock.  The Superior Court, the second-highest court in the state,
 ruled Sept. 7  that current law doesn’t sufficiently address
whether “Marcellus shale constitutes a mineral,” the question
that’s now to be hashed out by the lower court.  Until the case is decided, oil and gas companies will face
uncertainty about whether they’ve signed drilling leases with
the right people, legal experts say. Owners of oil and gas
rights who signed leases with gas producers could find that they
don’t own the gas after all.  “If, somehow, shale gas is different, that would be a sea
change in Pennsylvania law,” David Fine, a Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania-based attorney for K&L Gates LLP, said Sept. 22 in
a telephone interview. “The issue is whether they’ve entered
into a lease with someone and somebody else is going to find a
problem with the title.”  The case may take as long as two years to wind through the
courts, Fine said.  The case is John E. and Mary Josephine Butler v. Charles
Powers Estate et al, 1795-mda-2010, Superior Court of
Pennsylvania.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Potash Producer Civil Antitrust Suit Rejected by U.S. Court  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and six other producers
of the fertilizer chemical won a U.S. appeals court ruling
rejecting purchaser claims they were conspiring to fix prices in
violation of federal antitrust laws.  The buyers sued in 2008, claiming violations of the U.S.
Foreign Trade Antitrust Improvements Act, which can extend the
reach of American antitrust law to foreign anticompetitive
conduct that affects U.S. imports.  The Chicago-based court ruled that Minn-Chem Inc. and its
co-plaintiffs failed to state a plausible “direct, substantial
and reasonably foreseeable,” link between the allegedly anti-
competitive activity of the producers -- all of whose mining
operations are based in Canada, Russia or Belarus -- and the
U.S. market for their product.  “All of the anticompetitive conduct identified in the
complaint is alleged to have occurred outside the United
States,” U.S. Circuit Judge Diane Sykes wrote in the court’s
unanimous 27-page decision.  Also named as defendants in the case were Calgary-based
 Agrium Inc. (AGU) , Plymouth, Minnesota-based The  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , as well
as Russian and Belarussian companies. As of 2008, they accounted
for about 71 percent of the world’s supply of potash, according
to the Sept. 23 court ruling.  “We are evaluating the opinion and making decisions
about what we will be doing,” San Francisco attorney Bruce
Simon, who argued the case for the purchasers on June 3, said
Sept. 23 in a phone interview. He declined to comment further.  “We believe the court made the right ruling,” Rob Litt, a
spokesman for The Mosaic Co., said in a phone interview.  “We’re certainly very pleased with the decision of the
court,” said Bill Johnson, a spokesman for Saskatoon-based
Potash Corp.  The case is Minn-Chem Inc. v. Agrium Inc., 10-1712, U.S.
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  Emanuel Goffer Seeks Prison Term of Less Than 46 Months  Emanuel Goffer, convicted of insider trading with his
brother  Zvi Goffer , is seeking a prison term of less than 46
months, saying he plays a critical role in raising a 3-year-old
son with developmental problems.  Emanuel Goffer is set to be sentenced Oct. 7 before U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan, who imposed a 10-
year prison term on his brother this week.  In court papers filed Sept. 23, Emanuel Goffer asked for a
“tempered sentence” shorter than the 46- to 57-month federal
sentencing guidelines range calculated by U.S. probation
officials. Goffer said in the filings that his son isn’t meeting
“age appropriate gross motor milestones.”  Goffer also disputes a U.S. finding that he earned more
than $2 million by insider trading.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for the office of U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 