-- 
Los Angeles Gasoline Rises on Flaring at BP’s Carson Refinery

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-09-26T19:32:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/los-angeles-gasoline-rises-on-flaring-at-bp-s-carson-refinery.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  strengthened to its highest premium to futures in more
than two weeks after BP Plc said its Carson refinery may flare
gases until next week.  The premium for Carbob in Los Angeles rose 4.5 cents to 22
cents above gasoline futures traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 2:18 p.m. East Coast time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery increased 6.08 cents to
$2.7602 a gallon.  London-based BP may flare at its 266,000-barrel-a-day
Carson refinery, south of Los Angeles, until Oct. 3, according
to a notice the company filed with air regulators over the
weekend. The Carson plant, the second-largest refinery in
 California  by capacity, supplies 25 percent of gasoline demand
in Los Angeles, according to BP’s website.  San Antonio-based  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  flared yesterday at
its 135,000-barrel-a-day Wilmington refinery, also south of Los
Angeles, after a power dip affected a sulfur recovery unit,  Bill
Day , a company spokesman in San Antonio, said in a telephone
interview today. “It did not have an impact on production,” he
said. “There was some flaring, but that’s about it.”  The premium for Carbob in  San Francisco  climbed 0.5 cent to
24.5 cents a gallon over futures.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  released sulfur dioxide emissions at its
128,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo refinery in Northern California
yesterday, according to a notice the Houston-based company filed
with state regulators. Rich Johnson, a company spokesman in
Houston, declined to comment on the notice.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland ,  Oregon , rose 1 cent to 28 cents versus futures.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s 147,500-barrel-a-day Puget Sound
refinery in Anacortes,  Washington , released crude oil into a
nearby bay as part of ongoing maintenance, according to a filing
to the U.S. National Response Center. Shell began a turnaround
on the south-side of the plant earlier this month that is
expected to last until Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  