-- 
Palestinians Fight ‘Tremendous Pressure’ in United Nations Membership Bid

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-09-26T23:22:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/palestinians-fight-tremendous-pressure-in-un-membership-bid.html
The Palestinians are pushing back
against “tremendous pressure” at the United Nations by the
veto-wielding U.S. and will seek a  Security Council  vote on
membership in a “few weeks,” a Palestinian envoy said.  “We also have many other friends on the Security Council
and we are engaging them to be on the positive side of
history,” Palestinian Ambassador  Riyad Mansour  said today in
 New York , three days after Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas presented his case for statehood at the General
Assembly.  The Security Council decided today to meet in two days to
have the admissions committee take up the Palestinians
membership request, a process that can last days, weeks or
months. The U.S. is seeking to delay a showdown while diplomats
try to resurrect peace talks that broke down a year ago over
construction of Jewish settlements in  West Bank .  The U.S. is leaning on Security Council members to abstain
from voting, leaving the Palestinians struggling to retain
supporters even among the nine nations in the 15-member body
that recognize a Palestinian state.  Mansour said Abbas will dispatch diplomats to the capitals
of council members Nigeria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Gabon,
which are critical swing votes.  Abbas hasn’t agreed to a proposal by the Middle East
Quartet to restart direct talks with  Israel  with a timetable for
a peace accord by the end of 2012. The Quartet plan doesn’t
specify a halt to the expansion of settlements, which has been a
demand of the Palestinians since construction resumed last year
after a temporary freeze.  Veto Power  While the U.S. has Security Council veto power to prevent
the application for full state membership from going to a vote
in the General Assembly, where the Palestinians enjoy more than
a two-thirds majority, the Obama administration is reluctant to
use it because of the potential political backlash in the Arab
world. No one has vetoed an admissions request since 1976, when
the U.S. blocked  Vietnam .  Rather than appear isolated, the U.S. has focused its
diplomatic efforts on showing that the initiative falls short of
the nine votes needed in the Security Council.  Envoys from Bosnia, Gabon and Nigeria left the Security
Council session today, declining to comment on where they stand.  “We are in continuous contact with them,” Mansour said.
“Gabon and Nigeria are two good friends of Palestine.”  Pressed by Both Sides  It’s the first time a Palestinian official has acknowledged
publicly the extent to which smaller countries in the 15-member
body are being pressed by both sides.  China , Russia,  Brazil ,  India  and  South Africa  have all
thrown their weight behind the Palestinians and are all
represented on the Security Council this year.  Lebanon, the only Arab country represented in the decision-
making body, also supports the membership. Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton met today with Lebanese Prime Minister
Najib Makati at the  United Nations  as part of the U.S. effort to
stress efforts to resume peace talks.  In the Security Council, the procedures permit any member
to ask for a vote any time, after giving the members 24-hour
notice. Lebanon would be the likeliest candidate to do that for
Abbas should the Palestinian leadership want to bring the issue
to a vote.  The Palestinians can sidestep the council and go to the
General Assembly to seek to raise Palestinian status at the UN
from “entity” to “non-member state.”  This route, a step short of full membership, requires only
a simple majority in the 193-member assembly where, Mansour
said, 131 countries have bilaterally recognized  Palestine  as a
state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  