-- 
Palm Oil Headed for First Drop in Three Years to Cut Costs

-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 
2011-09-26T09:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/palm-oil-set-for-first-drop-in-three-years-may-cool-food-costs.html
Palm oil , the world’s most-used
cooking oil, may drop for the first time in three years as
favorable weather boosts supplies and a global economic slowdown
weakens demand, potentially cooling world food costs.  Prices in Malaysia, the global benchmark, may decline to
2,800 ringgit ($879) per metric ton by December, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts and
importers at the Globoil India conference in Mumbai on Sept. 24
and Sept. 25. The tropical commodity, which has slumped 23
percent this year, more than doubled in the previous two years.  A decline in prices of the oil, used in everything from
biodiesel and cosmetics to chocolate and potato chips, may help
cap global food costs monitored by the  United Nations  that
climbed 26 percent in the past year, and ease pressure on
central banks to raise  interest rates . India and  China  are the
world’s biggest palm oil importers.  “The increase in world supply will outstrip the increase
in world demand for the first time in the last three years,”
 Dorab Mistry , director at Godrej International Ltd., said at the
conference in Mumbai yesterday. “This is very significant.”  Mistry, who’s traded the vegetable oil for more than three
decades, expects futures in  Kuala Lumpur  to trade between 2,800
ringgit and 3,100 ringgit until the middle of November, before a
pickup in demand lifts prices to 4,000 ringgit by April-June.
Prices may drop to 2,850 ringgit a ton in the next three months,
as production expands in  Malaysia  and Indonesia, the biggest
growers, Thomas Mielke,  executive director  at industry
researcher Oil World, said yesterday.  ‘Demand Hurt’  The December-delivery contract on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange slumped as much as 4.5 percent to 2,857 ringgit a ton
today, the lowest level since Oct. 8. Futures fell 2.8 percent
last week, the biggest drop since the week to June 10.  “The recent high prices have hurt demand, confirmed by a
slowing down of trade and of crushing,” Mielke said. Vegetable
 oil prices  may increase only from January, he said.  Commodities fell to a 10-month low today on deepening
concern that governments are running out of tools to avert a
global recession, eroding demand for raw-materials. The Standard
& Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 of energy, metal and agriculture
prices dropped as low as 583.68, the lowest level since Dec. 1.
The gauge slumped 8.2 percent last week, the most in four
months. The benchmark has tumbled 21 percent since touching a
32-month high in April.  ‘Panic’  “There is a panic in the market because everyone remembers
2008,” Abdul Rasheed Janmohammad, chairman of the Pakistan
Edible Oil Refiners Association, said referring to the selloff
in commodities after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy. “There should be some improvement in confidence for
prices to recover.”  Palm oil production in Malaysia will peak this month and in
October, expanding stockpiles, Godrej’s Mistry said. Output may
gain to 19 million tons this year in Malaysia, while it may
total 25.5 million tons in  Indonesia , the largest producer, said
Mistry, sticking to his forecast first made in July.  In Malaysia, production totaled 12 million tons in the
January-August period, 8.2 percent more than a year earlier,
while shipments gained 3.8 percent to 11.3 million tons,
according to the nation’s palm oil board.  Global vegetable oil production this year will expand by 9
million tons, exceeding the 6.5 million tons growth in demand,
according to Mistry.  Sime Darby  “It is also seen that world stocks will rise
significantly,” said Mistry. “This rise in stocks will
materialize mainly in the second half of the year. That is when
palm oil production will be at its highest and Russian and
Ukrainian sunflower seed crush will be strong.”  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the world’s biggest publicly listed palm-
oil producer, expects harvests from plantations in Malaysia and
Indonesia to climb in the year to June as yields improve, Group
Chief Executive Officer Mohd Bakke Salleh said on Sept. 21.  Shares of Sime Darby,  Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd. (KLK)  and IOI
Corp. dropped in Kuala Lumpur trading today after palm oil
futures declined. Sime declined as much 2.4 percent to 7.91
ringgit, KL Kepong retreated as much as 6.8 percent to 19.30
ringgit, while IOI fell as much as 5.5 percent to 4.26 ringgit.  The price may plunge to as low as 2,525 ringgit a ton by
March if Brent crude oil extends its decline to $87 a barrel,
James Fry, chairman of LMC International Ltd., told the
conference yesterday. Brent for November delivery fell as much
as 2.2 percent to $101.66 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange today.  Indonesia Tax  A plan by Indonesia to lower the tax on refined palm oil
products may boost its exports, swelling inventory in Malaysia,
Fry said. That may “depress” prices, he said.  Indonesia will levy a maximum tax of 10 percent on refined,
bleached and deodorized palm oil from Oct. 1, while crude palm
oil will be taxed at a maximum of 22.5 percent, according to a
Finance Ministry Decree signed Aug. 15.  Malaysia’s palm oil exports fell 11.9 percent to 1.2
million tons in the first 25 days of September from the same
period in August, independent market surveyor Intertek said.  Palm oil output in Malaysia may remain flat next year or
increase marginally after a bumper harvest this year, while
production growth in Indonesia will be less than a normal year,
Godrej’s Mistry said.  “There will be several short periods between now and the
middle of 2012 when markets will be extremely volatile,” said
Mistry. “So much so that we shall even try to forget the
fundamentals and look only at the performance of financial
markets and equities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in  Mumbai  at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  