-- 
Greek Leaders Appeal for Support as U.S. Presses for EU Faster Debt Action

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-27T15:58:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/papandreou-tests-party-backing-in-greek-parliamentary-vote-on-property-tax.html
Greek leaders appealed for support
at home and abroad to avert default before key legislative votes
as the U.S. criticized European leaders for moving too slowly to
stem the debt crisis.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  traveled to Berlin two
days before German lawmakers ratify an overhaul of the euro
rescue fund, pledging success in a struggle to restore budget
balance. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos promised
“superhuman” efforts hours before a vote in Athens on an
unpopular property tax needed to avoid default.  President  Barack Obama  underscored the urgency late
yesterday when he said European governments are “trying to take
responsible actions, but those actions haven’t been quite as
quick as they need to be.” His treasury secretary,  Timothy F. Geithner , said Europe has “not very much time” to act.  Concerns that Europe’s debt crisis may plunge the global
economy into recession dominated weekend talks of policy makers,
investors and bankers in  Washington , where the  International
Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  held their annual meetings.
Geithner called on euro-area leaders to beef up their 440
billion-euro ($594 billion) bailout fund, warning that failure
threatened “cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic
risk.”  European stocks rallied for a third straight day as
investors bet that policy makers will heed the warnings to step
up their efforts. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed
4.2 percent, the biggest daily gain since May 2010.  Europeans ‘Get It’  “What I learned in Washington is that Europeans finally
get it,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief
investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., the
world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview
today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “They are going back and will try to do something
about it. This was a very important wake-up call for Europe.”  With 154 votes in the 300-seat chamber, Papandreou needs to
rally his Pasok socialist lawmakers as he did in June to push
through budget cuts and asset sales. Three months after that
vote, which cost Papandreou two of his deputies, a deepening
slump forced him to impose additional cuts and the real-estate
levy affecting owners of 5 million homes and stores.   Loan Payment  “The parliamentary votes on the required measures will be
close,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst in  London  at Eurasia
Group. “Some Pasok deputies could resign ahead of the crucial
voting sessions, but the government is expected to secure the
parliamentary approval for the necessary laws and the release of
the 8 billion-euro loan.”  Greece  faces a “moment of truth” and has to fully
implement its savings plans in order to qualify for the next
installment of international aid, European Commission spokesman
 Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  He said that euro-area ministers are unlikely to approve
the payment at their Oct. 3 meeting as originally planned.
Greece has said it needs the money next month. Venizelos said
today he expects the decision to be made and the money received
“in time.”  Papandreou, who is dining with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin, said Greece can overcome the debt crisis and
bolster all  Europe  with the help of stronger leadership from
policy makers.  Surplus Promised  Greece will live up to all its commitments and deserves
“respect” for its efforts thus far, Papandreou said in a
speech to the German industry federation. He noted that from a
“huge” primary  budget deficit  in 2009, Greece will probably
see a primary surplus next year.  Greeks ask whether this is a Sisyphean task or whether the
country can surmount the crisis, Papandreou said. “My answer is
yes we can,” he said. “Greece has the potential, Europe has
the potential,” and can achieve it through global cooperation.
“We are not a poor country, we’re a country that has been
governed badly.”  Venizelos has announced an additional 20 percent wage cut,
on top of 15 percent for the civil service and 25 percent in the
wider public sector. Pensions are being reduced 4 percent on
average, in addition to previous cuts of 10 percent. A lowering
of the tax-free threshold to 5,000 euros will mean higher taxes
for all Greeks.  Property Tax  The two most contentious issues are a property tax to be
levied via electricity bills, which will provide an annual yield
of 1.1 percent of gross domestic product, and plans to put
30,000 public servants into a “reserve” system on reduced pay.
Implementation laws will be approved by Parliament in October,
Venizelos said today.  More than 74 percent of 1,002 Greeks polled by Rass for  To
Paron  newspaper opposed the property tax. The poll also showed
that 59 percent believed Papandreou’s government won’t be able
to avert a default. The survey had a 3.1 percentage point margin
of error. Papandreou trails the opposition party in all polls.  Unions have already called general strikes for Oct. 5 and
Oct. 19, while public transit companies including the subway in
the Greek capital have held strikes over the past few days to
oppose the measures.  “Implementation of the measures is the biggest challenge
for the government as the trade unions and parts of the civil
service will mount significant resistance, raising the risk of
inertia and inaction,” said Piccoli.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  