-- 
Perry’s Immigration Stance Jeopardizes Lead in Republican Race

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/perry-s-immigration-stance-jeopardizes-lead-in-republican-race.html
Republican Johanna White was
delighted to find herself nodding in agreement with almost
everything  Texas  Governor Rick Perry said after he entered the
race for her party’s presidential nomination six weeks ago.  Then he started talking about allowing children of illegal
immigrants to attend Texas universities at in-state tuition
rates.  “It was a total turnoff,” said White, 51 and unemployed,
from Port St. Joe, Florida. “I think it’s totally wrong. I’m
almost 100 percent directly a Perry supporter, but I can’t agree
with that.”  White, a party activist who doesn’t miss a chance to vote
in Republican primaries, personifies an emerging liability for
Perry, who has ascended to frontrunner status in the primary
contest, eclipsing former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  in
national primary polls, since declaring his candidacy August 13.  Romney and other Republican rivals have seized on Perry’s
support for a Texas law allowing children of illegal immigrants
who are admitted to public universities to attend at lower
state-resident tuition rates to portray him as lax on an issue
that stirs resentment among some Republican voters.  “It can definitely hurt him in a number of states, and it
could hurt him nationally,” said Republican polling expert Tony Fabrizio, who is not affiliated with any presidential campaign.
Fabrizio points to  Iowa , home of the first presidential
nominating caucuses, where “Republican caucus-goers believe it
is absolutely not fair to give free benefits to illegals.”  Fits Texas Profile  While Perry’s stance fits the profile of his state -- with
the nation’s second largest Hispanic population of 9.5 million
in 2010 -- and could have broader appeal in a general election
with a fast-growing Hispanic population nationally, it threatens
to alienate many of the fiscal and social conservatives outside
of Texas who hold sway in Republican nominating contests and
oppose government aid to illegal immigrants.  “It’s a 90-10 issue for Republican voters,” Fabrizio said
in an interview. “You want to see Republican voters go into
orbit -- almost to the level of talking about Barack Obama --you
mention this.”  Discussions with about two dozen Republican activists
gathered at a party convention in  Orlando ,  Florida  Sept. 22-24
confirmed Fabrizio’s assessment. Many said the Texas governor’s
stance on illegal immigration -- including his contention that
building a border fence with Mexico would be impractical -- was
the only thing preventing them from supporting Perry, otherwise
most appealing to them among Republican contenders.  Florida Hispanic Growth  Florida’s Hispanic population grew 57.4 percent over the
past decade to 4,223,806, the U.S. Census Bureau said in March.
Latinos comprised 22.5 percent of the state’s total residents in
2010, up from 16.8 percent in 2000.  Perry finished a distant second in a non-binding straw poll
conducted at the gathering, drawing 15.4 percent of the 2,657
votes cast, compared with 37.1 percent for the fast-food magnate
 Herman Cain , whose call to “throw out” the federal  tax code 
brought cheering convention-goers to their feet.  Dorothea Madrigrano, 78, a retired Realtor from Boynton
Beach, said she liked ’’Perry right off the bat until I heard
about him giving all these kids a free ride.’’ She said: “I
absolutely, positively disagree with any benefits that these
people are getting, and if it were up to me, I’d round them all
up and sweep them out of here.”  Practical, Compassionate  Perry says that in Texas, the policy is both the
compassionate and practical one, arguing that the alternative is
to deprive children of illegal immigrants of the opportunity for
an education, thus increasing the likelihood that they will
become a costly drag on society.  Perry’s approach to immigration is similar to that of the
Texas governor before him, former President  George W. Bush , who
campaigned for president in 2000 with pledges to overhaul U.S.
immigration laws and cope with a growing illegal population.  The Hispanic populace of Texas grew by 41.8 percent since
2000, according to the San Antonio-based  Saber Research
Institute . It accounted for 37.6 percent of the state’s
population, the center reports, and the 9.5 million total
Hispanic count included 3.3 million children 17 and younger.  Perry, during a televised Republican debate in Florida on
Sept. 22, said: “If you say that we should not educate children
who have come into our state for no other reason than they’ve
been brought there by no fault of their own, I don’t think you
have a heart.”  Republican Boos  The comment drew boos from the Republican audience. Given
the negative response the immigration issue evokes among
Republicans, Perry’s competitors are taking every opportunity to
raise it. Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum called Perry
“soft” on illegal immigration, and Republican Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  proclaimed it “madness” to allow
illegal immigrants to receive government benefits.  Romney rejected Perry’s compassion argument in remarks the
day after the debate, saying, “If you’re opposed to illegal
immigration, it doesn’t mean that you don’t have a heart; it
means that you have a heart and a brain.”  $100,000 Question  He cited a figure of $100,000 -- the approximate difference
in four-year costs for out-of-state and in-state students to
attend the  University of Texas . He since has taken to tallying
the discrepancy for other states where he and Perry are
competing. Romney’s campaign circulated a document Sept. 24,
while both men were in  Michigan , noting that according to U.S.
News & World Report, students from outside the state would have
to pay $98,700 more to attend the  University of Michigan  at Ann
Arbor than would state residents, and $75,780 more to attend
Michigan State University.  The numbers resonate with Tony Ledbetter, a Daytona Beach
retiree, who said Perry “is going to lose based on that
issue.”  “The fact that they’re here, that they’re going to school
-- fine, but don’t give them $100,000 in taxpayer subsidies so
they can go to college,” said Ledbetter, a self-described
devotee of the anti-tax, anti-government spending  Tea Party  who
said he wants former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin to enter the
race.  Ronald Reagan  Invoked  Perry’s allies recognize the issue has the potential to
hurt his bid, yet they say his position could be a virtue in a
campaign in which the Texas governor is styling himself in the
mold of former President Ronald Reagan, adored among core
Republican supporters.  Reagan “said it best: We have to be the party of a big
tent,” said Florida House Majority Leader Carlos Lopez-Cantera,
a Perry supporter. “We are the big-tent party, and I think
Governor Perry exemplifies that, and has been the only candidate
who has been willing to reach out on this issue.”  In Texas -- much of which used to be part of  Mexico  --
Perry’s position is in tune with history and tradition, even
among Republicans, said  Bruce Buchanan , a University of Texas
political scientist.  “Even as the  Republican Party  developed this very hardball
stance on immigration, Texas Republicans, including George W. Bush, always resisted that, and always took a different view,”
Buchanan said. “That’s where Perry’s coming from. The logic
that he laid out on television might not make sense to Mitt
Romney, but it makes sense here.”  Softening Hard Edges  If Perry can make it through the Republican primaries,
Buchanan said, his immigration position could boost his chances
of taking the White House as “one of the hard-edge softeners
that could allow him to be successful against  Barack Obama .”  First he’ll have to win a nominating contest that elevates
voters like White, an unemployed former bank president who with
her unemployed husband says she is a month away from declaring
bankruptcy and bristles at the fact that illegal immigrants are
drawing on benefits she finances through taxes.  “They come over here, they get our health care, they get
food programs, their children get it for free, and we’re paying
for all this -- they’re not,” White said.  While illegal immigration doesn’t rank near the top of most
voters’ concerns, it’s an important issue that can determine
whether Republicans believe a candidate is “in tune” with them
enough to deserve their vote, pollster Fabrizio said.
“Immigration is symbolic to a lot of Republican voters of
fairness and economic security and the burden of government on
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  