-- 
Persian Gulf Bonds Beat Emerging-Market Debt on Oil: Arab Credit

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-09-26T10:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/persian-gulf-bonds-beat-emerging-market-debt-on-oil-arab-credit.html
Persian Gulf bonds are beating
emerging-market debt this year as increasing revenue from oil
exports help the region withstand global financial-market
turmoil better than most developing nations.  Dollar notes from the Gulf Cooperation Council have
returned 6 percent in 2011, according the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC
US Dollar Sukuk/Bond Index. Emerging-market securities worldwide
gained 3.2 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show. The average
cost of insuring  Middle East ’s sovereign debt rose 104 basis
points this year to 305 on Sept. 23, trailing similar measures
that jumped 132 to 276 in the Asia-Pacific region, according to
data provider CMA.  Crude prices averaging about 23 percent more this year than
a year earlier, according to Bloomberg data, will help economies
of the Middle East and North Africa expand faster, the  World
Bank  said last week. It raised its 2011 growth estimate for the
region to 4.1 percent from 3.6 percent. Members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, led by Saudi
Arabia and the  United Arab Emirates , will earn a record $1
trillion this year, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  “Higher  oil prices  in the first half have boosted investor
confidence and re-allocations from more troubled parts of the
region have helped increase liquidity in the local banking
sector,” Alia Moubayed, London-based head of research for the
Middle East and North Africa at  Barclays Capital , said in a
telephone interview on Sept. 22.  Europe  Crisis  The International Monetary Fund Sept. 20 cut its forecast
for global growth to 4 percent this year and predicted “severe”
repercussions if Europe fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S.
policy makers deadlock over a fiscal plan. Global stocks entered
their first  bear market  in two years last week on concern Greek
insolvency is inevitable and Europe can’t prevent the damage.  Persian Gulf economies are bucking the trend. The outlook
for  Saudi Arabia ’s economy is “favorable” as the kingdom
benefits from additional  government spending  and increased oil
revenue, the IMF said in a review Aug. 23. Gross domestic
product will increase 6.5 percent this year after expanding 4.1
percent in 2010, it said. In the U.A.E., GDP may rise 3.3
percent this year after 3.2 percent in 2010, IMF said.  “There’s an increased propensity for regional governments
to invest locally after the events of 2008 and given global
concerns,” Emad Mostaque, a London-based Middle East and North
Africa strategist at Religare Capital Markets Plc, said by e-
mail. “With oil above $100 per barrel, this is a significant
level of inflow versus a comparatively small market.”  Higher Oil  OPEC’s basket of crudes, a weighted average of the group’s
main export grades, has been trading above $100 since Feb. 21.
WTI crude prices averaged $98 a barrel in the first half of this
year compared with $78 a year. The six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council holds about one-fifth of the world’s proven oil
reserves.  Many  Persian Gulf states  are promising to plow this oil
revenue into public and social programs after pro-democracy
movements overthrew rulers in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya  and
sparked violent protest in Yemen and  Syria .  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, announced
plans in February and March to spend about $129 billion to avoid
similar protests. Kuwaitis received 1,000 dinars ($3,664) and
free food for 13 months, state news agency reported in January.
Earlier this month, Qatar’s crown prince Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad
Al Thani ordered 30 billion riyals ($8.2 billion) in civil
servant salary increases and pension-fund allowances.  Dubai Credit  Dubai’s credit risk has dropped over the past two years as
debt restructuring deals, bond repayments and profitability at
companies boost confidence in the emirate’s economic rebound.
The second-biggest of seven sheikhdoms that make up the U.A.E.,
Dubai is also benefiting from a stable government as political
upheaval sweeps other parts of the Middle East.  “Emerging market bonds, particularly local currency, have
had an exceptional two years whereas GCC bonds lagged due to the
Dubai default at the end of 2009,” said Mostaque. “Dubai is
now miraculously credit-worthy once more with its recent $500
million issue, adding confidence to the GCC market.”  Bonds of Qatar and  Abu Dhabi  have outperformed notes from
other emerging economies. The yield on Qatar’s 4 percent bond
maturing in January 2015, the security with the highest
weighting on the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Index, rose 20 basis points
this month to 2.35 percent today. The rate on Abu Dhabi’s 6.75
percent bond maturing April 2019 gained 17 basis points in the
period to 3.59 percent.  Anchoring Spreads  “Enhanced local-banking-sector liquidity in the politically
stable GCC countries has also anchored spreads during periods of
turmoil in global markets,” Moubayed said.  Banks in the GCC countries, excluding Bahrain, have had
“substantial deposit inflows” from outside the region this
year amid political unrest, Victor Lohle, an analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc, said in a report in July. Saudi Arabia and the
U.A.E., the GCC’s two largest economies, had the biggest gains,
according to the report.  “We expect these favorable factors for bonds in the GCC to
continue for some time, but the region isn’t immune to what’s
happening globally,” said Moubayed. “For the rest of the year,
one key risk is how the European debt crisis unfolds. Unless a
credible solution is found there could be a sharp deterioration
in investor sentiment.”  European Woes  European policy makers faced mounting pressure from foreign
counterparts and investors to step up efforts to prevent their
sovereign debt crisis from further roiling the world’s financial
markets and economy. The Stoxx 600 tumbled 6.1 percent last week
and oil for November delivery lost 9.2 percent to $79.85 a
barrel in  New York .  The yield on Dubai’s 5.591 percent dollar-denominated bond
due June 2021 rose 36 basis points to 6.2 percent on Sept. 23,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield has risen 51
basis points so far this month after falling to 5.28 percent on
Aug. 4., the lowest since the bond was issued in June.  The cost to insure Dubai’s debt against default jumped 18
basis points to 512 basis points today, the highest level this
year, after hitting a year-low of 317 on June 7, according to
five-year credit default swaps from data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent, should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “We would have to see oil prices down below $80 to have an
impact on regional confidence,” said Religare’s Mostaque. “As
a travel hub if global conditions worsen significantly, question
marks will be raised over a number of issues cash flow once more
without oil to back it up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  