-- 
Peso Bonds Slump in Split From Treasuries Amid Greek Crisis: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-09-26T12:18:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/peso-bonds-slump-in-split-from-treasuries-amid-greek-crisis-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s bonds, the emerging-market
securities most correlated with U.S. Treasuries, are no longer
moving in lockstep with debt from its northern neighbor as
Europe’s debt crisis curbs demand for all but the safest assets.  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2021 rose 37 basis
points last week to 6.73 percent, the most since they were
issued in February, while those on similar-maturity Treasuries
sank 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 120-day
correlation coefficient between Mexican bonds and Treasuries
dropped to a nine-month low of 0.29 from a high of 0.57. A
reading of 1 indicates the two always move in the same
direction. Mexican securities now track Turkish bonds more
closely than Treasuries.  The link between Mexico and the U.S. is breaking down as
mounting concern Greece may default prompts investors to shun
higher-yielding emerging-market assets and take refuge in
Treasuries. Mexico, which sends 80 percent of its exports to the
U.S., has left its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low since
July 2009 and is the only Latin American country to not have
changed borrowing costs in the past year. The U.S. has kept its
key rate at an all-time low since December 2008.  “In normal times, there’s this connection between Mexico
and U.S. interest rates due to the coordination of their
business cycles,” Alejandro Urbina, who oversees $800 million
of assets at Silva Capital Management in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “In times of extreme  risk aversion , it
just breaks down. People try to front-run each other in
selling.”  Global Crisis  Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2021 had rallied in line with
Treasuries for most of the year, touching a record low 5.83
percent on Aug. 18, as a flagging  U.S. economy  signaled slower
growth and tame inflation in  Latin America ’s second-biggest
economy. Yields have jumped 89 basis points, or 0.89 percentage
point, in the past month to 6.73 percent as concern Europe’s
debt troubles may trigger a global financial crisis lead
investors to dump emerging-market bonds, stocks and currencies.  The world is on the eve of the next financial crisis, with
sovereign debt at its epicenter, Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., the
world’s biggest bond fund, said last week.  “At first the dominant force was growth, or lack of
growth, and now it’s the perception that the global financial
system could yet again be under serious stress,”  Benito Berber ,
a strategist at Nomura Securities Inc. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. The turnaround reflects “risk associated
with what’s happening in  Europe ,” he said.  Growth Outlook  Mexico’s economy will probably grow 4 percent this year
after expanding 5.4 percent in 2010, central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens said in an interview with Mexico City-based
Radio Formula on Sept. 8. The U.S., the world’s biggest economy,
will grow 1.6 percent this year, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 66 analysts.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed six basis
points to 267 at 8:16 a.m. New York time, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  The peso rose 0.6 percent to 13.4828 per U.S. dollar today
after dropping 3.8 percent last week and touching a two-year low
on Sept. 22.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 49 basis points to 206 last week, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Finally React’  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in September 2012 rose 26 basis points last week to 5
percent.  Alonso Madero, who helps manage about $5.5 billion at Corp.
Actinver SAB, said the breakdown in the correlation between peso
bonds and Treasuries is temporary. Peso debt is undervalued and
yields will drop as concerns  Greece  may default ease, he said.  “We expect the European authorities to finally react,”
Madero said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “We
would expect confidence to return to the markets little by
little and see the same correlation return.”  European governments are exploring speeding the setup of a
permanent rescue fund as the urgency to halt the sovereign debt
crisis mounts, an internal working paper shows. Senior finance
officials this week will examine the cost advantages of creating
the fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism, in July
2012, a year ahead of schedule, according to a staff paper
prepared for the meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News.  ‘ Systemic Risk ’  Mexican peso bonds have handed investors a loss of 13.2
percent this month, compared with an average decline of 8.2
percent for emerging-market debt denominated in local
currencies, according to Bank of America Corp.  U.S. Treasuries 
returned 2.5 percent in September.  “This time around, nothing’s been spared from this flight
to quality,” Silva Capital’s Urbina said. “People are
concerned with systemic risk. People are unsure what the impact
of a potential messy default in Greece would be and what
implication that would have on the international financial
system. It’s panic. There is nothing that hasn’t gotten hit,
except for Treasuries and the dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  