-- 
Peyton Manning Has an Outside Chance of December Return, Colts Owner Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-26T15:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/peyton-manning-won-t-play-this-season-after-injury-indianapolis-star-says.html
Peyton Manning  has an outside
chance of returning in December, Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay said on Twitter after local media quoted him saying this
morning that the injured All-Pro quarterback would be out for
the season.  The team also issued a statement saying that Manning’s
status hasn’t changed. He had surgery Sept. 8 to fuse bones in
his neck.  The Indianapolis Star reported that Irsay, speaking today
at a breakfast for Super Bowl donors, said that Manning would
practice in December though the team is focusing on his
availability for the 2012 National Football League season.  Irsay later posted on Twitter: “I didn’t say Peyton out
4season FOR SURE, keeping him on ActiveRoster n taking it month
by month/Outside chance of return n December.”  Avis Roper, a spokesman for the Colts, said today that
Manning’s status hasn’t changed since the team’s last statement
following his surgery, which stated that there was no estimation
of a return date for the four-time league Most Valuable Player
and that he would remain on the team’s active roster “until we
have a clearer picture of his recovery process.”  “He is in the process of healing and rehabbing from his
recent surgery,” Roper said in an e-mail today. “The team will
inform everyone when that status changes.”  The Colts fell to 0-3 last night in Manning’s absence,
losing 23-20 at home to the Pittsburgh Steelers as backup
quarterback  Kerry Collins  left the game with concussion
symptoms. Collins was replaced by Curtis Painter, who fumbled a
ball that Troy Polamalu returned for a score. Painter also led a
10-play, 80-yard scoring drive in the fourth quarter.  Manning, 35, a five-time first-team All-Pro, had never
missed a game before in 13 NFL seasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 