-- 
Philippine Peso Falls as Europe Debt Crisis Spurs Stock Selloff

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-09-26T08:21:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/philippine-peso-falls-as-europe-debt-crisis-spurs-stock-selloff.html
The Philippine peso fell toward a
seven-month low as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis damped
appetite for emerging-market stocks. Seven-year bonds gained.  The benchmark  stock index  plunged 4.2 percent at the noon
close of trading, its lowest level in more than a year. Failure
to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatens “cascading default,
bank runs and catastrophic risk,” U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  warned over the weekend. The central bank
will probably leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged for
the rest of the year as inflation pressures ease, Governor
Amando Tetangco said in a Sept. 24 interview in Washington.  “The continuing risk aversion over Europe is sparking a
selloff in stocks,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice
president at Security Bank Corp. in  Manila . “Lately, the
market’s been seeing some smoothing activity from the regulator,
similar to what other central banks in the region do.”  The peso dropped 0.6 percent to 43.862 per dollar at the 4
p.m. close of trading in Manila, falling by the most in two
weeks, Tullett Prebon Plc data showed. The currency touched
43.95 on Sept. 23, the weakest level since Feb. 4.  The Southeast Asian economy may grow around 5 percent this
year, President  Benigno Aquino  said today in a speech in Japan,
aired on local radio.  Inflation this month will probably be between 3.8 percent
and 4.8 percent, Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message today
from  Japan . Consumer-price gains slowed to 4.3 percent in August,
a four-month low, based on 2000 prices. Tetangco is part of
Aquino’s delegation on his visit to Japan this week.  The yield on the 5 percent August 2018 peso bond fell 18
basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 5.59 percent,
snapping a two-day advance, according to Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.’s midday fixing. That was the biggest drop since
Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 