-- 
Phone, Web Clampdowns in Crises Are Intolerable: Susan Crawford

-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-09-26T00:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/phone-web-clampdowns-in-crises-are-intolerable-susan-crawford.html
Can U.S. citizens count on
using the Internet and cell-phone networks to communicate
in high-stress situations? The Federal Communications
Commission is about to examine that question. Public
interest and the law both require that channels stay open.  At issue is the termination of cell-phone service by
 San Francisco ’s  Bay Area Rapid Transit  system on Aug. 11.
It acted to thwart a protest about a shooting of a
passenger by BART police. A host of consumer advocates and
digital civil-rights groups have filed an  emergency
petition , asking the FCC to step in.  As far as anyone knows, no government agency in the
U.S. had cut off general-purpose communications before BART
took this step. The question before the FCC is whether
BART’s action violated the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
which prohibits discontinuing or impairing service without
due process.  It is essential that the FCC quickly find BART’s
conduct wrong. Otherwise, Americans will be in the same
situation as Egyptians were when former President  Hosni Mubarak  ordered the squelching of cell-phone service in
 Tahrir Square .  As the advocates’ petition makes clear, U.S. courts
have consistently ruled against shutting communications
services, on the grounds that no official has the authority
to squelch phone service based only on the suspicion of
illegal activity.  Suspicion Isn’t Enough  When Earl Warren was  California ’s attorney general in
1942, he wanted the phone company to cut off service to a
man suspected of involvement with illegal gambling. A
California court ruled that disconnection was unjustified,
saying that a telephone company had no right to refuse
access to its facilities because of a mere belief that the
wires would be used for illegal purposes.  The same logic prompted a 1955 Alabama court to rule
that Birmingham’s public safety commissioner, Eugene “Bull”
Connor, couldn’t order the phone company to halt service
based on mere suspicion. “The unconstitutional and extra-
judicial enlargement of coercive governmental power is a
frightening and cancerous growth on our body politic,” the
court said.  BART had even less cause for its action than  Earl
Warren  or Bull Connor. It assumed that people might use
cell-phone service in a way that could cause discomfort to
other passengers. A spokesman for BART, Linton Johnson,
even  suggested  that a constitutional right to safety
justified its decision and trumped any right to speak
across public networks.  Travelers’ Safety  The Electronic Frontier Foundation has  pointed out 
that 10 years ago, when BART enabled cell-phone access, the
airplane hijackings and terrorist acts of Sept. 11, 2001,
had shown that travelers would be safer if they could
communicate. Passengers aboard United Airlines Flight 93,
from  Newark  to San Francisco, found out via telephone calls
that the World Trade Center and the Pentagon had been
attacked and then voted to rush the hijackers. Workers at
the World Trade Center were able to use phones to let their
families know they had survived.  The deep connection between San Francisco and the
doomed flight made BART’s decision to wire its tunnels a
 popular  one. BART, by blocking all cell-phone service last
month, forgot its own rationale.  BART’s overreaction to the risk of a protest against
police brutality triggered a fierce, rapid response from
First Amendment scholars, communications experts and the
media. Meanwhile, protesters mounted even more protests.  The FCC’s decision to investigate was accompanied by a
cautious statement from spokesman Neil Grace. He said the
commission was gathering information “about the important
issues [BART’s] actions raised, including protecting public
safety and ensuring the availability of communications
networks.”  If the FCC slow-rolls this one, or accepts BART’s
decision and sides with those who believe that phone
service is a convenience that can be banned for any reason,
other local officials will undoubtedly adopt BART’s
tactics. Such a response would undercut the American
tradition of open communications across public, general-
purpose networks.  This petition is about more than avoiding bothersome
texting; it deals with the future of the digital age in
America. Government officials around the world have found
it very easy to cut off communications when times are
tense.  Arab Blockages  Mubarak’s sudden decision to block Internet and cell-
phone service in January is the best-known example.  Libya 
throttled  Internet access  “to the point of uselessness” a
couple of months later.  Syria  cut off access in June.  When riots erupted in the U.K. last month, Prime
Minister  David Cameron  considered banning people from using
Facebook and Twitter. He  told  Parliament he was looking at
“whether it would be right to stop people communicating via
these websites and services when we know they are plotting
violence, disorder and criminality.” He backed down
following a public uproar.  It is tempting to avoid disruptions by using the
totalitarian tactic of silencing speech. When basic
Internet connectivity is controlled by so few hands, as is
true around the world, such decisions can be executed with
extraordinary ease. Mubarak probably needed to make just
seven phone calls to cut his country off from the Internet.  The FCC’s examination of the BART fiasco is a positive
step. Now the commission needs to act quickly and
decisively, making clear that local law-enforcement
officials lack the authority to suspend basic
communications services.  As the  United Nations  said in June, the Internet is
“an indispensable tool for realizing a range of human
rights, combating inequality, and accelerating development
and human progress.”  The consequences of getting this one
wrong are unbearable.  (Susan Crawford is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at Cardozo School of Law. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net , or
@scrawford on Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
George Anders at   ganders1@bloomberg.net  