-- 
Purchases of New Homes in U.S. Probably Fell to Lowest Level in Six Months

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-26T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/purchases-of-new-homes-in-u-s-probably-fell-to-lowest-level-in-six-months.html
Purchases of new houses in the U.S.
probably declined in August to the lowest level in six months as
buyers sought cheaper distressed properties, economists said
before a report today.  Sales fell 1.3 percent, a fourth consecutive drop, to a
294,000 annual pace, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 59 economists.  Foreclosure-driven price decreases for previously owned
homes may keep luring investors away from new properties,
hurting builders like Lennar Corp. Limited access to credit,
rising unemployment and waning  consumer confidence  also signal
the industry that helped precipitate the last recession will
take time to find its footing.  “New-home sales will remain depressed for some time as
there are more bargains in the existing-homes market,” said
 Millan Mulraine , senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in
 New York . “The glut of unsold houses and fickle demand will
keep putting pressure on builders.”  The Commerce Department report is due at 10 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from 275,000 to
320,000.  Sales of previously owned homes climbed 7.7 percent in
August to a five-month high 5.03 million annual rate, figures
from the National Association of Realtors showed Sept. 21. The
median price fell 5.1 percent from August 2010. Cash deals
accounted for 29 percent of the transactions, while distressed
properties, including foreclosures and short sales, made up 31
percent.  Less Prescient  New-home sales, which are tabulated when contracts are
signed, have lost their ability to forecast the broader market
as demand shifts to previously owned houses. Purchases of
existing houses are calculated when a deal closes about a month
or two later. Resales accounted for about 90 percent of the
housing market last year.  Miami-based Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, reported a 31 percent drop in profit in the quarter
ended Aug. 31 as sales fell. The market remains “challenging,”
with “already skittish customers” driven away by burdensome
mortgage-qualification rules, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said on a conference call on Sept. 19.  Existing homes and foreclosures are Lennar’s “biggest
competitors in today’s market,” Miller said. At the same time,
there is “evidence that the consumer is beginning to return in
earnest” as  home prices  have fallen to attractive levels and
mortgage rates on 30-year loans are at record lows, he said.  Fed Action  Federal Reserve policy makers last week announced more
steps to spur growth and revive the residential real estate
industry, which since 1982 has aided every economic recovery
except the current one that began in June 2009.  Housing starts dropped in August to the slowest annual rate
in three months, the Commerce Department reported last week. The
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment
index fell in September to a three-month low, other data showed.  Builders have fared worse than the broader stock market.
The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index, which includes and
Lennar and Toll Brothers Inc. has fallen about 30 percent so far
this year, compared with a 9.6 percent drop for the  S&P 500
index. (SPX)   “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed said in a statement on Sept. 21 after its two-day meeting.
“The housing sector remains depressed,” and there is
“continuing weakness in overall labor market conditions.”  In a move aimed at lowering borrowing costs, the Fed said
it will through June buy $400 billion of bonds with maturities
of six to 30 years, while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less. The central bank will also
reinvest maturing mortgage debt into mortgage-backed securities
instead of Treasuries in an attempt to spur housing and
refinancing.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  