-- 
Trader Pay May Face Restrictions Under Volcker Rule Mandated by Dodd-Frank

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-26T15:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/trader-pay-may-face-restrictions-under-dodd-frank-s-volcker-rule.html
U.S. banks would have to change the
way they compensate traders involved in market-making activities
under one of the proposed restrictions of the so-called Volcker
rule, according to a draft circulating among regulators.  The rule, which aims to ban most proprietary trading by
banks with federally insured deposits, would exempt trades
related to market-making as long as the activity met at least
seven standards, or principles. One principle would be that
traders get paid from fees and the spread of the transactions
rather than the appreciation or profit from their positions,
according to a copy of the draft reviewed by Bloomberg News.  The Volcker rule, part of the Dodd-Frank Act, is being
written by regulators in five Washington agencies and may be
released as early as October, according to three people briefed
on the discussions. It aims to reduce the chance that banks will
make risky investments with their own capital that put their
deposits at risk.  A forced change to pay structure “could have the effect of
driving people out of the regulated industry to the unregulated
industry,” said Douglas Landy, a partner at Allen & Overy LLP
who once worked at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York .  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have shut down or made plans to spin off
standalone proprietary-trading groups to prepare for the rule,
which is named for its original champion, former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker .  174 Pages  Lawmakers who crafted Dodd-Frank in 2010 chose to exempt
market-making from the rule, along with certain forms of hedging
and underwriting, because of concerns that a broad ban on
proprietary activities could bring some U.S. and world markets
to a halt. Firms including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley
serve as market-makers when they accept the risk or hold shares
of trades in order to facilitate client orders.  The 174-page draft, dated Aug. 11, shows among other things
how regulators including the  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. are working to define market-making. Besides
compensation, the principles outlined in the draft would require
that trading positions have near-term demands and no large
anticipation positions; have a revenue structure based on fees
and commissions and not on making money on the positions
themselves; and that firms fall under the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s guidance of a “bona-fide” market-maker.  Banks also would be required to institute compliance
programs to monitor when traders are moving toward banned
positions. Those internal controls are also designed to ensure
the firm does not place too much capital at risk.  Lobbying the Fed  Lawyers and executives from firms including Goldman Sachs,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Morgan Stanley have met with regulators to
discuss how to craft the definition, according to disclosures
posted on the Fed’s website.  Market-making is “critical to the liquidity of financial
instruments particularly in times of financial stress and, by
consequence, the financial stability of the  United States ,”
Richard Whiting, the  executive director  and general counsel of
the Financial Services Roundtable, a Washington-based trade
group representing the largest banks, wrote in a November
comment letter to regulators.  The draft proposal may still change, the people briefed on
it said. Each of the draft’s sections is followed by dozens of
questions, hundreds in all, from regulators seeking more details
before writing the final draft language. Those questions will
remain open when the proposal is released by regulators for
public comment in the coming weeks, said one person with
knowledge of the plans.  Treasury Role  The Fed, FDIC and SEC, as well as the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, each must approve the proposal. The Treasury
Department is responsible for coordinating the regulation.  Spokesmen  David Barr  of the FDIC, Robert Garsson of the
OCC,  John Nester  of the SEC,  Barbara Hagenbaugh  of the Fed, and
 Steven Adamske  of the CFTC all declined to comment on the draft
proposal.  Standalone proprietary trading accounted for as much as
12.4 percent of trading revenue at the six largest U.S. banks in
a quarter, and as much as 3.1 percent of total revenue,
according to a July report by the Government Accountability
Office. In the fourth quarters of 2007 and 2008, the groups
accounted for about 66 percent and 80 percent of total trading
losses, according to the report, which did not take into account
proprietary trading in other parts of the bank.  ‘Outwardly Similar’  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators established by Dodd-Frank, acknowledged the
complexity of finding the line between a bank’s proprietary
trading and its activities on behalf of clients.  “The challenge inherent in creating a robust
implementation framework is that certain classes of permitted
activities -- in particular, market making, hedging,
underwriting, and other transactions on behalf of customers --
often evidence outwardly similar characteristics to proprietary
trading, even as they pursue different objectives,” the council
said in a January report. The council said regulators should aim
for flexibility in their identification of illegal activity.  “To the extent the proposal relies on internal compliance
mechanisms rather than hard and fast rules, I think that’s
better,” said Satish Kini, co-chairman of the Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP’s Banking Group.  ‘Virtually Impossible’  Internal compliance programs, even with strong regulatory
oversight, will end up falling short, according to former
Senator Ted Kaufman, a Delaware Democrat who pushed to separate
investment and commercial banking during the 2010 Dodd-Frank
debate.  “This is trying to figure out how many angels can dance on
a pin,” Kaufman, now a professor at  Duke University , said in a
phone interview. “I flat out do not believe you can monitor the
conflict of interest.”  As regulators write the Volcker rule they have also come
under pressure from lawmakers.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee who voiced concerns over the reach
of the rule in a November comment letter, said the proposal
places the U.S. at a disadvantage. When the bill was crafted,
the premise was “that  Europe  and the rest of the world were
going to prohibit all sorts of banking activities, therefore we
didn’t have to worry about competitiveness,” Bachus, an Alabama
Republican, said in a telephone interview. “But the other
countries have taken a whiff on this.”  Levin and Merkley  Democratic Senators  Carl Levin  of  Michigan  and  Jeff Merkley 
of Oregon, who pushed for the regulation during the
congressional debate, have urged regulators through comment
letters, public speeches and staff meetings to maintain the
rule’s maximum reach.  Merkley and Levin were responsible for the inclusion of
language in the Volcker rule that would ban transactions or an
activity that results in a “material conflict of interest”
between the banking entity and its clients, customers or
counterparties.  Levin, the chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations that conducted a two-year investigation of the
financial crisis, said the provision targeted the actions of
firms like Goldman Sachs during the crisis.  The rule “breaks new ground in the area of conflict of
interest,” Levin said on the Senate floor on July 21, the
anniversary of Dodd-Frank. “It prohibits firms from assembling
an asset-backed security and selling it to clients while betting
against that same security, acting not as a market-maker, but as
an investor for its own profit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  