-- 
Radian Seeks to Form Muni-Bond Insurer With Group of Cities

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-09-26T16:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/radian-weighs-forming-muni-bond-insurer-with-non-profit-group.html
Radian Group Inc. (RDN) , the second-
largest U.S. mortgage guarantor, may expand into state- and
local-government debt insurance after the credit crisis
undermined the top municipal bond insurers.  Radian is working with the  National League of Cities , a
group of more than 1,600 municipalities, to create a new insurer
backed by private capital, the Philadelphia-based company said
today in a statement. The insurer would be a mutual, meaning it
would be owned by policyholders, according to the statement.  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  has been the only company writing new
insurance in the municipal-bond market after leaders  MBIA Inc. (MBI) 
and  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  faltered because they guaranteed
securities linked to home loans that soured. Ambac filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in November. MBIA split its municipal-bond
insurance policies from the unit that guaranteed mortgage debt
and has yet to jumpstart the business.  “There used to be six or seven very highly rated financial
guarantors,” David Beidler, president of Radian’s Asset
Assurance Inc. unit, said in a telephone interview. “Now
there’s only one. People are still issuing tax-exempt debt and
we think that a company with this kind of structure is going to
be uniquely positioned to compete in that market.”  Business Wanes  The use of insurance by state and local government
borrowers has diminished since the 2008 credit-market collapse,
when bond insurers lost the top credit ratings. Fewer than 10
percent of municipal bonds issued during the first half of this
year carried insurance, according to Bloomberg data. That
compares with as much as 50 percent during the same period in
2006, the data show.  By providing a guarantee against default, municipal bond
insurance was supposed to drive down costs for public borrowers.
Instead, investors dumped bonds backed by insurers that had
ratings cut, which raised  interest rates  for issuers.  The bond insurance industry also faced criticism from
public officials including California Treasurer Bill Lockyer,
who said it was a needless expense because governments were less
risky than the insurance companies.  Defaults in the $2.9 trillion municipal  securities market 
are rare. So far this year, $951 million of such debt defaulted,
down from $3.6 billion last year, according to the Distressed
Debt Securities Newsletter.  Seeking to Diversify  Radian Chief Executive Officer S.A. Ibrahim is seeking to
diversify the business after the company suffered losses backing
home loans. The asset assurance unit acquired Municipal and
Infrastructure Assurance Corp. in June, with licenses in 36
states, to prepare for backing municipal debt.  The league has been considering the municipal insurance
business for more than two years.  Radian and the league said the venture will probably
“involve the support of private capital from third-party
investors” they didn’t identify. Beidler declined to say how
much capital the venture will need or what kinds of investors
may be interested.  The revival of the business may face hurdles. Billionaire
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  set up a municipal bond
insurance company in December 2007 as competitors struggled to
maintain top ratings, only to pull back later.  John Flahive, senior vice president and director of fixed-
income at BNY Mellon Wealth Management in  Boston , which manages
$20 billion in municipal bonds, said in an interview last week
that he didn’t foresee a revival of municipal bond insurance
soon.  Radian’s Beidler said he’s convinced of the need.  “We obviously think there’s demand for a new financial
guarantor, or we wouldn’t be doing this,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net 
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  