-- 
Rajaratnam Judge Asks to Review Jiau Sentencing Report Ahead of Decision

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-26T21:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/rajaratnam-judge-asks-to-review-sentencing-report-on-jiau.html
The U.S. judge who is to sentence
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam for insider trading
on Oct. 13 asked to see the sentencing report for Winifred Jiau,
a former consultant for Primary Global Research LLC.  Jiau was sentenced to four years in prison last week for
her role in an insider-trading ring. She was convicted in June
of one count each of conspiracy and securities fraud for passing
earnings and other information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to two hedge fund managers.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of 14 criminal counts
of conspiracy and securities fraud for directing what
prosecutors said was the largest hedge-fund insider trading
ring. The U.S. has said Rajaratnam should be sentenced to a term
of 19 1/2 to 24 1/2 years, a penalty the defense has called
“grotesquely severe.”  The request by U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in
Manhattan, who presided over Rajaratnam’s trial, was granted
Sept. 23 by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who sentenced Jiau,
according to a court filing today.  Review  “Judge Holwell would like to review that presentence
report in preparation for the upcoming sentencing of the
defendant Raj Rajaratnam,” Thomas McCarthy, a senior U.S.
Probation Officer, wrote in the request to Rakoff.  The U.S. said Rajaratnam made $63.8 million, using illegal
tips to trade in the stocks of companies including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies Inc. and
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Jiau collected at least $208,000 for her insider’s tips,
prosecutors said. Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager, testified at her trial that he made $5
million to $10 million based on Jiau’s tips.  The U.S. sought a prison term of eight to 10 years for
Jiau, arguing she had failed to show any remorse or perform any
charitable works.  On the same day Jiau was sentenced, Zvi Goffer, an ex-
Galleon Group LLC trader convicted in a separate insider-trading
scheme, was sentenced to 10 years in prison by U.S. District
Judge  Richard Sullivan .  Goffer, who co-founded Incremental Capital LLC after he was
fired from Galleon in 2008, was convicted of all 14 criminal
counts against him.  Fired by Rajaratnam  Evidence at the trial showed that Goffer was fired by
Rajaratnam because he’d failed to provide accurate inside
information.  Goffer’s brother, Emanuel, and Michael Kimelman were
convicted at the same trial. Prosecutors said  Zvi Goffer  headed
a ring that made more than $10 million trading in 3Com Corp.,
Axcan Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp. based on
information misappropriated by two lawyers.  The court docket doesn’t indicate that Holwell has made any
request for Goffer’s sentencing memorandum.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment on today’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 