-- 
Rangers, Flyers to Play Jan. 2 Winter Classic Outdoor Game in Philadelphia

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-26T18:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/rangers-flyers-to-play-jan-2-winter-classic-outdoor-game-in-philadelphia.html
The  New York Rangers  and
 Philadelphia Flyers  will play in Citizens Bank Park on Jan. 2 in
the National Hockey League’s fifth outdoor Winter Classic, which
last year was the most-watched regular-season game in 36 years.  The two Eastern Conference rivals will face off at 1 p.m.
Eastern time, in the home of  Major League Baseball ’s
 Philadelphia Phillies , the NHL said today.  “The Rangers-Flyers rivalry is one of our very best,”
Commissioner Gary Bettman said at a televised press conference
from the baseball stadium. “Over the years, these not-so-
neighborly teams have provided an assortment of memorable
games.”  This is the fifth consecutive year that the NHL will hold
an outdoor game around the new year. The Jan. 1, 2011, Winter
Classic between the Pittsburgh Penguins and  Washington Capitals 
was seen by 4.5 million viewers, the most-watched regular-season
NHL game since a 1975 contest between the Rangers and Flyers.  The Flyers were 47-23-12 last season, finished first in the
conference’s Atlantic Division and lost in the second round of
the Stanley Cup playoffs to the eventual-champion Boston Bruins.
The Rangers (44-33-5) finished third in the division and fell in
the first round of the playoffs.  The Flyers won four of the six meetings between the two
teams last season.  Last season Home Box Office and the NHL partnered to create
“24/7,” an all-access, locker room reality show similar to the
“Hard Knocks” series that HBO has created with the  National
Football League . There will be a second “24/7” series
surrounding the 2012 Winter Classic, Bettman said.  The first episode will air on Dec. 14 and the crew and
cameras have begun filming the Rangers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  