-- 
Ranieri Real Estate, WL Ross Funds to Buy Deutsche Bank Berkshire Mortgage

-- B y   K a t i e   S p e n c e r
-- 
2011-09-26T15:18:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ranieri-real-estate-wl-ross-funds-to-buy-deutsche-bank-unit.html
Ranieri Real Estate Partners LP and
private-equity funds affiliated with WL Ross & Co. agreed to buy
Deutsche Bank Berkshire Mortgage, an originator of multifamily
loans, from  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The firm services a $28 billion apartment portfolio,
Ranieri Real Estate and WL Ross said in a statement today. It
originates loans for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage-
finance companies in U.S. government conservatorship, as well as
the Federal Housing Administration.  Demand for rental housing is rising as foreclosures force
people out of their homes and property buyers find it harder to
get mortgages. Apartment vacancies matched the lowest level
since 2007 in the three months ended June 30,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said in
a July report. Originations for multifamily loans more than
doubled in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to
an index compiled by the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  Renting Versus Owning  “We expect the fundamentals of the multifamily market to
continue to improve and the shifting preference toward renting
over homeownership to fuel significant new demand, making DBBM a
strong platform for future growth,” Jon Vacarro, co-founder and
chief executive office of Ranieri Real Estate Partners, said in
the statement.  Ranieri Real Estate is a unit of Ranieri Partners LLC, the
investment company co-founded by mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis Ranieri. WL Ross, based in New York, is led by billionaire
Wilbur Ross.  WL Ross has “long been interested” in the multifamily
segment and sees it as a “fundamentally important and growing
sector of the housing market,” James Lockhart, vice chairman of
the firm and former director of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, said in the statement.  Deutsche Bank Berkshire Mortgage will be renamed following
the completion of the deal, which is expected by the end of the
year. Terms of the acquisition weren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Spencer in  New York  at 
 Katiespencer14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  