-- 
Raskin Says Effects of Monetary Easing Shouldn’t Discourage Fed’s Stimulus

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-09-26T14:38:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/raskin-says-effects-of-monetary-easing-shouldn-t-discourage-fed.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the weaker-than-anticipated boost to U.S.
growth and employment from record monetary stimulus shouldn’t
discourage policy makers from further easing.  While the effects of Fed actions have been “somewhat more
muted than I might have expected,” that shouldn’t imply that
additional easing “would be unhelpful,” Raskin said today in a
speech in  Washington . “Indeed, the opposite conclusion might
well be the case -- namely, that additional policy accommodation
is warranted under present circumstances.”  Officials should consider a “wide array of approaches for
promoting  job creation ” given high unemployment and the length
of time many people have been out of work, Raskin said. The
former  Maryland  bank-regulation chief said Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s policies are “completely appropriate,” including
last week’s effort to lower borrowing costs by shifting $400
billion of Treasuries to longer maturities.  “To the extent that some factors may attenuate the usual
effectiveness of monetary policy, there is a compelling case to
identify and implement policy measures to mitigate those factors
and thereby strengthen the effect of the monetary accommodation
that we have already put in place,” Raskin, 50, said at a forum
hosted by the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of
Business.  ‘Quite Leery’  Responding to audience questions afterward, Raskin said she
would be “quite leery” of tolerating higher inflation or price
expectations as a path to achieve lower real interest rates and
boost growth. “One of the explicit mandates of Congress is
 price stability  and keeping inflationary expectations anchored
is, in my mind, extremely important,” she said.  The “unusual persisting factors” weakening the effects of
Fed actions include the “excess supply of housing and impaired
access to credit for many households and small businesses,” she
said in her first talk devoted to monetary policy since joining
the central bank almost a year ago.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said Sept. 21 it will buy
securities with maturities of six to 30 years through June while
selling an equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less.  The so-called Operation Twist “should exert downward
pressure on longer-term interest rates and help make broader
financial conditions more accommodative, thereby supporting a
stronger economic recovery,” Raskin said, reiterating a point
from the FOMC’s statement. The FOMC cited “significant downside
risks to the economic outlook, including strains in global
financial markets.”  Holdings Reinvestment  The Fed also agreed to switch the reinvestment of its
holdings of maturing housing debt to mortgage-backed securities
from Treasuries. “Our announcement appears to have been
successful in narrowing the spread between rates on agency MBS
and Treasury securities of comparable maturity,” a spread that
had “widened substantially since earlier this year,”
threatening to raise home-loan costs, Raskin said today,
referring to mortgage-backed securities.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, the government said Aug. 26, reducing the
initial 1.3 percent estimate. Growth may be accelerating to 1.8
percent in the third period, according to the median estimate of
66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from Sept. 2 to Sept.
7. The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its U.S. growth
projection for 2011 to 1.5 percent from 2.5 percent in June.  Housing Market  The housing market remains “depressed,” in the FOMC’s
words, even after three years of low  mortgage rates . New-home
sales fell for the third straight month in July to an annual
pace of 298,000, just above the record low pace of 278,000 sales
in August 2010. The national average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
is at 4.09 percent, the lowest on record in a Freddie Mac index.  She defended the central bank’s near-zero benchmark
interest rate since December 2008, saying that the Fed “saved
millions of jobs that would otherwise have been lost.” The
August decision to pledge unchanged rates at least through mid-
2013 represents “forward guidance” that can lower longer-term
 interest rates  and boost consumer and business spending, Raskin
said.  “Combined with widespread unemployment, housing and stock
price declines, and increasing rates of mortgage defaults,
foreclosures, and bankruptcies, the assets of many American
families have been significantly eroded,” Raskin said today.
“The effect of these developments may be to attenuate the
revival of normal consumption patterns that would otherwise be
dictating increases in consumer demand and growth.”  Raskin, an attorney, was appointed in 2007 as Maryland’s
top banking regulator and nominated to the Fed last year by
President  Barack Obama . She was previously managing director of
Promontory Financial Group, a consulting firm, and worked at the
New York Fed and as a counsel for the Senate Banking Committee.  She studied central banking as an undergraduate at  Amherst
College  in  Massachusetts , writing her 1983 thesis on
“Intermediate Targeting as a Strategy of  Monetary Policy .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  