-- 
Red Sox Beat New York Yankees 7-4 in 14 Innings to Avoid AL Wild Card Tie

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-26T05:05:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/red-sox-beat-new-york-yankees-7-4-in-14-innings-to-avoid-al-wild-card-tie.html
The  Boston Red Sox  avoided falling
into a tie with Tampa Bay for the American League wild card
playoff spot by beating the New York Yankees 7-4 in 14 innings.  Jacoby Ellsbury hit his third home run of the day to lift
the Red Sox to the victory last night in the three-game series
finale at Yankee Stadium. Ellsbury hit two home runs in
yesterday’s doubleheader opener, a 6-2 New York win.  Boston ’s win in the nightcap was its fourth in 19 games to
 stay one game ahead  of Tampa Bay in the AL’s wild card race with
three regular-season games left. A loss by the Red Sox last
night would have left the teams tied.  Boston (89-70) finishes the season with a three-game series
in Baltimore, while Tampa Bay (88-71) hosts the Yankees, who
clinched the AL East division title last week to reach the Major
League Baseball playoffs for the 16th time in 17 years.  The  Detroit Tigers  and  Texas Rangers  have locked up two
other playoff spots as AL division winners, leaving one wild
card berth available for Boston, Tampa Bay or the Los Angeles
Angels. The Angels lost to Oakland 6-5 after allowing four runs
in the ninth inning and now trail the Red Sox by three games.  The Atlanta Braves had their National League  wild card lead 
over St. Louis cut to one game after losing to the Washington
Nationals 3-0. The Cardinals beat the Chicago Cubs 3-2 yesterday
and finish the season with three games in Houston against an
Astros team that has a MLB-worst 55-104 record.  The Braves end the season with a three-game series against
the  Philadelphia Phillies . The Phillies,  Milwaukee Brewers  and
Arizona Diamondbacks previously won the NL division titles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  