-- 
Refunds on Overcharging Spur Acom Bond Risk to January High: Japan Credit

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-09-26T02:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/refunds-on-overcharging-spur-acom-bond-risk-to-january-high-japan-credit.html
Bond investors are snapping up
insurance on Promise Co. and Acom Co.’s debt as borrowing costs
rise for  Japan ’s biggest consumer lenders and their loan
business dwindles amid a government crackdown on overcharging.  Five-year credit default swaps covering Acom’s bonds rose
to 457.4 basis points on Sept. 23, the highest since January,
according to CMA data. Contracts insuring Promise’s debt on Sept.
14 reached the most expensive relative to global peers since May
12, the data show.  Higher borrowing costs and a regulatory clampdown that caps
loan rates at 20 percent from as much as 29 percent are reducing
profitability, with Promise’s net interest margin falling to a
record low in the year ended March, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The companies are trimming loans as they
accumulate cash to repay customers who were overcharged interest
before the law change, and as household spending fails to
recover from the earthquake that hit north of  Tokyo  in March.  “Consumer lenders are in a downward spiral as they are
forced to reduce lending in an effort to secure their own
funding,” said Yasuhiro Matsumoto, a Tokyo-based senior analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service. “It could take two or three years
before their customers’ claims for overcharged interest dry up.”  The average coupon on Acom’s bonds increased 59 basis
points to 2.66 percent since the end of 2009, and Promise’s rose
38 basis points to 3.08 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Companies in the benchmark Topix stock index
currently pay a 1.54 percent average coupon, the data show.  Unlike Takefuji  Credit-default swaps on the two companies’ bonds have still
declined by the most in Japan this year, as investors bet they
will avoid following rival  Takefuji Corp. (8564)  into bankruptcy.
Unlike Takefuji, which collapsed in September 2010, Promise and
Acom are backed by major Japanese banks that have pledged to
maintain support.  The two lenders are using different strategies to obtain
credit. Promise, which only sold bonds once in the past three
years, is relying on loans from its biggest shareholder,
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest financial group.
Acom is continuing to sell bonds even as interest rates climb,
in addition to receiving loans from banks including Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc., its largest shareholder.  Promise has no plans to raise funds through bond sales
“for the time being,” said Hiroshi Takada, a company spokesman,
citing the recent increase in the cost of insuring the lender’s
notes. “Along with internal reserves we have built over the
past several months, we are focusing mainly on loans from banks
led by  Sumitomo Mitsui .”  Bond Sales  Promise last sold bonds in April 2010, when it issued 10
billion yen ($131 million) of five-year notes with a 3.5 percent
coupon, Bloomberg data show. Acom has sold three bonds this year
on top of five in 2010. The most recent was a 15 billion yen
note maturing in two years that pays a coupon of 3.85 percent,
the highest among Acom’s 18 issues outstanding.  The increases in consumer lenders’ borrowing costs
contrasts with a drop in corporate and government bond yields as
a slowing global economy spurs demand for debt. Japanese
corporate bonds yielded 1.13 percent on Sept. 6, matching the
lowest since May 16, according to Nomura Securities Co.’s Bond
Performance Index. The yield on Japan’s 10-year government bond
touched 0.965 percent on Sept. 22, the lowest this year, and was
0.975 percent at 11 a.m. in Tokyo.  Bond Yields  The extra yield investors demand to hold Japanese corporate
bonds, excluding power companies and banks, instead of
government debt was 22 basis points on Sept. 23, after reaching
a post-quake high of 27 basis points on May 11, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Japan Industrial Index.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose 15 basis points to 199.5
on Sept. 22, according to CMA data. Five-year contracts on
Japanese government debt jumped 22 basis points last week to a
record 142, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  “We’ve been sticking with our funding strategy, where 40
percent comes from finance like bond issuance and 60 percent is
from bank loans,” said Takashi Kiribuchi, a Tokyo-based
spokesman for Acom.  Assure Investors  The company had 253 billion yen in liquidity as of June 30,
including a 100 billion yen commitment line with banks including
Mitsubishi UFJ, compared with 230 billion yen of debts due to be
repaid over the next year, Kiribuchi said. “This is part of our
efforts to assure investors, some of whom might have concerns
over our financial stamina.”  Demand for consumer loans may weaken as a rebound from the
March 11 earthquake loses steam. Japanese have cut spending for
10 months and now face prospects of an economic slowdown as
 Europe ’s debt crisis deepens and the U.S. recovery wanes. Bank
lending has shrunk for 21 months, the longest streak of declines
in six years,  Bank of Japan  data show.  “Dimming prospects for Japan’s economy, coupled with the
tougher consumer-lending regulations, is deterring borrowers
from seeking more loans,” said Kiyoko Ohora, a Tokyo-based
director at the financial institutions ratings division of
 Standard & Poor’s . “Demand for consumer loans may bottom out in
the next fiscal year, and competition among lenders will
probably become more severe in a shrinking market.”  As well as capping  interest rates , the law introduced last
year restricts loan sizes to a third of a borrower’s annual
income.  Loans Less Profitable  Promise’s net interest margin, a gauge of loans’
profitability, shrank to 13.7 percent in the year ended March,
the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling data in 1995. Acom’s
slid to 15.5 percent, the smallest in at least 11 years, the
data show. Both companies posted losses last fiscal year.  Loans outstanding at Promise declined to 920 billion yen as
of March 31, the lowest fiscal year-end balance since 1997,
Bloomberg data show. At Acom, loans tumbled to 1.1 trillion yen,
compared with the 2 trillion yen peak in March 2003.  While loans are declining, so is the number of customer
claims for refunds of excess interest, a trend that helped
shares of the two companies climb this year. Acom has risen 40
percent on the Tokyo Stock Exchange since Dec. 31, and Promise
has advanced 8.6 percent. The Topix index has dropped 19 percent.  Customer requests for repayments of interest overcharged by
Promise declined to 8,900 in August after climbing to 16,400 in
March, according to Takada. Acom’s claims dropped to 7,500 in
August from as high as 16,500 in February, Kiribuchi said.  “With interest-refund claims decreasing over the past year,
the risk that consumer lenders will go bankrupt or won’t be
rescued by banks diminished dramatically,” said Akira Nomura, a
credit analyst overseeing the consumer-lending industry at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “They’re still faced with a big
issue, which is how to craft a business strategy and pursue
growth in a shrinking market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  