-- 
Goldman Sachs Agrees to Buy India’s ReNew Wind Power for $200 Million

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-26T10:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/renew-wind-power-gets-201-million-investment-from-goldman-sachs.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
acquire a majority stake in India’s  ReNew Wind Power Pvt.  for 10
billion rupees ($200 million), extending the U.S. bank’s
investments in emerging economies.  ReNew Wind plans to have 1,000 megawatts of wind-generation
capacity by 2015, the companies said today in an e-mailed
statement. The Mumbai-based power producer, founded by Sumant Sinha, a former chief operating officer of Suzlon Energy Ltd.,
India’s largest wind-turbine maker, expects to have its first 85
megawatts operating by June.  Indian wind-power companies are raising money to fund their
expansion as the nation plans to add 2,400 megawatts of wind
energy capacity in the financial year ending March 31 and had
14,723 megawatts as of July.  ReNew Wind will invest the money in renewable energy and
acquire projects “on an opportunistic basis,” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Sinha said in a telephone interview. He
said Goldman’s investment will be made over time.  New York-based Goldman has invested $1.5 billion worldwide
in clean energy companies, the statement said.  India , the
biggest market for new wind park installations after  China  and
the U.S., is dominated by Ahmedabad-based Suzlon, which
installed 41 percent of new capacity in the last financial year.  Goldman will have representatives on ReNew Wind’s board and
the company may consider trading publicly in the future, Sinha
said. “There are no listing plans in the near future but
several years down the road, that could be the exit
possibility” for an investor.  Annual Targets  ReNew Wind Power plans to expand its capacity by 200 to 300
megawatts annually, according to today’s statement. The company
has signed agreements with Suzlon,  Germany ’s Kenersys GmbH and
Regen Powertech Pvt. to build and operate wind farms in India,
according to the report.  The U.S. bank has invested more than $2 billion through
private equity and its own funds in India since 2006, according
to the statement. The recipients included vehicle maker  Mahindra
& Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  and TVS Logistics Services Ltd.  Ankur Sahu and Andrew Wolff were named by Goldman as
co-heads for its principal investment area in  Asia , according to
an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News and reported in
February. Sahu moved to Mumbai this year from  Japan  to lead the
expansion of the Indian operations with Sanjeev Mehra.  Caparo Energy Ltd. (CEL) , a wind-farm developer that has
announced India’s largest turbine orders, sold 3.5 billion
rupees in preferred shares to fund its expansion, the company
said June 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net 
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  