-- 
Rethinking Social Security’s Future

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P .   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-27T16:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/rethinking-social-security-s-future.html
We’ve all heard it: Social Security is broke. Worse, it’s a
grand  Ponzi scheme , according to one politician. The great
fear for many Americans is that Social Security will run out
of money to pay benefits to millions of retirees, leaving a
generation of elderly Americans destitute. The recent mini
crisis over raising the debt ceiling only fueled concerns that
benefit checks might not go out as scheduled if the debt
ceiling had not been raised.  At the same time, Social Security is not generating much
growth. Its funds are invested automatically in special
Treasury bonds that aren't able to be traded and that in 2010
carried an average interest rate of 2.76 percent. “There is no
human decision involved,” says Sandra Salstrom, a spokeswoman
for the Treasury Dept., which administers the fund. Under the
current system, the fund is expected to run out in 2036.  Some people say that Social Security's future could be
better. Extending its life could be as simple as investing the
funds in a smart, professional manner similar to other public
and private pension funds.  Meat-and-Potatoes Investing  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System 
(CalPERS), for example, has $239 billion under management and
earned an average net return of 12.5 percent in the 2010
calendar year and an average annual return of 8.6 percent from
1988 to 2010, according to  Wayne Davis , a CalPERS spokesman.
It generated high returns because 65 percent of the fund’s
assets are invested in international blue chips and domestic
and developing world stocks.  Brian Bruce, an adjunct professor of finance at Baylor
University in Waco, Tex., says an 8 percent “blended return”
across all of a pension fund’s investments is a reasonable
expectation over the next five to 10 years. Bruce, who is also
chief executive officer of fund management firm Hillcrest
Asset Management in  Dallas , believes the Social Security trust
fund needs to include a diversified basket of alternatives to
fixed income, like real estate investment trusts, master
limited partnerships, and global equities. The AT&T pension
fund, for example, is heavily invested in timber resources, he
notes.  Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute in
 Washington , D.C., and a current trustee of the Social Security
trust fund, published a book in 1998 called Countdown to
Reform: the Social Security Debate, in which he proposed
investing about 20 percent of the trust fund in an equity
index such as the  S&P 500 . “This would be meat-and-potatoes
investing,” Reischauer says.  According to Reischauer, such a move would increase the
 trust fund 's income about 1.5 percent over the rate it is
currently receiving, an amount equal to about $37 billion more
a year. By his calculations, that would close around half the
gap in the underfunding that's projected to cause the trust
fund to run out of cash in 2036.  Big Risks  Such a strategy, however, faces challenges. Olivia S.
Mitchell, director of the Pension Research Council at the
Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania , says the
government has already spent the money in the trust fund to
pay for budget deficits. That is, while the government’s
obligation to pay out billions of dollars to retirees is on
the record, the hard cost to back up that promise has been
lent out to the Treasury. Before the money could be
invested, the special bonds would have to be redeemed by an
act of Congress.  The fund would also come under tremendous political
pressure to invest in certain areas and not in others -- a
problem faced by President  Bill Clinton  when he considered
investing the trust fund in higher-yielding stocks. Clinton
also faced pressure from activist Jesse Jackson, who demanded
that the money not be invested outside the U.S., because that
would take jobs away from Americans.  Another consideration: Who would assume the risk of loss in
case the stocks went down in value? In private pension
plans, the company assumes that risk. With public pension
plans, it is ultimately the taxpayer who would have to make up
any shortfall, or the benefit recipients, who would be asked
to accept less than they were promised.  “Very few asset managers look at the liabilities, and that
is a fundamental misunderstanding in pension land,” says
Mitchell.  No Silver Bullet  The  insurance industry , however, does keep a close eye on
liabilities. Through asset-liability matching, it is already
known how much needs to be paid out in 10 years. The asset
manager would buy low-risk corporate bonds and  government
securities  to match that liability. Money earmarked for more
distant payouts -- 20 or 30 years off, say -- could be
invested in higher-return securities, such as stocks.  There have been several efforts over the years to use the
stock market to bolster Social Security. President Clinton’s
plan to use 60 percent of a projected $4.4 trillion surplus
over 15 years never made it to serious consideration, largely
because the projected budget surplus evaporated. President
Bush's plan to set up individual retirement accounts as a
replacement for Social Security was opposed by leading
Republicans as well as Democrats because of the implied risk
of individuals investing on their own.  Given the resistance, even the  Urban Institute 's
Reischauer, a proponent of investing the trust in
equities, admits that more work will need to be done to extend
Social Security. It seems clear that investing in the stock
market will not be a silver bullet to solve Social Security’s
problems. "Investing in equities isn't a silver bullet to
solve all the problems," he says. "It's a modest component of
the solution."  (Charles P. Wallace is a freelance writer in  New York .)  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nikhil
Hutheesing at  nhutheesing@bloomberg.net . 