-- 
Ringgit Drops to Near 16-Month Low on Europe Woes; Bonds Gain

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-09-26T08:28:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ringgit-trades-near-14-month-low-on-europe-crisis-bonds-rise.html
Malaysia’s ringgit dropped to near
its weakest level in 14 months as regional stocks fell on
concern European leaders will struggle to resolve the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Germany’s Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  said
yesterday that euro-region finance ministers won’t be in a
position to decide on the disbursement of the next tranche of
aid to Greece when they meet on Oct. 3. Malaysian  government
bonds  rose as equities dropped before U.S. reports this week
that economists predict will show  consumer spending  slowed in
August and home sales dropped for a fourth month. Government
bonds advanced.  “Asian currencies are going to remain a bit soft until we
get some concrete actions” on  Europe ’s bailout, said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at Malayan Banking
Bhd. in Singapore. “European leaders are showing they are more
concerned about the debt situation.”  The ringgit dropped 0.2 percent to 3.1895 per dollar as of
3:40 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has dropped 6.8 percent this month and
touched 3.2015 on Sept. 23, the weakest level since July 2010.  Malaysia’s economy may not improve much in the second half
of this year, Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz
said in an interview in  Washington  yesterday. It grew at the
slowest pace since 2009 last quarter. Interest rates are still
at a level that is supportive of growth, which may be “about
the same or slightly better” in the second half of this year
compared with the first, Zeti said.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index of local shares dropped
2.8 percent today, adding to a 4.5 percent slump last week. The
country faces the risk of a 66 billion ringgit ($21 billion)
outflow next quarter if global funds repatriate proceeds from
maturing central bank bills and notes, Barclays Capital said in
a report on Sept. 23.  Bonds Advance  Three-year notes gained after Zeti said yesterday inflation
has probably peaked, boosting speculation policy makers in the
region have finished raising  interest rate . The government will
auction 3.5 billion ringgit of notes maturing in 2018 tomorrow.  The yield on the 3.434 percent note due August 2014 fell
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to a four-day low
of 3.14 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia..  Bank Negara  maintained its overnight rate at 3 percent at
reviews on July 7 and Sept. 8, citing risk to external demand
amid Europe’s debt crisis. Policy makers will hold the final
scheduled meeting this year on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  