-- 
Rubber Plunges to One-Year Low as Debt Crisis May Cut Demand

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-09-26T07:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/rubber-plunges-to-one-year-low-as-debt-crisis-may-cut-demand.html
Rubber slumped to a one-year low as
the European debt crisis and a slowing global economy raised
concern that demand for the commodity, used in tires and gloves,
may weaken.  The February-delivery contract tumbled as much as 11.7
percent to 302.5 yen a kilogram ($3,966 a metric ton), before
settling at 303 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, the lowest
settlement level since Sept. 17, 2010. Rubber futures lost 6.2
percent last week, for a third weekly decline. The market was
closed on Friday for a public holiday.  Asian stocks fell, driving the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
toward the lowest since July 2009, while crude oil dropped for a
fourth day on speculation that  Europe ’s failure to tame its
sovereign-debt crisis may threaten global growth.  “Uncertainty about the macro economy is still haunting
 commodities markets ,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip
Futures Pte., said by phone from  Singapore .  European policy makers are facing mounting pressure to step
up efforts to prevent their sovereign debt crisis from further
roiling the world’s financial markets and economy. Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund, forecast advanced economies will stall over the next year
with Europe sliding into recession.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned at the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington 
that a failure to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.”
Billionaire investor  George Soros  said “something needs to be
done” to safeguard Europe’s banks because  Greece  may be unable
to avoid default.  “Worries over global economic slump sparked selloffs
across commodities markets as investors prefer to hold cash,
reducing risk,” Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at Agrow
Enterprise Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok.  Rising Inventories  Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, the biggest rubber
producers representing about 70 percent of global supplies, may
slow exports to counter a slump in prices, the International
Rubber Consortium Ltd. said.  “The group is closely monitoring the situation and has
prepared measures to respond to panic selloffs in the futures
market,” Yium Tavarolit, chief secretary of the group said by
phone from Bangkok today. “We may urge growers and exporters to
hold back supplies and sell only necessary amount.”  Natural-rubber inventories rose 305 tons to 33,766 tons,
the highest since March, based on a survey of 10 warehouses in
 Shanghai , Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin, the Shanghai
Futures Exchange said Sept. 23 in a weekly report. That was 51
percent below this year’s high of 68,850 tons.  Vietnam may export 80,000 tons of rubber in September,
according to a forecast from the Ministry of Agriculture and
 Rural Development . Exports for the first nine months of the year
are seen at 530,000 tons, an increase of 3.3 percent compared
with the same period a year earlier, the ministry said in a
monthly report posted on its website.  In Shanghai, January-delivery rubber tumbled by a daily
limit to close at 27,465 yuan ($4,297) a ton, the lowest level
since Oct. 8.  The cash price of Thai rubber fell 3.2 percent 136.10 baht
($4.37) a kilogram today, the Rubber Research Institute of
 Thailand  said on its website. Rains spreading across southern
provinces will potentially disrupt production, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  