-- 
Ruble Drops to Two-Year Low Against Dollar After Putin Decision

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-09-26T16:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ruble-drops-to-two-year-low-to-dollar-after-putin-announcement.html
The ruble dropped to the lowest
intraday level in more than two years against the dollar as oil
fell and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s plan to return to the
Russian presidency stoked concern of a government reshuffle.  Russia ’s currency lost 1.2 percent to 32.42 per dollar at
the 7 p.m. close in Moscow, its lowest closing level since
August 2009. The ruble was 0.8 percent weaker at 43.68 per euro,
leaving it down 1 percent at 37.487 against the central bank’s
target dollar-euro basket, the 12th consecutive trading day of
losses.  Urals crude oil, Russia’s chief export earner, lost 2
percent to $103.48 a barrel on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may
hurt demand for the commodity in the euro area. Putin’s
announcement Sept. 24 prompted Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin to
say he probably wouldn’t continue in his current role if current
President Dmitry Medvedev becomes prime minister in the new
government. Medvedev signed an order dismissing Kudrin, Natalya
Timakova, the president’s spokeswoman, said today after official
ruble trading ended in Moscow.  “For the ruble, we think the tandem has probably chosen
the worst possible moment to unveil its plans,” Tatiana Orlova,
an economist covering Russia and the former  Soviet Union  at
Nomura International in  London , wrote in an e-mailed research
note before the dismissal was announcement.  Investors increased bets that the ruble will weaken, with
non-deliverable forwards showed it at 33.0592 per dollar in
three months at 8:10 p.m. in Moscow, compared with 32.9975
before the announcement. They closed at 32.6685 on Sept. 23. The
contracts provide a guide to expectations of currency movements
and interest-rate differentials, and allow companies to hedge
against currency shifts.  Selling Reserves  “Kudrin’s departure will be a body blow to the market,”
Tim Ash, the London-based head of emerging-markets stategy at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by e-mail after the
market closed. “He will be very difficult to replace.”  Russia’s central bank may have sold as much as $1.2 billion
of its reserves this morning to counter the ruble’s fall against
the basket,  Benoit Anne , the London-based head of global
emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale SA, said by e-mail.
Total interventions by Bank Rossii on Friday may have reached $2
billion, he said.  Bank Rossii uses the basket to smooth currency movements
that can hurt exporters, selling more dollars and euros the
closer the ruble gets to the weaker end of its so-called
floating corridor.  Shifting Band  The central bank’s band for the ruble may have shifted up
to 32.50 to 37.50 after today’s retreat breached the upper limit
of the previous corridor of 32.30 to 37.30, according to Anne.
The bank is keeping its ruble policy unchanged, RIA Novosti
reported Sept. 23, citing deputy central bank chairman Sergey Shvetsov.  A spokesman for the central bank declined to comment on
intervention levels or corridor policy on Sept. 21 when e-mailed
by Bloomberg.  “The central bank has enough reserves to stabilize the
ruble,”  German Gref , chief executive officer of OAO Sberbank,
said at a news briefing in  Singapore  today. Sberbank is Russia’s
largest bank.  Bank Rossii’s sales of foreign currencies to buoy the ruble
may be driving up yields for ruble bonds, according to  Denis Korshilov , the Moscow-based head of fixed income, currencies and
commodities at Citigroup Inc. The yield on domestic OFZ bonds
due 2018 jumped 12 basis points today, to a record-high 9.01
percent.  Ruble Liquidity  “The central bank keeps selling dollars, so there is a
fear that process will keep reducing ruble liquidity,”
Korshilov said by e-mail. “That, of course, pushes OFZ prices
down.”  The three-month MosPrime rate, the average that banks
charge to lend to each other, jumped 62 basis points to 6.45
percent today. That’s the highest since January 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, a sign the amount of cash in the
market is falling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  