-- 
Rupiah Weakens to 15-Month Low on Stock Sales, Europe’s Debt

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-09-26T09:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/rupiah-weakens-to-15-month-low-on-stock-sales-europe-s-debt.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah weakened to a
15-month low as investors sold the nation’s stocks on concern
European leaders are struggling to stop the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis from spreading. Bonds gained.  The local currency slipped the most since Nov. 2008 as the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid. Germany’s Deputy Finance Minister
 Joerg Asmussen  said yesterday that euro-region finance chiefs
are unlikely to decide on the disbursement of further aid to
 Greece  when they meet on Oct. 3. The rupiah declined 5.9 percent
this month as foreign funds sold $664 million more Indonesian
shares than they bought, according to exchange data.  “Bank Indonesia is trying to control the volatility in the
market but it can’t go against the regional trend,” said
Lindawati Susanto, head of treasury at PT Bank Resona Perdania
in Jakarta. “The regional stocks are down. We have to look at
the global economic situation.”  The rupiah fell 3.1 percent to 9,060 against the dollar as
of 4 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 9,115 earlier, the
weakest level since June 2010. The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI) 
dropped 3.3 percent today.  “The situation in  Europe  remains a threat,” said Irvin Patmadiwiria, who helps manage $165 million in assets as a  fund
manager  at PT Lautandhana Investment Management in Jakarta.
“Local retail investors are selling on margin calls after
shares declined. They must cut their losses or add cash.”  Margin calls refer to a broker’s demand for a customer to
add cash when prices of shares that are purchased using borrowed
funds fall.  Bank Indonesia will continue to buy bonds and intervene in
the currency market “until the market cools,” Governor  Darmin
Nasution  told reporters in Jakarta last week.  The yield on the Indonesian government’s benchmark 8.25
percent securities due July 2021 fell 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, to 7.22 percent today, according to prices
from the Inter-Dealer Market Association. This was the most
since Nov. 2010. The rate gained 37 basis points last week.  Bank Indonesia  bought 320 billion rupiah ($35 million) of
bonds in an auction from the secondary market, Hendar, the
central bank’s director of monetary policy, said Sept. 23. The
central bank also purchased 510 billion rupiah of bonds from the
secondary market without an auction, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  