-- 
Tryg, Carnegie Reported to Danish Police for Insider Trading

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-26T14:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/tryg-carnegie-reported-to-danish-police-for-insider-trading.html
Tryg A/S, Denmark’s biggest
insurance company, was reported to the police for leaking
information to Carnegie Bank A/S that led to illegal  insider
trading , the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority said.  Tryg’s investor relations department told Carnegie in April
2010 that it would soon publish an announcement because of
“uncertainty in the market,” the Copenhagen-based FSA said
today in an e-mail. Tryg denied wrongdoing and said it would
defend itself in courts. Carnegie accepted to pay a fine.  After the April 2010 correspondence with Tryg, Carnegie
forwarded the information to its clients and traded shares in
the insurance company, the FSA said. The day after, Ballerup,
Denmark-based Tryg published a statement saying it would record
extraordinary losses of about 700 million kroner ($125 million).  “We do not agree with the view of the Danish FSA,” Troels Rasmussen, a spokesman at Tryg, said in an e-mail reply to
questions. “Therefore, we believe that - if necessary - the
question will have to be settled by the courts. We have no
further comments.”  The FSA said it hadn’t disclosed the alleged leak earlier
to protect the investigation. It was both illegal for Tryg to
inform Carnegie in advance of the announcement and for the bank
to forward the information to its clients, the FSA said.  Carnegie Bank, which is a unit of Stockholm-based D.
Carnegie & Co AB, said it agreed with public prosecutors to pay
a 100,000-krone fine to close the case.  “Having considered the resource consumption implied in
taking the case to court, Carnegie Bank A/S has accepted to pay
the fine,” it said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  