-- 
Saleh’s Return to Yemen Fails to End Violence as Calls for Talks Rejected

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-09-26T10:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/saleh-s-return-to-yemen-fails-to-end-violence-as-calls-for-talks-rejected.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
may face nationwide protests today as his return to the country
after more than three months abroad and calls for negotiations
were rejected by the opposition.  Opposition leaders called on followers to mark today’s
national holiday commemorating a 1962 uprising that ended the
monarchy with demonstrations against Saleh, who has ruled the
Arab world’s poorest country for more than three decades.
Protesters took to the streets following a night of heavy
shelling, calling for a “new revolution” to take place.  “Our protests will escalate and we are confident we will
win,” said Tawakul Karaman, the head of Women Journalists
Without Chains, a Sana’a-based human rights organization. “We
will arrest him and bring him to court.”  Violence in  Yemen  threatens to mirror the situation across
the  Gulf of Aden  in Somalia, which has been mired in a civil war
for two decades and hasn’t had a functioning central government
since 1991. At least 150 people have been killed in two weeks of
fighting. Saleh returned to Yemen on Sept. 24 from Saudi Arabia,
where he was receiving treatment.  Saleh’s government has said rising social unrest threatens
to strengthen al-Qaeda, a concern also expressed by the U.S. The
group has sought to use Yemen as a base from which to
destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest
exporter of crude oil, and for attempted attacks on
international targets including two U.S. synagogues last year.  Elections Call  Saleh called late yesterday for parliamentary and
presidential elections on the basis of an accord proposed by the
 Gulf Cooperation Council . The regional GCC bloc includes the
 United Arab Emirates ,  Bahrain ,  Saudi Arabia , Oman, Qatar and
 Kuwait .  “We have talked repeatedly about the peaceful transfer of
power through the ballot boxes,” Saleh said in a televised
address on the eve of Yemen’s Revolution Day. “We are committed
to the Gulf initiative and to implementing it.”  Protests have persisted since the government and the main
opposition group, the Joint Meetings Parties, failed three times
to sign the plan. Under the terms of the proposal, Saleh would
cede power within a month of signing the deal and be granted
immunity from prosecution. A transition would follow within 60
days.  ‘Cunning Tactics’  Violence in the capital erupted the last time the talks
collapsed. The president left for Saudi Arabia on June 5 for
medical treatment after being wounded by a rocket that slammed
into the mosque in his presidential compound. Sixteen people
were killed in the attack and more than 100 wounded.  Saleh’s latest offer is an attempt to “avoid more
international pressure, Karaman said in a telephone interview.
“We are fed up with his cunning tactics.”  Saleh said he supported the “legitimate demands” of
political parties and Yemeni youth, adding that some groups are
committing “crimes” to seize power and wealth.  Government forces opened fire earlier yesterday on tens of
thousands of protesters, wounding 17, three of whom are in
critical condition, said Mohammed Qubatai, a doctor at the field
clinic at the protest camp dubbed Change Square.  Al Jazeera 
later said that four people were killed.  Armed tribesmen from Yemen’s Nihm region north of Sana’a
have taken control of a military camp from the elite Republican
Guard, Naji al-Nihmi, a tribal leader, said in a telephone
interview. At least six tribesmen were killed and 28 others
wounded in clashes between the two groups, al-Nihmi said.  ‘Rotten Regime’  The demonstrations, which were inspired by revolts that
ousted the leaders of Tunisia, Libya and  Egypt , deepened as
military and tribal leaders joined the opposition.  “We will not stop protests till this rotten regime is
gone,” said Mohamed Hadian, a protester marching in Sana’a
today.  Yemeni authorities “appeared to have lost effective
control of parts of the country and within the major cities,”
the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human
Rights said in a report. It warned that Yemen faced civil war.  Saleh became leader of North Yemen in 1978 and has ruled
the Republic of Yemen since the north and south merged in 1990.
He has repeatedly said that his immediate departure could lead
to chaos and a four-way split of the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 