-- 
Sales of New U.S. Homes Fell to Six-Month Low

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-26T20:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/sales-of-new-u-s-homes-decreased-to-six-month-low-in-august.html
Purchases of new houses in the U.S.
declined in August to a six-month low as the biggest drop in
prices in two years failed to lure buyers away from even less
expensive distressed properties.  Sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, dropped 2.3
percent to a 295,000 annual pace, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. The median estimate of 73
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a decline to
293,000. The median price slumped 7.7 percent from August 2010,
the steepest 12-month drop since July 2009.  Foreclosure-driven price decreases for previously owned
homes may keep attracting investors away from new properties,
hurting builders like  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  Limited access to credit,
rising unemployment and waning  consumer confidence  also signal
the industry that helped precipitate the recession will take
time to find its footing.  “Sales are very weak, and there will be very little
improvement over the next couple of months,” said  Celia Chen , a
housing economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “We expect a step up in distressed home sales,
which will put more downward pressure on prices. It’ll be a very
slow return to normal.”  Stocks climbed on speculation European leaders will act to
prevent the region’s debt crisis from getting worse. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.3 percent to 1,162.95 at the
4 p.m. close in  New York .  Treasury securities  dropped, sending
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 1.90 percent from
1.83 percent late on Sept. 23.  Survey Results  Economists’ estimates ranged from 275,000 to 320,000. The
government revised July demand up to 302,000 from a previously
reported 298,000.  The median sales price decreased to $209,100 in August from
$226,600 in the same month last year, today’s report showed.  Purchases fell in three of four U.S. regions last month, led
by a 14 percent drop in the Northeast. The Midwest registered
the only gain, advancing 8.2 percent.  The supply of homes at the current sales rate rose to 6.6
month’s worth, from 6.5 months in the prior month. There were
162,000 new houses on the market at the end of August, the
fewest in data going back to 1963.  Distressed Properties  Sales of previously owned homes climbed 7.7 percent in
August to a five-month high 5.03 million annual rate, figures
from the National Association of Realtors showed Sept. 21. The
median price fell 5.1 percent from August 2010. Cash deals
accounted for 29 percent of the transactions, while distressed
properties, including foreclosures and short sales, made up 31
percent.  New home sales , which are tabulated when contracts are
signed, have lost their ability to forecast the broader market
as demand shifts to previously owned houses. Purchases of
existing houses are calculated when a deal closes about a month
or two later. Resales accounted for about 90 percent of the
housing market last year.  Miami-based Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, reported a 31 percent drop in profit in the quarter
ended Aug. 31 as sales fell. The market remains “challenging,”
with “already skittish customers” driven away by burdensome
mortgage-qualification rules, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said on a conference call on Sept. 19.  Existing homes and foreclosures are Lennar’s “biggest
competitors in today’s market,” Miller said. At the same time,
there is “evidence that the consumer is beginning to return in
earnest” as  home prices  have fallen to attractive levels and
mortgage rates on 30-year loans are at record lows, he said.  Fed Action  Federal Reserve policy makers last week announced more
steps to spur growth and revive the residential real estate
industry, which since 1982 has aided every economic recovery
except the current one that began in June 2009.  Housing starts dropped in August to the slowest annual rate
in three months, the Commerce Department reported last week. The
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment
index fell in September to a three-month low, other data showed.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed said in a statement on Sept. 21 after its two-day meeting.
“The housing sector remains depressed,” and there is
“continuing weakness in overall labor market conditions.”  In a move aimed at lowering borrowing costs, the Fed said
it will buy $400 billion of bonds with maturities of six to 30
years through June, while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less. The central bank will also
reinvest maturing mortgage debt into mortgage-backed securities
instead of Treasuries in an attempt to spur housing and
refinancing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  