-- 
Samsung Says It Can Meet Tablet Target Amid Apple Lawsuits

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-09-26T09:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/samsung-says-it-can-meet-tablet-sales-target-for-2011-amid-apple-lawsuits.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones, said it can still
meet its target for tablet-computer sales this year even as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  seeks to block them in some markets.  The company is on track to raise sales of tablet computers
by more than five times this year from 2010 as it planned, J.K. Shin, head of Samsung’s mobile-phone division, said at a media
briefing in  Seoul  today.  Samsung and Apple have been involved in multiple lawsuits
around the globe, since Apple claimed in an April lawsuit filed
in the U.S. that the South Korean company’s Galaxy devices
copied the iPhone and iPad. Apple has blocked sales of the
Galaxy Tab 10.1 in  Germany , which  Strategy Analytics  forecasts
will be  Europe ’s third-largest market for touch-screen mobile
computers this year.  In  Australia , Samsung agreed to push back introduction of
the product until the end of this month because of a hearing
being held this week. Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett
may grant a “brief” injunction on sales of the Samsung tablet
as she considers arguments from South Korean company and Apple,
the judge said today during the first day of a two-day hearing.  Shares of the Suwon, South Korea-based company rose 2.2
percent to 775,000 won at the 3:00 p.m. close in Seoul trading,
while the benchmark Kospi index declined 2.6 percent.  World’s Second-Largest  Samsung, which doesn’t disclose how many tablets it shipped
last year, probably sold about 1.6 million units of its Galaxy
Tab powered by Google Inc.’s Android in 2010, according to an
estimate by NH Investment & Securities Co. Samsung was the
world’s second-largest tablet maker in the first quarter with a
market share of about 16 percent, according to  Neil Mawston , a
London-based analyst at researcher Strategy Analytics.  Microsoft Corp. on Sept. 13 unveiled a new version of its
 Windows operating system  that can run tablet devices, with a
device made by Samsung.  Samsung is also on track to sell more than 300 million
mobile phones this year, Shin said. The company sold more than
10 million units of the  Galaxy S II , according to a statement
yesterday.  The company will start selling smartphones running
Microsoft’s latest Windows operating system from the end of
October, starting with Italy, Samsung said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  