-- 
Samsung Says Apple Infringes Its Third-Generation Patents ‘Structurally’

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-09-26T16:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/samsung-says-apple-infringes-its-third-generation-patents-structurally-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has infringed upon
Samsung Electronics patents since entering the mobile-phone
market with the iPhone 3G, a lawyer for Samsung told a Dutch
court as the Korean company seeks a ban on some Apple products
in the Netherlands.  “Apple just entered the market in 2008 without taking care
of the licenses,”  Bas Berghuis van Woortman , a lawyer for
Simmons & Simmons LLP who represents Samsung, said in The Hague
court. “Apple is consciously, structurally infringing the
3G patents.”  Samsung, the world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones,
filed four lawsuits against Apple in the Netherlands and the
first scheduled hearing was today. Samsung is claiming
Cupertino, California-based Apple’s iPhone and iPad that use
third-generation technology infringe Samsung patents and is
seeking a ban on their sale in the Netherlands.  The legal battle between Apple and rival smartphone makers
is intensifying as an increasing number of consumers use smart
phones and wireless handsets to surf the Web, play games and
download music and videos. Samsung and Apple have been involved
in lawsuits around the globe since Apple claimed in an April
lawsuit filed in the U.S. that the Korean company’s Galaxy
devices copied the iPhone and iPad.  Apple told the court it uses  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s chipsets for
iPhones in Europe, and licenses are covered that way.  ‘Excessive’ Demands  “When we entered the market we did have patent licenses,”
said Rutger Kleemans, a lawyer for Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer LLP representing Apple in the Netherlands. Samsung
wants to get 2.4 percent of the chip price on the patents in
question, which is “excessive,” he said, without elaborating.  The two companies are in talks on 3G licenses, “so an
injunction is premature,” Kleemans said. Samsung holds a
standard-essential patent and is obliged to provide third
parties with a license under reasonable, non-discriminatory
terms, he said.  Apple has blocked sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in  Germany ,
which Strategy Analytics forecasts will be  Europe ’s third-
largest market for touch-screen mobile computers this year.  In  Australia , Samsung’s debut of its Galaxy 10.1 tablet
computer may be delayed beyond the end of the month after a
judge today said she needs time to study Apple’s patent-
infringement claims.  Among mobile-device patent battles is a dispute between
Apple and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. over the iPhone’s
touchscreen. The U.S. International Trade Commission is hearing
one case starting today.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung lost a preliminary court
ruling over sales of its Galaxy S, S II and Ace smart phones in
the Netherlands in a patent dispute with Apple last month. The
judge in that case didn’t extend the ruling to Samsung’s tablet
computers.  The Hague court intends to rule on Oct. 14 whether Samsung
has a case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  