-- 
Sarkozy’s Senate Vote Loss Deals Blow Ahead of Presidential Elections

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-09-26T09:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/sarkozy-s-defeat-in-senate-election-deals-blow-ahead-of-vote-for-president.html
The opposition Socialist Party’s
victory in French Senate elections yesterday dealt another blow
to President  Nicolas Sarkozy  ahead of next year’s general
elections, even if it won’t affect his ability to govern.  The Socialists are set to take control of the Senate for
the first time in the 53-year history of the Fifth Republic.  “The French Senate lacks the power and prestige of the
 U.S. Senate , yet this vote takes on presidential dimensions
because it further feeds the sense that Sarkozy is unpopular,”
said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at the Paris Political Studies
Institute. “The Senate should be his natural constituency and
yet, even among rural conservative voters, he’s contested.”  The French Senate is elected by local officials in a system
that gives greater weight to rural districts over urban ones.
Yesterday’s elections were to renew 170 out of the 348 seats.
French senators serve six-year terms.  Final results won’t be known until French Caribbean islands
report later today.  Agence France-Presse  has projected that the
Socialist Party and its allies will hold a two-seat majority.
The Senate elects its president Oct. 1, with current President
Gerard Larcher opposed by Socialist candidate Jean-Pierre Bel.  The French Senate can send legislation back to the directly
elected National Assembly, although it can’t overrule it.  “The impact on budgetary policy will be nil,”  Dominique Barbet , senior economist at BNP Paribas, said in a note to
clients after the vote. “It is only after the June 2012 general
elections, when we know if the party of the newly elected
president has a majority in both houses, that the situation can
really be assessed.”  Call for Unity  In a seven-line statement, Prime Minister  Francois Fillon 
recognized the left’s win, which he called “predictable,” and
called for Sarkozy’s Union for a Popular Movement party to
unite.  France  holds presidential elections next May and
parliamentary elections in June.  Fillon and UMP Secretary General Jean-Francois Cope visited
Sarkozy this morning.  Sarkozy’s UMP was beaten by the Socialist Party in March
2011 Cantonal elections and in March 2010 regional elections.  “Nicolas Sarkozy will go down as the president who lost
the right’s majority in the Senate.”  Francois Hollande , the
leading candidate in the Socialist Party’s presidential primary
said on LCI television. “It’s an omen for what will happen in
2012.”  Unpopular Sarkozy  Thirty-five percent of French voters rated Sarkozy’s
leadership favorably in September, unchanged from August,
according to the Ipsos poll for Le Point magazine released last
week. The president’s popularity reached a record low of 29
percent in April, and has been lifted just slightly by his
leadership of efforts to oust Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  “Sarkozy hasn’t been able to turn his international
successes into lasting popularity at home,” Dubois said.
“Unemployment remains high and he’s wrapped up in various
corruption affairs.”  Two of his associates were charged last week in a bribery
probe. French law shields sitting presidents from being
investigated and Sarkozy hasn’t been named in the probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  