-- 
U.S. Senate Approves Bill to Avoid Government Shutdown, Fund Disaster Aid

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-27T19:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/senate-will-move-budget-alternative-as-standoff-continues.html
The  U.S. Senate  reached a
bipartisan deal on stopgap spending designed to avoid a
government shutdown and defuse a fight over aid to victims of
hurricanes, tornadoes and other natural disasters.  Senators approved legislation yesterday, 79-12, to finance
the government through Nov. 18, a measure including $2.65
billion for federal disaster assistance.  With the expectation that the House would consent, senators
also passed on a voice vote a measure to tide the government
over through Oct. 4 so that the House, in recess this week, can
consider the longer funding measure. The 2011 fiscal year ends
on Sept. 30, and the House can approve the short-term bill by
unanimous consent without bringing members back to Washington.  “We expect speedy passage of this agreement by the House
so that the flow of disaster aid is not interrupted,” New York
Senator  Charles Schumer , the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat,
told reporters after the votes. “It is hard to see how the
House Republicans could reject this proposal given the
overwhelming” support it got in the Senate.  The House is expected to consider adopting the stopgap
spending measure by unanimous consent at a previously scheduled
pro-forma session on Sept. 29, said Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman
for House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican.
The House plans to act on the seven-week spending measure Oct.
4, she said.  Partisan Impasse  The Senate deal broke a partisan impasse over the
insistence by House Republicans on cutting other programs to
offset $1 billion the Obama administration sought to shore up
the disaster-relief fund through Sept. 30. That issue became
moot after the  Federal Emergency Management Agency  said
yesterday it had enough funds to help disaster victims this
week, said Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Schumer.  FEMA had previously said it would run out of money as early
as yesterday or today. “FEMA says they have the money to cover
it,” Fallon said.  “We’ve basically resolved this issue,” Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said on the Senate floor last
night. “It means we no longer have to fight over 2011
funding.”  Reid “has found a path forward,” Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said. “In my view, this
entire fire drill was completely and totally unnecessary, but
I’m glad a resolution appears to be at hand.”  ‘Fiscally Responsible’  House Speaker John Boehner’s spokesman,  Michael Steel , said
in an e-mailed statement, “Republicans support getting
Americans suffering in the wake of natural disasters the help
they need -- and doing it in a fiscally responsible way.”  Democrats said there was a principle at stake for them,
even if the amount of money they were fighting over was small in
relation to the entire federal budget.  “That we found a way out is great, but I think the House
has to learn there is no need to have confrontation,” said
Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat. “I’d hate to be
a senator from a state that is prone to hurricanes” faced with
“every time I’m going to need  disaster relief , I have to figure
out an offset.”  The Senate’s No. 2 Republican,  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , called
FEMA’s update on its financial needs “kind of serendipitous,
because a few days ago they were claiming that they would run
out of money. Now it turns out that they will have money.”  Recovered Money  FEMA recovered almost $180 million this month in unspent
funding that had been allocated for completed disaster-relief
projects, extending aid for five additional days, said Rachel
Racusen, an agency spokeswoman, in an e-mailed statement.  Without this money “coupled with lower-than-expected
registrations for disaster assistance over the weekend, FEMA
would have run out of disaster funding this week,” she said.
The fund today has $175 million, Racusen said.  FEMA has had to put $400 million worth of projects on hold,
Office of Management and Budget Director  Jacob Lew  wrote in a
Sept. 26 letter to congressional leaders.  House Republicans  have insisted on offsetting disaster aid
costs with $1.6 billion in cuts, including $1.5 billion from a
loan program for green auto technologies and $100 million from a
program that provided a $535 million federal loan guarantee to
Solyndra LLC, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  this month.  Reid and other Democratic leaders had said they wouldn’t
accept any spending cuts to pay for disaster assistance.  ‘Major Change’  Requiring such offsets would be “a major change,” said
Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat who pushed Congress
for federal money to rebuild  New Orleans  after flood damage from
 Hurricane Katrina .  “We cannot have a budget meeting every time there is a
disaster in America” to decide what programs to cut before the
government sends help, Landrieu said. “That’s no way to run a
government.”  Public opinion polls continue to show diminishing
confidence in congressional leaders, especially Republicans. A
poll released  by the  Pew Research Center  found that 35 percent
of those surveyed Sept. 22-25 said they have a great deal or
fair amount of confidence in Republican leaders to do the right
thing about record U.S. budget deficits. That’s down from 47
percent in May. Sixty-two percent of the 1,000 adults surveyed
said they have little or no confidence in Republican leaders on
budget shortfalls.  Confidence in President Barack Obama’s handling of the
 budget deficit  was unchanged, with 52 percent saying they have
at least a fair amount of confidence that the Democratic
president will do the right thing on the budget. That has barely
changed from 55 percent in the earlier poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  