-- 
Shaker Consulting Culls Weak Job Seekers With Online Games

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-09-29T20:10:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/shaker-consulting-culls-weak-job-seekers-with-online-games.html

(Corrects third paragraph and last paragraph to remove three
companies mistakenly identified as clients by Shaker Consulting
Group. Corrects title in last paragraph. Story originally
appeared on Sept. 26.)  In late 2008, insurer Answer Financial’s
new hires were only selling about half as many policies as the
270-employee company’s more seasoned agents, despite its six-
week training program. “We came to the conclusion that more
often than not, we were not hiring the right people,” says Peter
Foley, senior vice president of sales.  To improve Answer’s talent pool, Foley hired  Shaker Consulting
Group  to replace its traditional job interview process with an
online simulator that tests applicants’ sales chops. Candidates
take an hour-long test that resembles a video game; results
point to the best candidates to interview. “It doesn’t tell us
who to hire. It tells us who not to hire,” says Foley, noting
new agents’ six-month sales averages have improved by roughly 50
percent.  Shaker’s ability to cull underperformers before they’re hired is
attracting corporate America, including  CVS (CVS) ,  Sherwin-
Williams (SHW) ,  Starbucks (SBUX) ,  SunTrust Banks (STI)  and Ritz-
Carlton. Organizations that hire well get a quarter more revenue
per employee and lower turnover by 40 percent, according to
industry researcher Bersin & Associates in  San Francisco , which
estimates the pre-employment testing market worldwide is $1.5
billion to $2 billion.  Few Peers  More than 2,500 companies and consultancies in the U.S. sell
services to help companies wade through growing piles of
applications in an economy with more than 9 percent
unemployment. Shaker, based in  Cleveland , is one of only a
handful of companies that creates sophisticated job simulation
tools, melding audio, video and graphics within an interactive
environment that measures users’ ability to perform specific
tasks clients consider crucial. “On those characteristics, I
would suggest that you’d find Shaker Consulting Group among the
very few,” says Gerry Crispin, co-founder of staffing
consultancy CareerXRoads in Kendall Park, N.J.  To build Answer Financial’s job simulator, Shaker interviewed
sales managers and agents, from the worst to the best in terms
of sales, then built a profile comprising the skills and
personality traits likely to make a salesperson successful at
Answer. Because the job entails selling auto, home, life and
health insurance over the phone, crucial skills include the
ability to hold a friendly conversation with potential customers
and answer questions while typing. Applicants’ performance on
each test component, including the ability to sell products and
stay cool, is rated from one to 10. The overall performance of a
candidate has to be four or higher for that candidate to be
considered. People with the highest scores are called in for an
interview.  Shaker’s customization isn’t cheap. The cost of development runs
$75,000 to $100,000, according to Joseph Murphy, company co-
founder and vice president of business development. The company
also charges an annual maintenance fee that starts at $36,000.
Generic testing from other companies can cost as little as a
tenth of Shaker’s price for development. Shaker competes for
 call centers , retail chains, banks and other employers that hire
continuously to fill mostly high-turnover positions, such as
sale agents and tellers.  Launched in 2002  The partners started the 15-employee company in 2002 after eight
years at SHL, one of the largest employee assessment companies
in the world, with “kind of a bar-napkin business plan,” says
Murphy, 56. Shaker launched its first online job simulation two
years later, signing medical testing company  Quest Diagnostics
(DGX)  as its first customer. Revenue was $4.2 million in 2010,
says Brian Stern, 54, co-founder and president, and he projects
$4.8 million this year and more than $5 million next year.  New contracts from  Lowe’s Companies (LOW) , KPMG Canada, and
 Target Brands (TGT)  mean convincing employers to invest in its
services isn’t Shaker’s biggest challenge, says Murphy. Rather,
it’s big competitors muscling onto its turf like SHL, which is
building more advanced tools to try to catch up. “We’re working
on it and everybody I know who’s involved in online testing is
looking at how to present things that are more engaging and more
interactive,” says Elaine Pulakos, president of PDRI, an SHL
subsidiary that does custom development work.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  