-- 
Ship Owner Losses Persisting With Glut While Mining Profits Boom: Freight

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-09-27T16:24:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ship-owner-losses-persisting-with-glut-while-mining-profits-boom-freight.html
Ship owners may face losses until
2015 even with mining companies poised to increase global iron-
ore supplies by almost as much as China imports in a year.  Rio Tinto Group, Fortescue Metals Group and Vale SA will
lead a 59 percent expansion in seaborne supply to 1.69 billion
metric tons over the next four years, Morgan Stanley estimates.
The capesize fleet grew 73 percent since 2007 and will gain 25
percent more by 2015, according to Drewry Shipping Consultants
Ltd. Daily rates may not exceed the $20,000 needed to break even
until then, said Andreas Vergottis, who helps manage the world’s
largest shipping hedge fund at Tufton Oceanic Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  The three mining companies will make the most profit ever
this year as combined earnings across the 14-member Bloomberg
Pure Play Dry Bulk Shipping Index slump 55 percent, analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. As the shipping industry
grapples with a glut, miners are making money from shortages.
Iron-ore prices more than doubled since the end of 2008 as
suppliers failed to keep pace with demand from China, where
steel production rose more than threefold since 2002.  “It’s really hard for people to grasp the huge number of
vessels that are being delivered,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth,
the analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo who correctly
predicted a tripling in charter rates last year and sees no
return to profit until 2015. “In addition to the iron ore that
we know is coming, we need an extra half a  China , growing from
where it was in 2002 to where it is now, to mop up the excess.”  Freight Agreements  While rates for capesizes tripled to $28,949 since Aug. 1,
the average return since January has been $11,165, heading for
the lowest year in more than a decade, data from the London-
based Baltic Exchange show. Annual forward freight agreements,
traded by brokers and used to bet on future shipping costs, show
rates no higher than $18,250 through 2016, according to data
from the bourse, which publishes daily assessments for more than
50 maritime routes.  Other shipping markets also face vessel gluts. Supertankers
that haul about a fifth of the world’s oil are losing money on
the industry’s two busiest trade routes, according to the  Baltic
Exchange . The container-shipping industry is contending with the
longest stretch of near-zero rates in its half-century history
on the Asia-to-Europe route as a capacity glut combines with the
slowest trade growth since 2009.  Billionaire Wilbur Ross said last month that shipping was
probably “relatively close” to the bottom of the cycle. The
73-year-old is part of a group which spent $900 million on 30
ships hauling gasoline, diesel and other refined products, his
first investment in the industry. The transaction was completed
last night at midnight, he said at Bloomberg Link’s Dealmakers
Summit in New York today.  ‘More Transactions’  “You’re going to see more transactions in shipping,” Ross
said today. “Shipping is a very capital intensive industry, a
global industry, but highly fragmented.”  Shipping derivatives are the third-most volatile commodity
contract traded globally, according to Nikos Nomikos, a shipping
risk management professor at Cass Business School in London. The
most volatile are natural gas and electricity.  Rates for capesizes, which hold at least 150,000 metric
tons of  iron ore , have collapsed from as much as $233,988 in
2008 after owners ordered a record number of new vessels. They
are the largest component of the Baltic Dry Index, a measure of
the cost of hauling commodities by sea, which fell 84 percent
since July 2008.  Stavseth is one of three analysts who estimate new ships
need about $20,000 a day to make a profit. Break even rates vary
across companies and fleets depending on the age of vessels and
the financing terms secured to buy them.  Seaborne Suppliers  More than 90 percent of iron-ore shipments to China, the
biggest consumer, from Australia and  Brazil , the biggest
seaborne suppliers, go on capesizes, according to ICAP Shipping
International Ltd., a London-based shipbroker.  Ore deliveries will total 1.06 billion tons this year,
accounting for 29 percent of all dry-bulk shipping, according to
Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker. About 90 percent of world trade is transported by
sea, the Round Table of Shipping Associations estimates.  Mining companies will increase seaborne iron-ore shipments
by 626 million tons through 2015, Morgan Stanley estimates.
China, which now accounts for about two in every five tons of
global steel production, will import 674 million tons of ore
this year, according to the bank.  Hundreds of new ships will have been built before that
expansion is complete, exacerbating the glut. Ship yards
launched 375 capesizes since the end of 2008 and another 221 are
on order, according to Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay. The
fleet now stands at a record 1,146 vessels, the data show.  Eroding Profit  The surge in ore supply may drive the commodity’s costs
lower, eroding profit for the mining companies. Prices will drop
to an average of $123 a ton in 2015, from $173 this year,
according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts.
Net income at Rio de Janeiro-based Vale will drop to $19.2
billion in 2015, compared with $27.6 billion this year,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Slowing growth may also erode demand. China, the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, will expand 8.7 percent in 2012,
compared with 9.3 percent this year, the median of as many as 10
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Japan , the
second-biggest steel producer, will contract 0.5 percent this
year after March’s earthquake and tsunami, the  International
Monetary Fund  said Sept. 20.  China’s growth will still be fast enough to lift capesize
rates above $20,000 as soon as next year, said Ole Stenhagen,
the analyst at SEB Enskilda in Oslo whose recommendations on the
shares of shipping companies would have returned 22 percent in
the past year. Ole Slorer, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in  New
York , predict rates of $25,000 as early as 2013.  World War II  Mining companies may also respond to slowing growth by
curbing supply. Iron-ore output fell 1.1 percent in 2008 and 5.3
percent in 2009 as the global economy was contracting in the
worst recession since World War II, according to Morgan Stanley.
A return to that trend may further delay the disappearance of
the glut in shipping.  A combined measure of the earnings per share of the
Bloomberg Pure Play Dry Bulk Shipping Index will drop 55 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its biggest
members are Seoul-based STX Pan Ocean Co. and D/S Norden A/S of
Hellerup,  Denmark . The gauge retreated 39 percent this year,
compared with a 16 percent drop in the MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities.  Any rebound in capesize rates may spur owners to order even
more new ships, said Tufton Oceanic’s Vergottis, whose shipping
fund manages about $1.5 billion of assets. Ship yards may also
offer to cut costs to attract new business, he said.  “I don’t think we’ll be in break-even territory until
2015,” he said. “And that is only provided new ordering does
not misbehave, either because of yards pushing subsidized slots
or ship owners’ animal spirits not being reined in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  