-- 
SIF Moldova Holders Clear BCR Stake-Sale Negotiations With Erste

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-09-26T08:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/sif-moldova-holders-clear-bcr-stake-sale-negotiations-with-erste.html
The shareholders of  Romania ’s SIF
Moldova SA investment fund authorized its managers to negotiate
the sale of a minority stake in Banca Comerciala Romana SA, the
country’s biggest lender, to  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , as a bourse
listing is increasingly unlikely.  The fund, known as SIF2, which was left out of a Sept. 15
buyout accord between Erste and four other funds, will negotiate
a sale, share swap or other ways to exit Banca Comerciala Romana
SA, majority owned by the Austrian bank,  according to a
statement sent to the  Bucharest Stock Exchange  today.  Erste, eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, reached an
agreement with four of the five SIFs to buy their total 24.1
percent interest in BCR, in a transaction valued at 435 million
euros ($584 million) including cash and share swaps. Adding SIF
Moldova’s 6 percent stake would boost the value of the
transaction to 543 million euros, according to Erste.  The agreement would raise Erste’s stake in BCR to 93.5
percent, while the five SIFs would become one of the biggest
shareholders in the Vienna-based bank, with a combined stake of
about 5 percent.  When it agreed in 2005 to buy a 61.9 percent stake in BCR
for 3.75 billion euros, Erste pledged to list BCR’s shares
within three years, to give the SIFs an exit option. It
subsequently agreed to delay that target date to October this
year because of adverse market conditions. Earlier this year,
Erste Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said he would now
rather add to the stake, which has been raised in the meantime
to 69.4 percent, than list.  The shareholders of SIF Muntenia SA and SIF Oltenia SA
approved last week the agreement or negotiations with Erste to
sell their minority stakes in BCR. SIF Transilvania SA will hold
a shareholders meeting on the sale agreement on Oct. 31. SIF
Banat-Crisana SA hasn’t yet called a meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  