-- 
Silvercorp Says KPMG to Issue Fraud Allegation Report ‘Soon’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-26T08:09:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/silvercorp-says-kpmg-to-issue-fraud-allegation-report-soon-1-.html
Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , a Canadian
miner of the metal in  China , said a probe it ordered by KPMG
Forensics Inc. to check the company’s cash flows and production
volumes to counter allegations of fraud may be completed soon.  “We’re a real company and will fight against shorters and
distorters,” Feng Rui, Silvercorp chief executive officer, said
today at a meeting in Beijing.  Silvercorp, whose shares have lost 46 percent this year in
Toronto trading, has denied allegations of accounting fraud
contained in an anonymous letter to Canadian regulators last
month and those posted on  Alfredlittle.com , which publishes
research about companies doing business in China.  Allegations of fraud against Chinese companies such as
Silvercorp and  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  have heightened investors’
concern about other North America-based companies with
operations in China. Toronto-based Sino-Forest shares plunged 79
percent so far this year.  Silvercorp, a Vancouver-based company which describes
itself as China’s largest silver miner, may have overstated its
net income last year by at least fivefold, according to a report
posted Sept. 19 at Alfredlittle.com.  The website posted another report Sept. 22 saying that the
company may have sent some silver ore for processing with lower
grades than earlier stated. Both reports are sent anonymously.  “Our auditing doesn’t have anything wrong, the allegations
are fabrication,” Feng said today in an interview on the
sidelines of the meeting.  Legal Action  Silvercorp is suing Alfredlittle.com website operator
Alfred Little and an editor Simon Moore, alongside
Chinastockwatch.com and operator Jerry Katz, for publishing
’’false, defamatory and fraudulent statements,’’ Silvercorp said
in the complaint filed on Sept. 22 in New York State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan .  Chinastockwatch.com website couldn’t be accessed for
contact information today. An email seeking comments from Little
and Moore wasn’t immediately replied outside business hours. The
complaint is “frivolous” and “every statement that was made
in every single report that was published on Silvercorp from
Alfredlittle.com is completely factual,” Moore said in a
telephone interview on Sept. 24  Silvercorp fell 2 percent to C$6.91 on the Toronto stock
exchange on Sept. 23, extending its loss this month to 19
percent. The shares have declined even as the company is seeking
to counter the allegation by working with legal authorities.  Silvercorp has started recovering from the shadow of
allegations, Feng said. “The allegations won’t prompt us to
make any changes in the process of financial reporting and
auditing,” he said.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation , the SEC, the  British
Columbia Securities Commission  and the  Royal Canadian Mounted
Police  are trying to identify the authors of the reports,
Silvercorp said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  