-- 
Singapore’s Production Growth Quickens on Pharmaceutical Output

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-09-26T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/singapore-s-production-growth-quickens-on-pharmaceutical-output.html
Singapore’s industrial production
grew at the fastest pace in five months in August after output
of pharmaceuticals surged, offsetting a slump in electronics
manufacturing as global demand weakens.  Manufacturing, which accounts for more than a fifth of the
economy, gained 21.7 percent from a year earlier after a revised
7.6 percent increase in July, the  Economic Development Board 
said in a statement today. That exceeded the estimates of all 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery are
imperiling economic growth in  Asia , prompting central banks from
 South Korea  to the  Philippines  to refrain from interest-rate
increases in recent weeks. Singapore Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam said this month the island won’t be immune to a
global slowdown as the U.S. and European economies stall.  “Whether this performance will be sustained remains to be
seen given a still weak electronics sector and a very volatile
biomedical sector,” Vincent Conti, a Singapore-based analyst at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said before the
report.  Singapore’s industrial production rose a seasonally
adjusted 3.9 percent in August from July, when it climbed a
revised 0.4 percent from the previous month, today’s report
showed. Economists predicted a 5 percent decline.  Electronics production decreased 21.9 percent from a year
earlier, while pharmaceutical output surged 156.7 percent.  North American orders for semiconductor equipment fell 8.8
percent in August from a month earlier, a trade group report
showed. The book-to-bill ratio, a gauge of industry health, was
0.8, meaning chip-equipment companies received $80 in new orders
for every $100 in sales. A ratio below 1 indicates a contracting
market for chip-equipment tools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  