-- 
Singapore Inc. Facing $7.4 Billion UBS Loss Tops Chain of Soured Bank Bets

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-09-27T04:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/singapore-inc-s-bank-bet-losses-pile-up-on-ubs-trading-scandal.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. faces a 6.7 billion Swiss franc ($7.4 billion) loss as the
biggest investor of  UBS AG (UBSN) , topping unprofitable banking
investments by the city’s sovereign wealth firms since 2007.  GIC also has about $500 million of unrealized losses on its
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  stake, according to Bloomberg calculations.
Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s other state investment company,
divested shares in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  at
losses more than two years ago.  UBS shares declined to the lowest level in two-and-a-half
years after the Zurich-based bank announced a $2.3 billion
unauthorized trading loss that led to the resignation of its
chief executive officer on Sept. 24. GIC and Temasek spent more
than $25 billion buying stakes in U.S. and European banks in the
past four years as the collapse of the subprime mortgage market
led to more than $2 trillion in losses and writedowns worldwide.  “The sovereign wealth funds’ investments in international
financial firms have not panned out as well as they hoped,”
said Melvyn Teo, professor of finance at  Singapore Management
University . “Whether GIC should continue to hold on to UBS, it
really depends on going forward how will the management deal
with all the current problems.”  The Singapore firms, ranked among the world’s 10 largest
sovereign wealth investors, have since poured more money into
higher-growth emerging economies and other industries.  ‘Not Coordinating’  “If we consider a longer-term horizon, then some of the
issues like what UBS faces today should not be seen as failed
investments,” said Inderjit Singh, a member of Parliament for
the ruling People’s Action Party, and CEO of Infiniti Solution
Pte, a provider of services to chipmakers. “However, from a
Singapore Inc. perspective, with the two sovereign wealth funds
not coordinating, I feel they have overinvested in the financial
sector.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO) /Financials Index declined 26 percent this
year, underperforming the MSCI World Index, which has lost 14
percent. UBS shares have declined about 44 percent from this
year’s high in February.  GIC “expressed disappointment and concern about the lapses
and urged UBS to take firm action to restore confidence,” the
bank said in a Sept. 20 statement after its senior management
met in Singapore with  Oswald Gruebel , who quit four days later
as CEO of UBS.  ‘More Reluctant’  “It may make GIC a lot more reluctant to take a
significant stake in a company going forward,” said Teo at
Singapore Management University. “If its future investment
doesn’t pan out as well and it’s public, it’s going to take a
reputational hit.”  GIC, which manages more than $100 billion of the city-
state’s reserves, owned about 6.4 percent of UBS as of Dec. 31.
It became the bank’s largest shareholder when it converted 11
billion francs of notes into stock. The shares traded at about a
fifth of the conversion price at the close on Sept. 23, though
the 8.7 billion franc unrealized loss is partly offset by 2
billion francs in interest payments in the first two years of
its investment.  The fund also owns about 3.8 percent of New York-based
Citigroup, the third-largest  U.S. bank , after selling half of
its original stake for a $1.6 billion profit two years ago. It’s
the lender’s single-biggest investor, while 18 funds managed by
State Street Corp. hold a combined 4.1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Average Cost  The average cost of Citigroup shares held by GIC was $29.50
each, after adjusting for a 1-for-10 reverse stock split in May,
the Business Times newspaper reported in July. Citigroup traded
15 percent lower than GIC paid as of Sept. 23.  Jennifer Lewis , a spokeswoman for GIC, declined to comment
on the fund’s unrealized losses in UBS and Citigroup.  GIC plans to hold on to the banking stakes for “many
years” and will only consider selling if there are attractive
offers, Tony Tan, the fund’s former deputy chairman, said in
January. Tan was sworn in as  Singapore ’s seventh president on
Sept. 1.  Sovereign wealth funds spent more than $70 billion
supporting banks in  Europe  and the U.S. in the credit crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Useful Capital’  “GIC should be able to, as long-term investors, take
short-term hits,” said Victoria Barbary, senior analyst at the
 Monitor Group  in  London . “That’s why they’re useful capital for
companies. Just because they’re holding paper losses doesn’t
mean they’re ever going to be realized; they’re not going to be
forced to sell them.”  GIC said in its annual report in July that it boosted
investments in emerging economies to tap higher returns, and cut
back in Europe and the U.S. Emerging-market stocks made up 15
percent of its holdings from 10 percent a year earlier, while
those in developed economies fell to 34 percent from 41 percent,
it said.  The 20-year so-called nominal annualized rate of return was
7.2 percent in U.S. dollar terms as of the end of March, said
GIC, which was established 30 years ago. The annualized real
rate of return in excess of global inflation rose to 3.9 percent.
GIC also published nominal returns for five- and 10-year periods.  Increasing Transparency  The losses prompted calls for more transparency, and GIC
said on Sept. 19 in response to a Today newspaper reader that
“the timing for the investment could have been better.”  The opposition Workers’ Party proposed this year that GIC’s
annual reports should reflect its yearly performance.  “This will increase transparency and accountability to
Singaporeans, who are the ultimate stakeholders and
beneficiaries of the investments,” Chen Show-Mao, an opposition
member of Parliament said in an e-mail on Sept. 23. Chen quit as
the head of New York law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP’s
Beijing office in July after winning a seat in the May elections.  Temasek sold its 3.8 percent stake in  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America in the first quarter of 2009 at a
loss that may have totaled $4.6 billion. It also sold its 2
percent stake in London-based Barclays. The company, which
managed S$193 billion ($147 billion) as of March, didn’t detail
the size of those losses. Stephen Forshaw, a spokesman for
Temasek, declined to comment.  Financial services companies made up 36 percent of
Temasek’s portfolio as of March. It is the biggest investor in
lenders including  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the British bank that
earns most of its profit in  Asia , and Singapore’s  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  It also owns stakes in China Construction Bank
Corp. and India’s ICICI Bank Ltd.  “In aggregate the financial investments have paid off,
especially those in Asia,” said Rachel Ziemba, a director at
Roubini Global Economics in London. “But the one in UBS
continues to be a headache for GIC, both because of economic
losses, but also perhaps because of the reputational risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  