-- 
Solyndra Failure Hits Goldman’s Reputation: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-09-26T00:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/solyndra-meltdown-may-hit-goldman-s-reputation-william-d-cohan.html
Since the financial crisis hit,
investment banks have been rightly criticized for their tendency
to be more concerned with their own trading profits than the
well-being of their customers. Sometimes, however, an investment
bank can take the whole client service thing a bit too far.  Take, for instance, the case of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and its client Solyndra LLC, the California-based solar-panel
maker that  filed for bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6 and
dismissed its 1,100 employees.  Solyndra has become infamous lately as the company that,
with much political fanfare, was handed a large government loan
and then went kaput. Solyndra is usually described as
“politically connected” because President  Barack Obama  visited
the company in 2010 and said that “companies like Solyndra are
leading the way toward a brighter and more prosperous future.”  Also, one of the company’s major supporters was the  George
Kaiser Family Foundation ; George Kaiser, a wealthy Oklahoma oil
executive, was one of Obama’s bundlers of contributions during
his successful 2008 presidential campaign. (A  conservative
website  reported that, according to White House logs, Solyndra
investors and management had made “no fewer than 20 trips” to
the White House between March 2009 and April 2011).  Solyndra raised more than $650 million in equity financing
from the likes of the Kaiser fund and KKR & Co. LP, the private-
equity powerhouse, and then received a $535 million loan
guarantee from the  U.S. Department of Energy  in March 2009, soon
after Obama took office. Then it got the actual loan of $527
million from the  Treasury , which is pretty odd since, with the
Energy Department guarantee, it should have been easy to get a
loan from the private sector.  In any event, much of the investors’ equity and the
Treasury’s $527 million is probably gone as a result of the
bankruptcy filing; Solyndra negotiated a new loan in February
for $75 million with the condition that existing creditors --the
Treasury and the ultimate guarantor, the  Department of Energy  --
be subordinated to the new money in the case of a bankruptcy
filing.  Some Wall Street bankers put the enterprise value of
Solyndra at no more than that last $75 million, meaning
taxpayers may never recover anything. The company has said it
intends to auction off its assets as quickly as possible, in
part with the help of former Massachusetts governor William Weld, a partner in the  law firm  McDermott, Will & Emery, where
he charges $895 an hour.  On Sept. 8, the Solyndra plot thickened again, when the FBI
raided the company’s offices in connection with an investigation
by the Department of Energy’s inspector general. And last week
Solyndra executives pleaded the Fifth Amendment during their
congressional hearing.  You would think that this kind of dicey situation would be
one that a savvy Wall Street player like Goldman Sachs would
know to avoid. Surely, you would think, Goldman would have some
sort of internal credit committee that would put its foot down
and insist that Goldman’s reputation was too important to be
mixed up with a company with both an arrogant management team
and a questionable business plan. (Solyndra’s advisers on the
Treasury loan, including Goldman, split some $10 million in
fees, according to a filing Solyndra made about the loan.)  You would also think the firm’s reputation police would put
the kibosh on Solyndra, too. But Goldman, which Solyndra
credited as the “exclusive financial adviser” on its Treasury
loan application, kept the firm as a client through thick and
thin.  According to a  letter  Joel Cannon, the chief executive
officer of TenKsolar Inc., a Solyndra competitor, wrote to the
Wall Street Journal, Solyndra failed not because of “cheap
capital provided to Chinese solar companies by their
government” making for stiff competition for the U.S. solar
industry -- as the company would have one believe -- but because
“its product cost was far too high and its performance far too
low, and everyone who knew the solar business knew this.” Some
Wall Street bankers who met the Solyndra management have told me
that the flaws of management and the business plan were quickly
apparent. Goldman apparently missed them.  But, surely, Goldman Sachs knew that Solyndra was a
company, as Cannon pointed out, with a cost structure that made
it difficult to finance? In 2008, soon after it was hired,
Goldman tried to do a convertible debt offering for Solyndra.
Yes, it was a tough time to raise any kind of financing for a
relatively new company. Still, the reaction to the prospect of
financing Solyndra from more than 100 investors Goldman
contacted was a resounding no. Goldman axed the convert.  Goldman’s bankers also showed the deal to two of Goldman’s
private equity funds -- a distressed fund and a fund that buys
control stakes in companies -- and both these funds said no,
too.  It’s not hard to see why Solyndra was being turned down:
The company lost an accumulated $557 million from 2006 through
the end of 2009, and its financial prospects were grim given its
high cost structure.  But Goldman persisted on behalf of Solyndra. In September
2009, along with the Energy Department loan guarantee that made
possible the $527 million Treasury loan, Goldman raised almost
$200 million more in equity from Argonaut Ventures, an
investment vehicle for the Kaiser foundation.  Armed with the Treasury’s millions, which finally flowed
into Solyndra toward the end of 2009 at an annual interest rate
of less than 3 percent, the company was off to the races. With
the Treasury loan and Kaiser’s new equity in place, the company
received an additional $50 million revolving loan facility from
Argonaut, which by then owned nearly 36 percent of the company
and was its largest shareholder.  In December 2009, Solyndra filed an initial public offering
to raise an unspecified amount of other people’s money to
continue to finance its nonsensical business plan, including the
build-out of its second production facility and to pay off the
Argonaut loan. Goldman was the IPO’s lead underwriter; Morgan
Stanley was the only other underwriter listed on the  SEC filing ,
called an S-1.  In March 2010, the S-1 was amended to reflect the company’s
end of year financials and to add a few other changes to the
document, most of which were fairly typical.  What was atypical was that the amended filing also
contained a “going concern” qualification from the company’s
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers. “There can be no assurance
that, in the event the Company requires additional financing,
such financing will be available on terms which are favorable or
at all,” according to the amended S-1. “Failure to generate
sufficient cash flows from operations, raise additional capital
and reduce discretionary spending or to remain in compliance
with the covenants contained in the DOE guaranteed loan facility
or the Argonaut revolving credit facility, could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s ability to achieve its intended
business objectives and continue as a going concern.”  That’s not the kind of statement that warms the hearts of
investors, especially in 2010. Citing “adverse market
conditions,” not surprisingly, Solyndra withdrew its IPO in
June 2010. A year later the company was broke.  Although, as  Anthony Kim  of  Bloomberg New Energy Finance 
wrote recently, “risky technologies like Solyndra’s will always
be as likely to be a complete failure as they are to be a
success,” there were plenty of warning signs before Solyndra’s
ignominious end that might have persuaded Goldman to stay away.
No doubt the firm now regrets its involvement.  But how and why it got involved will no doubt make for
interesting reading in future FBI documents, congressional
hearing transcripts and inspector general reports.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 