-- 
State Worker Benefits Threatened as U.S. Supercommittee Considers Cuts

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-09-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/state-worker-benefits-under-threat-as-u-s-supercommittee-considers-cuts.html
The termination notice hit Irene
Wilson like a sucker punch: “It is with deep regret that I must
inform you,” it read, “that your position as a nurse for
 Connecticut  Valley Hospital Merritt Hall Addiction Services,
Division of Mental Health, is being eliminated.”  Wilson, 56, received the pink slip after Governor Dannel P. Malloy, a Democrat, ordered 3,000 job cuts in July when unions
failed to approve concessions to help fill a $3.26 billion
projected deficit in the state’s $18.7 billion general-fund
budget for fiscal 2012.  “It was hard not to get caught up in all the what-ifs,”
Wilson, who helps wean indigent residents off alcohol, valium
and heroin, said in a telephone interview from Middletown.
“What if I can’t pay my mortgage? What if I can’t pay my
bills?”  When union members reconsidered and ratified a revised $1.6
billion concessions deal in August, Malloy  rescinded  the
dismissals. The  governor  expects the agreement to save the state
$21.5 billion in employee health-care and retirement costs over
20 years. In exchange, Nutmeg State workers received protection
from job cuts for four years.  Connecticut workers are among thousands of public employees
nationwide forced to chose between benefit cutbacks or losing
their jobs after the longest recession since the Great
Depression opened gaping deficits in state and local budgets.  More Cuts Ahead  More difficult choices lie ahead. A congressional
supercommittee is seeking another $1.5 trillion in  deficit
reduction , which may cut deeply into federal aid to states and
cities amid an already slowing economy. Proposed automatic
spending cuts would trim an estimated $133 billion that would be
headed to states over the next decade.  “This is far worse than anything we’ve seen before,”
Steven Kreisberg, collective bargaining director for the
Washington-based American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees, said in a telephone interview. “There are
a lot fewer public servants providing services at a time people
need services more than ever.”  The downsizing of state and local government workforces and
moves to trim their benefits and collective-bargaining power
sparked a politicized debate over whether generous public-
employee pay packages contributed to record budget deficits.  Unions and Costs  Republican governors in Wisconsin,  Ohio  and New Jersey
argued fixing ailing budgets required reining in unions. Labor
representatives said they were unfairly targeted in part because
they give generously to Democrats.  “There’s been nothing like this since the ‘60s and ‘70s
when most states passed laws giving public-sector unions rights
to bargain,” said Joseph Slater, who teaches labor law at the
University of Toledo in Ohio. “2011 by far has seen the most
dramatic changes in collective-bargaining law.”  Battles over whether public employees -- about 36 percent
of whom are union members, compared with 7 percent of
nongovernment workers, U.S. Labor Department figures show --
have the right to negotiate over wages and benefits may continue
in coming months in Ohio,  Michigan  and New Jersey.  More givebacks and job losses may be on the horizon, with
several states, including  Washington  and  Florida , recently
reporting quarterly revenue fell short of forecasts after waning
 consumer spending  led to declines in sales-tax receipts.  No More Shocks  State and local officials say their budgets can’t withstand
further shocks, such as a reduction in federal aid being
considered by the 12-member congressional  supercommittee . They
say they’re banking on stimulus money from President Barack
Obama’s $447 billion American Jobs Act.  “Our state government has made cut after cut, forcing our
local school district to layoff teachers and administrators,”
said Seattle Mayor Mike McGinn, a Democrat, on a Sept. 16
conference call with reporters. “They will likely have to
layoff more as we go into this next round of budget cuts if we
don’t receive more stimulus money.”  Washington state must find $2 billion to cut from its $32
billion two-year general-fund budget, precipitated by falling
sales-tax collections.  Slowing consumer spending cascaded through the economy in
the past four years, leading to the worst tax declines in a half
century and state budget gaps totaling $510.5 billion, according
to the  National Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver.  Gap-Closing Steps  To close these gaps, governors and mayors increasingly
turned to their workforces, whose salaries and benefits
represent about 20 percent of state spending and 55 percent of
local government costs, according to the Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities, a nonprofit research organization in
Washington. The group focuses on issues affecting lower-income
Americans.  About 480,000 state and local workers have lost jobs since
December 2007, according to U.S. Labor Department data.  Last year brought the largest combined reduction in state
and local-government employment since federal economists started
collecting labor statistics in the 1950s, Jeff Thompson, an
economist at the University of  Massachusetts  in Amherst, said in
a telephone interview.  “It’s all the kindergarten through 12th grade teachers,
all the cops, public higher-education folks, jailers and
judges,” Thompson said. “You start to add it up, it’s a pretty
important part of our economy.”  State and local positions make up one of every seven jobs
in the U.S., Thompson added, which explains why a 29-month run
of almost continuous cuts at the municipal level continues to be
a drag on the economy.  Economic Effects  The job losses, coupled with unprecedented benefit
givebacks by public employees, are curtailing consumer spending
and tax receipts in many states, contributing to the very budget
deficits they were designed to ameliorate, labor economists
agree.  “The cuts create a damaging paradox,”  Harley Shaiken , a
labor professor at the  University of California , Berkeley, said
by e-mail. “Givebacks and layoffs today dampen consumer
spending tomorrow, which, in turn, creates the danger of a
downward economic spiral.”  Some analysts say that bringing public employees’ generous
benefit packages including health-care coverage in line with
those received by industry peers is an effective way for
governments to save money.  ‘Savings Available’  “Governments going to employees and requiring them to pay
a higher share of their premiums makes a lot of sense because
generally they tend to pay a lower share than the private
sector,” Josh Barro, a senior fellow at the New York-based
Manhattan Institute, said by telephone. “There’s still a lot of
savings available.”  Government workers contribute, on average, 15 percent of
overall insurance premiums, Barro said in “Cadillac Coverage:
The High Cost of Public Employee Health Benefits,” and
published by the organization, which espouses ideas that
“foster economic choice and individual responsibility.” The
rate compares with about 25 percent of health costs covered by
nongovernment workers, he said. Public employees also tend to
have lower co-payments and deductibles, he said in the report.  Other economists disagree, saying it’s not right to cut
benefits when public employees earn 10 percent less than their
counterparts in industry.  Jeffrey Keefe, who teaches at Rutgers School of Management
and Labor Relations, said in a telephone interview that
averaging public employees’ benefit packages and wages shows
they earn 3 percent less than comparable nongovernment
employees, when controlling for education and experience.  Aiming at Labor  Public worker benefit packages were targeted by at least 44
states and the  District of Columbia  over the past four years to
reduce labor costs by cutting jobs, forcing workers to take
unpaid time off and by imposing hiring freezes, according to a
Budget and Policy center report.  In 2010 alone, 11 states, including Colorado, Minnesota,
Missouri and  Virginia , increased the amount employees must
contribute to their pension plans, the center said in another
report. In 16 states, obligations for future benefits were
reduced, according to the organization.  To contain escalating health-care costs,  New Jersey  and  New
York  increased workers’ contributions for their health-insurance
coverage. Indiana, Massachusetts and Wisconsin also implemented
cost-saving measures to state or local health plans.  Local Job Cuts  Municipalities were forced to take similar steps, although
benefit cutbacks at the local level are more difficult to
quantify, academics say.  In Denver, where employee costs comprise 70 percent of
municipal spending, officials grappled with $346 million in
budget shortfalls in the past three years by leaving 750
positions -- about 7 percent of the total workforce -- unfilled,
said Ed Scholz, deputy chief financial officer. The city also
imposed unpaid time off, froze wages and required employees to
pay more for health-care benefits.  Whether public employees got a say in how their benefits
were cut depended on if they had unions and if their state had
collective-bargaining laws letting workers negotiate contracts.  States including Connecticut and New York curbed labor
costs and narrowed budget gaps by negotiating for concessions.  Others including  Wisconsin  secured concessions in part by
curbing union power. Wisconsin took center stage in the battle
between unions and lawmakers led by Republican Governor  Scott Walker  earlier this year when the Legislature voted to strip
public employees of most bargaining rights.  ‘It Works’  “I’ve learned over time that it works,” Walker said when
asked what he had learned from his confrontation with the unions
at a Republican Governors Association meeting in July.  “We had a $3.6 billion deficit, and we turned it into a
$360 million surplus,” Walker said. “It provided savings not
just for this budget, but structural, long-term savings.”  Wisconsin’s law also requires public employee unions to
seek recertification every year -- a step union leaders decided
on Sept. 22 not to take because of the cost. The move
effectively ensures that state government managers are no longer
obligated to bargain with labor groups.  In states including  Texas  and  South Carolina , laws already
restrict employee bargaining power.  “In these cases, the state can cut wages and health-care
benefits and change pensions unilaterally,” Gary Chaison, who
teaches industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester,
Massachusetts, said by e-mail. “This is much faster and easier
than insisting on concessions during bargaining.”  Targeting Effect  How much deeper cuts to state and local workforces go
depends in part on if the congressional supercommittee targets
the $500 billion that the federal government provides to states.
If lawmakers can’t agree on at least $1.2 trillion in savings,
automatic cuts would be triggered, with half coming from defense
spending.  In this scenario, states could lose the $133 billion in
federal money that goes to programs including education, rent
support for the poor and homeland security, according to  Federal
Funds Information for States , a service of the  National
Governors Association  and the State Legislatures conference.  Governors and mayors, who exhausted economic-stimulus funds
from Obama’s 2009  American Recovery and Reinvestment Act  this
year, say they need Congress to pass the president’s jobs plan,
which includes $35 billion to keep teachers, police and
firefighters employed.  “If we have to go through another round of budget cuts
because Congress is unable to address the jobs problems we face
in our community, we will very surgically look at where those
cuts will have the least impact,” Salt Lake City Mayor Ralph Becker, a Democrat, said in a Sept. 16 conference call with
reporters. “But the cuts will undoubtedly include everything
from public safety to whether our parks will have their grass
cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 