-- 
Strauss-Kahn Cites Diplomatic Immunity to Fend Off Hotel Maid’s Lawsuit

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/strauss-kahn-claims-diplomatic-immunity-in-bid-to-dismiss-maid-s-lawsuit.html
Former International Monetary Fund
chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who was cleared last month of
charges that he assaulted a hotel maid in New York, asked a
judge to dismiss the lawsuit brought by his accuser.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, said in a motion filed with Judge Douglas McKeon in New York State Supreme Court in the Bronx borough of
New York City yesterday that the lawsuit filed by the maid,
Nafissatou Diallo, should be thrown out because Strauss-Kahn had
diplomatic immunity.  “As managing director -- which is the chief executive
position at the IMF -- Mr. Strauss-Kahn enjoyed absolute
immunity from civil suit under applicable principles of
international law,” according to the filing by William W. Taylor III, an attorney for Strauss-Kahn.  Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office last
month dropped sexual-assault charges filed against Strauss-Kahn
in May after Diallo accused him of trying to rape her in his
suite at the Sofitel in midtown Manhattan. Diallo, 33, sued
Strauss-Kahn on Aug. 8, seeking unspecified damages.  Diallo’s attorneys, Kenneth P. Thompson and Douglas H. Wigdor, said in a statement that Strauss-Kahn’s claim of
diplomatic immunity will fail because he isn’t a diplomat, was
in New York on personal business and paid for his own room.  “This baseless motion is another desperate attempt to
avoid having to answer for the deplorable acts he committed
against Ms. Diallo,” Thompson and Wigdor said in the statement.  The case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065,  New York 
State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  