-- 
Stocks in Switzerland Rally; UBS, Sonova, Roche Shares Advance

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-26T16:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/swiss-stocks-rise-for-third-day-ubs-sonova-roche-shares-climb.html
Swiss stocks gained for the fourth
day in five, led by financial and health-care shares, amid
speculation European policy makers will intensify efforts to
contain the region’s debt crisis.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, added 5 percent after
 Oswald Gruebel  resigned as chief executive officer in the wake
of its $2.3 billion unauthorized trading losses.  Sonova Holding
AG (SOON) , the hearing-aid maker, increased 4.1 percent as  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  upgraded the stock.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the
world’s largest maker of cancer drugs, rallied 2.6 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the largest and most actively
traded companies rose 1.9 percent to 5,401.01 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich. The gauge has still declined 20 percent from
this year’s high on Feb. 18 as the Swiss franc’s strength curbed
exports and concern mounted that the global economic recovery is
stalling. The broader Swiss Performance Index advanced 1.8
percent today.  “Investors still seem to nourish hope that there will be a
consensus amongst politicians,” said Christoph Riniker, head of
strategy research at  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  in Zurich.
“However, it is probably still too early to speak of a
solution. Although every now and again there is hope at the
horizon, there are still a number of uncertainties, which weigh
more on the markets than positive news. Therefore we have to
assume that volatility will remain high in the short term.”  European policy makers face mounting pressure from foreign
counterparts and investors to step up efforts to prevent their
sovereign-debt crisis from further roiling the world’s financial
markets and economy.  ‘Catastrophic Risk’  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner set the tone at
the annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in
Washington by warning that failure to combat the Greek-led
turmoil threatened “cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk.” Billionaire investor George Soros said
“something needs to be done” to safeguard Europe’s banks
because Greece may be unable to avoid default.  The IMF said it is ready to “strongly support” European
nations in their efforts to resolve the debt crisis. Euro-area
countries will do whatever is necessary to ensure the financial
stability of the entire euro area and its members, the fund said
in a  statement  on Sept. 24 after its meetings in  Washington .
Advanced nations are at the “core” of a resolution to the
current global uncertainty and should adopt policies to improve
their finances, it said.  Greek Firewall  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro-region leaders
must build a firewall around Greece to avert a cascade of market
attacks on other European countries that would risk breaking up
the currency area. Expanding the powers of the region’s rescue
fund as agreed by European leaders in July is necessary to avoid
Greece’s problems from spilling over to other nations, Merkel
said late yesterday on ARD television.  Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., predicted that advanced economies
will stall in the next year as  Europe  slides into a recession.  There will be little or no economic growth in industrial
nations in the coming 12 months as Europe’s economy shrinks 1
percent to 2 percent and the U.S. stagnates, El-Erian said. That
will leave worldwide expansion at about 2.5 percent, less than
the 4 percent forecast by the IMF this year and next.  “Fears of a recession are already priced in, to some
extent,” Riniker said. “Overall, I think the current debt
crisis stands more in the foreground than recession fears.”  UBS Advances  UBS climbed 5 percent to 10.63 Swiss francs. Gruebel
resigned after a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading was
announced less than two weeks ago. He was replaced on an interim
basis by  Sergio Ermotti , who joined six months ago as CEO for
Europe the  Middle East  and Africa, UBS said on Sept. 24.  Credit Suisse jumped 5.6 percent to 22.47 francs and  Julius
Baer , the 121-year-old wealth manager, rose 3.6 percent to 29.11
francs.  Sonova gained 4.1 percent to 81.75 francs, its highest
price since June 22. Credit Suisse analyst Christoph Gretler
raised the company’s stock to “outperform” from “neutral,”
saying that the hearing-device industry is “largely resilient
to recession.”  Roche rallied 2.6 percent to 140.10 francs after a study
showed its experimental vismodegib treatment helped patients
with a form of skin cancer.  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Europe’s second-biggest drugmaker by sales,
gained 1.3 percent to 49.12 francs. Its kidney-cancer drug
Afinitor also prevented breast cancer from worsening in a study
that Novartis plans to use in applying for regulatory approval.
The trial was stopped early because the primary goal was met
faster than expected.  Aryzta AG (ARYN) , a Swiss supplier of bakery products to
supermarkets and restaurants, climbed 2.3 percent to 39.95
francs after reporting full-year underlying earnings per share
rose 27 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  