-- 
The U.S. Needs a Meaningful Mortgage Settlement: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-09-26T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/u-s-needs-a-meaningful-mortgage-settlement-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
Discussions around this weekend’s
 International Monetary Fund  annual meetings in  Washington  made
it clear that the standard macroeconomic toolkit has little more
to offer the U.S. It’s time to try something else.  Monetary policy  has reached its limits, and further fiscal
stimulus isn’t in the cards. Three years into the financial
crisis, the  U.S. economy  is still held back by weak  consumer
confidence . Meanwhile, the global financial system continues to
face instability, most notably because of the persistent
sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe .  With roughly a quarter of all U.S. households with
mortgages owing more on their loans than their homes are worth,
it’s no surprise that consumption, which accounts for 70 percent
of gross domestic product, is restrained.  The consequent lack of demand discourages business
investment, which means  job creation  remains weak. People are
afraid of losing their homes and that fear keeps spending down
and thus prevents them -- and their neighbors -- from getting
jobs.  What can be done to break this vicious circle? One
suggestion from some officials this weekend -- and of course
many banks -- is to accept a relatively small amount of money to
settle the various robo-signing and other mortgage document
cases that state attorneys general are pursuing. The claim is
that this would put the banks back on their feet and spur
lending. This is a complete illusion.  TARP Props  The biggest banks were propped up during the crisis by the
Treasury Department using Troubled Asset Relief Program funds
and by the  Federal Reserve  with huge loans in various forms.
Some institutions, including Citigroup and Bank of America, were
put back on their feet several times.  But this approach has proved insufficient to spur an
economic recovery. Left to their devices, banks will always fail
to restructure loans on a scale sufficient to make a
macroeconomic difference. Negative equity or near negative
equity weighs on consumers and depresses confidence, but no
single private firm will ever take into account those broader
consequences.  To date, the government’s efforts on mortgages have been
lame -- and much less than was done to save the biggest and
worst managed banks. There’s also zero chance that this Congress
would authorize the use of any public money to support mortgage
relief. At the same time, it’s only fair and reasonable that
there should be redress for homeowners who were tricked into
mortgages they couldn’t afford, evicted without due process or
otherwise mistreated by banks.  Principal Reductions  Appropriate redress would presumably include loan
modifications and the possibility of principal reductions for
those who borrowed from particular banks during specified
periods, or who took out various kinds of dangerous loans (for
example, the infamous exploding adjustable mortgages, in which
low teaser interest rates were used to fool people into ignoring
how much rates would quickly rise.)  Bank misconduct allegedly was on a grand scale throughout
the origination, securitization and loan-servicing processes,
particularly for loans taken out from 2005 through 2008. It is
conceivable that an appropriate settlement would include enough
restructuring of payments to make a difference at the level of
significantly reducing household debt burdens.  Unknown Amounts  Unfortunately, we don’t know the exact amounts that could
be involved because the  Justice Department  has sat on its hands
for three years and no attorney general has been able to
complete a full investigation. Some AGs, such as  Eric Schneiderman  of  New York , argue that we need such an
investigation as the basis for a comprehensive settlement.
Surprisingly, many other AGs and some federal agencies seem
increasingly inclined to accept the $15 billion to $20 billion
that the banks have put on the table, and declare the matter
closed.  We got into our current financial morass because state and
federal officials bent over backward to allow banks to do what
they wanted. During the most intense crisis period, official
strategy under President  George W. Bush , and again during the
Obama administration, was to support big banks -- and to keep
them on their feet with minimal personnel, governance or
business model changes. Now some AGs and the Obama
administration want to call it quits and let the banks go back
to business as usual.  The policy over the past 30 years of giving the big banks
pretty much what their executives want has proved to be an
unmitigated disaster. It’s time to change that in a fair and
reasonable manner. Let every disputed mortgage case be examined
separately, using the full process of the law. If that prospect
is too daunting for the banks accused of serious misconduct,
then they should reach a settlement that’s big enough to make a
difference.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008, and is now a
professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 