-- 
Stocks Rally as Europe Works on Crisis Solution; Commodities Revese Losses

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-26T20:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/u-s-stock-futures-oil-gain-on-european-crisis-speculation-euro-weakens.html
Stocks rallied, rebounding from
last week’s slump, and Treasuries retreated as European
officials discussed plans to tame the region’s debt crisis.
Commodities reversed losses and the Dollar Index declined.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 2.3 percent to close
at 1,162.95 at 4 p.m.  New York  time. Ten-year U.S. Treasury note
yields added six basis points to 1.90 percent, rising from near
a record low. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities gained 0.2
percent, erasing an earlier drop of 2.6 percent, as oil halted a
three-day slump. The Dollar Index lost 0.5 percent, while the
euro fell against 12 of 16 major peers.  The  European Central Bank  is likely to debate restarting
covered-bond purchases and may discuss interest-rate cuts to
ease funding strains, a euro-region central bank official said.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s comments that leaders must
erect a firewall around Greece prompted speculation about a
European version of the U.S.’s Troubled Asset Relief Program
after finance chiefs including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
F. Geithner  urged more efforts to prevent contagion.  “Europe will come up with something,”  Jeffrey Saut , chief
investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , said in a telephone interview. His firm
manages $278 billion. “I don’t think we’re going into a
recession. Now is the time to be bullish, not the time to panic.
The lows for the year are in.”  Rebound After Plunge  The S&P 500 and  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose for a
second day. The Dow surged 272.38 points, or 2.5 percent, to
11,043.86 as it rebounded from last week’s 6.4 percent drop, its
biggest since October 2008. Financial and energy shares led the
gain, with JPMorgan Chase & Co. surging 7 percent and Exxon
Mobil Corp. climbing 3.5 percent. Class B shares of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ’s company,
climbed 8.6 percent after announcing a buyback program.  Boeing Co. rose 4.2 percent as a delivery of the 787
Dreamliner ended more than three years of delays on the world’s
first jetliner with a fuselage made of carbon-fiber composites.  Last week’s rout erased $1 trillion from U.S. equities, and
wiped out about $3.6 trillion globally, amid concern Europe
can’t contain the damage from its government-debt crisis. The
 S&P 500  slumped 17 percent between April 29 and Sept. 23,
leaving it trading at 12.4 times earnings in the past 12 months,
4.4 percent below its average valuation at the lowest point
during the last nine bear markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Quarterly Drop  The S&P 500 is down about 12 percent since the end of June,
poised for its worst quarterly performance since 2008. Stocks
are having the worst quarter on record relative to U.S.
Treasuries and gold, which may force investors to buy equities
to rebalance their allocations, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Marko Kolanovic said. U.S. and emerging-market equities have returned
43 percentage points less, the most during a quarter since at
least 2002, according to data compiled by Kolanovic, whose
analysis is based on a model portfolio composed of stocks, bonds
and gold  A gauge of U.S. homebuilder stocks rose 2.7 percent even
after new-home purchases in the U.S. slid in August to a six-
month low as the biggest drop in prices in two years failed to
lure buyers away from even less expensive distressed properties,
a Commerce Department report showed. Another report showed U.S.
economic activity fell in August. The Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago’s national index, which draws on 85 economic indicators,
was minus 0.43 in August versus 0.02 in July. A reading below
zero indicates below-trend-growth in the national economy.  Bearish Options Trades  Equity-options show traders expect  Europe ’s debt crisis to
engulf the U.S. as contracts to protect against losses in the
S&P 500 erase the gap with the euro region’s benchmark gauge.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index rose 33
percent last week to 41.25, bringing it within seven points of
the 29-month high reached Aug. 8. The VIX, as the gauge is
known, eliminated more than half the discount to Europe’s VStoxx
Index in the past week, cutting it to 7.3 points from 15 on
Sept. 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  About five stocks gained for every two that fell in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which rebounded 1.9 percent after
dropping 6.1 percent last week. BNP Paribas SA, UniCredit SpA
and Deutsche Bank AG, the biggest lenders in France, Italy and
 Germany  respectively, rose at least 4 percent.  ‘We Are There’  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said the ECB
will do whatever is necessary to supply sufficient funds to
European banks.  “For liquidity, we are there” and “we are ready to do
what is needed,” Bini Smaghi said in New York today. “‘‘We
need to reassure the markets.’’ He also said the central bank
doesn’t expect a default by  Greece .  The ECB is likely to debate restarting covered-bond
purchases and more measures to ease monetary conditions next
week, a euro-region central bank official said. Reintroduction
of 12-month loans to banks will also be discussed at the ECB’s
Oct. 6 policy meeting, said the person, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the information is confidential. Interest-
rate cuts are likely to be discussed, though they are not on the
current agenda, the official said.  The yield on the Greek 10-year bond rose 43 basis points,
driving the difference in yield with benchmark German bunds 35
basis points higher to 22.23 percentage points. Spanish 10-year
yields slipped five basis points to 5.16 percent, while Italy’s
were little changed and rates on similar-maturity U.K., French
and German debt increased.  Default Swaps  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk fell for a
second day. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises
as it deteriorates, declined 3 basis point to a mid-price of 138
basis points, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
debt also retreated. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index
of swaps on 15 governments fell 1.7 basis points to 363.7, after
earlier rising to a record.  Crude oil for November delivery gained 0.5 percent to
$80.24 a barrel. Cattle and natural gas rallied more than 2.4
percent to lead gains among 15 of the 24 commodities tracked by
the S&P GSCI Index.  Gold fell, capping the biggest three-session lump since
1983, and silver closed below $30 an ounce on investor sales to
cover losses in other assets. Gold for December delivery fell
2.7 percent to settle at $1,594.80 an ounce and plunged 12
percent in three sessions.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.6 percent as
benchmark indexes in  China  and  South Korea  slumped at least 1.1
percent.  Thailand ’s SET Index tumbled 5.7 percent after the
central bank said it may cut its economic growth forecasts.  Russia’s Micex Index rose 1.5 percent after Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said he would run again for president next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  