-- 
U.S. September Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-09-26T14:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/u-s-september-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the Texas manufacturing
activity from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas .  Texas factory activity increased in September, according to business executives
responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key
measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from 1.1 to 5.9, suggesting growth
picked up this month after stalling in August.  Most other measures of current manufacturing conditions also indicated growth
in September. The new orders index edged down from 4.8 to 3.6 this month, suggesting
order volumes continued to increase, but at a slightly decelerated pace. The
shipments index rose from 6.7 to 9.4, reaching its highest level since March. The
capacity utilization index remained in negative territory in September but rose from
-2.8 to -1.3.  Perceptions of general business conditions worsened in September. The general
business activity index remained negative for the fifth month in a row and fell from
-11.4 to -14.4; ten percent of manufacturers perceived an increase in activity this
month, while one quarter noted a decrease. The company outlook index fell from 7.2
in August to a near-zero reading in September. Still, the great majority of
respondents said their outlooks were unchanged or improved from last month.  Labor market indicators reflected higher labor demand growth. The employment
index came in at 13.4, up notably from 5.4 in August. One quarter of manufacturers
reported hiring new workers, while 12 percent reported layoffs. The hours worked
index moved back into positive territory in September, suggesting average workweeks
lengthened.  Input prices and wages rose at a pace similar to August, while selling prices
increased slightly after holding steady last month. The raw materials price index
was 23.5, virtually unchanged from its August reading. The finished goods price
index moved up to 3.9 after coming in near zero last month. Forty-six percent of
respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six
months, while 29 percent expect higher finished goods prices. The wages and benefits
index rose from 15.7 in August to 17.4 in September, although nearly three-fourths
of respondents noted no change in labor costs.  Expectations regarding future business conditions were generally less
optimistic in September. The index of future general business activity edged down to
-1.5, the first negative reading since April 2009. The index of future company
outlook fell as well, staying positive but registering its lowest reading in more
than a year. Most indexes of future manufacturing activity inched down in September,
although all remained in solid positive territory.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to
obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected Sep.
13-21, and 93 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether
output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or
remained unchanged over the previous month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index
is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from
the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase
exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero,
suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be
below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index
will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number
of firms reporting a decrease.  Next release: October 31, 2011 