-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Rise After Price Slump

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-26T13:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-rise-after-price-slump.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Advance as Drop to 10-Month Low Attracts Buyers  Commodities advanced after tumbling to their lowest level
in almost 10 months as price declines attracted buyers. Sugar
rose the most in more than a month in New York.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  German Coal Renaissance Threatens Climate Goals, Researcher Says  Germany ’s nuclear exit is threatening climate-protection
efforts as Europe’s biggest economy burns more coal to make up
for lost reactor capacity, according to the country’s Institute
for Economic Research.  Maersk to Double U.K. North Sea Production by 2017 on New Fields  Maersk Oil, a unit of A.P. Moeller- Maersk A/S, may double
U.K. North Sea crude and natural gas production by 2017 on new
projects and exploration.  Levine’s President Petroleum Looks to Add Fields in  Argentina   President Petroleum Co., the oil producer backed by former
Imperial Energy Corp. Chairman Peter Levine, will use cash from
new wells to finance field acquisitions in Argentina.  Raw-Materials Rout Drives Bullish Futures Down 20%: Commodities  Speculators cut bets on rising commodities prices by the
most in 19 months as raw materials tip into their first  bear
market  since 2008 and investors anticipate more losses.  Armajaro Trading Moving Focus From Futures to Actual Commodities  Armajaro Trading Group Ltd., a supplier of sugar, cocoa and
coffee, is switching focus to supply the actual commodities
instead of trading the futures as part of a development that led
co-founder Anthony Ward to step down from the company’s board.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper, Zinc Tumble as European Debt Crisis May Curb Growth  Copper in London plunged to the lowest price in more than a
year on concern that a failure to contain Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis may curb world growth and spur a slump in demand.
Zinc also declined.  Indonesia ’s Biggest Tin Producing Region May Suspend Exports (2)  Bangka Belitung, the biggest tin producing province in
Indonesia, will discuss suspending exports today to stem a slide
in the metal prices, two industry executives said.  LME Facing Takeover as Record Commodity Volumes Draw Bidders (2)  The London Metal Exchange, founded 134 years ago above a
hat shop in the financial district, may be the latest major
mutual exchange to be bought after record trading volumes
attracted the interest of multiple bidders.  MINING:  AngloGold May Lift Output 68% by 2020 Excluding Acquisitions (1)  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., the third- largest producer of the
metal, may increase output 68 percent by 2020 excluding any
acquisitions as it seeks to reverse declines.  Metals, Mining Equities Will Fall ‘For a While,’ JPMorgan Says  Metals and mining equities will fall “for a while,” with
a 10 to 15 percent “downside risk to the sector,” JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said.  Indonesia’s Biggest Tin Producing Region May Suspend Exports (1)  Bangka Belitung, the biggest tin producing province in
Indonesia, will discuss suspending exports today to stem a slide
in the metal prices, two industry executives said.  Mongolia Seeks Bigger Stake in Rio, Ivanhoe Copper Mine (2)  Mongolia wants to increase its stake in one of the world’s
largest undeveloped copper mines two years after the nation
agreed with Rio Tinto Group and Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. to cap
government control until 2039.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Slides More Than Comex Margins as Investors Cover Losses  Gold slid below $1,600 an ounce and headed for the biggest
two-day slump in a month, while silver erased its gains this
year, as some investors sold the metals to cover losses in other
assets. Bullion futures dropped more than margin requirements
for a second consecutive day.  Silver Plunges 15%, Drops Below $27 for the First Time Since Jan  Cash silver plunged as much as 15 percent to $26.4550 an
ounce, dropping below $27 for the first time since January.
December-delivery futures slumped as much as 12 percent to
$26.50 an ounce.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil  Drops to One-Year Low on Concern Demand May Decline  Palm oil fell to the lowest level in almost a year after a
survey showed that prices may drop for the first time in three
years as favorable weather boosts supplies and a global slowdown
weakens demand for commodities.  Corn Rebounds From Early Losses as U.S. May Cut Output Forecast  Corn gained, reversing earlier losses, on speculation that
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will have to lower production
estimates again in an October report. Wheat also rallied.  Cocoa Falls as Supply May Exceed Use a Second Year, Sugar Rises  Cocoa fell for a third day in  London  on speculation
supplies will outpace demand for a second year after a record
surplus in 2010-11. White sugar rose.  Egypt ’s SIIC Buys 50,000 Metric Tons of Raw Sugar, Ahmed Says  Egypt’s state-run Sugar and Integrated Industries Co.
bought 50,000 metric tons of raw sugar at a tender yesterday,
paying $628.60 a ton to Eridania, Hussein Ahmed, a purchasing
manager at the company said.  Corn, Soybeans Should Be Sold, as Cattle Gains, Hackett Says (1)  Commodities that will rebound this week won’t be able to
sustain rallies as prices may decline to “new lows,” Hackett
Financial Advisors Inc. said.  SHIPPING:  Japan Tsunami Debris Still Litters the Pacific Ocean, U.S. Says  Debris from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami continues
to litter the Pacific Ocean, the U.S. Department of
Transportation said.  Supertanker Earnings Estimate Cut by at Least 50% at Pareto (1)  Supertankers will earn $15,000 a day next year and in 2013
because of slumping demand and too many ships, said Pareto
Securities AS, an Oslo-based investment bank, lowering previous
estimates.  ECONOMIES:  China  Stocks Fall to Lowest Since July 2010 on Inflation Concern  China’s stocks fell, dragging the benchmark index to the
lowest level in more than 14 months, as comments from the
central bank governor that inflation remained the nation’s “top
concern” fanned speculation policies to curb rising prices will
slow economic growth.  Record Cash Crunch to Ease Amid Global Slowdown: China Credit  China’s biggest cash shortage will ease in the fourth
quarter as the risk of a global economic slump prompts the
central bank to halt monetary tightening, a survey of bond
analysts showed.  Yuan to Become ‘Fully Convertible’ in 5 Years, Adviser Says (1)  China’s yuan may become a fully convertible currency in
five years, said  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of
China.  Yuan Offshore Rates Weaker on ’Forced Sales’: Chart of the Day  China’s yuan is trading at a record discount in  Hong Kong 
compared with the  exchange rate  in  Shanghai , as investors in
 Europe  and the U.S. are “forced” to divest emerging-market
assets amid losses at home.  World Finance Chiefs’ Patience Ebbing as Pimco Sees Slump (2)  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, is forecasting that advanced economies will
stall over the next year as Europe slides into a recession,
underscoring mounting investor concern about the global economic
outlook.  Merkel Says  Greece  Needs ‘Barrier’ Erected to Stave Off Default  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro-region leaders
must erect a firewall around Greece to avert a cascade of market
attacks on other European states that would risk breaking up the
currency area.  OTHER MARKETS:  European Stocks, U.S. Index Futures Rise as Euro Pares Declines  European stocks and U.S. index futures rose, reversing
earlier declines, while the euro pared losses as finance chiefs
including U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner urged more
efforts to solve the debt crisis. Copper, gold and silver led
commodities lower.  Euro Drops to Decade Low Versus Yen on Debt Concern; Kiwi Drops  The euro slumped to a decade low against the yen on
speculation European policy makers are struggling to resolve the
debt crisis as the region’s economy slows, damping demand for
the region’s assets.  Oil Falls to Seven-Week Low on Bets Europe Crisis to Cut Demand  Oil fell to its lowest price in almost seven weeks in  New
York , extending last week’s 9.2 percent decline, on bets
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis will cut fuel demand.  SPORTS:  Van Persie Not Ready to Sign New Contract, Mirror Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wales  Gets Record 81-7 Rugby  World Cup  Win to Go Second in Pool  Wales routed Namibia 81-7 for its biggest Rugby World Cup
victory to grab second place in Pool D and move closer to a
quarterfinal place.  Pocock Boosts Wallabies, Russian Hooker Cited: World Cup Roundup  The following is a roundup of stories from the 2011 Rugby
World Cup in  New Zealand .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  