-- 
U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Drops as Europe Debt Concerns Ease

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-09-26T21:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-drops-as-europe-debt-concern-eases.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk fell for a second day as European officials
discussed plans to stem the spread of the continent’s debt
crisis, reducing investors concerns.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates, declined 3.9 basis points to a mid-price of 136.8
basis points as of 5:06 p.m. in  New York , according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd. Credit-default swaps on BNP
Paribas SA, France’s largest bank, fell 8.7 to 272.3, and swaps
on Credit Agricole SA dropped 15.1 to 266.1, according to data
provider CMA.  The credit swaps index has declined since officials
gathered in  Washington  last week for the annual meetings of the
 World Bank  and  International Monetary Fund . Investor optimism is
growing that policy makers will take steps to protect European
banks, according to Noel Hebert, a credit strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. in New York.  “There’s a degree of comfort coming out of there,” Hebert
said in a telephone interview. “It’s feeding into everything
else.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that euro-
region leaders must build a firewall around Greece to prevent
market attacks on other European states. European Central Bank
Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the ECB will do
whatever is necessary to supply sufficient funds to European
banks.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  