-- 
U.S. Hikers Leave Iran Prison Fitter and With Sean Penn to Thank

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-09-26T14:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/u-s-hikers-leave-iran-prison-with-sean-penn-to-thank.html
Shane Bauer and  Josh Fattal  emerged
from 781 days in a 104-square-foot Iranian prison cell leaner,
fitter and with Hollywood actor  Sean Penn  and Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  among those to thank for their release.  Bauer and Fattal returned home yesterday after the Gulf
sultanate of Oman paid a $1 million bail. Both their mothers
were present and took questions from reporters after the two
freed U.S. citizens read aloud a statement in  New York , listing
celebrities and heads of state who “made a difference” in
securing their freedom.  Cindy Hicky spoke of her son Shane’s “ingenuity” behind
bars and how the men stayed fit by using water bottles as
exercise weights and tearing strips from their blindfolds to use
as laces for their sneakers. Detained in Tehran’s Evin prison on
charges of espionage and illegal entry, the pair, after a stint
in solitary confinement, were put in the same cell and allowed
short bursts of daily exercise.  “They’re both thinner than when we left them,” Hicky
said. “Their hair is nicely cut. They had slight gray under
their eyes because they did not have much sunshine. No vitamin
D.”  Film director and actor Penn flew to  Venezuela  to raise the
plight of the hikers with Chavez, an ally of the Iranian
government who lent his support, according to a person close to
the family who declined to be named. Penn, an ardent critic of
former U.S. President  George W. Bush , maintains contacts with
the regimes in Cuba and Venezuela.  Unmarked Border  The question of how the two 29-year-olds and Bauer’s fiance
 Sarah Shourd  stumbled across the border into  Iran  during a hike
in Iraq near the mountainous border between the two countries on
July 31, 2009, remains unanswered. Asked whether, with
hindsight, their decision to explore a waterfall in Iraq’s
Kurdish region without a proper map was reckless, the three
hikers were mostly unrepentant.  “This was never about crossing the unmarked border,”
 Shane Bauer  told reporters in a New York hotel. “We were held
because of our nationality. We do not know if we crossed the
border. We will probably never know.”  Shourd, who was released on a $500,000 bail a year ago,
said that the three of them “regret we didn’t know more about
that area.”  Bauer and Fattal were given their freedom at the same time
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  arrived in New York for
the United Nations General Assembly, where he assailed U.S.
policy for triggering wars and causing the world’s economic
distress.  ‘Ironic’ Punishment  Shourd, who became engaged to Bauer while both were in
captivity, had lived with him in Syria’s capital, Damascus,
where she learned Arabic and taught English. Fattal is an
environmentalist who was visiting Damascus before the three
headed to  Iraq .  Shourd described their imprisonment as “ironic” given
that the three Americans had a “long record” as critics of
their own country’s foreign policy, particularly the treatment
of inmates at the U.S. detention camp in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  “It was very ironic that when I was in the Iranian prison,
complaining about being alone,” she said. “The guards would
bring up Guantanamo. We would say: ‘We know. We understand but
two wrongs don’t make a right.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  