-- 
U.S. Battery, Plug-in Car Push Costs Exceed Rewards, New Study Says

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-09-26T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/u-s-battery-plug-in-car-push-costs-exceed-rewards-study-says.html
U.S. government incentives to spur
a market for battery-powered autos aren’t a cost-effective way
to cut oil use and tailpipe emissions compared with boosting
sales of hybrids and plug-in cars that go short distances on
electricity, a study said.  Battery breakthroughs, more-expensive oil and a more-
efficient electric  power grid  will be needed to justify the
expense, weight, and assembly-related costs of “large battery
pack” cars, according to the review by  Carnegie Mellon
University ,  Arizona State University  and Rand Corp., published
this week in  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .  Hybrids similar to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Prius and plug-in
hybrids that go about 10 miles on battery power offer fuel-use
and carbon-exhaust savings similar to more advanced rechargeable
models such as Nissan Motor Co.’s electric Leaf and  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Volt, and at lower cost, the study found.  “It’s not that large battery packs are bad, it’s that they
are not providing as many benefits per dollar,” Jeremy Michalek, an engineering professor at Carnegie Mellon University
in Pittsburgh who led the review, said in an interview.
“Ordinary hybrids increase fuel economy substantially, and the
incremental cost of those systems is getting relatively small.”  The study did not recommend specific models.  Tax Credits  Congress in 2009 approved tax credits of as much as $7,500
for consumers to buy vehicles powered mainly by electricity to
help cut emissions tied to global warming and oil imports, along
with low-cost federal loans for carmakers to add or upgrade
factories to build them. Nissan, GM and startups  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA)  and Fisker Automotive Inc. have received loans they’re
using to build rechargeable vehicles.  Nissan’s Leaf hatchback, which goes about 70 miles per
charge of its lithium-ion battery pack, costs $35,200 before the
credit, and GM’s Volt that goes about 35 miles per charge has a
$39,145 starting price without the incentive. Prius, averaging
50 miles per gallon of gasoline, doesn’t qualify for a federal
tax credit.  Tesla’s electric Roadster sports car costs more than
$100,000 even with the credit and can travel more than 200 miles
per charge. Fisker’s Karma plug-in model that’s being delivered
to U.S. customers costs more than $80,000.  Toyota, the world’s largest seller of hybrid autos, said
this month the plug-in version of Prius that goes on sale early
next year will travel 15 miles on electricity before the
gasoline engine kicks in, when it averages 49 mpg. The car has a
$32,000 base price, prior to a $2,500 federal tax credit, the
company said.  “Current subsidies to support plug-in vehicle adoption
favor large battery packs,” the report said. Such packs “are
expensive and heavy” and “are underutilized when the battery
capacity is larger than needed for a typical trip,” it said.  Both Toyota and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which are working together
to develop a hybrid system for light trucks, provide funding for
engineering research at Carnegie Mellon University, Michalek
said. Neither company was involved in the report released today,
which was funded by the  National Science Foundation , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  