-- 
UBS Gains as Analysts Say Gruebel Exit to Speed Investment Bank Shrinkage

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-26T16:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ubs-gains-as-analysts-speculate-gruebel-exit-to-speed-shrinkage.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  climbed in Zurich trading
amid analyst speculation that  Oswald Gruebel ’s resignation as
chief executive officer removes an obstacle to shrinking its
investment-banking business.  The stock rose 5 percent to 10.63 Swiss francs, the highest
since the bank revealed a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized
trading on Sept. 15. The 46-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index gained 3.6 percent.  “UBS remains our top pick amongst the European investment
banks and we rate it buy,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
Jernej Omahen and Peter Skoog wrote in a note to clients today.
Gruebel’s departure “adds weight” to UBS’s comments on
accelerating the downsizing of its investment bank, they said.  Gruebel, 67, resigned as CEO on Sept. 24 after
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank reported the loss from trading in
Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures over the
past three months. He was replaced on an interim basis by  Sergio Ermotti , who will oversee a reduction in risk at the firm’s
investment bank, UBS said.  “In the future, the investment bank will be less complex,
carry less risk and use less capital to produce reliable returns
and contribute more optimally to UBS’s overall objectives,” UBS
Chairman Kaspar Villiger, 70, told reporters on Sept. 24.  Positive Developments  Former trader Gruebel had previously been reluctant to
reduce the unit, according to Helvea SA, a Geneva-based
brokerage.  “We view the departure of Gruebel and the shrinkage of the
investment bank as very positive developments,”  Peter Thorne , a
London-based analyst at Helvea, wrote in a note to clients
today. Thorne has an accumulate rating on the stock.  UBS’s credit ratings are unaffected by Gruebel’s
resignation, S&P said today, after putting them on review for
possible downgrade on Sept. 16.  “A reshaping of the investment bank into a lower-risk
business with more-reliable performance would likely support the
current ratings,” S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  