-- 
UBS Bankers Face Dwindling Options as Securities Unit Prepares to Shrink

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m ,   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-09-27T12:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ubs-bankers-face-dwindling-options-as-securities-unit-prepares-to-shrink.html
As  UBS AG (UBSN)  prepares to shrink its
investment bank following a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized
trading, bankers pushed out or looking to leave may find few
opportunities as Wall Street rivals slash jobs.  Switzerland’s biggest bank said on Sept. 24 that its
investment bank will carry less risk and use less capital in the
future, after the loss by a trader on the Delta One desk in
London spurred demands to scale back the division.  “As soon as the news about Delta One came in, CVs from UBS
started flying,” said  Jason Kennedy , chief executive officer of
London-based recruiter the Kennedy Group, using an abbreviation
for resumes. “There are some very good people at UBS and they
will be in demand. But for many there’s nowhere to go.”  Even before the trading scandal, Zurich-based UBS had
announced plans to cut 3,500 jobs, with 45 percent of those
reductions at the investment bank, as market turmoil curbed
client activity and rising capital costs made certain businesses
less attractive. The firm now may accelerate that shrinkage,
throwing more bankers out of work at a time when European rivals
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Barclays Plc and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  have announced plans for more than 70,000 cuts.  “Almost certainly you’re going to see more job losses” at
UBS,  Christopher Wheeler , a Mediobanca SpA analyst in London,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua. Still, UBS may not face a brain drain, he said. “This
is a tough market where most banks are letting people go.”  Job Cuts Jump  UBS rose 46 centimes, or 4.3 percent, to 11.09 francs by
noon in Swiss trading, trimming the decline this year to 28
percent. The stock has erased all of the losses it suffered in
the wake of the trading loss.  The biggest global banks are trimming jobs the fastest
since 2008 as companies seek to improve profitability,
regulators boost capital requirements and a weakening economy
squeezes revenue.  Financial firms have announced more than 120,000 cuts this
year, while hiring in some markets or businesses, data compiled
by Bloomberg Industries show. London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s
largest bank, said last month it will shed 30,000 workers. Bank
of America Corp., the biggest U.S. lender by assets, said Sept.
12 it also will eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next few years
under a project to remove about $5 billion in annual costs.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which on July 19 unveiled plans
to reduce annual costs by $1.2 billion and cut about 1,000 jobs,
may slash costs by an additional $250 million as revenue
dwindles, the  New York  Times reported today. Analysts at
 Barclays Capital , Bank of America and Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
estimate that Goldman Sachs will report a third-quarter loss,
only the second quarterly loss in its 12 years as a public
company.  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New 
York, declined to comment.  Oswald Gruebel , 67, who rebuilt UBS’s investment bank
following more than $50 billion of subprime-related losses
during the credit crisis, stepped down as CEO on Sept. 24. He
was replaced on an interim basis by  Sergio Ermotti , 51.  UBS will announce further changes to the investment bank in
a presentation to investors scheduled for Nov. 17.  Credit businesses that haven’t been very profitable and
that will be affected most by rising  capital requirements  under
new rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  are
the most apt to be cut back, analysts said.  ‘Doing Some Thinking’  “They’re likely to be downsizing in fixed income across
securitization, exotic derivatives and structured credit,” said
 Dirk Becker , a banking analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
 Frankfurt  who recommends investors hold the stock. “The
expansion may be over in those areas and if I worked there, I’d
be doing some thinking.”  UBS is likely to keep its equities, foreign exchange and
commodities businesses, especially in Asia, said  Peter Hahn , a
professor of finance at London’s Cass Business School and a
former managing director at New York-based Citigroup Inc. That
would complement the bank’s wealth-management operations, which
account for about 40 percent of revenue.  “For UBS, the future has to lie in  Asia , related to
entrepreneurs and their wealth,” Hahn said. UBS has the world’s
third-largest wealth-management business after Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America Corp. and New York-based Morgan
Stanley, according to Scorpio Partnership, a London-based
provider of research and industry analysis.  Bonuses Imperiled  The trading loss more than erases the 1.21 billion Swiss
francs ($1.3 billion) in pretax profit earned at the investment
bank in the first half of the year, imperiling bonus payments
for those bankers who do keep their jobs, recruiters and
analysts said. For Carsten Kengeter, who runs the investment
bank, the challenge will be to hold onto his top performers,
even as he shrinks the division.  “They could lose people they don’t want to lose,” said
Jonathan Nicholson, a managing director in  London  at recruiting
consultant Astbury Marsden. “The bank now needs to make
decisions on where to invest. Everything is up for review.”  Morale within the investment-banking division took a blow
from the trading scandal, and dropped even further following
Gruebel’s departure, according to an executive who requested
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. The
bank suffered defections earlier this year that included four of
the 10 business heads that reported to Kengeter.  Fraud Charges  UBS may have to pay out loyalty bonuses to staff in the
investment bank to encourage them to stay on and help wind down
certain units, according to  Peter Thorne , an analyst at Helvea
SA, a Geneva-based brokerage.  Dominik von Arx, a spokesman in London, declined to comment
on what steps UBS is taking to retain staff. UBS employed 17,776
people at the investment bank at the end of the second quarter,
and 65,707 company-wide.  The loss resulted from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500,
DAX and EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months, UBS
said on Sept. 18. Kweku Adoboli, 31, a trader on the Delta One
desk in London, was charged with fraud and false accounting and
remains in custody. He has yet to enter a plea.  Guido Hoymann, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus
Metzler who recommends investors sell UBS stock, said market
conditions will probably limit departures and the bank will
fight to keep top performers.  “UBS staff may be more amenable to a move but they would be
unwise to do anything rash,” said Jonathan Evans, chairman of
executive-search firm Sammons Associates in London. “It is still
one of the best-regarded investment banks and will do whatever
it can to pay staff. I expect people will wait to see what the
future of the firm looks like and what bonuses are offered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  