-- 
UBS-From-Plumber Career Helps Brooklynite Earn U.S. Rugby World Cup Slot

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-27T09:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/ubs-from-plumber-career-lands-brooklynite-slot-on-u-s-national-rugby-team.html
Mike Petri juggled jobs at  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and his family’s plumbing business to help seal a spot on the
U.S. Rugby World Cup squad. The Eagles’ vice-captain is now
making his mark at the global championship.  He left UBS’s  Zahakos Wealth Management Group  in May 2010
when he got a professional rugby contract in the U.K., and
returned part-time this year. He wanted to be in  New York  to be
closer to the U.S. team training camps during preparation for
the 20-nation tournament, which started Sept. 9 in  New Zealand .  “Rugby back home doesn’t really pay anything so in terms
of a lifestyle I had to complement my rugby,” Petri, 27, said
in a telephone interview. “I was lucky enough that they had
left the door open for me. I was working a couple of hours a day
so that I could start to focus on my rugby training.”  The Brooklyn native, who graduated from  Pennsylvania State
University  with a degree in life sciences, made the 30-man U.S.
roster and started the Eagles’ first two matches at the World
Cup. He scored the only try of the game in the 13-6 win over
 Russia  on Sept. 15 to help give the U.S. its third win in World
Cup history.  “That was amazing,” said Petri, who made his debut for
the Eagles at the 2007 World Cup. “It was really just the
culmination of so many years of hard work. It was all kind of
bottled up in one moment.”  Petri played in today’s 27-10 loss to  Italy , which ends the
U.S. involvement in the tournament.  Petri began playing rugby as a freshman at Xavier High
School in  Manhattan . Before embarking on a professional career
in the sport, he would fit training around his role as a client
service associate at the wealth management team led by Gary Zahakos, a family friend.  New York Athletic Club  He said he used to squeeze in a daily workout before going
to the office and hone his rugby skills most evenings to ready
himself for weekend matches with the New York Athletic Club
rugby team, which plays in the U.S.’s  Rugby Super League .  “He’s very driven, the guy would get up early in the
morning and go to the New York Athletic Club and work out at
5:30, then he’d work,” Zahakos, who hired Petri in September
2008, said in a telephone interview. “Then he’d go home and run
five miles. He’s just a focused, disciplined individual. He’s
attentive to details.”  Petri, who’d previously worked at his family’s century-old
plumbing business in  Brooklyn  and in construction with his
uncle, said he “had to start from the ground up” after moving
into finance before attaining the necessary licenses to trade on
the stock exchange.  ‘Difficult Decision’  Just as he was getting more involved in portfolio analysis
and trading, the offer of a contract with English Premiership
rugby team Sale Sharks came up. He made what he said was a
difficult decision to put his finance career on hold.  “For me, the professional rugby side of it was the
opportunity of a lifetime,” Petri said. “I’ve seen the
financial world right now, my hope and expectation is that’s not
going anywhere anytime soon, and if things didn’t work out
rugby-wise I was confident that I could go back and get my feet
back underneath me again and get that back under way.”  Petri’s on-pitch role as a scrum-half means he’s typically
the first link between the forwards and backs during a game. As
one of the pivotal decision makers on a 15-man rugby team, a
scrum-half needs communication skills, a fast accurate pass,
tactical kicking ability, speed and strength. They are often
among the fittest players on the field.  The 5-foot-10, 194-pound Petri, who had a stint with Welsh
club Newport Gwent Dragons earlier this year before returning to
the U.S., said his former colleagues at UBS were often surprised
to find out he was a rugby player because of his size.  ‘Built Like a Rock’  “He’s not a big guy, but built like a rock,” said
Zahakos, 57. “He plays a position where he handles the ball
more than anyone else, he’s not in scrum getting his head ripped
off. Athletically he excels against much bigger guys.”  By doing so on rugby’s biggest stage, Petri said he and his
teammates are able to attract the interest of professional clubs
outside of the U.S.  “You’re seeing more players from our squad that are able
to use the  World Cup  to put their hand up and get themselves
contracts overseas,” Petri said. “The last World Cup was a
huge stage for some of our guys to do that.”  If that doesn’t work out this time around, Petri will have
options next month after the  Eagles  complete the tournament,
according to his former boss.  “We would welcome him,” Zahakos said. “When he wasn’t
working for us, he was helping his father or uncle in the
plumbing business. He has a work ethic that lends itself well to
success in every business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  