-- 
Upstart Credit Raters Say SEC Rule Gives Big Three an Advantage

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-09-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/upstart-credit-raters-say-sec-rule-gives-big-three-an-advantage.html
Small credit-rating firms complain
that proposed rules requiring analysts to do more training are
too costly and would help larger firms without addressing the
errors that contributed to the financial crisis.  Lawmakers have criticized credit-raters for contributing to
the 2008 credit meltdown by inflating ratings on mortgage
securities. Last year’s Dodd-Frank Act mandated reforms
including reducing conflicts of interest, vetting assets more
thoroughly and better analyst training and testing.  The Securities and Exchange Commission released 517 pages
of  proposed rules  in May that would require credit-rating firms
to keep marketing and ratings departments separated, conduct
more due diligence on assets, and establish a schedule for
training and testing analysts.  Smaller firms say those rules hand an advantage to the
three dominant players --  Standard & Poor’s  Rating Services,
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and  Fitch Ratings .  “This will only exacerbate existing competitive
advantages,” Larry Mayewski, executive vice president of
Oldwick, New Jersey-based A.M. Best Co., wrote in a letter
commenting on the proposed rules. “These companies have
enormous infrastructure and profit margin advantages that allow
them to more easily absorb compliance costs and burdens.”  Conflict of Interest  Sean Egan , president of the Egan-Jones Ratings Co. of
Haverford,  Pennsylvania , which has 22 employees, said in an
interview that the proposed training and testing rules do not
address the fundamental conflict of interest at the heart of
most credit raters’ business model: Raters are paid by the
companies whose financial products they are rating.  “Better certification and education are not going to
affect anything because the idea is based on a false premise,”
said Egan, whose company uses a different model. “The people at
the major rating agencies were very well educated and trained.
The problem was they had the wrong incentives. The incentives
were misplaced because of this conflict.”  In a report released earlier this year, the congressionally
chartered Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission called the raters
“key enablers of the financial meltdown” by providing
inaccurate ratings of risky mortgage securities.  ‘Race to Bottom’  A second report in April by the Senate’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigation, led by Democratic Senator  Carl Levin , found that S&P, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings engaged in a
“race to the bottom” to assign top grades to mortgage-backed
securities because of pressure from the banks that paid for the
ratings.  The proposed SEC rules, which do not specify the frequency
or content of the training, are scheduled to be finalized and
ready for implementation in the first half of 2012. At least two
of the big three ratings firms say they support the new rules.  Standard & Poor’s, a unit of the McGraw-Hill Companies,
“strongly supports the ongoing education and development of
analysts,” Deven Sharma, the rater’s president, said in an 84-page comment letter.  Moody’s has also supported the proposals.  “Moody’s has a robust continuing education program for
analysts,” said  Michael Adler , a spokesman. “We support the
objectives of the proposed training requirements and we expect
to fully implement them as they become effective.”  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Missing the Point  Some critics of the big raters say the rules, in addition
to being burdensome for smaller firms, miss the point.
“Training didn’t make our list of the top five problems with
the agencies,”  Phil Angelides , chairman of the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission, said in an interview.  He said that “a relentless drive for market share” by the
biggest ratings firms led to shoddy work, not lack of training
or competence. “That competition trumped quality in their
ratings, and that still remains unfixed,” Angelides said.  “Who can criticize good training?” he asked. “But we are
still short of the fundamental reform that we need.”  The U.S.  Justice Department  is investigating S&P and
Moody’s on whether they raised grades for complex securities to
win business, according to three former employees who said they
were interviewed by investigators last month.  Egan said his firm is paid by investors, not issuers of
bonds. That, he said, was a better solution to the problems
highlighted by the investigations.  Regulatory Burden  “This only increases the regulatory burden but it doesn’t
end the conflict we’ve been talking about,” Egan said.  S&P spokesman  Ed Sweeney  said the firm has worked to keep
the conflict in check.  “We have long had policies in place to manage potential
conflicts of interest, including a separation of analytic and
commercial activities, a ban on analysts from participating in
fee negotiations, and de-linking analyst compensation from the
volume of securities they rate or the type of ratings they give
out,” Sweeney said in an e-mail.  James Nadler, president of Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc., a
new firm that issued its first assessments this year, said his
firm initially tried to establish an investor-pay program before
deciding that the issuer-pay model worked better. The firm
itself is partially owned by institutional investors, he said,
providing balance.  “These proposed rules add costs but they help ingrain a
culture of looking at the markets in a better way,” Nadler
said. “There’s nothing wrong with making sure the analysts are
properly trained and supervised by analysts with a lot of
experience. It’s better to have the greater awareness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in NewYork at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence
Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  