-- 
Turkish Lira Depreciates to Record Low on Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-26T15:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/turkish-lira-depreciates-to-record-low-on-europe-debt-concern.html
The Turkish lira weakened to a
record low against the dollar as analysts forecast further
declines in the country’s currency amid concern  Europe  will
struggle to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  The lira slid as much as 1.5 percent to an all-time low of
1.8652 per dollar. It traded at 1.8583 as of 6:15 p.m. in
Istanbul, extending this quarter’s loss to 13 percent. The yield
on two-year bonds rose for a fourth day to the highest in almost
two months.  The lira had been the world’s second worst-performing
emerging-market currency this year, depreciating 17 percent
against the dollar, as a widening current-account deficit and
worsening debt crisis in Europe hurt investor confidence in the
country’s financial stability. Istanbul-based Global Securities
increased its forecast for the lira’s decline this year,
predicting it may drop to 1.90 per dollar from 1.85 earlier,
according to an e-mailed report.  “There is a lot of uncertainty at the moment,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
said in e-mailed comments. “If euro-zone politicians do not
come to an agreement over Greek aid, risky assets will suffer
more, while the dollar remains the only safe-haven currency.”  The lira may drop to 1.9 per dollar in a month after
reaching the “key psychological level” of 1.86, she said.  Yields on the benchmark two-year debt rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.67 percent, the highest
since Aug. 2, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index of the securities
showed.  Europe’s Crisis  European policy makers are facing increased pressure to do
more to stop their sovereign debt crisis from further weakening
the world’s financial markets and economy. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned at the annual meeting of
the  International Monetary Fund  that failure to combat the
Greek-led turmoil threatened “cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk.”  “Morale is very bad and the risk taking appetite will
continue to be very weak,” Turgut Keles, chief of local market
trading at WestLB AG in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.
“Concrete steps are needed over an orderly default in  Greece 
and recapitalization of European banks. A lasting recovery is
very difficult without these steps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  