-- 
Vietnam Cuts Credit, Money Growth Targets to Curb Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-26T13:03:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/vietnam-cuts-credit-money-growth-targets-to-curb-inflation-1-.html
Vietnam ’s government said it will
further restrain lending growth and cut money supply expansion
as it seeks to curb  Asia ’s fastest inflation.  The government will limit credit growth to a maximum of 17
percent while cutting money supply growth to no higher than 13
percent this year, Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the government office,
said in a briefing in Hanoi today.  Inflation in Vietnam “has been staying at a high level”
compared with other countries and “lasting for a long time,”
Dam said. Although the government has implemented many measures,
“the situation is still complicated,” he said.  Vietnam’s government has struggled this year to contain
price pressure, steady the dong and rebuild its foreign reserves
while sustaining the pace of economic expansion. Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung in February cut the credit growth target to
below 20 percent from 23 percent and reduced the money supply
growth target to between 15 percent and 16 percent from an
initial goal of as much as 24 percent.  The government will “firmly” pursue its tight monetary
and fiscal policies until the end of the year, Dam said at the
briefing today. It also asked the central bank to “strictly”
and “closely” monitor the foreign  exchange rate , he said.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam has increased the repurchase,
refinancing and discount rates to stem credit growth and slow
price gains as the government tried to stabilize the economy.
The central bank raised the repurchase rate in nine steps from 7
percent at the start of November last year to 15 percent in May
2011, before cutting it in July to 14 percent.  Consumer prices in Vietnam climbed 22.42 percent in
September from a year earlier, easing from a 23.02 percent in
August, according to figures released by the General Statistics
Office on Sept. 24. This is also the fastest pace among 17 Asian
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  