-- 
VIX Discount Erodes on European Concern

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-26T20:20:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/vix-discount-erodes-on-european-concern.html
Options show traders expect
 Europe ’s debt crisis to engulf the U.S. as contracts to protect
against losses in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index erase the gap
with the euro region’s benchmark gauge.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index
increased 33 percent last week to 41.25, bringing it within
seven points of the 29-month high reached Aug. 8. The VIX, as
the gauge is known, has eliminated more than half the discount
to Europe’s VStoxx Index in the past week, cutting it to 7.3
points from 15 on Sept. 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders are showing less confidence American equities can
avoid losses that drove shares in  Germany ,  France  and  Spain  down
more than 30 percent as the 18-month debt crisis threatens to
spur the second global recession in three years. The S&P 500
fell 6.5 percent last week, the most since Aug. 5, bringing the
loss from its 2011 high to 17 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “As the situation deteriorates, the U.S. and U.S.
volatility are starting to catch up,” Benjamin Bowler, San
Francisco-based head of global equity derivatives research at
Bank of America Corp., said in a telephone interview Sept. 23.
“It’s becoming clearer that certain assets just haven’t moved
enough to reflect the stress being built up in Europe.”  Global stocks entered a  bear market  on Sept. 22 when the
MSCI All-Country World Index slid 4.5 percent, bringing its
decline since May 2 to 22 percent. Benchmark gauges in at least
32 markets, including  Hong Kong  and  Australia , have declined 20
percent or more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  VIX, VStoxx  The VIX, which has averaged 20.4 in its 21-year history,
touched 48 -- the highest level since March 2009 -- on Aug. 8
after S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating. The gauge
fell 5.4 percent to 39.02 in New York today. The VStoxx Index,
which measures the cost of protection against losses on the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index, climbed 13 percent to 48.54 last week. It
increased 1.5 percent to 49.29 today.  “Concern about the U.S. had never gone away,” Manish Singh, head of investment at Crossbridge Capital, which oversees
more than $2 billion in  London , said in an interview Sept. 23.
“It was just taking a rest when the negative news coming from
the  euro zone  raced past.”  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 738 points last week
to 10,771.48, the most since October 2008, as investors
speculated central banks are running out of tools to prevent a
recession. The U.S. Federal Reserve said on Sept. 21 that it
will replace $400 billion of short-term debt with longer-term
Treasuries to spur growth, and said there are “significant
downside risks” to the economy. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank
6.1 percent.  Consumer Confidence  U.S. consumer confidence dropped last week to its lowest
point since the recession ended in 2009, and European service
industries and manufacturing contracted in September for the
first time in more than two years.  “This outlines just how connected the global financial
markets are,” Michael Hennen, portfolio manager at Raleigh,
North Carolina-based Hatteras Funds, wrote about the narrowing
spread between VIX and VStoxx in an e-mail on Sept. 23. The firm
oversees $2 billion in hedge fund strategies. “It really
displays how problems stemming from issues in Europe can quickly
spill over to global markets.”  The VIX climbed above 30 on Aug. 4 and has stayed there for
the 36 days since, a period of elevation that has foreshadowed
economic deterioration in the past, according to UBS AG. When
the VIX climbed above 30 five times between May and July 2010,
it never stayed above the level for more than nine days in a
row, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Running Short’  “Time appears to be running short for the VIX to settle
back down,” Mitchell Revsine, a New York-based equity
derivatives strategist at UBS, wrote in a Sept. 23 note. “For
this to happen, we would expect optimism on a European debt
solution to grow, as well as third-quarter earnings guidance to
instill confidence in relatively short order.”  Last week’s decline trimmed the gain in the  S&P 500  since
March 2009 to 68 percent. The benchmark gauge for American
common equity is trading at 12.4 times earnings in the past 12
months, 4.4 percent below its average valuation at the lowest
point during the last nine bear markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies in the S&P 500 are forecast to report third-
quarter earnings that are 14 percent higher than a year ago,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profits
will climb 18 percent to $99.33 a share for 2011 and reach
$111.08 in 2012, the data show. Companies had a record $2.05
trillion in cash and short-term investments at the end of the
second quarter, the U.S. Federal Reserve said Sept. 16.  U.S. Safety  “The U.S. relative to world markets is the place to
invest,” David Fingold, who manages about C$2.5 billion ($2.4
billion) at Dynamic Funds in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 23. “The issues in the U.S. can be solved,
they’re well understood and we’re talking about them.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said at the
annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington 
that failure to combat the Europe turmoil threatened “cascading
default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.” Billionaire investor
 George Soros  said Sept. 24 that “something needs to be done”
to safeguard Europe’s banks as  Greece , which has yet to secure a
second bailout, may be unable to avoid default.  While the IMF vowed to “strongly support” Europe,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a plan distributed
to the IMF steering committee on Sept. 24 that the Fund’s $384
billion lending chest may not be enough to meet all aid requests
if the world economy worsens.  ‘The Unknown’  “It’s fear of the unknown at this point, and is Europe a
Lehman-type of event,”  Dan Veru , chief investment officer at
 Fort Lee , New Jersey-based Palisade Capital Management LLC, said
in a Sept. 23 telephone interview. The firm manages $3.4
billion. “If Greece defaults, it’s a counterparty exposure to
the financial system in Europe that can create some level of
contagion into the U.S. financial system.”  Implied volatility, the key gauge of options prices, for
S&P 500 contracts at the current level expiring in three months
jumped to 34.4 on Sept. 22, the highest level since April 2009.
It closed at 33.17 the next day. For options on the Euro Stoxx
50, implied volatility fell 5.3 percent to 39.78 on Sept. 23,
from its 30-month high of 42.01 Sept. 12.  VIX futures began trading at 8 a.m.  New York  time and will
do so every weekday effective today, the CBOE Futures Exchange
said in a Sept. 23 statement. The change from the previous 8:20
a.m. start time provides “more time to establish or offset VIX
futures positions surrounding potential market-moving events”
before the equity market opens, the statement said.  “The U.S. economic problems are less immediate, but they
are the same as in Europe,” Alex Tedder, who helps manage about
$12 billion in global stocks at American Century Investments in
New York, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 23. “The Fed’s
statement forced investors to consider how the U.S. will deal
with the debt overhang given the lack of growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  