-- 
Volkswagen Soups Up Golf to Get Twice the Price After Phaeton Flop: Cars

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-26T22:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/vw-soups-up-golf-for-twice-the-price-after-phaeton-flop.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s motorsports chief,
Kris Nissen, stepped on the gas of a racing version of the Polo
in an attempt to show the world’s automotive press that rally-
car performance can be packed into a subcompact.  Instead the Polo R WRC, which will compete in the off-road
racing circuit starting in 2013, was stranded in the spotlight
after Nissen stalled the car’s 300-horsepower engine. The mishap
on stage at VW’s showcase event at the International Motor Show
in Frankfurt this month symbolizes the challenges the company
faces in shifting its namesake brand upscale.  Europe ’s biggest carmaker is expanding its range of
souped-up VW models, which can cost double the price of the base
version, to boost the brand’s margins and image. The strategy,
part of the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company’s goal of
surpassing Toyota Motor Corp. and  General Motors Co. (GM)  in sales
and profit by 2018, risks increasing competition with its stable
of sporty brands.  “Volkswagen is blessed in the high-end segment with Audi
and Porsche, not to mention Lamborghini and Bugatti,” said
 Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive Management
at the University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach ,
Germany. “You really have to question whether high-performance
versions for the VW brand are really necessary.”  Phaeton Flop  VW’s earlier foray into the high-priced segment with the
68,300-euro ($92,300) Phaeton luxury sedan fell flat after the
company withdrew the car from the U.S. market in 2006 because of
weak demand. The model, which cost more than 1 billion euros to
develop, was updated in 2010 to boost demand from last year’s
production of 7,500 vehicles, compared with 829,000 Golfs.  The latest effort to go upscale is based around the R unit,
which developed the off-road Polo racer and promotes high-
performance variants like the 37,375-euro Golf R.  The strategy of rolling out more powerful versions may be
“more sustainable” because it builds off existing models, said
Kevin Tynan, an automotive analyst with Bloomberg Industries in
Princeton,  New Jersey . “You can create halo products without
moving out of your customers’ price range.”  The all-wheel drive Golf R, which costs more than twice as
much as the 16,975-euro base version, will be introduced in the
U.S. at the end of the year, further broadening the reach of the
models, said Ulrich Richter, head of the R division, which was
set up in March 2010. Sales of R models will likely increase by
50 percent to about 15,000 cars this year after expanding to
 China  in July, he said.  Production Boost  “Demand for the Golf R is huge, and we’re stepping up
production,” Richter said in an interview at the  Frankfurt 
motor show. “There’s a pronounced trend towards customization
and growing demand for sporty and exclusive models from all over
the world, especially in China, the Arab region and the U.S.”  The R unit also offers the 34,825-euro Scirocco R coupe as
well as sports packages for so-called R-line versions of the
Passat CC sedan and the Touareg sport-utility vehicle.  It may expand with an R version of the Beetle after showing
a concept version in Frankfurt. Demand is “incredibly high”
for a Beetle R, said Richter, adding that a decision may be
taken this year.  VW’s expansion is part of overall growth in high-end,
customized cars.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz is expanding the AMG
unit, while  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is boosting M offerings.  Growing Demand  AMG increased sales by more than 10 percent in 2010,
boosted by record sales in China and growth in Australia and
 Canada , said Verena Mueller, a Daimler spokeswoman in Stuttgart,
Germany. Demand has been fueled by the $189,600 SLS supercar,
the first car ever developed by AMG, with more than 5,000 sold
since deliveries began in March 2010.  Daimler is considering having AMG develop additional models
as it seeks to expand its offerings of high-end vehicles, two
people familiar with the situation said Sept. 7.  BMW’s M unit, which makes high-performance versions like
the 109,000-euro X6 M SUV, increased sales by 14 percent to
16,967 vehicles in 2010, boosted by a four-fold increase in
demand from China. This year, BMW expanded the M range with the
M1 coupe and debuted a revamped M5 in Frankfurt.  “The segment of high-performance variants has been growing
strongly,” though exact figures are difficult to track, said
Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst with IHS
Automotive. “With the ongoing re-positioning towards high tech,
including ‘green tech’ rather than brute power, these special
subsidiaries should have a great future.”  Floor Space  Those prospects are encouraging dealers to invest in the
models. Ernst-Robert Nouvertne, who runs two VW dealerships in
Solingen,  Germany , about 25 kilometers (15 miles) northeast of
Cologne, is considering clearing floor space to accommodate a
Golf R, Scirocco R and Tiguan R-line models.  “The share of customers able to purchase these models
appears to be on the rise,” Nouvertne said.  Still, VW’s R unit will also compete with the Quattro unit
of the automaker’s own Audi brand. The Ingolstadt, Germany-based
unit aims to double the share of special-equipped vehicles to 20
percent of global sales by 2015.  In presentation, Audi already has a leg up. An Audi A5
racing car drove smoothly off the stage in Frankfurt, abandoning
its corporate cousin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  