-- 
Wales Routs Namibia 81-7 to Take Second Place in Rugby World Cup Pool D

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-26T09:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/wales-routs-namibia-81-7-to-take-second-place-in-rugby-world-cup-pool-d.html
Wales  routed  Namibia  81-7 for its
biggest Rugby  World Cup  victory to grab second place in Pool D
and move closer to a quarterfinal place.  Center Scott Williams scored a hat trick and replacement
winger George North touched down twice in New Plymouth, New
Zealand, as the Welsh ran in 12 tries on their way to overtaking
their 54-point victory over Japan at the 2007 tournament.  The bonus-point victory lifts Wales to 10 points alongside
Samoa in the Pool D standings, though the Welsh take second spot
having won the teams’ Sept. 18 match. Defending champion  South
Africa  is top with 14 points and faces Samoa in four days time.
Wales and Fiji play the group’s last game on Oct. 2.  “We got the bonus point which is what we wanted,” Wales
captain Sam Warburton said in a televised interview. “The game
broke up in the second half and the boys showed their skills and
we got 12 tries.”  The top two teams in each of the 20-nation tournament’s
four pools advance to the quarterfinals.  Host  New Zealand , which beat France 37-17 two days ago to
cement its status as the favorite to win the Webb Ellis Cup, is
the only team so far assured of a spot in the last eight.  Wales needed 47 minutes at Stadium Taranaki to secure the
four tries required for a bonus point against 19th-ranked
Namibia, which had allowed at least five tries in all but one of
its 14 previous losses at the World Cup.  Jones’s Record  Backing up four days after losing 87-0 to South Africa in
the most lopsided result at this year’s tournament, Namibia kept
the Welsh to 22 first-half points as Williams, Aled Brew and
Toby Faletau all went over and Stephen Jones added a penalty and
two conversions in his record-breaking 101st Test appearance for
Wales. Fly-half Jones kicked 15 points in total.  “He’s definitely one of the Welsh greats and it was a
privilege to play with him today,” Warburton said of Jones.  Williams and Gethin Jenkins went over early in the second
half before Wales pulled away with seven tries in the final 20
minutes against a tiring Namibian defense. The African team,
which missed 42 tackles in total, got its only try through
second-rower Heinz Koll in the 53rd minute.  Jonathan Davies, Lloyd Williams, Lee Byrne and Alun-Wyn
Jones also crossed Namibia’s line in the final quarter, while
replacement fly-half Rhys Priestland added three conversions as
Wales bettered its 72-18 win over  Japan  four years ago.  “They are a very good side and that’s why they blew us
away,” Namibia captain Jacques Burger said in a televised
interview. “‘We could not stop them. It is the end of the road
for us but good luck to Wales for the rest of the World Cup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  