-- 
Weekly Food Inflation, Current-Account Balance: India Week Ahead

-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 
2011-09-26T03:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/weekly-food-inflation-current-account-balance-india-week-ahead.html
India  will announce weekly food
inflation data on Sept. 29 as above-normal monsoon rainfall this
season boosts output prospects for grains, sugar and oilseeds.  The commerce ministry will report the figures for the week
ended Sept. 17 after saying the index measuring wholesale prices
of agricultural products rose 8.84 percent in the previous seven
days, the smallest increase in almost two months.  India’s food inflation rate has exceeded 8 percent for the
past eight weeks, reducing the spending power of more than
three-quarters of the population the  World Bank  says lives on
less than $2 a day in the nation. The rise in food prices is
driven by lower supplies and can’t be “dismissed as a temporary
phenomenon,” the  Reserve Bank  of India said on Sept. 16 as it
increased  interest rates  for the sixth time this year.  Production of grains sowed during the June to September
rainy season may climb 3 percent from a year earlier to 123.9
million metric tons, the Farm Ministry said on Sept. 14. The
government forecasts oilseed output will increase to an all-time
high of 20.89 million tons.  The National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd.
said last week that India may have an export surplus of 4
million metric tons in the year starting October as output
surges to the highest level in five years. Wheat production may
climb to a record on favorable monsoon rains, according to MMTC
Transnational Pte., a unit of state-trader MMTC Ltd.  Rainfall was 3 percent  above  a 50-year average between June
1 and Sept. 25, according to the  India Meteorological Department .  End of Cycle  India’s central bank is close to the end of its record
series of interest-rate increases as benchmark inflation will
probably slow next year,  Reserve Bank of India  Deputy Governor
Subir Gokarn said in an interview on Sept. 22.  The central bank will release current account balance data
for the quarter through June on Sept. 30.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, declined 1.2
percent on Sept. 23 in Mumbai, completing the biggest two-day
plunge since February 2009, on concern policy makers will fail
to avert another recession globally. The gauge fell 4.6 percent
last week, extending this year’s loss to 21 percent, the worst
performance in  Asia  after  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng index.  The rupee slumped 4.4 percent last week, the most since
March 1993, and is headed for its worst quarter in almost two
decades. It closed at 49.43 per dollar on Sept. 23.  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 fell six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage points, last week to 8.3
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  