-- 
Weidmann Sees ‘Danger’ of Market Turmoil Damping German Growth

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-09-26T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/weidmann-sees-danger-of-market-turmoil-damping-german-growth.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
said risks have increased that the market turmoil caused by
 Europe ’s debt crisis will damp German economic growth.  “There is a heightened danger that financial-market
turmoil affects the real economy,” Weidmann, who also sits on
the European Central Bank’s Governing Council, said in a speech
in  Washington  today. “It is crucial to find a prompt and
consistent political answer to the sovereign debt crisis in
order to reduce downside risks.”  Germany ’s benchmark DAX share index has plunged 28 percent
since late July as the global outlook worsens and Europe’s debt
crisis erodes confidence in its banking sector. Euro-area
governments’ efforts to rein in ballooning budget deficits may
damp German exports, a key driver of growth. While the
Bundesbank’s current forecast is for the German economy,
Europe’s largest, to expand about 3 percent this year, it said
last week that the outlook “has clouded more than previously
expected.”  “Most recently, the German economic outlook has been
damped by high overall uncertainty, especially regarding further
developments in the European sovereign debt crisis,” Weidmann
said. “But we expect economic activity to remain robust in the
third quarter, and even though expectations for the winter
months are subject to considerable risks, this should prove to
be more of a soft patch.”  Business Confidence  German business confidence fell less than economists
forecast in September, the Ifo institute in Munich said today,
suggesting the economy may avoid recession even as the debt
crisis worsens. At the same time, investor confidence fell to
the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in September and exports
unexpectedly declined for a second month in July.  The European Commission on Sept. 15 cut its euro-region
growth forecasts for the second half and warned the economy may
come “close to standstill at year-end.” The  International
Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 lowered its growth forecasts for both
Germany and the euro region this year and next.  Germany’s economy will expand 2.7 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2012, the IMF predicted.  Weidmann repeated his critique of the recent decisions to
expand the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility.  European leaders on July 21 empowered the region’s 440-
billion euro ($593 billion) rescue fund to buy the debt of
distressed euro nations in the secondary market, aid troubled
banks and offer credit lines to repel speculators.  “Either the existing policy framework of EMU has to be
changed fundamentally or the incentives for sound fiscal policy
have to be strengthened within the existing framework,”
Weidmann said. “Sharing the risks of unsound fiscal policy and
retaining national sovereignty over fiscal policy is condemned
to failure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Washington at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  