-- 
Property Bonds Plunge Most Since 2008 on Curbs: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-27T04:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/world-s-worst-property-bonds-plunge-most-since-2008-on-curbs-china-credit.html
China ’s property company bonds are
delivering the biggest losses in the world among developers this
quarter amid speculation the banking regulator may close another
avenue of funding.  Dollar-denominated debt of  Evergrande Real Estate Group
Ltd. (3333) , Hopson Development Holdings Ltd. and other Chinese
homebuilders rated below investment grade has plunged 19.9
percent since June 30, the biggest quarterly decline since the
last three months of 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. Junk bonds sold by U.S. homebuilders, including
Beazer Homes USA Inc., lost an average 7 percent, data show.  China is reviewing loans to developers by trust companies,
which have become a last resort for many borrowers after the
central bank raised interest rates  five times  over the past year
and curbed lending to property companies. The stricter controls
on the loans will add further financing pressure, according to a
Sept. 23 report from UBS AG.  “Some of the small players may find it tough to survive,”
Bei Fu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “In the next six to 12 months
liquidity is the key risk for this sector.”  Chinese developers face an “increasingly severe” credit
outlook, which may force them to cut prices and turn to costlier
funding sources as sales weaken, S&P said in a report released
today.  Deprived of bank loans by government policies, developers
turned to private trust companies for financing, paying between
16 percent and 25 percent, according to an official at Beijing
National Trust in May, who asked not to be identified because he
wasn’t authorized to speak to the media. Property companies
haven’t issued bonds in international markets since China
Resources Land Ltd. raised $1 billion of 4.625 percent notes on
May 12.  Few Choices  Trusts typically raise capital from wealthy individuals and
companies and invest the proceeds. Real estate trust funds
expanded by 150 percent from 235 billion  yuan  in March 2010 to
605 billion yuan as of June 2011, UBS said in its Sept. 23
research note. They made up around 50 percent of many
developers’ total new loans over the past year, Credit Suisse AG
analyst Jinsong Du said in a Sept. 23 report.  “There aren’t a lot of choices out there,” Thomas Gurnee,
Xinyuan Real Estate Co.’s chief financial officer, said in a
phone interview on Sept. 23. “The private equity guys were
asking for 25 percent guaranteed returns for investing in
projects so I don’t think anybody liked paying for that. So the
trust loans were a nice middle ground, if you didn’t have a bank
loan but you still wanted to get into a project.”  ‘Too Expensive’  Beijing-based Xinyuan had one trust loan that it paid off
earlier this year, he said. “We’re too small to access bonds,
and it’s expensive. It’s got to be pretty big to make it
worthwhile.”  Authorities have ordered more than 20 trust companies to
stop financing real estate projects, Guangzhou Daily reported on
July 28. Reuters reported Sept. 22 the banking regulator ordered
trust companies to report their dealings with Chinese property
developer  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900)   The extra yield investors demand to own $400 million of
2013 bonds sold by Greentown China Holdings Ltd., the largest
builder in the eastern province of Zhejiang, instead of similar-
maturity Treasuries, has increased by 1,070 basis points since
June 30 to a record 2,317 basis points as of 11:02 a.m. in Hong
Kong, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  Of Greentown’s 35 billion yuan of total debt, 5 billion
yuan comes from trust loans, Chief Financial Officer Simon Fung
said in a phone interview from the company’s headquarters in
Hangzhou on Sept. 22. The developer didn’t obtain fresh funding
from trusts this year as it was already very difficult to get
such loans in 2010, he said.  Convertible Yuan  The yield on China’s 10-year government  bond  has risen 0.1
basis points this quarter to 3.89 percent. China’s yuan gained,
snapping a three-day drop, on speculation policy makers will
allow currency gains to tame inflation. The yuan strengthened
0.12 percent to 6.3932 per dollar as of 12:06 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  China’s is the only currency among the biggest emerging
nations to strengthen against the dollar this quarter. The yuan
has climbed 1.1 percent versus the greenback since June 30,
while  India ’s rupee dropped 9 percent,  Russia ’s ruble fell 14
percent and the Brazilian real slumped 15 percent.  The yuan may become a fully convertible currency in five
years as China moves toward more market-determined interest
rates and opens up to more investment from abroad,  Li Daokui , a
People’s Bank of China adviser, told a forum in  Washington  on
Sept. 25.  D.R. Horton  The  cost  to protect China’s sovereign debt against default
has surged 89 basis points this quarter to 173 basis points
yesterday, the highest level since March 2009, according to data
provide CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit default-swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Spreads on U.S. homebuilder D.R. Horton Inc’s $500 of 2016
bonds have risen 177 basis points this quarter to 570 basis
points, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The yield premium on Hong Kong-listed Hopson Development’s
$300 million of 11.75 percent notes due January 2016 widened 862
basis points this quarter to a record 2,094 basis points,
according to RBS prices.  Regular Monitoring  Five-year  default swaps  insuring the debt of Hopson from
non-payment have increased 576 basis points to 1,787 basis
points since June 30, according CMA data. Hopson develops,
manages and invests in properties in China.  Mui Chan, a Hong Kong-based investor relations and
accounting officer at Hopson, said by phone yesterday the
company had no comment on its bond prices.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd.,  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813) ,
Country Garden Holdings Co., Guangzhou R&F Properties, China
Central Real Estate Ltd., and Yuzhou Properties Co. have all
borrowed from trust companies in 2011, Nomura Holdings Inc.
analysts said in a Sept. 22 research note.  The inquiries by the China Banking Regulatory Commission
are part of regular monitoring and aren’t targeting any
individual company, a person familiar with the matter said on
Sept. 23, declining to be identified because the regulator’s
queries were meant to be private.  Chinese property companies access to bank loans has been
effectively halted since November 2010, Shen Jianguang, an
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, wrote in
a Sept. 22 note.  ‘Cut Prices’  “The increasing liquidity pressure will force developers
to cut prices, in order to increase sales and bring in more
sustainable cash flow,” Shen wrote. “This process should have
been started by the developers some time ago, instead of
resisting price cuts and turning to various costly financing
channels.”  Hong Kong-based Shimao Property Holdings, the developer
controlled by billionaire Xu Rongmao, has almost 53 percent of
37 billion yuan of bank debt maturing over the next two years,
CreditSights Inc. said in a Sept. 5 report. The company sold a
$350 million bond in March, and borrowed 22 billion yuan from
Bank of China Ltd, according to the report.  The spread over government bonds on the company’s 11
percent notes due in March 2018 has widened 603 basis points
this quarter to 1,497 basis points, according to RBS.  Mortgage Difficulties  The banking regulator’s investigation into trust loans to
property companies will have no impact on the company’s cash
flow, Tammy Tam, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Shimao, said
by e-mail.  It’s becoming more difficult for buyers in China to get
mortgages, Xinyuan’s Gurnee said, as banks have put in place
quotas.  “Getting mortgages used to be as easy as rolling out of
bed,” he said. “People are having a harder time.”  China’s measures to control its property market are at a
critical stage and the nation needs to focus efforts on curbing
price increases in less affluent cities after limiting home
purchases in metropolitan areas including Beijing and Shanghai,
Premier Wen Jiabao said on Sept. 1. Only two cities responded to
the government’s July call for added restrictions on housing
purchases.  “If the regulators want to unwind all these trust
transactions, then these developers might need to repay all
these trust loans,” Annisa Lee, a Hong Kong-based credit
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a phone interview on
Sept. 23.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors: Edward Johnson, Shelley Smith  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  