-- 
Zapatero Calls Spanish Election as Polls Give Opposition PP Record Lead

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-26T12:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-26/zapatero-calls-early-election-as-polls-give-spain-s-opposition-record-lead.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero called early elections as polls show voters
will ditch his Socialist party over its handling of the debt
crisis in favor of opposition pledges of jobs and tax breaks.  Zapatero, who first called the early election in July,
dissolved Parliament today and said the campaign will start on
Nov. 4, two weeks before the Nov. 20 vote. The  People’s Party  of
 Mariano Rajoy  may secure a majority, allowing it to pursue plans
to cut taxes for small firms, overhaul banks and change labor
rules without needing smaller parties’ support, polls show.  With the jobless rate above 20 percent for the past year
and a half, Zapatero, who isn’t seeking a third term, has
angered his traditional backers with public-wage cuts and a
pension freeze in a bid to shield  Spain  from the sovereign-debt
crisis. The election pitches Rajoy, who seeks a slimmer state
and help for entrepreneurs, against Socialist candidate Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba’s vows to protect welfare and tax the rich.  “The challenge ahead isn’t easy and no one has a magic
wand to solve things quickly,” Rajoy told a televised news
conference today. “I will form a government that is credible,
predictable and solvent.”  Latest Victim  Zapatero, who called the election four months early, will
become the third euro-area leader to be punished for the debt
crisis after voters in Portugal and Ireland ejected their
premiers following European bailouts, polls show. Rajoy may win
the largest outright majority on record, with as many as 189
seats in the 350-strong Parliament and a 14.6 percentage-point
lead, El Periodico reported today. A poll commissioned by El
Pais, a traditional ally of Socialist administrations, gave
Rajoy a 14.1 percentage-point lead on Sept. 12.  Rajoy, 56, and Rubalcaba, 60, are both former deputy prime
ministers and interior ministers, and are older than the man
they hope to succeed. Rajoy was appointed by former Prime
Minister Jose Maria Aznar as his successor for the election in
2004, which he lost. Rubalcaba won the Socialist nomination
without primaries in July.  Rajoy has said he “wouldn’t like” to cut pensions or
spending on health and education, even as he says that his
government won’t stray from Spain’s goal of cutting the  budget
deficit  to 4.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2012 from
9.2 percent in 2010 “under any circumstances.” He pledged on
Sept. 15 to send a “strong signal” to markets with a stricter
budget law as well as tax breaks for companies that reinvest
profits. He plans to cut levies on small- and medium-sized
companies and bring back a tax rebate for mortgage-holders worth
as much as 1,350 euros ($1,817) a year.  New Taxes  Rubalcaba, a chemist by training, is focusing his campaign
on protecting the welfare state, while planning a new tax on
banks to reduce the 46 percent youth unemployment rate. In
response to nationwide protests by the so-called “indignant
ones” against bank bailouts and austerity measures, he also
aims to create a new levy on the wealthy.  While Parliament is closed, Spanish legislation allows for
any emergency decrees passed by the government to be ratified by
Parliament’s permanent committee. Zapatero said today he doesn’t
plan any “significant” economic measures before Nov. 20.
Parliament will be reconvened on Dec. 13, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  