-- 3M Drops Avery Dennison Unit Buyout Amid Antitrust Worry
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/3m-drops-avery-dennison-unit-buyout-amid-antitrust-worry.html
3M Co. (MMM)  dropped its $550 million
takeover of  Avery Dennison Corp. (AVY) ’s office-products unit after
the U.S. Justice Department said it would sue if the companies
didn’t abandon the transaction.  The Justice Department said in an e-mailed statement that
the merger would have given 3M more than 80 percent of the U.S.
market for labels and sticky notes. The department’s
investigation found that 3M and Avery have dominated adjacent
parts of the office products business for many years, with Avery
making labels and 3M selling sticky notes under its Post-it
brand.  “We welcome the companies’ decision to abandon this deal,
which raised competitive concerns in the sale of labels and
sticky notes,”  Joseph Wayland , acting assistant attorney
general for the Antitrust Division, said in a statement. “As a
result of the abandonment of this transaction, American
customers will continue to receive the benefits of competition
including lower prices and greater innovation in these basic
office supplies.”  3M, which announced the acquisition more than eight months
ago, had planned to complete the purchase in the second half of
this year.  Donna Fleming Runyon, a spokeswoman for 3M, and David Frail, a spokesman for Avery, didn’t immediately return phone
and e-mail messages seeking comment on the Justice Department’s
statement.  ‘Overlap’  The deal would have combined the two largest label makers
in the world, according to Deane Dray, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in New York.  “Obviously they had overlap, I would’ve thought that they
would’ve thought that through on both sides more fully,” said
 Ghansham Panjabi , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in
Roseland,  New Jersey .  Avery probably will bring the business “back into
continuing operations and evaluate it some other time” rather
than seek another buyer right away, he said.  Avery, based in  Pasadena ,  California , fell 5.2 percent to
$29.60 yesterday at the New York close after earlier dropping as
much as 7.4 percent. 3M, based in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , declined
1 percent to $91.68.  Antitrust Enforcement  The Justice Department has stepped up antitrust enforcement
under the Obama administration, suing to block transactions,
causing companies to walk away from deals that it determined
would hurt competition, and obtaining conditions to ensure
mergers it approves don’t have anticompetitive effects.  AT&T Inc. dropped its proposed $39 billion purchase of T-
Mobile USA Inc. in December after the  Justice Department  filed a
lawsuit seeking to block the merger.  In November, the antitrust division won a lawsuit against
H&R Block Inc.’s proposed acquisition of closely held 2SS
Holdings Inc., the maker of TaxAct products, when a federal
judge ruled the transaction would diminish competition in the
tax-preparation market.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
abandoned an unsolicited bid for NYSE Euronext in May 2011,
after the department threatened to sue to block the tie-up,
which would have created a monopoly on corporate listings.  The H&R Block case marked the first time in seven years
that the Justice Department had gone to trial since failing in
2004 to stop Oracle Corp.’s $8.4 billion purchase of PeopleSoft
Inc.  Modified Deals  Deals forged with constraints extracted by the department
under former antitrust division chief  Christine Varney  include
Google Inc.’s $700 million purchase of ITA Software Inc. in
April 2011, Comcast Corp.’s January 2011 purchase of  NBC
Universal , and Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc.’s merger with
Live Nation Inc. in January 2010.  The Avery transaction would have been 3M’s biggest since
the company paid $662.4 million to buy fingerprint-
identification systems maker Cogent Inc. in 2010. Buying the
division would have allowed 3M to add products such as Marks-A-
Lot pens to a lineup of office goods that includes  Scotch tape .  3M became the second-biggest global player in the label
market behind  Avery Dennison  after it completed the 2010
purchase of a majority stake in Japanese label maker A-One’s
consumer and office label business, according to Citigroup’s
Dray. A-One is the top office and consumer label brand in Asia,
he said.  The proposed transaction is small for 3M, which makes
 products  ranging from dental braces to commercial sealants, and
its failure won’t “move the needle” in a negative way for the
$63.4 billion company, Dray said yesterday in a phone interview.  “It’s not that material to 3M,” he said. “The collection
of products are very good quality, but they were more line
extensions and gap-fillers rather than a pivotal part of the
business model.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in  New York  at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  