-- 3M Seeks to Save Avery Unit Deal After Regulator Objections
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-05T20:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/3m-seeks-to-save-avery-unit-deal-after-regulator-objections-1-.html
3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of Post-it Notes,
said it remains in talks to buy  Avery Dennison Corp. (AVY) ’s office-
products unit, hours after the  U.S. Department of Justice 
announced that the $550 million deal had been abandoned.  The companies are “working together to explore options to
address the DOJ’s concerns, obtain regulatory approval, and
complete a transaction,” according to a joint statement early
today. The Justice Department said late yesterday the deal had
been dropped as it moved to block a sale on antitrust concerns.  A takeover would give 3M more than 80 percent of the U.S.
market for labels and sticky notes, the Justice Department said.
Some of Avery’s office-product lines, such as sticky notes, will
probably have to be sold to win regulatory approval, said Jeff Windau, an analyst with Edward Jones in  St. Louis .  “I would think over the next several weeks there will be a
lot of talks with their contacts at the DOJ,” Windau said today
in a telephone interview. He has a buy recommendation on  St.
Paul , Minnesota-based 3M.  3M and Avery said they had voluntarily withdrawn
notification and report forms regarding the transaction. 3M,
which announced the acquisition in January, had planned to
complete the purchase in the second half of this year.  “By pulling it back, obviously 3M and Avery are looking at
ways to satisfy the DOJ concerns,” Windau said. If the deal can
be salvaged, it probably wouldn’t be completed in 2012, he said.  Office Dominance  The  Justice Department  inquiry found that 3M and Avery have
dominated adjacent parts of the office-products business for
many years, with Avery making labels and 3M selling sticky notes
under its Post-it brand. The companies are the world’s largest
label makers, according to Deane Dray, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in  New York .  The acquisition “does not move the needle” for 3M, adding
only 3 cents to an earnings-per-share forecast of $6.75 for next
year, Dray said.  “This was a rounding out of a product line” for 3M, Dray
said. “It’s not like their business model hinges on these. They
are nice-to-haves, but not must-owns.”  Avery, based in  Pasadena ,  California , rose 0.9 percent to
$29.86 at the close in New York after dropping 5.2 percent
yesterday. 3M, whose products also include commercial sealants,
work boots and teeth-whitening kits, rose less than 0.1 percent
to $91.75.  ‘A Hiatus’  Avery Chief Executive Officer Dean Scarborough said the
 Department of Justice  informed the companies last week that it
would sue to block the transaction, leading them to withdraw
voluntarily the notification and reports. Over the next few
weeks, 3M and Avery will look at options to make the deal
acceptable to regulators, he said.  “We’re committed to getting the transaction done,”
Scarborough said during a  Bank of America Corp. conference
today. “I would characterize this as a hiatus and certainly not
a movement away from completing this transaction.”  Scarborough said he disagreed with the Justice Department’s
determination that the combination will hurt consumers.  “This benefits customers and consumers because it provides
a lower-cost platform, makes those products potentially more
competitive and also enables a lot more innovation in the
business,” Scarborough said.  Regulatory Concerns  Windau, the  Edward Jones  analyst, said it was a surprise
that 3M hadn’t raised the regulatory concerns earlier. 3M Chief
Executive Officer Inge Thulin said on a July 26 conference call
that he still expected the transaction to be completed by the
end of 2012.  The acquisition would be 3M’s biggest since paying $662.4
million to buy fingerprint-identification systems maker Cogent
Inc. in 2010. It would let 3M add products such as Marks-A-Lot
pens to a lineup of office goods that includes  Scotch tape .  3M became the second-biggest global company in the label
market behind Avery after completing the 2010 purchase of a
majority stake in Japanese label maker A-One’s consumer and
office label business, according to Citigroup’s Dray. A-One is
the top office and consumer label brand in  Asia , he said.  The Avery unit had 2011 sales of $765 million and $80
million of operating income, Scott Gaffner, an analyst with
Barclays Plc in New York, wrote in a note yesterday. About 80
percent of the sales are in  North America  and 20 percent in
 Europe , he said. Two-thirds of sales are derived from labels and
binders, and Avery will probably continue to seek the sale of
the division, said Gaffner, who has an equalweight
recommendation on Avery.  “Management has stated several times in the past that the
office- and consumer-products market needs to be consolidated,
but that it was not going to be the consolidator,” Gaffner
said. “We don’t think management’s stance on this subject will
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  