-- Abril Eyes Schools as Demand for English Grows: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2012-09-05T17:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/abril-eyes-schools-as-demand-for-english-grows-corporate-brazil.html
Abril Educacao SA (ABRE11) , the education arm
of  Brazil ’s Grupo Abril, plans to step up acquisitions amid
rising demand for students looking to learn English.  Chief Executive Officer Manoel Amorim said Abril Educacao’s
appetite to buy companies is increasing after businesses bought
over the past year grew at least 10 percent. Abril Educacao,
based in Sao Paulo, could have as much as 1 billion reais ($490
million) to spend by increasing debt to 3.5 times earnings and
selling about 100 million reais of new stock, he said.  Abril Educacao, which started as a textbook publisher, is
targeting schools that teach English as a second language as
only about 3 percent of Brazilians can speak English, compared
with at least 10 percent in  Mexico  or Asian developing
economies, Amorim said. The acquisitions will help the company
 boost revenue  from language schools and education services, the
most profitable divisions, to 50 percent of sales from 20
percent.  “We’re looking at all acquisition opportunities there are
in Brazil,” Amorim said in an interview at the Bloomberg office
in  Sao Paulo  yesterday. The language school industry “will
consolidate as most companies are family businesses, and many
want to associate with stronger players or sell.”  In its latest acquisition, Abril Educacao paid 29.9 million
reais in July for a 51 percent stake in Red Balloon, a franchise
network of 34 schools that teach English as a second language.
Amorim declined to comment on an O Estado de S.Paulo newspaper
report last week that Abril Educacao was in talks to buy Wise
Up, an English-language school.  Stock Performance  Abril Educacao, which also runs elementary and high
schools, spent about 120 million reais buying companies since
raising 371.1 million reais in an  initial public offering  in
July 2011. Then the company said it would spend 67 percent of
net IPO proceeds, or about 246 million reais, on acquisitions.
So far Abril Educacao has spent half of that amount, he said.  “They realized the education services industry was
growing, and that it would cannibalize their initial product,
which is textbooks, so they went for acquisitions that made
sense,” said Erico Argolo, a partner in Bogari Capital, which
manages 300 million reais, including Abril shares, in  Rio de
Janeiro .  Since the IPO, Abril Educacao has  gained 60 percent  in Sao
Paulo as the benchmark Bovespa index of most traded stocks fell
5.2 percent. Abril Educacao is up 56 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 0.9 percent loss in the Bovespa
index. Abril fell 0.3 percent to 31.90 reais at 2:20 p.m. as the
benchmark index gained 0.8 percent.  U.S. Losses  Brazilian for-profit college education companies also
outperformed the broader market.  Kroton Educacional SA (KROT3)  surged 79
percent,  Estacio Participacoes SA (ESTC3)  gained 77 percent and
 Anhanguera Educacional Participacoes SA (AEDU3)  rose 49 percent.  Amorim said a possible sale of new stock would also help to
increase the number of Abril Educacao shares available for
trading.  U.S. for-profit colleges have suffered declining enrollment
as Congress and state attorneys general investigate their
marketing and job-placement claims. The schools can receive as
much as 90 percent of their revenue from federal loans and
grants that students use to pay tuition. In the 2009-2010
academic year, they got almost $32 billion in U.S. student aid.  A Bloomberg  index  of 13 for-profit college companies has
tumbled 45 percent this year. Apollo Group Inc., owner of the
University of Phoenix -- the largest U.S. for-profit college --
has lost almost half its value this year.  Buy Recommendations  Abril Educacao trades at 38 times its 12-month trailing
earnings, compared with 58 for Anhanguera, 29 for Estacio and 24
for Kroton, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Seven of
 eight analysts  that cover Abril Educacao have a buy
recommendation, while one says hold, Bloomberg data show.  Amorim, a former Procter & Gamble Co. executive, said Abril
Educacao serves 17,000 students directly and 30 million students
indirectly through learning systems, including books and
teaching materials, sold to 130,000 schools. The textbook
division accounted for 43 percent of revenue as of June 30.  “Any learning systems that may complement our business
geographically or pedagogically, if they’re up for sale, we will
look at them,” said Amorim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  