-- MacArthur Genius Turns to Stars for Cosmic Aid: Hot Art
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/macarthur-genius-turns-to-stars-for-cosmic-aid-hot-art.html
Teresita Fernandez spent the last
two weeks of August at Lehmann Maupin gallery’s Lower East Side
outpost, surrounded by thousands of translucent plastic tubes in
shades of gray and pink.  By the end of the month, a lot of the tubes had migrated
from cardboard boxes into midair. They hang in two layers from
the 26-foot ceiling, suspended on barely visible strings.  The untitled composition reveals itself as you move through
the space. Looking up, the irregular form resembles the sky
after a thunderstorm, deep gray giving way to soft pink. The
shape ebbs and dips like a rolling terrain.  Viewed from a second-floor balcony, it suggests a body of
water, the 8-foot-long tubes blending into a flat, shimmering
surface, occupying most of the 22-by-42-foot room. People
walking beneath it appear in silhouette, slightly distorted and
almost rippled. The effect changes, depending on the time of
day, the light and your particular vantage point.  It’s at once monumental and fragile. Hanging it was a
surprisingly low-tech effort: a hydraulic lift, a few ladders
and a paper diagram on the floor suggesting where the different
parts should go.  Optical Shifts  “There are all these optical shifts,” said Fernandez, 44,
a conceptual artist born in Miami and now living in  Brooklyn .
Installing it, she said, was its own challenge, “because you
don’t know where one piece ends and another begins.”  The goal of the piece is to “transcend the material so
that it’s no longer a bunch of plastic,” added Fernandez, a
2005 MacArthur Foundation fellow and a member of the U.S.
Commission of Fine Arts.  It’s the centerpiece of “Night Writing,” an exhibition of
her work that opens Sept. 12. The show will also include hand-
made prints in which swirls and bands of pink and magenta are
perforated with mirror-filled holes that sparkle like stars.  “I was interested in the idea of the night sky,” said
Fernandez. “Before we had GPS, what we did was look up at the
stars as a way to get an orientation.”  Except that in this case, the works -- displayed behind
glass in hefty frames -- are also unsettling. The little
glittering holes are Braille translations of epic texts of
Fernandez’s choosing (among them, “Tristan and Isolde” and “Hero
and Leander”).  “It’s almost like there’s something very revealing hiding
in plain sight,” she said after a pause. “If you are blind you
can’t touch it. If you have sight you can’t read it.”  Prices for the prints range from $50,000 to $100,000.
“Night Writing” will run through Oct. 20 at 201 Chrystie St.
Information: +1-212-254-0054;  http://www.lehmannmaupin.com .  (Katya Kazakina is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last Night
and  Mark Beech  on pop music.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 