-- TAG Immobilien Will Probably Join MDAX After Acquisition
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-09-05T16:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/tag-immobilien-will-probably-join-mdax-index-after-acquisition.html
TAG Immobilien AG (TEG) ,  Germany ’s third-
largest publicly traded residential landlord, will probably join
Germany’s MDAX Mid-Cap Index for medium-sized companies after
its market value rose 64 percent this year.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , operator of the Frankfurt exchange,
will announce any changes to the  50-member index  after the
market closes today.  Deutsche Boerse  decides which stocks to
include in its indexes by considering factors including
companies’ market value and share-trading volume.  “TAG making it into the MDAX is pretty sure,” said Silke Schluensen, an index analyst at Close Brothers Seydler Bank AG.  TAG, based in Hamburg, has the 35th highest market
capitalization among German medium-sized companies excluding
technology firms and ranks 52nd on 12-month trading volume. That
puts it above the MDAX criteria requiring members to rank at
least 60th on both counts, said Uwe Streich, an index analyst at
Landesbank Baden Wuerttemberg. TAG has about a 70 percent chance
of joining the MDAX, he said.  TAG, with a market value of 758 million euros ($949
million), is the largest German real-estate company that’s not
included in the index. Earlier this year, TAG paid 160 million
euros for DKB Immobilien AG and raised  127 million euros in a
share sale .  The residential and office landlord was up 1.4 percent at
7.77 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , the biggest gain
since Aug. 15. The shares have advanced  about 26 percent  this
year. The SDAX Index for small companies, in which the shares
are listed, has  climbed about 10 percent  in that time.  Investor Attention  Joining the MDAX would increase demand for the shares, said
TAG Chief Executive Officer Rolf Elgeti.  “It would be good news,” he said by telephone.
“Investors would pay more attention to the stock.”  More investors buy medium-sized company stocks than small
caps, Schluensen said. Joining the MDAX would make it easier for
TAG to raise capital for acquisitions.  A Deutsche Boerse committee meets every quarter to decide
whether to remove or add companies to its indexes.  TAG Immobilien would probably replace Deutz AG, an engine
maker with a market value of 357 million euros that puts it in
61st place, said Streich.  The switch isn’t certain because Deutsche Boerse also takes
other factors into account, including how long a stock has
fulfilled the criteria.  German residential real estate companies listed on the MDAX
include Deutsche Wohnen AG, Gagfah SA and GSW Immobilien AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 