-- Costa Rica Power Restored After Magnitude 7.6 Earthquake Strikes
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-09-05T22:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/magnitude-7-9-earthquake-shakes-buildings-in-costa-rica-capital.html
Power was restored across much of
 Costa Rica  after a magnitude 7.6 earthquake struck near the
country’s Pacific coast, triggering tsunami warnings across
Central America. One death was reported.  Government buildings in  San Jose  were evacuated and roads,
bridges and homes in several parts of the country were damaged
when the quake struck at 8:42 a.m., knocking out electricity and
phone lines. A 50-year-old woman died from a heart attack during
the quake, the  Red Cross  said. A tsunami warning for Costa Rica,
 Panama  and  Nicaragua  was later canceled and power has largely
been restored, television channel Teletica said.  “The first thing we want to do is transmit a message of
calm,” President Laura Chinchilla said in a national address
from San Jose about two hours after the quake hit.   The quake struck 140 kilometers (87 miles) west of San
Jose, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey . It hit a popular
tourist and surfing region that is home to hotels owned by Four
Seasons Holdings Inc. and Hilton Worldwide Inc. In downtown San
Jose, windows rattled, electricity flickered on and off and car
alarms rang out in the streets as people ran outside in the
quake’s aftermath.  “I was sitting up against the window and I jumped out of
my seat,” said Rebecca Ruffer, a U.S. exchange student studying
at the Universidad Veritas in San Jose who was on the third
floor of her building when the quake struck. “This is the worst
earthquake since I’ve been here.”  Tectonic Plates  Costa Rica and the rest of Central America are susceptible
to earthquakes because of the movement of at least four tectonic
plates, including the Cocos and Caribbean plates. The country
has suffered four quakes of magnitude 6.1 or greater since 1991. 
A magnitude 6.4 quake near Cartago in 1910 killed 700 people, 
according to the USGS.  “Central America is a highly seismically-active region,”
said John Bellini, a geophysicist at the USGS. “A 7.6 is not a
surprise” for the region, he said.  At least 75 aftershocks were recorded following the initial
tremor, according to Costa Rica’s seismology agency.  “It started off very slowly, not unlike the smaller
earthquakes we have here,” said Eric Turner, a press official
at the  U.S. Embassy  in San Jose. “But it picked up strength and
was longer in duration.”  U.S. Tourists  About 80,000 to 90,000 U.S. citizens live in Costa Rica and
approximately one million U.S. visitors travel to the country’s
tourist destinations, such as the Guanacaste region, each year,
Turner said. The State Department established a toll-free phone
number concerned families can use to get more information. The
number is 1-888-407-4747.  There were no reports of significant damage or injuries at
Marriott International Inc.’s properties, said John Wolf, a
spokesman for the Bethesda Maryland-based company. Marriott, the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, has six hotels in
Costa Rica, according to its website.  Sorya Gaulin, a spokeswoman for Four Seasons Hotels and
Resorts, said in an e-mail that her company is monitoring the
situation and that customers and guests were safe. Four Seasons
has one property on the Papagayo Peninsula.  The country’s largest refinery, Refinadora Costarricense de
Petroleo SA, wasn’t damaged by the quake, manager Henry Arias
said in a phone interview. Production at the refinery, on the
Caribbean coast, has been halted since late last year for an
expansion project, Arias said.  The Costa Rica colon strengthened 0.2 percent to 497.25.
The yield on the country’s dollar bonds maturing in 2020 were
little changed at 4.82 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  