-- Thai Baht Falls as U.S. Data Dims Export Outlook; Bonds Advance
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-09-05T02:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/thai-baht-falls-as-u-s-data-dims-export-outlook-bonds-advance.html
Thailand’s baht declined, snapping a
three-day gain, after a report showed manufacturing shrank in
the U.S., the Southeast Asian nation’s third-largest export
market.  Government bonds  rose.  The currency retreated from a three-month high and the  MSCI (MXAP) 
Asia Pacific Index fell for a fifth day after data released
yesterday by the  Institute for Supply Management  showed output
in the world’s largest economy shrank for a third month in
August. Global funds poured $33 million into Thai equities and
$540 million into government debt in the first two days of this
week, according to official figures, amid speculation the
 European Central Bank  is preparing to unveil a debt-purchase
plan. The U.S. will release employment data on Sept. 7.  “The weak U.S. data is used as an excuse for position
adjustment from the recent declines in the dollar before big
events like ECB and jobs data in the U.S.,” said Shigehisa
Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “Declines in the baht will
be limited due to fund inflows.”  The baht slumped 0.1 percent to 31.24 per dollar as of 8:35
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 31.15 yesterday, the strongest level since May 11. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, was little changed at 4.27 percent.  The U.S. bought about 10 percent of goods shipped from
 Thailand  in the first seven months of this year.  Overseas sales ,
which account for about two-thirds of the Thai economy,
decreased 3.9 percent in July from a year earlier after a 2.4
percent drop in June, according to central bank data.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 declined
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.17 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Thailand may keep its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 3 percent today, according to 18 of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Three predicted a quarter percentage
point reduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 