-- Thailand Holds Policy Rate as Prasarn Resists Calls to Ease
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-09-05T09:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/thailand-holds-rate-as-prasarn-resists-government-calls-to-ease.html
Thailand ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a fifth straight meeting
after the economy rebounded, resisting calls from Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra’s government for lower borrowing costs.  The  Bank of Thailand  held its  one-day bond repurchase rate 
at 3 percent, it said in Bangkok today. The decision was
predicted by 18 of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey ,
while three expected a quarter-point cut. Only five members of
the seven-person policy committee attended today’s meeting, with
three voting to hold rates and two preferring a cut.  The central bank has refrained from adding to its November
and January rate reductions as the country recovered from its
worst floods in almost seven decades. Finance Minister Kittiratt
Na-Ranong has urged lower borrowing costs and a weaker currency,
putting Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul in the same position as
counterparts from the euro region to  Japan  and the U.S. in
facing pressure from politicians to shore up growth.  “Thailand did benefit from reconstruction” after the
floods, said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB
in  Hong Kong , who predicts the policy rate will be kept stable
until the end of the year. “But if the external environment
continues to weaken, then some stimulus would be needed.”  The  Thai baht  fell 0.3 percent to 31.29 per dollar as of
3:53 p.m. in Bangkok. The  benchmark SET index  of stocks was
little changed, having gained about 21 percent this year.  Absent Members  The two Monetary Policy Committee members who were absent
were Siri Ganjarerndee and Aswin Kongsiri, Assistant Governor
Paiboon Kittisrikangwan told reporters in Bangkok. The two had
“obligations abroad,” the central bank said in a statement.  The central bank said today it’s ready to adjust policy if
needed. While domestic demand remains strong, exports may be
weaker than expected this year, it said, adding that the current
rate is appropriate for growth and inflation.  “The Monetary Policy Committee assessed that overall risks
to the global economy remained elevated,” the central bank said
in a statement. Still, “economic stability remained sound with
further moderation in inflationary pressure and the inflation
forecast remaining within the target range.”  Thai  consumer prices  climbed 2.69 percent in August from a
year earlier, easing from a 2.73 percent pace in July.  Core
inflation  was 1.76 percent, below the 3 percent target that the
central bank seeks to avoid breaching.  China Risks  “Near-term risks to Thai growth may have abated with
expectation of policy easing in the U.S. and  Europe ,”  Aninda
Mitra , a Singapore-based economist at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said in a note. “However, China-related
risks still remain and we continue to believe the possibility of
a rate cut in Thailand’s highly open economy remains quite
high.”  Thai  exports  fell 4.5 percent in July from a year earlier,
the fifth decline this year.  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest
economy expanded 4.2 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, after growing a revised 0.4 percent in the previous
three months.  Bank of Thailand Chairman Virabongsa Ramangkura, who was
picked by the government and doesn’t vote on policy, last month
dismissed inflation-targeting as ineffective, signaling Prasarn
should abandon the policy-setting measure and focus on
supporting growth.  Most of the monetary committee members didn’t see a need to
cut the key rate now because local demand remains strong and
bank lending recorded high growth, Paiboon said.  ‘Less Effective’  “Cutting rates now may be less effective because private
consumption and investment is already growing well,” he said.
“Further monetary stimulus on local demand may have a negative
impact. We have to be careful. There is also strong competition
in the banking industry now and further easing may not prompt
financial institutions to adjust rates.”  Still, the risks for economic growth remain high and
Thailand may need to ease monetary policy further in the future,
he said. Economic growth next year may be weaker than expected
because of slow government budget disbursement, he said.  “There is sufficient domestic growth momentum to keep the
central bank from pulling the trigger at this juncture,” Julia Goh, an economist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur ,
said before the decision. “The central bank has done a good job
so far. They know best on how to manage the economy and further
interference in monetary policy response would be detrimental to
the central bank’s independence and investor confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  