-- Airlines Rally as Delta Joins US Airways in Revenue Gains
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-09-05T21:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/airlines-rally-as-delta-joins-us-airways-in-revenue-gains.html
US Airways  Group Inc. and larger
competitor  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  were among the top performers in
an index of U.S. carriers after overcoming a sluggish economy to
post monthly unit-revenue growth.  Passenger revenue for each seat flown a mile, a measure of
airline performance, rose 4 percent at Atlanta-based Delta and 1
percent at US Airways. Miles traveled by paying passengers
increased at both carriers, according to statements.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index climbed 3.4 percent, the
most since Aug. 20, with US Airways outperforming the other nine
members. The Tempe, Arizona-based carrier rose 7.4 percent to
$11.22 at the close of New York trading, while Delta advanced
3.7 percent to $8.88.  “The macro headlines are scary out there, so the fact that
demand seems to be pretty stable is pretty good,” said  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“The airlines have also been doing a very good job of
preemptively reducing capacity growth to keep it in line with
demand.”  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s largest
airline, jumped 5.4 percent to $19.07 after disclosing plans to
cut available seating capacity for a second time in the
remainder of the year.  United said it would trim available seating by about 1
percentage point, citing concern that the slowing economy would
hurt demand. That brought the Chicago-based company’s total
planned reduction for the four-month period to 2 percent to 3
percent.  ‘Modest Slowness’  “We are beginning to see some modest slowness in the
economic outlook and we’re responding accordingly,” Chief
Financial Officer John Rainey said at a Dahlman Rose & Co.
transportation conference in  New York .  Companies still are making core business trips, even though
some have reduced discretionary travel to conventions or
conferences, US Airways President Scott Kirby said at the
conference. Pricing remains strong, he said.  “Leisure demand, the best proxy for the underlying
economy, remains strong,” Kirby said. “As we get into the
fourth quarter and there is more certainty around the election
and the situation in Europe, we’re set up for a demand
environment that can improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  