-- Amazon Readies Kindle Fire Update to Keep Up in Tablets
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/amazon-readies-kindle-fire-update-to-keep-up-in-tablets.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is readying an
updated Kindle Fire tablet, seeking to revive demand for the 10-
month-old device as the market crowds with competing machines
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Amazon is holding an event at 10:30 a.m. today in  Santa
Monica ,  California , where it is likely to announce the newest
versions of its line of Kindle e-readers and the Kindle Fire
tablet, according to  Anthony DiClemente , an analyst at Barclays
Plc. The company said it sold out of the Kindle Fire last week.  Last year’s holiday shoppers helped vault Amazon’s share of
the market to 17 percent in the December period, according to
research firm IDC. Demand for the Kindle Fire has since stalled
-- the device’s first-quarter share slipped to 4 percent. To
stay relevant in tablets, Amazon needs to tap consumers’ desire
for streaming movies and video games they can’t find elsewhere,
said Edward Williams, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets.  “There’s a big opportunity for Amazon to design digital
content that specifically exploits the Kindle Fire,” Williams,
who is based in  New York , said in an interview. “People who own
the Kindle Fire are probably watching content that was
repurposed for it. Apple has done a phenomenal job at this.
There’s room for another player in the market, and Amazon has a
good chance, but we’re definitely dealing with version one right
now.”  New Entrants  In June, both Microsoft and Google announced their own
tablets, pushing into a market that may reach $66.4 billion this
year, according to research firm DisplaySearch. And Apple plans
to debut a smaller, cheaper iPad by year-end, two people with
knowledge of the plans said in July.  Google, which makes the Android software that runs the
Kindle Fire, is entering the running with the Nexus 7, a tablet
that is thinner, lighter and has better screen resolution than
the current Kindle Fire for the same $199 price. Both have 8
gigabytes of storage and a 7-inch display, though Google buyers
have the option to upgrade to 16 gigabytes for $249.  The Nexus 7 also boasts Bluetooth connectivity, GPS and a
camera -- features Amazon’s tablet now lacks.  Microsoft’s device, the Surface, has a 10.6-inch display
and also is slimmer than the Fire. It will run on Microsoft’s
revamped Windows operating system and has a cover that serves as
a full keyboard with a track pad. Microsoft hasn’t yet announced
the Surface’s price.  “There’s still room for improvement” in the Kindle Fire,
Williams said.  Digital Content  Amazon started selling the Kindle Fire in November, seeking
to extend its success in e-readers into the fast-growing tablet
market, where shipments may almost double to 116 million units
this year, Gartner estimates. Still, its entry came at a cost to
profitability -- Amazon spends $139.80 to make each Kindle Fire,
according to IHS.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is pushing sales of
digital content -- movies, books, music and other media -- on
the device to make up for the low price. To gain that loyalty
and woo buyers, the company needs to ensure users become
addicted to a digital experience they can only get at Amazon.
Games may be an easy way to do that, Williams said.  Amazon has “the books, they’ve got the videos, they’ve got
the music, but where they’re still lacking is on the game side
of it,” Williams said. “I think that’s probably an area that
can get a little more focus on the next-generation device.”  Social Games  Amazon announced GameCircle in July, which gives developers
the ability to make games more social by adding leader boards
and a way to track trophies and achievements. The ability to
make more sophisticated games may draw more app makers to
Amazon’s device. For every $1 generated for developers in
Apple’s iTunes  App Store , they earn 89 cents in Amazon’s and 23
cents in Google’s, according to Flurry, a provider of app-
analytics software.  Amazon, based in  Seattle , said in August that exclusive
Kindle books have been purchased, downloaded or borrowed from
the company’s virtual lending library more than 100 million
times. Amazon doesn’t give revenue figures for purchases on the
tablet. The company’s sales of all digital media last year
reached $17.8 million and accounted for 37 percent of revenue,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  To sweeten the selection of movies and TV shows available
on the Fire, the company has been striking agreements with
content providers. Amazon reached a deal with pay-television
channel Epix this week to offer films such as “The Hunger
Games” through its instant video service.  New Features  At today’s event, Amazon may announce more than one tablet
and offer the option to upgrade memory for a higher price,
Barclays’s DiClemente said in a note to clients this week. The
company may also add a built-in camera and let users connect to
the Web through a cellular network. Right now, the device can
only access the Internet through a wireless connection.  An updated and aggressively priced tablet “could be very
attractive to the lower end of the market, and may help to stave
off some share gains from the Google Nexus 7 and a possible iPad
mini entrant,” DiClemente wrote, noting that the original
Kindle e-reader cost about $400, compared with a $79 price point
for the cheapest current version.  Loyal Members  To drive purchases of the Kindle Fire as well as movies,
music and other content, Amazon can further leverage its
millions of users with registered credit-card numbers, a one-
click payment option and loyal Prime members, who pay $79 a year
for free shipping and free access to some movies and videos --
advantages Google doesn’t have, said Atul Bagga, an analyst at
Lazard Capital Markets in  San Francisco .  The company may have sold about 7 million Kindle Fires
since the device’s release in November and will control 10
percent of the worldwide tablet market by 2016, Bagga estimates.
Digital sales on the device will help boost an operating margin
that narrowed to 1.79 percent last year, lower than 96 percent
of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “Digital media -- selling apps, selling music, selling
games -- that’s a high-margin business,” Bagga said. “These
things position Amazon as a very strong contender in the digital
media space. I wouldn’t be surprised to see some meaningful
changes to the Fire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  