-- Ambow Trading Halted on Company’s Probe Into Unit’s Schools
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-05T20:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/ambow-declines-to-one-month-low-on-investigation-into-schools.html
Trading in  Ambow Education Holding
Ltd. (AMBO)  was halted after the private tutoring services provider
said it will start a probe into its units following a report by
 China ’s state television.  Ambow’s shares sank 27 percent to $2.27 at 2:58 p.m. before
trading was suspended in New York. It was the biggest retreat
since the company’s initial public offering in the U.S. in
August 2010.  China’s Central Television said on Sept. 3 that Ambow’s
one-on-one education unit exaggerated staff training results and
that the schools’ registrations with industry regulators were
incomplete, according to a  statement  by Ambow posted yesterday.
Ambow said it will start an investigation into the issues
“immediately,” discipline the persons involved and take
corrective steps.  “It’s disconcerting,”  Trace Urdan , an analyst at  Wells
Fargo & Co ., said in a phone interview from  San Francisco .
“It’s not like they’re asserting financial fraud but this is
coming from state television, which is serious. This definitely
keeps Ambow in the penalty box for some additional period of
time.”  Company Policy  It’s not the company’s policy to encourage staff to
exaggerate training results, Ambow Chief Strategy Officer Jenny
Zhan said in a phone interview today from Beijing. “The
company’s investigation on the CCTV allegations is still
ongoing, which doesn’t mean we admit everything the TV report
said,” she said, adding the company will publish a statement
after the investigation.  The Jinghan unit, which focuses on one-on-one tutoring,
accounts for about 5 percent of Ambow’s 2011 profit, and about
20 percent of Ambow’s revenue, according to Zhang.  Beijing-based Ambow announced a plan July 13 to buy back as
much as $10 million of its outstanding shares after a 68 percent
slump in the prices since the beginning of the year.  The company said on July 4 that then-Chief Financial
Officer Gareth Kung had resigned. Kung was appointed CFO at
Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. on July 9.  Ambow Education reported a $12.7 million net loss for the
first quarter on July 4, compared with $2 million net income for
the same period in 2011. KJ Tan, Ambow’s vice president of
finance, was appointed as acting finance chief.  New Oriental, Tal  New Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU)  Inc., China’s
largest private education services provider, tumbled 57 percent
over two days after saying on July 17 the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission was investigating the company while Muddy
Waters LLC questioned its accounting practices in a report a day
later.  Tal Education Group (XRS) , a provider of after-school tutoring
services based in Beijing, released a statement on July 19
saying the New York Stock Exchange contacted it “in accordance
with its usual practice” and the company’s policy is not to
comment on “unusual market activity or speculative matters.”
Its shares plunged 14 percent that day in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  