-- An Economic Revolution the U.S. Government Made Possible
-- B y   R o b e r t   G u d m e s t a d
-- 2012-09-05T17:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/an-economic-revolution-the-u-s-government-made-possible.html
When the New Orleans chugged into
the city for which it was named on Jan. 10, 1812, it made
history as the first steam-powered vessel to travel the western
waters of the U.S. At the time, few people thought it would
touch off a commercial revolution.  Within 10 years, however, western-river steamboats carried
twice as much freight in two weeks as had gone upriver in all of
1811. The Mississippi River pulsated with commerce. People and
goods moved with relative ease between Pittsburgh,  St. Paul ,  St.
Louis , New Orleans and even  Montana .  But this sudden commercial surge came at a price. Besides
the unfortunate tendency for steamboat boilers to explode
without warning, a host of natural phenomena threatened river
traffic. Low water, ice chunks, shifting sandbars and large
rocks inhibited river traffic. The worst obstacle, however, was
the snag.  Thousands of snags lurked in the western waters. They were
formed when raging waters wore away river banks, sweeping trees
into the swollen streams. The waterlogged trees, whose roots
still clutched masses of earth, sank and became embedded in
river bottoms. Strong currents stripped away leaves and small
branches, making the underwater skeletons difficult to spot.  These submerged trees ripped holes in riverboats, causing
the fragile craft to sink in a matter of minutes. Between 1822
and 1827, snags caused a loss of $1,362,500 in property on the
Ohio and Mississippi rivers, according to “Notes on the Western
States,” by  James Hall . Snagging was so frequent that not only
did the phrase “hit a snag” enter the general American lexicon,
but insurance rates skyrocketed.  Begging for Help  Residents along the western rivers -- particularly those in
slave states -- responded by begging the federal government to
embark on a program of river improvements. Citizens of
Louisville and St. Louis and the state legislatures of  Missouri ,
 Tennessee ,  Arkansas ,  Louisiana  and  Alabama  were among those that
pressured the federal government to act. They argued that
 Washington  should undertake internal improvements to promote the
general welfare.  That southerners would clamor for the expansion of federal
power might seem surprising. After all, these petitions were
arriving at the same time that Vice President John C. Calhoun
was leaving Washington to return to his home state of  South
Carolina , where the “cast iron man” would emerge as the leading
advocate of states’ rights. He argued that a state could nullify
a federal law, and South Carolina responded by negating the
Tariffs of 1828 and 1832.  But Calhoun’s political philosophy found no fertile soil
west of the Appalachian Mountains because residents of the slave
states in the  Mississippi  River Valley were forming an identity
around their river commerce. They welcomed federal intervention
in the market economy because they needed it. In the days before
railroads crisscrossed the landscape, steamboats were the most
efficient and least expensive way to move goods to market. But a
river-improvements program wouldn’t have been effective on a
state-by-state level because all states bordering the Ohio and
Mississippi rivers would need to participate to make navigation
safe. Only the federal government could coordinate such a
program.  Snag Boat  After a fitful start, the government delivered the goods.
Henry M. Shreve  became  superintendent of western rivers in 1827.
Shreve was a veteran steamboat captain who had helped bring down
the Robert Fulton-Robert Livingston monopoly that controlled
trade through  New Orleans . He is also credited with improving
the design of steamboats by moving the boilers out of the hull
and putting them on the main deck.  But it was in remaking the environment of the western
rivers where Shreve had his greatest influence. He designed a
machine that was capable of, in his words, “breaking off and
raising monster snags so firmly embedded in the sand.”  The Heliopolis snag boat, as it was called, had two hulls
connected by beams, including a snag beam encased in iron. Each
hull had its own engine and a 20-foot-high windlass that was
bolted to the deck. Employing all the subtlety of an enraged
bull, the Heliopolis raised a full head of steam and crashed
into a snag, hoping to knock it free from the river bottom or
snap it off and render it harmless. In either case, workers
could haul the snag up on deck and saw it apart.  The first test for the Heliopolis came in 1829 at Plum
Point, a particularly treacherous stretch of the  Mississippi
River  about 50 miles south of  Memphis . It took 11 punishing
hours, but the ship removed all the snags from this graveyard of
the Mississippi.  That was just the start. Shreve’s boat removed 1,548 snags
in the next seven months, including one 60-ton monster that was
160 feet long and 3.5 feet in diameter. From 1830 to 1837,
Shreve’s men tore up at least 6,700 snags, a figure that is both
a testament to their raw physical labor and the western rivers’
dynamism and power.  Besides removing the dangerous snags, Shreve and his men
also blasted away rocks, scraped sandbars, dug cutoffs to
straighten the rivers and cut timber along the banks. Their
efforts paid immediate dividends, as losses to snags plummeted
and insurance rates for western steamboats dropped by half.
Steamboats could now run faster and travel around the clock
because they didn’t have to pick their way through dangerous
snag fields.  The improvements program was a smashing success. River
traffic boomed and commerce soared. But federal funding on the
project receded after 1837 (mainly because of an economic panic,
but also because the hardest work had been done). By the late
1840s, residents of the lower Mississippi River Valley turned
away from a system of federal improvements and increasingly set
their sights on building railroads. During the building frenzy
of the 1850s, an embryonic southern rail system emerged, one
that linked the slave states of the Atlantic seaboard to the
slave states west of the Appalachian Mountains. And when
advocates of secession triumphed in the Deep South after  Abraham
Lincoln ’s election, the pleas for strong federal economic
intervention were long forgotten.  (Robert Gudmestad teaches history at  Colorado State
University . He is the author of “Steamboats and the Rise of the
Cotton Kingdom.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Robert Gudmestad at
 Robert.Gudmestad@colostate.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 