-- Man. United Bid $60 Million for Neymar on Deadline Day: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-05T07:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/man-united-bid-60-million-for-neymar-on-deadline-day-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Neymar Bid  Manchester United  made a club-record 38 million-pound
($60.2 million) offer for Brazil striker Neymar on the final day
of the transfer window last week, the  Sun reported .  The bid failed because the 20-year-old wanted to stay with
Santos until after Brazil hosts the 2014  World Cup , the
newspaper said.  Usain for United  Six-time Olympic champion Usain Bolt may appear for
Manchester United in an exhibition match against Real Madrid
next year, the  same newspaper reported , citing United manager
 Alex Ferguson .  “It’s interesting he says he’d like to play in a charity
game,” the Sun cited Ferguson as saying of Bolt, who is a
United fan. “It could be brilliant, and next year when we play
Real Madrid’s legends again, there could be opportunities to
bring him up and see how he does.”  Free Transfer  Arsenal is said to have offered Andrei Arshavin, 31, a free
transfer to help the former Russia captain find a new club
before the Russian transfer window closes tomorrow, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  Although Arsenal had hoped to get a fee of about 5 million
pounds for Arshavin, the Gunners are now prepared to let him to
leave for free given that he is entering the final year of his
contract, the newspaper said. Dynamo Moscow has shown the
strongest interest in signing him, the Telegraph added.  Dempsey Deal  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  was prepared to exchange
midfielder  Jordan Henderson , winger  Stewart Downing  or left-back
 Jose Enrique  to sign Fulham striker  Clint Dempsey , the  Daily
Mail reported .  Rodgers had agreed a swap in principle with Fulham for
Henderson, though also mentioned Downing and Enrique as possible
departures, the Mail said. U.S. forward Dempsey joined Tottenham
Hotspur before the Aug. 31 trade deadline.  Carroll Hamstrung  England striker Andy Carroll faces six weeks out after
tearing his hamstring in his first game for West Ham after
joining the club on loan from Liverpool, the  Telegraph reported .  West Ham, which wants to sign Carroll in a permanent 17
million-pound deal once his loan expires at the end of the
season, is waiting for his scans to be fully assessed, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  