-- Are You Better Off? There’s No Easy Answer
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-05T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/are-we-better-off-there-s-no-easy-answer.html
At the very end of the 1980
presidential campaign,  Ronald Reagan  posed  a question  that has
since come to be the gauge of every U.S. president’s
performance: “Are you better off than you were four years ago?”  Now  Mitt Romney ’s campaign has seized upon the question,
and unsurprisingly, the Republican nominee’s answer is no. When
President  Barack Obama  accepts the Democratic nomination
Thursday in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , he will have to be ready
with a response.  It’s a hard question for the president to answer, and not
just because of its provenance. When Obama took office in
January 2009, it was pretty much a given that Americans would
soon be much worse off. A severe financial crisis was sending
the economy into a deep slump. The challenge was not to raise
 living standards , but to avert another Great Depression.  So the second answer to this question, a simple yes, is
pretty much off the table.  Instead, the Obama campaign is saying it’s the wrong
question -- a classic political dodge that in this case might be
justifiable. Simple measures such as the level of unemployment,
though important, won’t suffice to assess Obama’s performance.
The president would prefer a variant of the query: Are you worse
off now than you would be if he hadn’t been elected four years
ago? Grammatical complexity aside, this is a far more subjective
question.  Then there is the third answer: yes and no. It’s less
satisfying, equally subjective and perhaps most fair. Here’s our
take on how Obama handled the tasks we consider the most
relevant.  Crisis Response  Obama moved quickly and decisively to confront the crisis,
with an $800 billion stimulus package to jump-start the economy,
bank stress tests and capital injections to rescue the financial
system, and an auto bailout aimed at averting permanent damage
to U.S. manufacturing.  Whatever their differences about the details, experts agree
the response was effective. In a  poll  conducted by the
University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business, economists
from across the political spectrum answered almost unanimously
that the U.S. unemployment rate -- now at 8.3 percent -- would
have been higher without the  stimulus  and  bank bailouts . A
separate  study  by  Fitch Ratings  and Oxford Economics found that
the U.S. policy response to the recession boosted gross domestic
product by more than 4 percent.  The most important answer to the “better off” question is
this: Americans on the whole are better off than they would have
been without the stimulus. But (yes, there’s always a but) many
are worse off than they were four years ago, and that means more
work needs to be done. The recovery remains weak and long-term
unemployment is threatening to impair the country’s growth
potential. Median  household income  stood at a seasonally
adjusted $50,964 in June,  according to economic-consulting firm
Sentier Research . That’s down an inflation-adjusted 8 percent
from December 2008.  Government Debt  Obama can hardly be blamed for one of the country’s biggest
problems: a federal debt load that is projected to grow far
beyond the government’s ability to pay. But he has made precious
little progress in telling the country how he would whittle it
down.  The tax cuts and spending increases needed to stimulate the
economy, together with the unavoidable effects of the recession,
have generated large budget deficits and pushed  government debt 
to 72 percent of GDP -- a level not seen since the aftermath of
World War II. The growing cost of Medicare and Social Security
benefits will,  by some estimates , push the debt burden beyond
200 percent of GDP by 2042.  To get debt under control, the government must raise
revenue or cut spending by at least 6 percent of GDP, or about
$900 billion a year. Obama’s latest long-term budget proposal
falls far short of that goal. He has also failed to adopt the
more workable plan set out by the  Simpson-Bowles commission , a
group he set up to address the fiscal challenge.  Financial Safety  Obama played an instrumental role in enacting the Dodd-
Frank financial-reform law, designed to reduce the threat that
financial institutions can present to the broader economy. For
all its warts and complications, the act is  an important
achievement : It gives regulators the power to reduce taxpayer
subsidies for financial risk-taking, make banks less likely to
collapse and insulate the economy when banks do fail.  In practice, however, the U.S. is still highly vulnerable
to financial disaster. Most of Dodd-Frank has yet to go into
effect. The six largest U.S. banks account for an even larger
share of the financial system than they did before the crisis,
making it unlikely that the government could stand by and let
one of them fail -- and raising the troubling possibility that
they’ve become too big to save. And regulators have failed to
address weaknesses outside the banking sector, such as  money-
market mutual funds , which are susceptible to shocks of the kind
that the festering  European debt crisis  could deliver.  Housing Market  The Obama administration has been too timid in its efforts
to resolve the biggest problem hanging over the housing market:
the 11 million borrowers who owe more on their mortgages than
their homes are worth, a number virtually unchanged since 2009.
As many as 4 million homes are expected to enter foreclosure
during the next two years -- a supply of distressed properties
that will weigh heavily on the market. Despite recent signs of
recovery,  house prices  in June remained 32 percent below their
2006 peak and 6 percent below the level of December 2008.  Obama’s various relief programs have fallen far short of
their goal of averting as many as 9 million foreclosures. By  one
recent estimate , the Treasury Department’s signature Home
Affordable Modification Program reached only about one third of
the three million to four million households it had targeted.
The modifications that are done often don’t help, because they
rarely reduce the amount people owe.  That said, it’s important to note that no matter what the
government did, the housing collapse was the necessary and
unavoidable result of a credit-fueled bubble.  Which leads us back to our original point about this “Are
you better off” business. In politics as in economics, context
is everything. The housing market is not better off, but before
the crisis it was too good to be true. The economic slump has
been particularly grueling because consumers are shedding debt
rather than shopping, but ultimately that will make their
finances stronger. So perhaps the best answer is this: Not yet,
but eventually and maybe even soon.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Quebec’s separatism  is a
dead end and on the disasters that await the end of  Europe’s
summer torpor ;  Susan Antilla  on checking if your  broker is a
crook ;  Caroline Baum  on why Americans  should like Mitt Romney ;
 Margaret Carlson  on the impossible  politics of abortion ;
Jonathan Mahler on  Stephen Strasburg’s false choice ; Phillip
Swagel on why some  banks need to be big .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 