-- Margins at 8-Year Low Signal Earnings Bottom: Corporate
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-09-06T05:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/margins-at-8-year-low-signal-earnings-bottom-corporate.html
Indian equities are attracting the
highest foreign flows in the region as investors speculate that
the  worst  may be over for the nation’s biggest companies after
profitability slumped to an eight-year low.  Offshore funds plowed a net $12.3 billion into Indian
shares this year, the most among 10 Asian markets outside  China 
tracked by Bloomberg. The average  profit margin  before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of the 30 companies in the
BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, narrowed to 19.5 percent
in the June quarter, the lowest since December 2003, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings forecasts this year are being cut at a faster pace
in Brazil, China and Korea, while profit for companies in the
MSCI India Index has stayed stable, Deutsche Bank AG said in a
Aug. 24  report . Government data last week showed Asia’s third-
largest economy unexpectedly rebounded from the slowest pace of
expansion in three years after the  Reserve Bank  of India cut
borrowing costs to support growth.  “With China’s growth slowing, India looks the best among
BRIC countries year to date,” Taina Erajuuri, a  fund manager  in
Helsinki at FIM Asset Management overseeing about $1.2 billion
of emerging-market assets, said by phone on Aug. 31. “ India’s
economy  is less dependent on exports to Europe than China and
Russia.” Erajuuri said she’s been a buyer of Indian equities
this year, without naming any stocks.  Slowest Pace  The last time profit margins for Sensex companies were this
low, in 2003, the benchmark index  soared  73 percent as economic
expansion exceeding 8 percent  lured  foreign inflows of $6.7
billion into equities. This year, the gauge has climbed 12
percent, compared with the 0.2 percent gain in Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV) 
Index. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has fallen 7.1 percent after
 China’s economy  grew at the slowest pace in three years last
quarter.  Overseas funds were buyers of local stocks for 23 straight
days through Aug. 30, the longest stretch of net buying since a
record 41-day streak through Oct. 27, 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Funds have flowed into India even as Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  struggles to revive his reform plan amid a logjam
over attempts to open up the economy, corruption scandals and
elevated inflation. The $1.8 trillion economy expanded 6.5
percent in the year ended March, the slowest pace since 2003,
government data show.  India’s main opposition party has stalled parliament for 11
days, demanding Singh’s resignation after the chief auditor Aug.
17 said the government may have lost $33 billion awarding coal
blocks without holding auctions. Singh was relying on the
parliamentary session to pass legislation to allow foreign
investments into retailing, aviation, pensions and insurance.  ‘Terrible Macro’  “Foreign investors are decoupling macro from the micro,”
Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion as director of
emerging markets at  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM)  in London, said by
phone on Sept. 3. “The macro has been terrible in terms of the
GDP growth, but in the micro you can still find good quality,
long-term stories. We are not banging the table but we think
India will do well relative to the other emerging markets.”  F&C has been adding to its holdings in companies including
cigarette-maker  ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , the largest lender by
value, and  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , Asia’s biggest
software services company by value, Mahtani said.  ‘Bottoming Out’  Earnings forecasts for the MSCI India Index have been cut
by 2 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent reduction for
MSCI Brazil and 5 percent for MSCI China indexes, according to
Deutsche Bank. Sensex earnings grew 14.6 percent in the June
quarter, exceeding Bank of America Corp.’s estimate of a 13.7
percent gain, Jyotivardhan Jaipuria, Mumbai-based head of India
research, said in a Aug. 17 report.  “Falling margins have driven downgrades in the past 18
months, and we think margins may be close to bottoming out,” he
said. “Earnings will be slow and there will be downgrades but
lower than what we have seen in the past five quarters.”  The Sensex trades at 13.7 times estimated earnings. While
that’s 30 percent more than the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s
valuation of 10.7 times, it’s still below the 15.8 multiple the
gauge traded at in February, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “India has always traded at a much higher multiple versus
China or even some of the Asian or other BRIC markets,” Suresh Mahadevan, managing director at UBS Securities India Pvt., told
Bloomberg TV India on Aug. 28. “Sitting in India, it feels like
things are really deteriorating but on a relative basis versus
other BRIC nations or global emerging markets we are not that
worse off.”  Inflation Eased  Government data on Aug. 31 showed gross domestic product
grew a faster-than-expected 5.5 percent in the June quarter as
the  Reserve Bank of India  cut  interest rates  in April after
raising them a record 13 times from March 2010 to October last
year. Wholesale-price inflation eased for a second month in July
to a 32-month low, spurring forecasts that the central bank may
pare funding costs when it reviews policy on Sept. 17.  “A combination of slowing revenue growth, falling EBITDA
margins and rising interest costs has caused” earnings growth
to slow, Morgan Stanley analysts in Mumbai led by  Ridham Desai 
wrote in a Aug. 27 report. “Macro indicators are showing
positive change for these drivers and hence, incrementally, a
better earnings picture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  