-- Arizona Police Can Probe Immigration Status, Judge Rules
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/arizona-police-can-probe-immigration-status-judge-rules.html
Arizona  can require police officers
to check the immigration status of people they stop or detain, a
federal judge said, denying a request by civil rights groups to
temporarily block enforcement of the provision.  U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton in Phoenix yesterday
rejected a request by the  American Civil Liberties Union , the
National Immigration Law Center, and the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund to prevent Arizona from enforcing
what the civil rights groups called the “show me your papers”
provision until the courts have ruled whether it violates the
U.S. Constitution.  The judge said she wouldn’t ignore the “clear direction”
of the U.S. Supreme Court that the provision “cannot be
challenged further on its face before the law takes effect.”  The Obama administration sued to challenge S.B. 1070, as
Arizona’s immigration law is known, saying it encroached on the
exclusive federal right to set immigration policy.  The Supreme Court in June struck down much of the 2010 law
on grounds that states must defer to the federal government on
immigration policy. The  Supreme Court  said the requirement on
police checks of immigration status could take effect, while
leaving open the possibility of new legal challenges.  “As the Supreme Court stated, plaintiffs and the U.S. may
be able to challenge the provision on other preemption and
constitutional grounds ‘as interpreted and applied after it goes
into effect,’” Bolton wrote yesterday.  ‘Reasonable Suspicion’  The provision requires local  law enforcement  to check the
immigration status of a person they stop if they have a
“reasonable suspicion” the individual is an illegal alien.  “Today’s ruling will lead to rampant racial profiling of
Latinos and others who might be suspected of being in Arizona
without authorization,” Linton Joaquin, general counsel of the
National Immigration Law Center, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We are committed to continuing the fight against
this law in our case until it is permanently stuck down.”  Arizona’s law was the first of its kind when enacted in
2010. Since then,  Alabama ,  South Carolina ,  Georgia ,  Utah  and
 Indiana  have passed measures aimed at illegal immigration. All
face court fights.  Illegal Immigrants  The judge in yesterday’s ruling blocked a provision of the
law that makes it a crime to transport or harbor illegal
immigrants, citing a decision by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Atlanta that found similar provisions in Alabama and Georgia
immigration measures were preempted by federal law.  “The district court was correct in blocking Arizona’s
harboring statute, which criminalized many everyday interactions
with unauthorized immigrants,” Cecillia Wang, director of the
ACLU Immigrants’ Rights Project, said in the statement.  The “show me your papers” section of the law will not
take effect until further order from the court, which won’t
happen immediately, according to the statement from the civil
rights lawyers.  Arizona has argued it has the right to act because the U.S
government hasn’t done enough and it doesn’t have to defer to
federal priorities. The state’s 370-mile border with  Mexico  is
the crossing point for half the nation’s illegal immigrants,
Arizona said.  Secret Ballot  In a separate case yesterday, Arizona defeated a U.S.
government court challenge to a law requiring that union
elections be held using a secret ballot as opposed to using the
so-called card-check.  U.S. District Judge Frederick Martone in Phoenix sided with
Arizona in a lawsuit brought by the federal  National Labor
Relations Board  challenging the 2011 law, according to a court
filing today. The board alleged that the law interfered with its
power to protect worker union rights.  Martone said isn’t appropriate to assume that the state
will enforce the law in a way that conflicts with NLRB rules. He
dismissed the case.  The NLRB press office didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on
the ruling.  The immigration case is Valle del Sol v. Whiting, 10-01061,
U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  The union elections case is NLRB v. Arizona, 11-913, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  