-- Euro, Spain 10-Year Bonds Gain on ECB; S&P 500 Retreats
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-05T20:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/asian-stocks-fall-a-5th-day-on-growth-concern-gold-aussie-drop.html
The euro and Spanish 10-year debt
advanced on the  European Central Bank ’s plan to buy bonds, while
most U.S.  stocks  fell as FedEx Corp. cut its profit forecast and
reports showed economies were slowing more than anticipated.  The euro appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.2602, near the
highest level since July, and strengthened against 15 of 16
major peers at 4 p.m. in  New York . Spanish 10-year yields
decreased 16 basis points to 6.41 percent and Italian rates lost
15 basis points, while 10-year Treasury yields increased two
basis points to 1.59 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lost 0.1 percent and the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose less than
0.1 percent. Coffee, wheat and natural gas led the S&P GSCI
Index down 0.6 percent.  ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying proposal involves
unlimited purchases of government debt that will be sterilized
to assuage concerns about printing money, two central bank
officials briefed on the plan said. Sterilization involves
draining money from other parts of the financial system to
offset the new funds being added. The ECB’s Governing Council
will decide tomorrow on bond-buying plans.  “Unlimited and sterilized sounds good because it shows
they’re willing to support these sovereigns,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC
in New York. “The fact that it’s sterilized means that we
shouldn’t have too bad an impact on the euro. Yields are coming
lower. The market is reacting positively to that.”  Euro Gains  The euro advanced the most against the Canadian, Norwegian
and Australian dollars, climbing more than 0.6 percent against
each. European stocks and the euro retreated earlier after
London-based Markit Economics said euro-area services and
manufacturing contracted more than initially estimated in
August.  Ten-year Italian yields fell for a third straight day,
dropping to 5.51 percent. Volatility on Italian government debt
was the highest among developed markets today, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities and credit default swaps. The spread decreased to 309
basis points today from a record 338 points yesterday.  About five stocks declined for every four that rose in the
U.S. Among the 10 main groups in the  S&P 500 , utilities,
industrial, consumer-staples and energy companies fell the most,
while raw-material, consumer-discretionary and telephone shares
advanced.  FedEx slid 2 percent after its forecast marked the second
time since June the company issued a profit estimate that
trailed analysts’ projections. The shipping company is
considered an economic bellwether because it moves worldwide
goods ranging from documents to pharmaceuticals.  Facebook Rebounds  Facebook Inc. (FB)  advanced 4.8 percent, rebounding from its
lowest price since going public in May, as Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said he won’t start selling his holdings
in the social-networking company for at least a year.  Investors also awaited the U.S. government’s monthly
employment report in two days. U.S. payrolls probably grew at a
slower pace in August and unemployment exceeded 8 percent for a
43rd month, economists said before a Labor Department report on
Sept. 7.  In the Stoxx 600, health, travel and insurance companies
led gains, while  oil companies  and miners fell the most. BP Plc,
the owner of the Macondo well that caused the worst U.S. oil
spill, lost 2.9 percent after the  Department of Justice 
reiterated it will pursue charges of gross negligence.  Krone Slumps  Norway’s krone weakened against all 16 major counterparts
after a report showed Norwegian manufacturing unexpectedly
contracted for a third straight month in August, adding to signs
that the debt crisis is hurting exports in western  Europe ’s
biggest oil producer.  Spanish two-year notes fell before the country sells as
much as 3.5 billion euros ($4.4 billion) of securities due
between 2014 and 2016 tomorrow. The Frankfurt-based ECB will
refrain from setting a public cap on yields, according to three
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Germany ’s 10-year bunds dropped, sending yields up nine
basis points to 1.48 percent, after the nation received bids for
less than its maximum target at an auction.  U.S. companies from Cargill Inc. to  Procter & Gamble Co .
are selling bonds in Europe at the fastest pace since 2008 as
they tap investor appetite for securities from borrowers outside
the crisis-damaged euro region.  Euro-denominated offerings from American companies
including Cincinnati-based P&G’s first deal in the currency
since 2007 pushed sales to $5.7 billion last month, the busiest
August in four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The surge
brings this year’s total to $14.5 billion, the most for the
period since 2010 and matching the amount for all of 2011.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.8 percent to its
lowest level since July 26.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index slid 1.7
percent as U.S. sales by Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia Motors Corp.
missed some analysts’ estimates. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index of mainland companies dropped 1.9 percent on a report
China’s industrial output may slow. Russia’s Micex Index and
 India ’s Sensex slipped at least 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  