-- Asian Currencies Weaken, Led by Rupee, After Weak U.S. Data
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-09-05T08:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/asian-currencies-weaken-led-by-rupiah-after-weak-u-s-data.html
India ’s rupee and Malaysia’s ringgit
led declines in Asian currencies on concern that a slump in U.S.
manufacturing will deter risk-taking ahead of a European Central
Bank policy meeting tomorrow.  The euro weakened against the dollar even after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said this week that the bank’s primary
mandate compels it to intervene in bond markets to ensure the
common currency’s survival. U.S. factory output shrank last
month by the most since July 2009, a report showed yesterday.  “The weak U.S. data is used as an excuse for position
adjustment from the recent declines in the dollar before big
events like ECB and jobs data in the U.S.,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The drop in regional
currencies is limited as funds will eventually come to Asia,
where domestic demand remains solid.”  The rupee slipped 0.5 percent to 55.9410 per dollar as of
2:12 p.m. in Mumbai, and the ringgit declined 0.4 percent to
3.1210, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Thai baht 
dropped 0.3 percent to 31.28 and South Korea’s won fell 0.2
percent to 1,135.85.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, was set for
its lowest close in almost a week.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
fell to 49.6 last month from 49.8 in July, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said. Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a
reading of 50, which is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. Measures of orders and production dropped to three-
year lows.  Ringgit, Won  The ringgit dropped the most in more than a week ahead of
data forecast to show that export growth slowed in Southeast
 Asia ’s third-largest economy.  Overseas shipments rose 3.5 percent in July from a year
earlier, after climbing 5.4 percent in June, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
a government report due Sept. 7.  “Slowing export growth will be a concern, especially after
the ISM index in the U.S. disappointed yesterday,” said Philip Wee, a senior currency economist in  Singapore  at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd.  The won weakened for a second day as the  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index of
shares had its lowest close since Aug. 3. South Korea plans to
announce economic stimulus measures next week without increasing
the budget, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said yesterday.  “The euro declining before the ECB meeting and local share
losses after U.S. manufacturing data are all contributing to
risk-aversion sentiment in the market, weakening the won,” said
Cho Young Bok, a Seoul-based currency trader for Daegu Bank.  Reserves, Exports  South Korea ’s foreign-exchange reserves rose $2.53 billion
to a record $316.88 billion in August, the biggest increase in
six months, according to central bank figures released today.  The baht snapped three days of gains after the U.S.
manufacturing report. The U.S., Thailand’s third-largest export
market, bought about 10 percent of goods shipped from the
Southeast Asian nation in the first seven months of this year.
Overseas sales, which account for about two-thirds of the Thai
economy, decreased 3.9 percent in July from a year earlier after
a 2.3 percent slide in June, according to central bank data.  Elsewhere in Asia, the Philippine peso dropped 0.2 percent
to 41.978 per dollar,  China ’s  yuan  traded at 6.3492 compared
with 6.3473 yesterday, while Taiwan’s dollar was little changed
at NT$29.905.  Indonesia ’s rupiah was at 9,575 versus 9,571.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 