-- KDB Markets Dollar Bonds as Offerings Surge Ahead of ECB Meeting
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-09-05T05:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/asia-bond-risk-index-increases-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Korea Development Bank  is marketing
a sale of dollar-denominated bonds, adding to the busiest week
for Asia-Pacific offerings since July, as borrowers lock in
funding before the  European Central Bank ’s meeting tomorrow.  The South Korean lender is offering 10-year bonds paying
about 170 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, a
person familiar with the matter said today. Yields on Asian
dollar debt fell to 4.51 percent last week, the lowest since
November 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Borrowers from  Singapore  to Australia and  Japan  sold $5.5
billion of debt yesterday, already the busiest week in seven,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The total is set to rise with
sales in progress from SP PowerAssets Ltd. and Japan Finance
Organization for Municipalities, while at least four Korean
issuers are considering offerings after the nation’s sovereign
rating was  upgraded . ECB President  Mario Draghi  may reveal a
bond-buying program tomorrow after a monthly policy meeting.  “Yesterday and today is a sweet spot for issuers,” Mark
Reade, a credit desk analyst at Credit Agricole SA in Hong Kong,
said. “It’s after the U.S. summer holidays but avoids any
potential volatility triggered by Thursday’s ECB meeting and
Friday’s U.S. payroll data.”  Moody’s Investors Service raised  South Korea ’s rating by
one level to Aa3, the fourth-highest ranking, on Aug. 27, citing
 Asia ’s fourth-largest economy’s strengthened resilience to
crises. Yang Seung Weon, the Seoul-based head of KDB’s global
funding team, declined to comment on any bond sale.  Korean Bonds  Korea Expressway Corp. hired four banks to help with a
dollar bond sale, with other details of the issue yet to be
decided, a person familiar with the matter said today. Nonghyup
Bank is considering an offering in the U.S. currency later this
month, Geum Jun Tae, a senior manager with the lender’s treasury
department, said on Aug. 21.  Korea  Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. is also planning a sale, a
person familiar with the matter said on Aug. 23, while Hyundai
Motor Co. has hired three banks to help raise as much as $1
billion next month, Korea’s Maeil Business Newspaper reported
last week, citing an unidentified official at the company.  “KDB’s sale should be well-supported and it’s the first
trickle from what we expect to be an active Korean dollar
pipeline during September,” Reade said.  Singapore’s SP PowerAssets is marketing a 10-year bond at
about 130 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to a person with knowledge of that sale. JFM is
offering its five-year bond to yield 75 basis points to 80 basis
points more than mid-swaps, another person said.  Asia Risk  Asian bond risk fell to the lowest level in more than a
week yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose 1.5 basis points to 150.5 as of
8:33 a.m. in  Hong Kong , according to prices from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index was little changed at
166.5 basis points as of 11 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. The measure closed at
a four-day low of 164.6 basis points yesterday, CMA prices show.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The  Markit iTraxx Japan  index fell 0.5 basis point to 206.5
as of 9:38 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The index
is headed for its lowest close since Aug. 29, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  