-- Assurant Says Smaller Force-Placed Book Frees Capital
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-05T18:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/assurant-says-smaller-force-placed-book-frees-capital.html
Assurant Inc. (AIZ)  will have more capital
to deploy as its business covering foreclosed homes shrinks amid
an improving housing market, Chief Executive Officer Robert Pollock said.  In an improving economy, “our premium block will shrink,”
Pollock said today at an investor conference in  New York 
sponsored by KBW Inc. “It will release capital that’s backing
the business and we can take and deploy that capital
elsewhere.”  So-called force-placed coverage expanded as homeowners
missed payments amid the worst housing crash in seven decades.
Assurant and Sydney-based  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE)  control at
least 90 percent of the U.S. market, Florida insurance
commissioner Kevin McCarty said last month at a hearing on the
coverage by the  National Association of Insurance Commissioners .  Profit from the coverage will slip as New York-based
Assurant introduces a new product amid regulatory reviews,
Pollock said in July. Force-placed coverage accounted for 89
percent of profit at Assurant’s  specialty property  unit this
year through June 30, according to a regulatory filing.  Assurant advanced 1 percent to $35.61 at 2:24 p.m. in New
York. The stock has declined 13 percent this year, compared with
the 7.2 percent gain of the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   Assurant and QBE have been investigated by  California ,
Florida and New York over whether they charge too much for
force-placed coverage, which protects mortgage holders from
storm damage and vandalism when homeowners stop paying for their
prior policies.  Premiums Vary  Premiums for the coverage vary by location based on the
chance a natural disaster will destroy the property, and
deductibles can change based on considerations including the
amount of coverage, he said.  Economic growth may boost other lines of business including
coverage for tablet computers and mobile phones, Pollock said.  “As consumers buy goods that we can provide some kind of a
warranty on, that works to our advantage,” Pollock said today.
“If we could see  consumer spending  pick up, we’re going to
benefit from that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  