-- MasterCard Moves Into Myanmar With First License Issued to Bank
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-09-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/mastercard-moves-into-myanmar-with-first-license-issued-to-bank.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA)  became the first
payments network to issue a license to a Myanmar bank as the
Southeast Asian nation moves toward integrating with the global
financial system after decades of military rule.  MasterCard entered the agreement this month with Myanmar’s
 Co-Operative Bank Ltd ., which has the largest network of
automated teller machines in the country, according to a
statement today. The license will allow the bank to issue
MasterCard-branded cards and enable merchants to accept them,
according to the statement.  “Once you have three or four banks it becomes far more
efficient to both educate the dealers and advertise in a
meaningful manner,” Vicky Bindra, MasterCard’s president for
Asia-Pacific, the Middle East and  Africa , said by phone
yesterday. “We’re trying as quickly as possible. I’m hoping one
year down we’ll have a much better picture.”  Myanmar’s policy makers are taking steps to make it easier
to transfer money as they seek investments and tourism following
a shift to democracy after about five decades of direct army
rule. President Thein Sein dismantled a fixed exchange-rate in
April and parliamentarians are revamping investment laws in the
country of 64 million people, attracting companies such as  Coca-
Cola Co. (KO)  and Honda Motor Co.  Visa Inc. announced last month it would undertake training
workshops in Myanmar to prepare banks for electronic payments.
MasterCard will run its operations out of  Vietnam  until Myanmar
becomes more developed, Bindra said.  “At some stage we will have an on-the-ground presence in
Myanmar,” he said. It may take five or 10 years before the
electronics payments market grows to a significant size, he
said.  Growth Outlook  Co-operative Bank was set up in 1992 and has more than 20
ATMs in Myanmar, according to its website. It is one of 19
private banks in the country, according to the central bank.  Myanmar’s economy may grow as much as 8 percent a year over
the next decade if inflation remains low and the government
increases trade ties with neighbors China and India, the Asian
Development Bank said in an Aug. 20 report.  President  Barack Obama  in July authorized U.S. companies to
invest in Myanmar for the first time in about 15 years. Thein
Sein met Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  at a July 13
business forum in  Phnom Penh , Cambodia, that included
representatives from Google Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Boeing Co. and General Motors Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  