-- Aubrey McClendon Emerges From Shadows at Barclays Event
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-09-05T20:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/aubrey-mcclendon-emerges-from-shadows-at-barclays-event.html
     Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  will tout the company’s stock
to Wall Street analysts and investors tomorrow as a board
investigation of his personal finances enters its fifth month.  McClendon is scheduled to end months of self-imposed exile
from industry conferences when he addresses a Barclays Plc-
sponsored energy meeting in New York. In June, Chesapeake
stripped the CEO of his chairman role and replaced more than
half the board after revelations he took personal loans from
some of the company’s biggest financiers.  McClendon has been absent from the speaker’s podium at big
industry meetings since Chesapeake’s largest shareholder,
Southeastern Asset Management Inc., told him to focus on
operations rather than public relations in a May 7 letter. Prior
to that scolding, the 53-year-old McClendon was a fixture on the
energy-conference circuit, where he promoted natural gas as an
alternative to coal and imported oil.  “His biggest shareholder strongly expressed a desire for
McClendon to pay more attention to running the company instead
of gallivanting around the world as some kind of an ambassador
for natural gas,”  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.,
said in a telephone interview. “But like it or not, he is the
image of the company.”  McClendon’s last such presentation was on April 25 at the
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Conference in New York, said Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake.
McClendon’s participation in a panel called “Energy: Can the
World Fuel the Rise of the Growth Market” occurred one day
before Chesapeake’s board announced an internal probe into the
CEO’s use of his private stakes in thousands of company-operated
wells to get hundreds of millions of dollars in personal loans.  Largest Investor  Lee Harper, a spokeswoman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based
Southeastern Asset Management, didn’t respond to a telephone
message left at her office seeking comment for this story.
Southeastern was the single largest investor in Chesapeake as of
June 30 by virtue of its 13.5 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chesapeake’s market value plunged to a  3-year low  in May as
a glut-driven slump in gas prices slashed the company’s  cash
flow  and forced McClendon to accelerate the pace of asset sales
to help pay for its drilling program and reduce debt. Investors
also battered the stock amid two federal probes of potential
conflicts between his personal financial transactions and
corporate duties.  Permian Sales  Chesapeake  rose  1.8 percent to $19.54 at the close in New
York. The stock has declined 12 percent this year.  Institutional investors and analysts will be listening
closely to McClendon’s remarks tomorrow for any announcements
about pending sales of oil and gas fields in the Permian Basin
that straddles the Texas-New Mexico border, said Tim Rezvan, an
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in New York.  The Permian Basin sales are key to McClendon’s plan to pay
off a $4 billion bridge loan from  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. and
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  before the  interest rate  jumps to an
effective rate of more than 10 percent in January. Investors
also will be listening for any progress on McClendon’s effort to
remake the second-largest U.S. gas producer into an  oil company .  Rezvan, who has a neutral rating on Chesapeake’s stock,
said it would be out of character for McClendon to announce
details on asset sales tomorrow because the company normally
couples such disclosures with quarterly earnings releases.  2012 Goal  McClendon said last month that the Permian Basin
transactions and other unspecified deals to be completed by the
end of September will amount to $7 billion in proceeds. That
would bring total asset sales for the year to $11.7 billion,
with three months left to meet his goal of selling $13 billion
to $14 billion in properties in 2012.  U.S. gas futures traded in  New York  have risen almost 50
percent since touching a 10-year low in April. Gas for October
delivery fell 2.1 percent to $2.795 per million British thermal
units at the close, still shy of the $3.25 minimum Chesapeake
said it needs in 2013 to generate positive cash flow. The
company’s outlook also assumes crude will average $90 a barrel
next year. Oil for October delivery settled at $95.30 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  Chesapeake’s board has been investigating McClendon’s
personal borrowings from some of the company’s largest
financiers since April 26. Chesapeake hasn’t said when the
inquiry will be concluded. Probes also are under way at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and  Internal Revenue Service .  Big Three  McClendon may have felt compelled to end his hiatus from
conferences this week because Barclays’ annual CEO Energy-Power
Conference is one of the three most prestigious events for
energy CEOs, Rezvan said. Credit Suisse Group AG and Howard Weil
Inc., a unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia , sponsor the other two, he
said.  “It’s a big one and you can’t really send a junior guy in
your place,” Rezvan said.  The biggest catalyst for Chesapeake’s stock would be a
higher price for gas, which accounts for about 80 percent of the
company’s production, Gheit said.  U.S. gas producers “would need God himself to speak on
their behalf to raise natural-gas prices,” Gheit said. “They
need a lot more than Aubrey McClendon.”  (Chesapeake is scheduled to webcast McClendon’s
presentation at 7:45 a.m. New York time tomorrow. To access the
webcast, go to:
 http://www.chk.com/Investors/Events/Pages/default.aspx )  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  