-- Aussie Dollar Rises, Snaps 3-Day Drop After Jobs Data
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-09-06T07:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/aussie-dollar-trades-near-seven-week-low-before-jobs-data.html
Australia ’s dollar rose, snapping
three days of declines, after a report showed unemployment in
the nation decreased in August.  New Zealand’s currency and the so-called Aussie were buoyed
on prospects European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will
today announce unlimited, sterilized bond buying to quell the
euro region’s debt crisis, supporting investor appetite for
higher-yielding assets. Demand for the South Pacific currencies
was tempered on concern global growth is slowing.  “It’s a knee-jerk reaction to the  unemployment rate ,”
said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “The market is taking this as a small
positive.”  The Australian dollar gained 0.3 percent to $1.0227 at 5:01
p.m. in Sydney. It advanced 0.3 percent to 80.18 yen. New
Zealand’s dollar strengthened 0.3 percent to 79.68 U.S. cents
and 0.3 percent to 62.47 yen.  Australia’s  unemployment rate  fell to 5.1 percent in August
from 5.2 percent in July, the government said today. The median
estimate of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was 5.3
percent.  The Aussie and  New Zealand ’s currency rose against most of
their 16 major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg before the
ECB’s Draghi speaks at a press conference today following the
central bank’s interest rate decision.  Draghi’s Plan  Policy makers are deliberating whether to accept Draghi’s
bond-buying proposal involving unlimited purchases of government
debt that will be sterilized to assuage concerns about printing
money. Sterilization involves draining money from other parts of
the financial system to offset new funds added.  “If Draghi does announce such a plan, that is going to be
positive for markets, that should give the Aussie a bit of a
boost,” said Janu Chan, an economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “If they do cut  interest rates  as well, that would be
another positive.”  The advances in the Aussie and kiwi may be tempered before
reports that show the U.S. jobs market is slowing and  Europe ’s
economic recovery is faltering.  A report tomorrow may show U.S. payrolls probably grew at a
slower pace in August, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ahead of Labor Department figures Sept. 7.  The second estimate of euro zone gross domestic product
growth in the second quarter is predicted to  confirm  the
region’s economic contraction in the three months through June,
economists in a Bloomberg survey said before a report due today.  Australia’s 10-year yield gained six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.10 percent. New Zealand’s  two-year swap 
rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, rose four
basis points to 2.66 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  