-- Aussie Dollar Falls as Domestic Growth Slows More Than Forecast
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-05T21:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/aussie-dollar-falls-as-domestic-growth-slows-more-than-forecast.html
The Australian dollar fell against
most of its major counterparts, reaching its lowest level versus
the  U.S. dollar  in more than seven weeks, as economic growth in
the nation slowed more than forecast in the second quarter.  The Aussie fell to a six-week low against the yen as data
yesterday showed euro-area retail sales shrank last month and
before a report today forecast to show Australian employers
added 5,000 jobs in August after an addition of 14,000 in the
prior month. A separate report is expected to show the
 unemployment rate  rose to 5.3 percent from 5.2 percent. The  New
Zealand dollar  pared an earlier loss versus the greenback after
figures showed the value of the nation’s construction rose.  The main reason for the Australian deceleration was “less
impressive growth in investment, particularly in the mining
sector,” Daniel Martin, Singapore-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., wrote today in a note to clients. “Lower
commodity prices have clouded the outlook for investment.”  The Australian dollar lost 0.3 percent to $1.0191 yesterday
in  New York  after earlier touching $1.0167, the lowest since
July 13. It reached 79.68 yen, the weakest since July 25, before
trading down 0.4 percent to 79.91.  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed at 79.50 U.S. cents
and at 62.29 yen.  The Aussie was the strongest net-sold currency yesterday,
according to Bank of New York Mellon client flows. The pace of
selling was double the average during the past year,  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-exchange group
wrote to clients. The euro was net-bought after seven
consecutive sessions of outflows, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  