-- Bancolombia Borrows Record $1.15 Billion as Yepes Seeks Takeover
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-09-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/bancolombia-borrows-record-1-15-billion-as-yepes-seeks-takeover.html
Bancolombia SA (BCOLO)  borrowed a record
$1.15 billion in international debt markets as Chief Executive
Officer Carlos Raul Yepes said he is readying  Colombia ’s largest
bank to finance takeovers in the region.  “The most important thing is to be prepared, to be able to
move quickly for a potential acquisition,” Yepes said in a
telephone interview after yesterday’s debt sale. “This is
really about preparation, about having the balance sheet well
structured, in order to facilitate potential acquisitions or
potential growth either in Colombia or outside the country.”  Bancolombia (PFBCOLO) , based in Medellin, sold the 5.125 percent
bonds due in 2022 at a yield spread of 363 basis points, or 3.63
percentage points, above similar-maturity  government bonds ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank has an option
to issue as much as $50 million more during Asian market hours,
according to a regulatory filing in Colombia.  Banco Davivienda SA, Colombia’s third-largest lender, sold
$500 million of 10-year subordinated bonds in June at a spread
of 438 basis points above similar-maturity government bonds.
Government dollar bonds maturing in 2024 yielded 2.98 percent on
Aug. 31, a record low, and were at 3.01 percent yesterday.  Bancolombia,  rated  an investment grade Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, took advantage of tumbling borrowing costs
and is interested in acquisitions from the Caribbean to  Mexico 
and across  South America , Yepes said.  Dropping Yields  Colombian yields have declined this year as domestic demand
and record foreign investment helped drive economic expansion of
5.9 percent in 2011, the fastest since 2007. Growth slowed to
4.7 percent in the first quarter as the  European debt crisis 
curbed demand for the nation’s exports.  Investors demand an average 134 basis points in extra yield
to hold Colombian bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries, down 57
basis points this year and lower than the 174 basis-point spread
for  Brazil , whose debt is rated one level higher by Moody’s,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global indexes.  Bancolombia reported on Aug. 1 an 8 percent drop in second
quarter net income to 354.5 billion pesos compared with the same
period the previous year. The preferred shares are down 5.8
percent this year in Bogota, compared with a 5.3 percent advance
in Colombia’s benchmark Colcap index.  The rally in Colombian bonds this year reduced average
yields on dollar debt for the nation’s companies to a record low
of 4.09 percent on Aug. 8, JPMorgan’s CEMBI Broad index  shows .
Banks pay an average premium over U.S. Treasuries of 232 basis
points globally to sell bonds, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Yepes said the bank also may consider refinancing given the
level of borrowing costs.  “There’s always the possibility of improving a bank’s
financial efficiency,” he said. “At any point if there’s the
possibility, the window of opportunity to do so, you can do
these types of transactions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  