-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-09-05T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of  Canada  today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  Global growth prospects are unfolding largely as the Bank
projected in its July Monetary Policy Report (MPR), with a
widespread slowing of activity across advanced and emerging
economies. The economic expansion in the  United States  continues
at a gradual pace.  Europe  is in recession and its crisis, while
contained, remains acute. In  China  and other major emerging
economies, growth is decelerating somewhat more quickly than
expected from previously-rapid rates, reflecting past policy
tightening, weaker external demand, and the challenges of
rebalancing towards domestic sources of growth. Notwithstanding
the slower global momentum, prices for oil and other commodities
produced by Canada have, on average, increased since July.  In Canada, while global headwinds continue to restrain
economic activity, underlying momentum remains at a pace roughly
in line with the economy’s production potential. Economic growth
is expected to pick up through 2013, with consumption and
business investment continuing to be its principal drivers,
reflecting very stimulative financial conditions. Business
investment remains solid. There are tentative signs of slowing in
household spending, although the household debt burden continues
to rise. Canadian exports are projected to remain below their
pre-recession peak until the beginning of 2014, reflecting the
dynamics of foreign demand and ongoing competitiveness
challenges, including the persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar.  Core inflation  has been softer than expected in recent
months but, with the economy operating near its production
potential, it is expected to return, along with total CPI
inflation, to 2 per cent over the course of the next 12 months.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. To the
extent that the economic expansion continues and the current
excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed, some modest
withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy stimulus
may become appropriate, consistent with achieving the 2 per cent
inflation target over the medium term. The timing and degree of
any such withdrawal will be weighed carefully against domestic
and global economic developments.  Information note: The next scheduled date for announcing the
overnight rate target is 23 October 2012. A full update of the
Bank’s outlook for the economy and inflation, including risks to
the projection, will be published in the MPR on 24 October 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  