-- Barclays Hires Ex-Jet Chrebet’s Team From Morgan Stanley
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-09-05T22:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/barclays-hires-ex-jet-chrebet-s-team-from-morgan-stanley-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  recruited a team for
its wealth and investment management division from  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney that includes former  New York  Jets wide
receiver Wayne Chrebet.  Edward Moldaver, who leads the New York-based six-person
group, was named managing director, according to a statement
today from London-based Barclays. Chrebet, who retired from
football in 2006, will be an assistant vice president.  Moldaver, 44, and his group join a  division  that oversees
$275 billion for investors around the world. His team managed
$1.35 billion at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, according to
 Barron’s  magazine. Having a well-known athlete in the group
probably helps Moldaver meet new clients, according to  Michael
King , a recruiter of financial advisers in New York.  “That’s the hardest part,” King said in a telephone
interview. “Once you have the clients, you can work with
specialists.”  Moldaver spent four years at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney,
the joint venture of Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , both
based in New York, and previously worked at Bear Stearns Cos. He
reports to Mark Stevenson, New York regional manager. Barclays
also hired  James Lee  as assistant vice president and Mary Silwa,
Mary Bennett and Joseph Tahmoosh as client-service analysts.  Smaller Company  “Barclays has a relatively small but highly productive
number of advisers and the flat management structure makes it
easier to tailor to our clients’ specific and personal financial
needs,” Moldaver said in an e-mail.  Chrebet, 39, joined Morgan Stanley Smith Barney in 2009. He
caught more passes for the Jets than any player in team history
other than Don Maynard. The 5-foot-10 receiver joined the Jets
in 1995 as an undrafted free agent from Hofstra University and
totaled 580 receptions, second only to Maynard’s 627. He scored
41 touchdowns.  “Wayne and I met after he had retired from the NFL and I
was a big fan of the Jets,” Moldaver wrote. “I had heard that
Wayne had an interest in my field and was looking for a new
career to devote himself to. It turned out to be a natural
fit.”  Like-Minded People  Chrebet told the Wall Street Journal for a 2010  article 
that he spends most of his time meeting with potential clients
and doesn’t pick stocks. He said in an e-mail that the group has
some sports and entertainment clients and that he also works
with company owners and wealthy families.  “This business is all about meeting and maintaining
relationships with like-minded people,” Chrebet wrote.  Morgan Stanley Smith Barney has been seeking to avert
broker defections amid disruptions caused by a new technology
and operations system.  Greg Fleming , the firm’s president,
traveled across the country to assure advisers that the
brokerage is working to make improvements, said  Jim Wiggins , a
spokesman for Morgan Stanley.  “There has been no mass defection threatened, we have not
seen any spike in attrition by financial advisers, and we
haven’t seen an impact on the business,” Wiggins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  