-- Bavarian Free Voters Want Greek Debt Cut to Zero, Drachma
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2012-09-05T13:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/bavarian-free-voters-want-greek-debt-cut-to-zero-drachma.html
Bavaria’s Free Voters party, which
wants Greek debt to be cut to zero and the drachma reintroduced,
is ratcheting up pressure on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition partner to take a more euro-skeptic view.  The  Free Voters  oppose  Europe ’s bailout funds and became
the first German parliamentary party to lodge a legal complaint
against them in the nation’s highest court. The Federal
Constitutional Court will announce its ruling on Sept. 12.  “We need a massive debt cut” in Greece “to zero,”
Hubert Aiwanger, the Free Voters’ leader, said today at a news
conference in Berlin. “To give this country a fresh start, the
drachma will at the least have to run parallel to the euro.”  The Free Voters won 10.2 percent in Bavaria’s last state
election in 2008 and the party, seeking re-election there in
2013, may siphon enough votes from the  Christian Social Union ,
Merkel’s Bavarian sister party and national coalition partner,
to become king-maker in the state that’s home to Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and  Siemens AG. (SIE)  Free Voters are strong at the
local level and supply about 600 of the state’s 2,100 mayors.  The latest  polls  show the Free Voters at 8 percent to 9
percent in Bavaria, with party leaders saying they’d form a
government with either the opposition Social Democrats or the
ruling CSU.  The Free Voters also plan to run for the first time in
federal elections in fall 2013. The party says polls show it at
2 percent nationally with as many as 25 percent of voters saying
they’d at least consider backing the Free Voters.  ‘Potential There’  “The potential is there -- I wouldn’t rule out that they
make it in the long run,” Manfred Guellner, head of the Berlin-
based Forsa polling company, said in a telephone interview.  Just 27 percent of Germans surveyed in a Financial
Times/Harris poll published on Sept. 3 believe  Greece  should
remain in the euro area, compared with 54 percent who said it
should leave.  Public anger over Greek aid and the Free Voter alternative
have prompted the CSU to toughen its rhetoric on the euro,
upping the pressure on Merkel.  Bavaria’s CSU Finance Minister Markus Soeder told Bild
newspaper in an Aug. 5 interview that Greece should be cut loose
for the greater good of the euro area. “There’s an old
mountain-climbing rule,” he was cited as saying. “If somebody
hanging on your line threatens to knock you to the ground, the
line has to be cut.”  ‘Inflation Bank’  Alexander Dobrindt, the CSU’s general secretary and a
federal lawmaker in Berlin, followed up by taking a shot at
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , telling  Bild am
Sonntag  that the central bank chief was “making the ECB into an
inflation bank” and risked going down in history as “the money
forger of Europe.”  Aiwanger said if his party enters the Bundestag in Berlin
next year, he’d be willing to form a coalition with Merkel, whom
he said “will soon be overtaken by reality and won’t have any
other choice” regarding Greece’s euro exit.  “She might be happy if we helped her out of this ghetto,”
he said. “No euro-area bailouts is the central theme for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  