-- Belize Gains Leverage in Default Talks as Borrowing Not Seen
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-09-05T18:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/belize-gains-leverage-in-default-talks-as-new-borrowing-not-seen.html
Belize ’s creditors are betting the
Central American country will improve its bond restructuring
offer in order to maintain access to global debt markets. The
government says it doesn’t need them.  Belize’s $1.4 billion economy, which expanded 2 percent in
2011, can go without more borrowing on international credit
markets, Prime Minister Dean Barrow said in an Aug. 22 press
conference. The country didn’t sell global bonds before 1998 and
hasn’t returned to them since a 2007 restructuring.  Barrow’s government, which missed a $23 million coupon
payment on Aug. 20, is seeking to reach an accord with creditors
before a mission from the  International Monetary Fund  comes to
the country in October as part of an annual review of the
economy, according to Mark Espat, who heads the country’s bond
restructuring committee. Belize’s ability to survive without
global  market access  may give it an advantage in talks, said
Stuart Culverhouse, chief economist at Exotix Ltd.  “I am not sure at the moment the government does care that
much about accessing the  capital market ,” Culverhouse said in
an Aug. 30 phone interview from  London . “I don’t know if the
creditors’ leverage is that strong.”  While both creditors and the Belize officials have
expressed the need for “good faith” negotiations, a group
representing Belize’s investors says the government hasn’t
provided sufficient justification for its default and subsequent
restructuring offers, which value the bonds at about 20 cents.  Worst Performer  Belize’s so-called superbond fell 0.05 cent to 35.08 cents
today. The gap between the valuation in the government’s 
restructuring scenarios and the market price show investors expect 
they will be able to negotiate a better offer, said Carl Ross, 
who covers Central America and the Caribbean as a managing 
director at Oppenheimer & Co. in Atlanta.  Belize’s default  made the country’s debt the worst
performer in  emerging markets  for a second consecutive month in
August. The country’s dollar bonds fell about 24 cents last
month, the most among 52 emerging-market countries tracked by
JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBIG index.  Standard & Poor’s  declared Belize’s bonds in default on
Aug. 21, when a 30-day grace period on the missed payment began.
The country formerly known as British Honduras had been rated as
high as “B,” five levels below investment grade, in August
2011.  IMF Review  The investors committee, which says it represents holders
of about 60 percent of the outstanding superbond, said in an
Aug. 28 statement that the IMF’s last review of the economy,
published in December, “did not highlight a debt sustainability
concern and the committee is seeking to understand the key
assumptions underlying Belize’s decision to default.”  Messages sent to Belize’s  Finance Ministry  and central bank
for comment were responded to by Espat, a former lawmaker who
helped lead the 2007 debt restructuring.  Barrow won re-election in March vowing to restructure the
bonds after the coupon on the notes jumped to 8.5 percent from 6
percent as part of the agreement reached with creditors in 2007.
He said that the government couldn’t afford to continue making
payments on the debt even as Belize’s economy heads toward
growth of 3 percent in 2012, one percentage point higher than
previously forecast.  “We are in a period where parties are basically dancing,”
said Ross. “The government is sending the message that they
don’t intend to improve terms in a significant way. Creditors
are feeling that the government put more burden-sharing on the
bond holders.”  Washington Trip  Espat met with officials at the  Inter-American Development
Bank  and IMF in  Washington  late last month to discuss the
default. Belize has received about $100 million in assistance
from the IDB over the past five years, according to the
Washington-based lender’s webpage. Spokesman Pablo Bachelet said
Belize and the IDB are in discussions about “alternatives for
support.”  Ross said creditors could try to convince multinational
agencies to deny further lending to Belize because they violated
debt restructuring principles. He also said the threat of
protracted litigation could be sufficient to get Belize to
improve its offer.  IDB Votes  The U.S. last year began voting against development loans
to  Argentina  by the IDB and the  World Bank  as part of an effort
to get the South American country to settle with holders of
defaulted debt and make payments owed to investors who won
arbitration cases.  Beyond global debt markets and the IDB, Belize has access
to bilateral financing from Venezuela and  Taiwan , Espat said.
Taiwan Vice President  Wu Den-yih  didn’t offer the country
additional aid during an August visit, Espat said.  Belize’s government is also working with New York-based law
firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLC, which advised
Argentina on its two debt restructurings following a 2001
default on $95 billion of bonds. Holders of defaulted debt who
didn’t participate in two bond restructurings since then haven’t
been able to claim Argentine assets abroad in the wake of the
country’s financial crisis.  The 61-year-old Barrow said on Aug. 22 that he was certain
an agreement could be reached with creditors and that debt
relief for Belize is “a sure thing.” The unity of the
investors committee gives creditors leverage with the
government, said Michael Gerrard, a managing director at
BroadSpan Capital LLC, which specializes in Caribbean debt
restructurings and is advising the committee.  “Global credit markets happen to be the most costly and
the most fickle for a small, emerging economy such as ours,”
said Espat. “It is important not to equate a ‘good faith
process’ with an outcome that makes either Belize or bondholders
cheery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  