-- Belka Says Polish Central Bank ‘Open’ to Rate Cuts on Slowdown
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-09-05T15:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/belka-says-polish-central-bank-open-to-rate-cuts-on-slowdown.html
Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka commented today on the outlook for borrowing costs after
the Monetary Policy Council kept the main  interest rate  at 4.75
percent, matching the forecast of 27 of 28 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The following are selected comments from Belka at a news
conference in Warsaw.  On scope for interest-rate cuts:  “The last sentence of the statement has to be interpreted
as opening the possibility to such an event, but whether it will
happen and when, can’t be currently determined. We will receive
a batch of key economic data in November, including our
inflation and growth projections. It doesn’t mean, however, that
already in October we won’t receive sufficient information
confirming an unfavorable tendency that has started to develop
in the economy.”  On 2013 budget and growth:  “It’s hard for me to say whether we are more optimistic
than the prime minister and the finance minister because I
didn’t have a chance to listen to their press conference.
However, judging by the assumptions for the 2013 budget, our
assessment of economic developments and prospects is converging.  “Our internal economic-growth forecast is currently less
optimistic.  “I expect the  budget deficit  will be effectively reduced
in 2012 because of spending cuts.  “The last two years seem to have brought significant
fiscal consolidation and the plans for next year don’t result in
a loosening but suggest that the policy will be equally
restrictive. I think that’s prudent.”  On interest-rate changes:  “Radical policy changes in either way are generally not
liked by central banks, including us.  “Changes in interest rates should take into account that
we want them to be positive in real terms, it’s a simple
criterion of conventional monetary policy. This was behind our
decision in May and it’s still in the back of our mind. This
doesn’t mean that rate cuts are not possible, but we also have
to take this into account.”  On zloty and bonds:  “The interest-rate decision has to take into account the
situation on the foreign-exchange market. Let me emphasize that
the goal is not to impact the  exchange rate  through those
changes. On the contrary, changes in interest rates cannot
become a factor that destabilizes the sentiment of foreign
investors.  “The zloty is not a strong-man any more, as it was two
weeks ago, but the situation on the government bond market is
excellent. We are very pleased that among buyers of our bonds
there are long-term investors, including central banks. That
means the zloty has become a currency to invest in for some
foreign central banks.”  On inflation target:  “Yesterday, we discussed our monetary policy assumptions
for 2013, but I have to stress that we didn’t discuss changes to
the inflation target.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  