-- Why Quebec Should Stay in Canada
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-05T22:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/best-way-to-preserve-quebec-s-identity-is-within-canada.html
The deadly shooting by a mentally
disturbed gunman in  Montreal  yesterday was a horrific capstone
to what had been acrimonious and unsettling  provincial elections 
in Quebec.  Pauline Marois, the leader of the separatist Parti
Quebecois, now becomes premier and vows to push for a referendum
on secession for the French-speaking province. Shortly before
her victory celebration was thrown into chaos by the gunman, she
proclaimed, “The future of Quebec is to become a sovereign
country.”  The Quebecois are understandably proud of their distinctive
cultural and linguistic heritage and seek to defend it. But
during the campaign, Marois flirted with some ideas that raised
concerns among the substantial minority of so-called Anglo-
Quebecers who have experienced distressing flare-ups of
Quebecois nationalism in the 1970s and 1990s. These included
proposals to impose a French-proficiency litmus test for all
candidates for public office, to limit access to the province’s
English-language junior college and to require small businesses
to operate in French, all of which would limit education and
employment prospects for some groups.  It became increasingly hard for Marois to argue that she
wasn’t pandering to extreme ethnocentrism when she also proposed
banning the display of religious appurtenance such as turbans,
veils and yarmulkes, though not crucifixes (a very large one of
which hangs in the  Quebec  City legislature).  Federal Support  This chauvinism is all the more disheartening as there is
no way to conceive of a viable independent Quebec. Government
debt amounted to about 62 percent of Quebec’s gross domestic
product, highest among  Canada ’s 10 provinces. And Quebec is one
of the biggest recipients of support from the federal
government. For the 2012-2013 fiscal year, the Canadian
 Department of Finance  will allocate C$17.4 billion ($17.6
billion) to Quebec, or C$2,170 for each of its 8 million people.
By contrast, Ontario gets the equivalent of C$1,446 per capita
and British Columbia gets C$1,231 per capita.  Previous outbreaks of separatism have been harmful. In the
1970s, the atmosphere became so inflamed that more than 100,000
of the province’s Anglophones left for good, enriching Toronto
and  Vancouver , but depriving Quebec of valuable diversity and
human capital. There are fears now that Marois’ rise could
produce a similar result.  Encouragingly, the Quebecois themselves don’t appear eager
to relive history. Marois’ slim margin of victory deprives her
of an outright mandate; she will need the support of at least
one or two other parties to govern.  More significant, the appetite for separation is sharply
reduced. A referendum in 1995 was defeated by a margin of less
than 1 percent. In recent polling, more than two-thirds of the
province’s people say they do not favor a split.  Secession is a losing economic choice in our globalized
age. Much like Scotland and Catalonia, Quebec must come to terms
with the painful calculus that the cost of divorce far outweighs
the perceived benefits of independence. One of the great
paradoxes of our time is that the best way to preserve cultural
identity is to subsume it as part of a larger, tolerant and
diverse country. Canada certainly fits that description.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether  we’re better off  than
four years ago and on the disasters that await the end of
 Europe’s summer torpor ;  Susan Antilla  on checking if your  broker
is a crook ;  Caroline Baum  on why Americans  should like Mitt
Romney ;  Margaret Carlson  on the impossible  politics of abortion ;
Jonathan Mahler on  Stephen Strasburg’s false choice ; Phillip
Swagel on why some  banks need to be big .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 