-- MBIA Settles Shareholder Lawsuit Alleging Misstatements
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-05T17:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/mbia-settles-shareholder-lawsuit-alleging-misstatements.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  settled a class-action 
lawsuit over investors’ claims that it materially misstated 
financial results by engaging in improper accounting practices, 
both sides informed a federal court.  The accord, for $3.75 million, will be distributed to
investors who purchased or otherwise acquired MBIA common stock
from Aug. 5, 2003, through March 30, 2005, the parties said in
court papers.  A federal appeals court in February 2011 reinstated the
case after U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton in Manhattan
dismissed it four years earlier, saying the plaintiffs waited
too long to file their case. Stanton said the statute of
limitations had expired because the investors had notice of
alleged wrongdoing in 2002. The appeals court said the trial
judge improperly calculated the statute of limitations.  The investors sued MBIA in 2005, alleging in  Manhattan 
federal court that flawed accounting enabled Armonk,  New York- 
based MBIA to overstate reported income from 1998 to 2003.  Lawyers for both sides filed a proposed settlement with
Stanton late yesterday. The plaintiffs are led by the Southwest
Carpenters Pension Trust and the City of Pontiac General
Employees’ Retirement System.  Mediated Accord  “In an effort to resolve the action through good-faith
settlement negotiations, the parties attended a mediation,”
they said in court papers. “Following extensive discussions and
negotiations led by the mediator, the parties reached an oral
agreement on the principal terms of the settlement.”  MBIA, the bond insurer fighting lawsuits challenging its
2009 split, said it denied and continues to deny any allegations
of wrongdoing  Sam Rudman, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment about the accord.
Steve Klugman, a lawyer for MBIA, declined to comment.  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, declined to comment on the settlement
in an e-mail.  The case is In re MBIA Inc. Securities Litigation, 05-cv-
3514, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 