-- Rinehart Decries Australian Costs With Africans Earning $2 a Day
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-09-05T04:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/billionaire-rinehart-attacks-australia-for-high-mining-costs.html
Asia ’s richest woman Gina Rinehart
said high costs may prompt mining companies to abandon iron-ore
operations in Australia, where she’s amassed a fortune estimated
at $19.3 billion.  “The evidence is unarguable that Australia is indeed
becoming too expensive and too uncompetitive to do export-
orientated business,” Rinehart said in a video presentation
posted on the  Sydney Mining Club  website. “We are becoming a
high-cost and high-risk nation for investment.”  The 58-year-old has been a vocal critic of taxes on  carbon
emissions  and coal and iron-ore profits, creating tensions with
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government. With signs emerging
that the nation’s resources boom has peaked as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  Fortescue (FMG)  Metals Group Ltd. delay projects, Rinehart said
Australia risks losing investment to West Africa’s nascent
mining industry.  “Business as usual will not do,” said Rinehart, who
sparked union criticism after getting government approval in May
to hire more than 1,700 overseas workers on her Roy Hill mining
project in  Western Australia . “Africans want to work. Its
workers are willing to work for less than $2 per day.”  Gillard, who was forced to counter claims made by Resources
Minister  Martin Ferguson  last month that the boom was over,
defended her government’s policies in an Australian Broadcasting
Corp. interview today and said Rinehart’s comments made sense
“only if you deny the facts.”  “The outlook for mining is strong,” Gillard said. “ Gina
Rinehart  has always been opposed to the Minerals Resource Rent
Tax, she’s always been opposed to carbon pricing. Where’s the
news in that?”  Drinking, Smoking  Rinehart’s comments come less than a week after she
criticized her countrymen’s attitude toward work in an  article 
for Australian Resources and Investment magazine. She suggested
a reduction in the minimum wage and lower taxes to help spur
investment and employment.  “There is no monopoly on becoming a millionaire,” she
wrote. “If you’re jealous of those with more money, don’t just
sit there and complain; do something to make more money
yourselves -- spend less time drinking, or smoking and
socializing, and more time working.”  In the video presentation, Rinehart reiterated her views on
the need to abolish the resources and carbon taxes, cut red
tape, change industrial-relations laws, boost  Australia ’s
productivity and push for a special economic zone in the
nation’s mineral-rich northern regions.  “Labor costs are typically 35 percent higher here than on
the United States’ Gulf Coast and they also could have lower
levels of labor costs still if they utilize illegal labor from
 Mexico  and the south,” she said.  Media Interests  Rinehart is among Australian billionaires accused by the
government of trying to use their wealth to shape public
opinion. She has a 15 percent stake in  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , the
publisher of the Sydney Morning Herald and The Age newspapers,
and has failed to get a board seat for herself after refusing to
sign the publisher’s Charter of Editorial Independence.  The mining magnate is in a legal dispute with three of her
four children over control of a trust that holds almost a
quarter of the voting shares of her Hancock Prospecting Pty.  Her father,  Lang Hancock , discovered minerals that helped
make Australia the world’s biggest iron-ore exporter, while
Rinehart, through Hancock Prospecting, has forged joint venture
agreements with  Rio Tinto  Group for operations in Western
Australia’s Pilbara region.  Inherited Assets  The value of the assets Rinehart inherited from her father
almost 20 years ago has been driven up Chinese demand for raw
materials, which created the biggest resources bonanza since a
gold rush in the 1850s. She now has an estimated wealth of $19.3
billion, according to Bloomberg’s Billionaires Index.  Gillard said today that Australia still has a pipeline of
investment projects estimated to be worth A$500 billion ($510
billion).  “That pipeline is being squeezed and is becoming risky,”
Rinehart said in the presentation. “Productivity problems,
labor shortages and approval costs and delays are to blame.”  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, said Aug. 22 it
doesn’t expect to approve any spending on major projects this
fiscal year as metal prices decline amid sluggish global growth.  Rio Tinto (RIO) , the world’s third-largest mining company, said
yesterday it plans to cut some jobs at the Argyle diamond mine
in Western Australia to reduce costs and improve efficiency. On
the same day, Fortescue, Australia’s third-biggest iron-ore
producer, cut its full-year  capital spending  forecast by 26
percent.  Signs of a stalled boom are putting pressure on Gillard’s
government, trailing in opinion polls ahead of elections next
year, as it seeks to end four years of budget deficits and
return to surplus this financial year. The opposition Liberal-
National coalition has attacked her new taxes on carbon
emissions and mining profits, saying they have created investor
uncertainty and risk stifling economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  