-- Billabong Gets Competing A$694 Million Bid to Rival TPG
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-09-06T07:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/billabong-receives-competing-a-694-million-bid-to-rival-tpg.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) 
received a A$694 million ($707 million) offer from Bain Capital
Partners LLC, said people familiar with the matter, setting up a
possible bidding war with rival suitor TPG International LLC.  Bain, the Boston-based private equity firm, has started
studying Billabong’s financial records, two people with
knowledge of the process said, declining to be identified as the
information is private. The surf-wear maker said in a statement
today that the A$1.45-a-share conditional cash bid matched TPG’s
offer, without naming the second suitor.  Billabong jumped in Sydney trading after saying neither
offer is sufficient and it’s allowing due diligence in an effort
to draw a higher bid. The company, which last month  posted its
first loss since going public in 2000, became a takeover target
as its stock dropped about 90 percent in the past five years.  “It’s great news for shareholders of Billabong because it
adds pricing tension,’ said Tim Montague-Jones, senior equity
analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  ‘‘The probability is quite high that
a higher offer could come through. A deal could get done.”  Shares of Billabong rose 7.5 percent to A$1.365 at the
close of Sydney trading, the  biggest daily gain  since July 24,
and swelling the company’s market value to A$654 million.  Store Closures  Billabong has been retrenching amid weak retail spending
and as consumers increasingly opted for other fashion brands.
The company had 634 stores in  Australia ,  Europe , and the
Americas as at the end of June after closing 58 outlets during
the previous 12 months. Another 82 are slated to close this
financial year, the company said Aug. 27.  TPG, the buyout firm run by  David Bonderman , started due
diligence on Billabong in late August, according to the
Australian company. TPG could raise its bid to about A$1.60 a
share, Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst Nick Berry wrote in a July
24 report.  Neither offer “reflects the fundamental value of Billabong
in the context of a change of control transaction,” the
retailer said in its statement. There’s no guarantee the bidders
will produce a bid that Billabong’s directors can recommend to
shareholders, the company said.  Billabong in February rejected an offer of A$3.30 a share
from TPG that valued the company at A$851 million. Founder and
largest shareholder Gordon Merchant, together with director
Colette Paull, said they wouldn’t consider a bid of less than
A$4 a share. Billabong has since increased its issued capital by
86 percent after it raised A$225 million selling new stock at a
discount to repay debt.  ‘Refined’ Bid  Merchant, a former surfboard-shaper who still owns 14
percent of the company, started stitching Billabong’s clothes in
his kitchen in 1973, according to the company’s website.  Billabong said July 24 that TPG’s bid “may be refined”
following due diligence. Colonial First State Investment Ltd.
and Perennial Value Management Ltd. agreed to sell about 12.5
percent of Billabong’s issued capital to  Fort Worth , Texas-based
TPG, Billabong said July 24.  The private equity firms have been granted access to
Billabong’s books following a slump in sales and operating
losses in Australasia, Europe and the Americas. Chief Executive
Officer Launa Inman, a former managing director of  Wesfarmers
Ltd. (WES) ’s Target discount department store, has been forced to sell
items at a loss to clear stockpiles, as it racked up charges for
closing store leases early.  TPG sold its stake in Australian retailer  Myer Holdings
Ltd. (MYR)  in a 2009 initial public offering that raised A$2.1
billion, Australia’s biggest that year. TPG and  Carlyle Group 
bought Australian hospital operator Healthscope Ltd. for A$2.7
billion, including debt, in 2010.  Bain last August agreed to buy MYOB Pty Ltd., an Australian
maker of business-management software, in a deal valued at about
A$1.2 billion, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  