-- Blackstone Plots Exit From Properties as New Fund Invests
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-09-05T04:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/blackstone-plots-exit-from-properties-as-new-fund-invests.html
An 800-pound gorilla, the joke goes,
can sleep wherever it wants.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , manager of the
world’s largest real estate fund, has no time to rest.  Jonathan Gray , the 42-year-old head of Blackstone Real
Estate, has amassed $50 billion in assets and built his division
into the company’s biggest  profit  generator. Now he and his team
confront the twin challenges of producing superior returns on
their new $13.3 billion fund, a record for the property industry,
while finding buyers for more than 40 previous investments. The
holdings Gray may sell include Blackstone’s biggest deals, the
2007 purchases of Equity Office Properties Trust and Hilton
Worldwide Inc.  “They delivered wonderful returns when they were much
smaller,” said Mike Kirby, chairman of Green Street Advisors
Inc., a Newport Beach, California-based real estate research
firm. “Now that they’ve gotten huge, it’s virtually impossible
to knock the ball out of the park.”  Blackstone is the largest U.S. owner of hotel properties,
the No. 2 office landlord and the third-biggest owner of
shopping centers, according to trade newsletter National Real
Estate Investor. Its holdings range from New York’s Waldorf-
Astoria hotel to warehouses to luxury malls through its stake in
 General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  This year, the firm began its
first foray into U.S. residential real estate, buying foreclosed
single-family homes in bulk and renting them out. About three-
quarters of Blackstone’s holdings are in the U.S.  “They know every market and submarket in the primary,
secondary and tertiary cities,” said Roy March, chief executive
officer of Eastdil Secured LLC, the biggest real estate
investment bank. “They can be on top of something quite
quickly.”  Potential Successor  The growth of Blackstone Real Estate helped elevate Gray to
the company’s  board  in February. Gray is considered by analysts
and investors to be a potential successor to Hamilton “Tony”
James, Blackstone’s 61-year-old president and chief operating
officer.  Gray’s ascension signals how important real estate has
become within the firm that Chairman and CEO  Stephen Schwarzman 
and  Peter G. Peterson  created in 1985. Real estate accounted for
63 percent of Blackstone’s income last year, while private
equity, the firm’s traditional business of buying and selling
companies, made up 15 percent, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The private-equity division had about $46 billion in
assets at the end of the second quarter.  800-Pound Gorilla  “Considering the breadth of their portfolio, they are the
800-pound gorilla” in real estate, said Edward Shugrue, CEO of
New York-based commercial mortgage-backed securities investment
and advisory firm Talmage LLC. “They are everywhere.”  Growth and strong returns aren’t mutually exclusive,
according to Gray.  “We have been hearing concerns about the unsustainability
of our returns since Blackstone went public in 2007, yet our
outperformance versus competitors has only grown,” he said in a
statement. “Today there is an enormous amount of distressed
real estate around the globe and few remaining large
opportunistic investment firms. We think this is a terrific
environment to continue to generate attractive returns.”  Gray declined to comment further for this story.  Schwarzman and James pushed deeper into real estate as
traditional corporate takeovers waned during the past five years.
Garnering more assets also serves to satisfy public shareholders
who value Blackstone and other managers of alternative assets
largely on the predictable fees generated by those holdings. As
assets under management increase, so does the difficulty of
outperforming rival funds.  Performance Focus  “Investors are concerned that the public alternative
managers, like Blackstone, are more focused on growing AUM than
maximizing performance,” said David Hodes, co-founder of real
estate advisory firm Hodes Weill & Associates in New York.
“Blackstone and others have to convince their limited partners
that they are still focused on performance, not just
accumulating assets. Given that they’re raising over $10 billion
for their current real estate fund, they must be succeeding.”  Blackstone’s real estate funds generated 16 percent net
internal rates of return, an annualized measure of performance
used by private-equity managers, since the firm got into
property investing two decades ago. That’s about twice the 8.4
percent annualized return over 20 years of the benchmark
property index compiled by the National Council of Real Estate
Investment Fiduciaries. The Ncreif index includes less leverage,
the loans private-equity firms use to amplify profits.  Returns Slow  Blackstone’s property returns have mostly fallen as the
funds got bigger. Its first real estate fund, which invested
$467 million of equity capital from 1994 to 1996, posted a 39.7
percent annualized return after fees. The second fund invested
$1.2 billion of equity capital from 1996 to 2000 for a net IRR
of 19 percent. The third fund, with $1.4 billion of equity
invested from 1999 to 2004, shows a net IRR of 21 percent. The
fourth deployed $2.7 billion from 2003 to 2006 for a net IRR of
14 percent as of June 30.  By the end of the month, Blackstone will have finished
gathering capital pledges for its new fund. Real Estate Partners
VII, 22 percent larger than its prior $10.9 billion fund,
already has made about 20 investments using more than $3 billion
of equity capital. They include buying suburban offices from
 Duke Realty Corp. (DRE) , commercial loans from Bank of America Corp.,
grocery-anchored retail centers from  Equity One Inc. (EQY) , shopping
centers in Poland and a group of troubled U.S. loans from
Germany’s Eurohypo AG. The new fund has a net IRR of 33 percent
as of June 30.  Opportunity Fund  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII is an opportunity fund
that seeks to buy troubled or undervalued assets using debt and
fix them up. Opportunity funds aim to earn at least 15 percent
on the equity invested, almost twice the 8 percent yield that
might be had from a low-risk investment such as a fully leased
prime office building. Before the credit crisis, many
opportunity fund managers targeted returns of at least 20
percent.  “It would be difficult to expect opportunistic funds to
earn the same returns in this environment,” said Matthew L.
Clark, state investment officer for the South Dakota Investment
Council, an investor in Blackstone’s real estate funds since
their inception. “In Blackstone’s case, they’ve done quite
well.”  Competitive Nature  That challenge of leading Blackstone Real Estate falls to
Gray, a Highland Park, Illinois, native, who joined the company
20 years ago, after graduating from the  University of
Pennsylvania  with degrees in English and economics. He moved to
the fledgling real estate unit in 1993 after a stint in private
equity and corporate advisory work, becoming co-leader of the
unit in 2005 with Chad Pike, and the global head in December.  Gray demonstrated his drive during a July trip to the
London Olympics. The sports enthusiast extended his vacation to
visit Blackstone-owned shopping malls in Poland and Turkey,
traveling to five cities in all.  “Doing a good job for his investors is another form of
competition for Jon,” said Keith Gelb, a co-founder and
managing member of Boston-based real estate private-equity firm
Rockpoint Group LLC, who shared an apartment with Gray at Penn
and remains a close friend. “Whether it was an exam, a case
study in a class or a game, Jon wanted to win. He’s an extremely
competitive person, but in a productive manner, not an in-your-
face manner.”  Blackstone Stake  Gray’s stake in Blackstone partnership units convertible
into common shares is worth $537 million at the current stock
price. He earned a cash bonus of $21 million last year as
Blackstone began investing its new property fund. He got less
than $3 million for his share of profits from real estate
investments sold, according to the company’s annual report.  Blackstone  shares  closed at $13.23 on Sept. 4, less than
half the $31 at which the company went public in June 2007.  Gray and his wife Mindy in May donated $25 million to Penn
to establish a center for research into cancers associated with
genetic mutations. The center is named for Mindy Gray’s sister,
Faith Basser, who died of ovarian cancer at 44.  As Blackstone turns to investing its new fund, the firm
says its bigger size is a help, not a hindrance. It can write
billion-dollar checks and complete purchases without having to
corral other investors. It can analyze complex capital
structures that might deter other investors. Its vast holdings
give it insights into different property types and potential
deals, according to fund marketing documents obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Its size also gives it clout with lenders.  Survivor Bias  “If I could get a loan at ‘x,’ they could get a loan at
‘x’ minus 10 basis points because they’re such big borrowers
globally,” said  Laurence Geller , CEO of Chicago-based  Strategic
Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE) , a minority owner in the Hotel del
Coronado in San Diego. Blackstone took a majority stake in the
red-turreted seaside property, featured in the 1959 movie “Some
Like It Hot,” after a 2011 debt restructuring.  Less competition also helps. The financial storm beached
several of Blackstone’s biggest competitors, including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s Whitehall unit and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , once the largest real estate investor among
Wall Street banks, is managing fewer assets after losing part of
an $8 billion fund that began investing as prices were peaking.  Gray made buyout history in February 2007 when Blackstone
acquired  Sam Zell ’s Equity Office Properties Trust, the largest
U.S. office landlord, for $39 billion and then flipped two-
thirds of the roughly 500 buildings at even higher prices. In
July 2007, Blackstone agreed to buy Hilton Worldwide, the
world’s biggest hotel chain, for $26 billion, shortly before a
market plunge that sent commercial real estate values down
almost 40 percent.  Company Acquisitions  Blackstone moved away from buying mainly single properties
to acquiring entire real estate companies after the 2001
terrorist attacks caused lodging property revenue and values to
tumble. Starting with the $3 billion acquisition of Extended
Stay America in 2004, Gray began to tap the surging commercial
mortgage-backed  securities market  for cheaper debt financing,
eventually making 13 acquisitions of publicly traded companies.  Blackstone didn’t shy away from using its weight to push
lenders, said bankers who have worked with the firm. Because
fixed-rate mortgages usually impose steep penalties for early
repayments, Blackstone used mostly floating-rate debt and
pressed banks to reduce or waive prepayment penalties to allow
it to shed assets from companies it bought, bankers said.  Landlord Acquisitions  “They’re a very sharp group of guys and they worked
relentlessly to achieve what they wanted,” said James Conopask,
who helped arrange financing for Blackstone’s Hilton bid in 2007
when he worked at Bear Stearns & Co. “They would push you to the
edge on every deal point.”  “However, Blackstone bought high-quality real estate, put
substantial capital into their deals and enjoyed an excellent
reputation in the mezzanine investor community,” Conopask said.
“They earned a bit of flexibility.”  Once the credit crisis hit, Blackstone had to contribute
equity and negotiate with lenders to rework the debt on its two
largest deals, Equity Office and Hilton. Hilton in April 2010
completed a deal to reduce debt by almost $4 billion and extend
the maturity by two years.  “While the jury may still be out on the ultimate fate of
these portfolios, they are very well positioned to succeed,”
said Shugrue of Talmage.  Biggest Buyer  Blackstone Real Estate survived the crash never having
realized losses of more than 1 percent in its 21 years. As the
market soared in 2005 to 2007, the firm sold more than $60
billion of real estate. It sold Extended Stay for $8 billion in
2007, later joining an investor group to buy back the hotel
chain out of bankruptcy for $3.4 billion.  As prices bottomed in late 2009, Blackstone acquired more
than $40 billion of properties to become the biggest buyer of
commercial real estate since the low. In September 2011,
Blackstone paid about $9.2 billion for the U.S. shopping centers
of Australia’s  Centro Properties Group .  “Of the big private-equity real estate firms, they
probably had the best track record in the last five years,”
said  Timothy Walsh , director of investments for New Jersey’s $70
billion public pension funds, an investor in Blackstone’s
property funds.  ‘Major Disposition’  To sustain its track record, Blackstone needs to sell as
well as buy. The company’s fifth and sixth funds, which include
Equity Office and Hilton, still hold unrealized investments
representing about $13 billion of equity invested. They show net
internal rates of return of 9 percent each as of June 30.  “I expect by the end of 2013, you will see a major
disposition program out of Blackstone,” said March of Eastdil
Secured, a unit of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   This presents its own challenges as debt financing for
large purchases remains hard to come by and economic growth is
slowing, tempering the rebound in real estate values.  Blackstone has said it expects to exit Equity Office and
Hilton in the next few years. It might sell Equity Office’s
buildings in chunks to various buyers. Hilton probably will have
an initial public offering in the next two years, Joan Solotar,
a Blackstone senior managing director, said on the company’s
July 19 earnings conference call.  The firm has accelerated payouts from real estate so far
this year. Blackstone returned $1.35 billion of cash to
investors in its property funds in the first half, double the
$667 million it distributed a year earlier.  Before Crisis  Investors are watching for the dispositions from Blackstone,
partly because it proved so adept at cashing out before the
credit crisis. The buyers of the assets fared far worse.
Developer  Harry Macklowe  had to give up his flagship General
Motors building in Manhattan because he personally guaranteed $7
billion he borrowed from Deutsche Bank AG to buy seven office
towers from Equity Office. Morgan Stanley and  MPG Office Trust
Inc. (MPG) , formerly known as  Maguire Properties , also relinquished
assets after they couldn’t refinance.  “In the back of our minds there is the fact the last time
Blackstone sold $20-odd billion of real estate, there was a
worldwide economic collapse immediately thereafter,” Chris Kotowski, an analyst at Oppenheimer Holdings Inc., said jokingly
on the July 19 conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  