-- BOE Struck by Lure of Banks as U.K. Economist Quits
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-09-05T16:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/boe-struck-by-lure-of-banks-as-u-k-economist-quits.html
Bank of England  official Robert Wood
resigned as London’s finance industry lured a U.K. economic
analysis manager from the central bank for the second time in
less than a year.  Wood, who led analysis of British data for policy makers,
will join Berenberg Bank in London this month, said two people
with knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified
because the appointment is not yet public. He follows a string
of  economists who held the position known inside the central
bank as Head of the U.K. Team, using it as a springboard for
jobs in London’s finance industry.  The move coincides with a second year of pay freezes for
Bank of England staff, adding to the lure of more lucrative City
posts. Governor  Mervyn King , who implemented the salary policy
last year, thanked employees in this year’s annual report for
their forbearance and singled out the struggle to hire and keep
staff as a potential risk to its monetary-policy analysis.  “There’s always a danger that the good ones get poached,”
said Shamik Dhar, head of investment strategy at Aviva Investors
in London, which oversees $409 billion, and a former Bank of
England official. “In the past there’s been a tradition of guys
moving to get in to the City as this job does equip you with the
right sorts of skills to be a City economist.”  Wood couldn’t be reached for comment. A Bank of England
spokeswoman confirmed today that Wood has resigned and said that
he will be replaced by Venetia Bell. A spokesman for Berenberg
couldn’t immediately comment.  Barclays, HSBC  Previous heads of the U.K. team include  Paul Robinson ,
global head of foreign-exchange research at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and
 Simon Hayes , Barclay’s chief U.K. economist. Hayes was replaced
by Simon Wells, who was Wood’s predecessor in the job and is now
chief U.K. economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in London.  “The BOE is a great place to do economics,” said Wells,
who joined HSBC in December. “I learnt a lot.”  Berenberg, with about 26 billion euros ($33 billion) under
management, was established in 1590 and has its headquarters in
Hamburg,  Germany . The private bank has been expanding in recent
years and added 43 staff in London in 2011. In the past year, it
also hired another former central bank official,  Christian Schulz , who previously worked at the  European Central Bank .  The Bank of England’s annual report, published in July,
said that a strategic priority was to “ensure the bank has the
right people and processes to carry out its core purposes --- in
particular during this period of transition,” referring to the
transfer of bank-regulation powers from the Financial Services
Authority.  “Only by retaining and nurturing the most talented among
bank staff and those staff transferring from the FSA can we hope
to fulfill our responsibilities,” the annual report said.  The central bank’s pay freeze is set to be reviewed in
March 2013. King asked in May to keep his pay frozen until he
leaves in June 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  