-- BP Falls as U.S. Reiterates Gross Negligence Charge in Spill
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-05T16:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/bp-falls-as-u-s-reiterates-gross-negligence-charge-in-spill-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the owner of the Macondo
well that caused the worst U.S. oil spill two years ago,
declined in  London  after the  Department of Justice  reiterated it
will pursue charges of gross negligence in the case.  BP slipped 2.9 percent to 423.85 pence, the lowest in two
months. BP faces a trial with the DOJ after reaching a $7.8
billion settlement in March with victims of the spill.  “The tone of the DOJ is clearly disappointing as it would
appear to suggest that hope for an out-of-court settlement is
fading,” said  Richard Griffith , an analyst at Oriel Securities
Ltd. in London, in an e-mailed note. “The risk is that the
trial process could now drag on over several years and
effectively act as a drag on the shares.”  The U.S. “intends to prove gross negligence or wilful
misconduct” in a trial, it said in a court filing from Aug. 31.
The government was responding to comments in a BP filing asking
for final approval for its settlement with victims.  If BP is found guilty of gross negligence, which would
require the government to prove the accident resulted from a
conscious BP act or omission, the maximum level of penalty would
rise to $17.6 billion from $4.5 billion using the government’s
estimate of the size of the spill.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig in
April 2010 killed 11 workers and set off an  oil spill  that the
government has estimated at more than 4 million barrels. The
accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against BP, and shares
remain more than 30 percent lower than before the accident.  The government’s filing shows it doesn’t disagree with the
company’s March settlement with victims, BP spokesman Mark Salt
said.  “Other issues raised by the government simply illustrate
that disputes about the underlying facts remain,” Salt said.
“BP believes it was not grossly negligent and looks forward to
presenting evidence on this issue at trial in January.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  