-- British Airways to Shut BMIbaby This Weekend With 450 Job Losses
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-09-05T16:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/british-airways-to-shut-bmibaby-this-weekend-with-450-job-losses.html
British Airways (IAG)  parent IAG said the
discount arm of the BMI business bought from  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA)  will close this weekend with 450 job losses after no buyer
could be found for a unit that doesn’t fit with its operations.  “After a review of options for BMIbaby and following formal
consultation with union and employee representatives, the
business will be closed, with the last flight departing Sept.
9,” IAG, as International Consolidated Airlines Group SA is
known, said today in a statement on its August traffic figures.  London-based IAG bought BMI in April and said in May that
talks had begun on closing BMIbaby at some point this month
after no bids for the unwanted arm were forthcoming. The unit
competed with  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and Jet2.com at its East
Midlands hub, and overlapped with Ryanair in Birmingham. Both
rivals, together with carriers including  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , also have
bases in cities as little as 50 miles to the north.  All employees who are losing their jobs will be able to
apply for any vacancies at British Airways, BMIbaby spokeswoman
Naomi Bustin said separately. The carrier operated 14  Boeing Co. (BA) 
737 aircraft, flying more than 700 services a week in the peak
season to 23 European destinations, according to its website.  German turnaround specialist Intro Aviation GmbH, which had
expressed an interest in BMIbaby, ended talks after Cologne-
based Lufthansa rejected a non-binding offer, Managing Director
Peter Oncken said in April. Charter carrier ACL also dropped
plans to make a bid, a person familiar with the matter has said.  Reduced Price  IAG completed the acquisition of BMI on April 20 to boost
its position at London’s overcrowded  Heathrow airport . Lufthansa
reduced the agreed price of 172.5 million pounds ($274 million)
by an undisclosed amount after failing to first offload BMIbaby
and BMI Regional, an asset IAG later sold to Sector Aviation
Holdings Ltd. for 8 million pounds in a deal announced May 10.  IAG’s passenger traffic rose 5 percent last month, the
carrier said today, with premium travel increasing almost 13
percent and economy up 3.9 percent.  The market remains unchanged since the company’s last
financial statement on Aug. 3, it said, with trading “firm” at
Heathrow and the Iberia unit’s Madrid base hurt by “weak
economic conditions,” with short-haul traffic most affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  