-- Gold Industry Says India May Raise Import Tax to Cut Deficit
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-09-05T08:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/bullion-industry-says-india-may-raise-import-tax-to-cut-deficit.html
India, the largest gold buyer, may
raise an import duty for a third time this year to curb
purchases and reduce a record current-account deficit, according
to industry executives, who said an increase would hurt demand.  “The government may look at increasing the duty to 7.5
percent,”  Prithviraj Kothari , president of the Bombay Bullion
Association, said in a phone interview. D.S. Malik, a finance
ministry spokesman in  New Delhi , declined to comment.  The tax on bars and coins was doubled to 4 percent in March
after imports jumped to a record 969 metric tons in 2011. A
further increase may deter jewelry buyers and investors during
India’s festival season, which starts this month, as a decline
in the rupee against the dollar boosts domestic gold prices to
an all-time high. Imports plunged 42 percent to 340 tons in the
first half, according to the producer-funded World Gold Council.  “Any increase in duty will play havoc on the industry,”
said Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the All India Gems &
Jewellery Trade Federation. “The industry is grappling with
high gold prices and demand is slow.”  Gold priced in dollars has risen 8 percent this year,
supported by investor demand as central banks may add stimulus
to support the recovery. Immediate-delivery bullion, which
reached a record $1,921.15 an ounce in September last year,
traded at $1,690.80 an ounce at 1:41 p.m. in Mumbai.  Record Deficit  Curbing shipments of gold will help the country to narrow
the  current-account deficit  as the drop in rupee boosts the cost
of crude-oil purchases, according to the  finance ministry . The
shortfall widened to a record 4.2 percent of the gross domestic
product in the year ended March from 2.7 percent in 2010-2011.  The rise in the deficit, the broadest measure of trade, was
due to slower exports and so-called relatively inelastic imports
of petroleum products, gold and silver amid a rally in global
prices, Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said on Aug. 23.  “A hike in duty is not the solution,” said Kothari at the
bullion association. “Any such move will hit demand in a big
way.” India first increased the import duty on gold to 2
percent on Jan. 17 from a fixed rate of 300 rupees per 10 grams.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is seeking to rein in the
current-account deficit as the  economy  expanded 5.5 percent in
the three months through June from a year earlier, close to the
three-year low of 5.3 percent in the first quarter. Gold and
silver, the second-largest import component after oil, accounted
for 12.5 percent of imports last year, trade ministry data show.  ‘Take Action’  “The basic fear is that gold will again become a very good
investment option and physical demand may rise, putting pressure
on the trade deficit,” said  Madan Sabnavis , Mumbai-based chief
economist at Credit Analysis and Research Ltd. “We need to take
action since we don’t have any system of restricting the
quantity of gold that can be imported.”  Bullion futures in Mumbai surged to a record 31,525 rupees
($564) per 10 grams today after the rupee fell about 17 percent
against the dollar in the past 12 months. Gold for October
delivery was 0.2 percent higher at 31,496 rupees per 10 grams on
the Multi Commodity Exchange of  India  Ltd. Futures in India have
gained 15 percent this year.  India’s imports may decline by 250 tons to 350 tons this
year as record prices cut demand, Jeremy East, global head of
metals trading at Standard Chartered Plc, said on Aug. 25.
Consumption fell to 933.4 tons last year from a record 963.1
tons in 2010, according to the council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  