-- HTC Mimics Apple Marketing Strategy to Regain Customers
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-09-06T14:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/htc-mimics-apple-marketing-strategy-to-regain-customers.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , once content to stay
behind the scenes in the smartphone industry, is attempting to
regain lost market share by changing its marketing strategy to
be more like  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The phonemaker, which built itself by allowing wireless
carriers to put their own names on its phones, has been
increasing advertising spending to make the HTC brand stand out
for its audio, camera and design capabilities, said Jason Mackenzie, global president of sales and marketing. He declined
to provide spending figures.  HTC, the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based maker of Desire, Sensation
and One smartphones, is trying to keep up with Apple and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  after competition  halved  its global market share
to 4.5 percent in the first quarter from a 10.7 percent peak in
the second quarter of last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries. It recovered some ground in the second
quarter, increasing to 5.8 percent of shipments.  “We need to be more bold,” Mackenzie said in an interview
in  New York . “We’re not satisfied with where we are.”  The company, whose advertising slogan is “Quietly
Brilliant,” ran its first television commercial in the U.S. in
November 2009. The goal is to increase familiarity with the
brand so that consumers are already thinking of buying an HTC
phone instead of an Apple iPhone or Samsung’s Galaxy S III
before they walk into a store, Mackenzie said.  Dre’s Beats  Advertising messages will focus on the phones’ camera
feature, which allows users to take pictures during filming of a
video, and audio, which uses technology from rapper Dr. Dre’s
Beats Electronics LLC, in which HTC has a stake of about 25
percent.  “We’re shifting our marketing spend to have HTC
communicate directly with the consumer,” Mackenzie said.
“Apple changed the landscape.”  HTC doesn’t have the resources to permeate the market with
advertising to the extent that Apple and Samsung do, the company
said. They’ll supplement advertising through public relations
and by communicating with online communities of fans, said Sally
Julien, a spokeswoman.  HTC’s sales have missed analyst estimates for the last four
quarters, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Last month,
the company  forecast  third-quarter revenue that was as much as
22 percent below the average estimate.  HTC shares have fallen 49 percent this year. They slipped
1.2 percent to NT$254 today in Taipei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  