-- California Pension Failed to Stop Spiking, Audit Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-09-05T19:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/california-pension-failed-to-stop-spiking-audit-says.html
The California State Teachers’
Retirement System, the second-biggest U.S. pension plan, has
failed to curb so-called spiking, state Controller John Chiang
said in an audit released today.  Educators may have enhanced their pensions through measures
such as late-career raises and overtime and vacation payments
that count toward income from the  retirement plan  known as
Calstrs, according to the audit.  The probe was announced in November after what Chiang
called “a growing number of concerns inside and outside the
fund’s administration.” At the time, the Democrat said the
review would take about two months. The audit ended up taking
nine months from the time it began in January.  “Calstrs did not provide adequate oversight of the
reporting entities it monitors,” said the report by Jeffrey
Brownfield, Chiang’s audit division chief. “At the rate at
which audits currently are being performed, each district would
be audited only once every 48 years. In addition, Calstrs’ audit
process should have been more effective in detecting pension
spiking at its member school districts.”  Calstrs responded that its Compensation Review Unit
identified 270 suspected episodes of spiking since December
2011, investigated 175 cases and “confirmed 28 instances of
inappropriate benefit enhancement,” Jack Ehnes, the fund’s
chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Manipulating Pensions  Public employees can spike pensions by manipulating
overtime, unused vacation and special compensation to inflate
retirement payments. The practice was identified by Democratic
Governor  Jerry Brown  as contributing to Calstrs’ unfunded
liability of $64.5 billion as of June 2011.  Government pensions are driving up costs nationwide in
states and cities that lost revenue in the longest recession
since the 1930s. Calstrs had assets to cover just 69 percent of
liabilities in fiscal 2011, compared with an average of 75
percent for all states in 2010, according to data compiled by 
Bloomberg.  California lawmakers, in a deal last week with Brown,
approved measures to rein in costs in the most populous state.
The measure, if signed by the 74-year-old governor, would
calculate pensions for new employees based on three years of
salary rather than one, and eliminate overtime, sick time and
other special compensation as income that may count toward
retirement.  Ehnes said Calstrs, with $152.1 billion in assets as of
July 31, has taken measures to combat abuses, such as setting up
a  hotline  to receive anonymous tips.  A new state law will augment Calstrs’ efforts, Ehnes said
in a letter responding to preliminary audit findings.  “Calstrs takes pension spiking very seriously,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  