-- California Treasurer Backs Law to Ban Costly Long-Term Bo
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/california-treasurer-backs-law-to-ban-costly-long-term-bo.html
California  Treasurer Bill Lockyer
will push for limits on bonds that have saddled school districts
with debt payments as much as 10 times the principal and seek to
ban those maturing more than 25 years in the future, a spokesman
said.  Lockyer, a 71-year-old Democrat, will work with lawmakers
next year on a bill to ban such capital-appreciation bonds,  Tom Dresslar  said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Fifty-five California school districts issued such bonds
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Poway Unified
School District in San Diego County deferred all payments on
$105 million in  bonds  until 2033. By the time they mature in
2051, the district will have paid $1 billion in interest.  “The capital-appreciation bonds need more transparency and
better protections for taxpayers,” Dresslar said. “The goal is
not to take away this tool for school districts. The goal is to
make sure they wear protective gear when they use it.”  School districts across California have used the late-
maturing bonds, many with balloon payments, to build and
modernize facilities as declining property values reduce their
capital. The zero-coupon notes yield more than coupon bonds to
compensate investors for the longer holding period before they
receive any income.  Since 2000, California school districts have issued $19.73
billion of capital-appreciation bonds, of which $5.4 billion had
maturities beyond 25 years, according to data from the
California Debt and Investment Advisory Commission provided by
Dresslar.  Dresslar said the office could not quantify the total debt
service on the long-term securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  