-- Cameron Loosens Rules for Homebuilders to Help U.K. Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-06T14:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/cameron-lowers-barriers-to-home-extensions-to-help-u-k-growth.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government will loosen requirements on homebuilders to allow
them to build projects that at present would be unprofitable, in
an effort to boost the U.K. economy.  People wanting to extend homes and businesses will also be
able to do so without planning permission for a limited time.
The premier, along with his Liberal Democrat deputy,  Nick Clegg ,
announced a temporary lifting of requirements today to get a
permit for work including building out from the back of a house
by as much as 8 meters (26 feet). Shops will be able to add 100
square meters (1,080 square feet) and industrial units 200
square meters to their premises without formal permission.  Removing requirements on building projects to include
social housing and “affordable” homes will spur work on more
sites, the government said. New home completions dropped last
year to the lowest during peacetime since 1924.  “There are people watching this program in their 30s
living at home with Mum and Dad desperate for that starter flat
or starter house,” Cameron told ITV’s ‘Daybreak” show. “It is
about confidence. We’re talking today about 140,000 jobs
provided by building an extra 70,000 houses.”  Clegg told BBC Radio 4 that “those developers who can show
they are sitting on entirely commercially unviable sites” as a
result of current planning requirements will be able to “re-
negotiate those bits of the contracts they have got with
planners. Let’s undo that knot at an early stage.”  Shares Gain  The  Bloomberg EMEA Home Builders Index (BEUHBLD)  rose 1.8 percent
today, with  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , the second-largest U.K.
homebuilder by volume, gaining 2.9 percent.  The government introduced a bill today offering guarantees
on as much as 40 billion pounds ($64 billion) of new
infrastructure projects, including 10 billion pounds on new
homes. It also offers 300 million pounds of direct funding for
cheaper housing.  Cameron told lawmakers yesterday that a reorganization of
his ministerial team this week is aimed at getting the country
out of recession.  “I want every single department to be about the economy,”
he said. “I want the Transport Department building roads, I
want the Communities Department building houses.”  The government “Firstbuy” project, which offers support
to first-time buyers, will also be extended by 280 million
pounds. Small builders will be helped by loosening the rules on
home extensions. According to the government, there are 400,000
applications for planning permission a year, half of them
residential. Extensions will still have to comply with other
rules to ensure they’re proportionate to the original building.  ‘Fundamental Problem’  The opposition  Labour Party  said that government plans
don’t go far enough. “A one-year holiday from the rules on
planning for a conservatory extension of up to 8 metres into a
garden does not represent an economic plan,” leader  Ed Miliband 
said in a speech in  London . Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls 
described it as “a mouse, when we needed a lion to roar.”  Daniel Farrand, head of planning at law firm Mishcon de
Reya, said the proposals might even dampen demand.  “Yet another planning shakeup risks having exactly the
opposite of the intended effect by creating more uncertainty,”
he said. “Freeing up viability of a few stuck projects and
allowing bigger conservatories will not meet the housing
demand.”  Miliband offered clues today to what he would do in power
if he wins the 2015 election, saying tighter finances mean the
party won’t be able to return to “governing as we did before.”  In his speech, Miliband said the party needs to challenge
the idea that low inflation and low  interest rates  will
automatically deliver growth. Instead, he and Balls called for a
cut in  sales tax  and the speeding up of large infrastructure
projects, as well as a levy on bank bonuses to pay for
housebuilding and youth training.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  