-- Canada Dollar Declines as Central Bank Maintains Rate, Language
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-05T21:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/canadian-dollar-weakens-against-major-peers-on-ecb-skepticism.html
The Canadian dollar fell against all
but one of its 16 most-traded peers as the  Bank of Canada 
reiterated that borrowing costs may need to rise to prevent
inflation from accelerating while keeping its target interest
rate unchanged.  The currency weakened for a second day against its U.S.
counterpart as central-bank Governor  Mark Carney  said “some
modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy
stimulus may become appropriate.”  Canada ’s dollar declined
earlier amid speculation measures by the  European Central Bank 
will fail to restore confidence in the region, slowing global
demand for the nation’s exports.  “It’s pretty much the exact same old story by the Bank of
Canada,” Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign exchange
in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in a telephone interview.
“They left in the mild tightening bias, which everyone
expected.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.5 percent to 99.05
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0096.  The country’s expansion will pick up through next year on
business investment and  consumer spending  as shipments abroad
lag behind on slower global growth, the Ottawa-based central
bank said. The decision to remain at 1 percent, where the  rate 
has been for two years, was forecast by all 27 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Technical Analysis  The Canadian dollar may test a four-month high versus its
U.S. peer that it has failed to breach three times in the past
two weeks if central banks act to stimulate the global economy,
according to  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , citing technical indicators.  Canada’s currency yesterday touched 98.43 cents per U.S.
dollar, which represents the top end of the currency’s recent
range, after previously reaching that level on Aug. 21 and 28,
Bloomberg data show. That’s the strongest since it reached 98.29
on May 3.  “It’s obviously quite a key support level” for the U.S.
currency,  Greg Moore , currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion’s
TD Securities, said in a telephone interview. “If there are
some fundamental changes out there, like quantitative easing or
accommodative action announced from any of the major central
banks, we could see a re-test of that level and a potential push
below it.” Support refers to an area level where buy orders may
be clustered.  The loonie failed to depreciate to 99.50 cents per U.S.
dollar today although it broke a minor support point at 98.80,
Moore said, after the Bank of Canada’s interest-rate decision.  ECB, Fed  The loonie briefly pared losses today as two central-bank
officials briefed on the plan said ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s
bond-buying proposal involves unlimited purchases of government
debt that will be sterilized -- that is, the same amount of
money spent will be removed elsewhere from the system -- to
assuage concerns about printing money. Policy makers will
deliberate today and Draghi will announce the results at a press
conference tomorrow.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 at an annual
forum in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that he wouldn’t rule out steps
to lower a jobless rate he described as a “grave concern.” The
Fed has bought $2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of the
stimulus known as quantitative easing starting in 2008. Policy
makers next meet on Sept. 12-13.  ‘Hawkish Bias’  Canada’s economy remains “near its production potential”
and prices for exported commodities have increased since July
even with “slower global momentum,” the central bank said. The
bank reiterated today exports won’t return to levels seen before
the last recession until the start of 2014, citing in part the
drag from the Canadian dollar’s “persistent strength.”  Carney has been saying since April that Canada has almost
used up its spare economic capacity, and a report last week
showed the economy expanded at a 1.8 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, matching the central bank’s forecast.  “There wasn’t too much surprising from the statement --
that’s why we stayed in a consolidation pattern,” Eric Viloria,
senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “Even if they do need to
withdraw monetary policy, raising rates is not something that we
expect to happen soon. They still have a hawkish bias.”  The central bank will raise the benchmark  interest rate ,
currently at 1 percent, by 14.5 basis points, or 0.145
percentage point, over the next 12 months, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG  index  based on overnight swap rates. That’s up
from 11 basis points on Aug. 30.  Quebec Election  Parti Quebecois, which seeks independence for the French-
speaking province from Canada, won 54 of 125 electoral districts
yesterday, according to final results posted on the Elections
 Quebec  website. That gives PQ a minority mandate requiring it to
get support from opposition parties to pass laws in Quebec.  The result means Pauline Marois, the first female premier
of Quebec, probably won’t have a strong enough mandate to start
the province toward another referendum on secession. Marois said
last week it would be “very difficult” for her to advance the
separatist agenda at the desired pace with a minority of seats.
Her party captured 31.9 percent of the vote.  A Quebec separation would be “extremely economically
damaging” for the province,  Greg Anderson , the North American
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New
York, wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  The loonie has gained 2.8 percent this year in the largest
advance among 10 developed-nation currencies monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has
dropped 0.7 percent and the euro has fallen 3.7 percent to lead
decliners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  