-- Canada Keeps 1% Key Rate With Language on Future Increase
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-09-05T13:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/canada-keeps-1-key-rate-with-language-on-future-increase.html
The Bank of  Canada  kept its main
 interest rate  unchanged and reiterated that an increase may be
needed as domestic spending props up an economic recovery
restrained by weak global demand for exports.  The country’s expansion will pick up through next year on
business investment and  consumer spending  as shipments abroad
lag, the Ottawa-based central bank said. The decision to remain
at 1 percent, where the rate has been for two years, was
forecast by all 27 economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News .  “To the extent that the economic expansion continues and
the current excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed,
some modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary
policy stimulus may become appropriate,” policy makers led by
Governor  Mark Carney , 47, said in a statement today, echoing
language used since April.  Today’s decision keeps Canada an outlier among Group of
Seven nations with an inclination to raise borrowing costs while
other central banks consider new stimulus. Carney has been
saying since April that Canada has almost used up its spare
economic capacity, and a report last week showed the economy
expanded at a 1.8 percent annual pace in the second quarter,
matching the central bank’s forecast.  “We continue to expect a longer wait for the first rate
hike” with economic growth about about 2 percent too slow to
bring the economy to full output next year, Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce chief economist  Avery Shenfeld  wrote in a
client note.  Near Potential  Canada’s economy remains “near its production potential”
and prices for exported commodities have increased since July
even with “slower global momentum,” the central bank said. The
bank reiterated today exports won’t return to levels seen before
the last recession until the start of 2014, citing in part the
drag from the Canadian dollar’s “persistent strength.”  Canada’s currency weakened 0.3 percent to 98.89 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:14 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0112. Trading in overnight index swaps today showed 8 basis
points of tightening had been priced in for the April 2013
decision, down from 19 late yesterday. The benchmark five-year
federal government bond yield rose 1 basis point to 1.33
percent, with the price of the 1.5 percent coupon security due
in September 2017 falling 7 Canadian cents to C$100.82.  Europe Recession  Europe  is in a recession and growth in major  emerging
markets  such as  China  has slowed more than policy makers
anticipated, the central bank said today. There is a “modest”
expansion in the U.S., which buys three-quarters of Canada’s
exports.  The  Bank of Canada  sets interest rates to meet a 2 percent
 inflation  target. Consumer prices, and the core measure that
excludes eight volatile items, will reach that pace over the
next 12 months, according to today’s statement.  The central bank forecast in July that inflation will
“remain noticeably below the 2 percent target over the coming
year” in part because of lower gasoline prices. Canada’s
consumer price index advanced 1.3 percent in July from a year
ago compared with a 1.5 percent gain the prior month,  Statistics
Canada  said Aug. 17. The core rate increased 1.7 percent, the
slowest since July 2011.  Canada’s outlook contrasts with the U.S., where Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week made the case for
more easing to fight unemployment, and Europe, where European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may introduce a new bond-
buying program to ease the region’s debt crisis.  Lowest Rate  Canada has the lowest  policy rate  of any major economy that
has avoided the worst of the global financial squeeze that
started in 2008, Carney said Aug. 22. The central bank predicted
in July that output growth will accelerate to a 2.6 percent pace
in the third quarter of next year, bringing the economy to full
output in the second half of 2013. Today’s statement didn’t
provide a detailed breakdown of economic growth rates.  Non-residential business investment rose at an annualized
9.4 percent rate in the second quarter, the fastest pace in a
year and surpassing pre-recession levels for the first time,
Statistics Canada reported last week. Calgary-based  Enbridge
Inc. (ENB) , the largest transporter of Canadian crude to the U.S.,
began a series of pipeline projects in the second quarter, part
of an C$8 billion ($8.1 billion) plan to boost shipments of
Canadian and Bakken oil to new markets.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said last week he may offer
new fiscal stimulus if global demand stumbles again. “What has
been done before can be done again,” Flaherty said Aug. 31,
adding that global weakness could also threatened his
government’s plans to reduce its deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  