-- Carnival Must Face Suit by the Family of Slain Passenger
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-09-05T22:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/carnival-must-face-suit-by-the-family-of-slain-passenger.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL)  must face a lawsuit
brought by the family of a cruise ship passenger who was fatally
shot while ashore in the  U.S. Virgin Islands , a U.S. appeals
court ruled in reinstating the suit dismissed by a lower court.  In July 2010, Liz Marie Perez Chaparro, 15, a passenger on
Carnival’s M/V Victory, took a day trip with her family to Coki
Beach on the island of St. Thomas, according to the family’s
lawsuit filed in Miami.  On their way back from the beach, Chaparro, her parents and
brother rode in an open-air bus past a funeral for a gang
member, according to the complaint. While the bus was stuck in
traffic, “gang-related retaliatory violence” erupted at the
funeral and Chaparro was fatally shot, the suit alleges.  Her family members claimed a Carnival employee encouraged
them to visit Coki Beach and that the company failed to warn
passengers of the crime problem on St. Thomas. Carnival claimed
it has no duty to warn passengers, and that Chaparro’s death
couldn’t have been predicted.  “The facts alleged in the complaint are plausible and
raise a reasonable expectation that discovery could supply
additional proof of Carnival’s liability,” the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Atlanta ruled today.  Supreme Court  The appeals court cited a 1959 U.S.  Supreme Court  ruling
that stated “a ship owner owes the duty of exercising
reasonable care towards those lawfully aboard the vessel who are
not members of the crew.”  Vance Gulliksen, a spokesman for Miami-based Carnival, said
the company doesn’t typically comment on pending litigation.  The lower court case is Chaparro v. Carnival Corp., 11-
cv-21890 U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami). The appeals court case is 11-14047, 11th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at  dbeasley4@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  