-- Carney Tighter Policy Bias to Keep Canada as G-7 Outlier
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-09-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/carney-tighter-policy-bias-to-keep-canada-as-g-7-outlier.html
The  Bank of Canada  will probably
remain an outlier among Group of Seven nations by keeping its
inclination to raise borrowing costs in the future while other
central banks consider new stimulus.  While policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney  may
reiterate a tightening bias, the  target rate  on overnight loans
between banks will remain 1 percent, where it’s been for two
years, according to all 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, in
a decision due at 9 a.m. in Ottawa.  Carney has been saying since April that  Canada  has almost
used up its spare economic capacity, and a report last week
showed the economy expanded at a 1.8 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, matching the central bank’s forecast. Carney’s
outlook contrasts with the U.S., where Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  last week made the case for more easing to fight
unemployment, and Europe, where European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  may introduce a new bond-buying program to ease the
region’s debt crisis.  “We are quite far along in the recovery compared to most
major economies,” said  Dawn Desjardins , assistant chief
economist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, who predicts a
rate increase early next year. “We could still do with a little
less stimulus.”  Trading in overnight index swaps late yesterday showed 19
basis points of tightening had been priced in for the April 2013
decision.  “The bank will stick to a view that at some point in the
future a reduction of stimulus will become appropriate,” said
 Craig Alexander , chief economist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)  “The
timeframe of when it could become appropriate could be well into
2013.”  Lowest Rate  Canada has the lowest policy rate of any major economy that
avoided the worst of the global financial squeeze that started
in 2008, Carney said at an Aug. 22 speech. The central bank
predicted in July that output growth will accelerate to a 2.6
percent pace in the third quarter of next year, bringing the
economy to full output in the second half of 2013.  “To the extent that the economic expansion in Canada
continues and the current excess supply in the economy is
gradually absorbed, some modest withdrawal of the present
considerable monetary-policy stimulus may become appropriate,”
Carney, 47, said in the speech in Toronto, repeating language
used at the past three interest rate announcements.  Planned Projects  Non-residential business investment rose at an annualized
9.4 percent rate in the second quarter, the fastest pace in a
year and surpassing pre-recession levels for the first time.
Calgary-based  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the largest transporter of Canadian
crude to the U.S., began a series of pipeline projects in the
second quarter, part of an C$8 billion ($8.1 billion) plan to
boost shipments of Canadian and Bakken oil.  Companies also added an annualized C$7 billion in
inventories during the quarter, Statistics Canada data show,
meaning stockpiles added about 1.7 percentage points to growth
in the period, the largest single contribution.  The country’s weak spot remains  exports , which the Bank of
Canada says won’t return to levels seen before the last
recession until the start of 2014.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said last week he may offer
new fiscal stimulus if global demand stumbles again. “What has
been done before can be done again,” Flaherty said Aug. 31,
adding that global weakness could also threaten his government’s
plans to reduce its deficit.  Carney doesn’t need to change his message today, in part
because invoking the prospect that  interest rates  may decline
would add new momentum to a housing market that Carney and
Flaherty have signaled is overheated, economists said.  “They will still keep the bias” to raise rates, said
 Michael Gregory , senior economist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in
Toronto. “The bar to cut rates is very high,” he said, because
“economic performance is below par but not significantly so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  