-- McCaskill Avoids Convention, Stumps in Republican Territory
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-09-05T15:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/mccaskill-avoids-convention-as-she-runs-in-republican-territory.html
Four years ago,  Claire McCaskill  had
a speaking role at the Democratic convention in Denver, a reward
for her enthusiastic and early support of presidential candidate
 Barack Obama .  This week, the Democratic U.S. senator is ignoring her
party’s convention in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and barely
mentions the president, who is unpopular in her home state of
 Missouri . As she campaigns in Republican-friendly territory,
McCaskill is warning supporters that she still could lose to
challenger Todd Akin unless they persuade other Missourians to
“vote their billfold” and help her defeat him.  Speaking at a union-organized Labor Day rally in central
Springfield on Sept. 3, the freshman senator told an
enthusiastic crowd that she’s “not taking any naps right now.”
McCaskill, 59, is trying to take advantage of Akin’s recent
troubles -- without getting confident.  “Trust me, this will be close,” McCaskill said,
encouraging supporters to spend an hour or two volunteering for
her campaign. “You live in southwest Missouri. I don’t need to
tell you that we’re outnumbered down here.”  Her political fortunes improved Aug. 19 when Akin, 65, said
in a television interview that “legitimate rape” rarely
results in pregnancy, so a rape exception to a ban on abortion
isn’t necessary. Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
called Akin’s remarks “outrageous” and joined other party
leaders in trying to pressure Akin to drop his Senate bid.  Vulnerable Candidate  McCaskill, considered one of the most vulnerable Senate
Democrats running for re-election this year, had decided to skip
the Democratic convention before Akin made his comments. She
said she wanted to focus on her campaign, and is doing such
things as starting a statewide “listening tour” aimed at
improving college affordability.  Republicans have been counting on McCaskill’s seat as one
of four they must pick up to win control of the Senate in the
Nov. 6 election. Following Akin’s comments, McCaskill has led
the Republican U.S. House member in a pair of statewide polls,
unlike earlier in the year when she consistently trailed Akin
and two other potential Republican opponents.  “The race as it stands now went from being a pretty good
bet that Republicans were going to win to not only one that they
are very likely to lose but one that losing it is going to make
it a lot harder to win the majority,”  Jennifer Duffy , who
tracks Senate races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report,
said, adding that McCaskill “got very lucky.”  Poll Data  A  St. Louis  Post-Dispatch/Mason-Dixon poll conducted Aug.
22-23 showed McCaskill with a 9 percentage-point lead, and a
Public Policy Polling survey conducted Aug. 28-29 showed the
race was virtually tied, with Akin trailing McCaskill by one
percentage point.  “There’s no question that there’s been a dramatic change
in the poll data, from Akin begin comfortably ahead to Akin
being uncomfortably behind,” said Ken Warren, an independent
pollster and political science professor at St. Louis University,
a Jesuit college in downtown St. Louis.  The St. Louis Post-Dispatch/Mason-Dixon poll provides more
encouraging news for McCaskill, whose campaign strategy is that
she can’t cede strongly Republican areas of the state. While the
poll  showed  Akin garnering 50 percent or more of the vote in
rural parts of the state, his support there declined from 60
percent in a poll conducted July 23-25. In the Democratic
strongholds of  Kansas City  and St. Louis, almost two-thirds said
they now oppose Akin. Almost half, 47 percent, of voters polled
statewide said Akin should withdraw from the race.  Greene County  Springfield, the site of the Labor Day rally, is located in
Greene County, which supported then-incumbent Republican Senator
Jim Talent over McCaskill six years ago by 11 percentage points.  At the Labor Day rally Dave Trippe manned a table of yard
signs and bumper stickers promoting Democratic candidates. He
predicted McCaskill would beat Akin if she matches the 42.6
percent of the vote she won in Greene County in 2006, and said
he was glad she skipped the convention.  “Claire needs to be here,” he said.  Akin’s comments on rape “helped seal the deal” for
Springfield resident Larra Keeth, a 31-year-old mother of three
who said she had been leaning toward voting for McCaskill, who
she supported in 2006.  “That’s why I will probably go back with McCaskill because
that was just stupid,” Keeth said at the Sept. 2 rally,
referring to Akin’s “legitimate rape” remarks.  Pocketbook Issues  McCaskill hasn’t directly addressed Akin’s comments at
campaign stops, opting instead to describe a “fork in the
road” that voters face Nov. 6, maintaining that Akin would lead
Missourians down “a road that leads to a smaller middle class
and less buying power for most Americans.”  Her message is focused on fiscal issues. She claims Akin
would work to privatize  Social Security  and Medicare and to
abolish the minimum wage and government-funded  student loans .  McCaskill yesterday began a tour of college campuses across
the state with an appearance at the  University of Missouri  in
Columbia, her alma mater.  “My opponent has said very simply, very plainly and very
bluntly, that the federal government needs to get completely out
of the education business,” McCaskill told several dozen
students in a classroom at the Harry S Truman School of Public
Affairs. “If we take the road where the federal government is
not going to have anything to do with education, that just means
one thing. That means the middle class is going to get
smaller.”  Akin spokesman Ryan Hite didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  Lagging Recovery  Those themes may resonate in Missouri, which has  lagged 
behind the nation’s economic recovery. Since the end of the
recession in June 2009, employment in the state has declined 0.7
percent, a greater drop than any state except  Nevada , according
to government data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the period,
personal income in Missouri has grown 8.3 percent, a slower rate
than all except four other states, the data shows.  Obama, who lost Missouri to Republican  John McCain  by fewer
than 4,000 votes in 2008, has received low marks in the state
and has opted not to invest significant campaign resources there.
Just 38 percent of voters statewide view Obama favorably,
compared with 44 percent for Romney, according to the Aug. 22-23
St. Louis Post-Dispatch/Mason-Dixon poll.  Akin has apologized for his remarks, saying he misspoke.
His campaign ran an ad Aug. 29 in which Akin contrasts what he
described as a “six-second mistake” with McCaskill’s “six-
year record” of supporting Obama’s policies.  Negative Spots  The ad echoes negative spots that Republican groups have
run in Missouri tying McCaskill to Obama. One, paid for by
Crossroads GPS, a nonprofit group that former George W. Bush
political adviser  Karl Rove  helped create, claimed McCaskill
“has voted with President Obama 90 percent of the time” and
was the deciding vote in favor of the 2010 health care overhaul.
The ad aired 858 times from May 31 to June 9, according to
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks campaign advertising.  Following Akin’s comments, Crossroads GPS and the  National
Republican Senatorial Committee  said they would pull their ads
out of the state.  ‘So Big’  “The story is so big that Claire McCaskill doesn’t have to
bring it up,” said  Nathan Gonzales , deputy editor at the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report. “Right now there’s no
reason for Claire McCaskill to directly attack on the issue
because the story has a life of its own.”  McCaskill’s campaign has received financial support from
top Democrats. She had $3.5 million in cash on hand through July
18, according to reports filed with the  Federal Election
Commission . Through the same date, Akin had $531,600 in cash on
hand, according to the commission.  McCaskill told reporters Sept. 2 that she suspected
Republican funding might end up flowing to Akin in the final
days of the campaign.  Her decision to stay in Missouri rather than go to the
convention has received some favorable attention. Richard Lara,
a 32-year-old Springfield resident who attended the Labor Day
rally, said while he’s undecided about voting for McCaskill, he
was impressed she didn’t go to Charlotte this week.  “That whole thing was a joke anyways,” Lara said of the
convention. “To not take part in that kind of grandeur, it kind
of humanizes her, makes her more humble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Springfield, Missouri, at
   khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  