-- McDonald’s Plans First Vegetarian Restaurants in India
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-09-05T20:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/mcdonald-s-plans-first-vegetarian-restaurants-in-india.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  will swap its
trademark burgers for potato sandwiches when it opens two
vegetarian restaurants in  India  next year, the first such
outlets globally for the world’s biggest restaurant chain.  The fast-food chain will open two new locations in northern
Indian cities that are pilgrimage sites for Hindus and Sikhs,
according to Rajesh Kumar Maini, a spokesman for the company’s
north and east Indian operations. McDonald’s already keeps beef
and pork products off the menu in India, where a majority of the
 population  are Hindus and Muslims.  The attempt to draw religious Indians shows how the  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based company is trying to boost sales by
appealing to local tastes outside its home market and compete
with other chains such as  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s KFC and  Pizza Hut .
McDonald’s, which gets more than 60 percent of its  revenue  from
international stores, said last month that it was exploring and
evaluating opportunities in  Vietnam , where it doesn’t have any
stores.  The vegetarian restaurants will sell items such as the
McAloo Tikki burger, a sandwich with a mashed-potato patty, and
the Pizza McPuff, a vegetable and cheese pastry.  India, the world’s second most populous nation, is
important for McDonald’s as it increases sales overseas. The
country’s large population, growing urbanization and increasing
number of people joining the workforce may help the fast-food
industry expand from 47 billion rupees ($840 million) in 2010 to
to 146 billion rupees in 2014, according to estimates by
researcher RNCOS E-Services Pvt.  Golden Temple  One of the vegetarian outlets will be in Amritsar, where
the Golden Temple, a holy site for Sikhs, is located. The other
will be in Katra in  Jammu and Kashmir  in the north, which houses
one of the main pilgrimage sites for Hindu people, according to
the spokesman. McDonald’s sells Chicken McNuggets and fish
burgers in its regular Indian outlets although its traditional
beef burgers aren’t available. The cow is sacred to religious
Hindus, who don’t eat beef.  “The new restaurants in pilgrimage areas will be
vegetarian-only because of the specific area and customer
base,” Becca Hary, a McDonald’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
McDonald’s kitchens have always been divided into separate
sections for cooking vegetarian and non-vegetarian items in
India, she said.  Opening no-meat stores “speaks to McDonald’s efforts to
cater to local tastes,” she said.  Indian Partnerships  McDonald’s, which opened its first restaurant in India in
1996, operates as many as 271 stores there now through
partnerships with two local Indian companies, Connaught Plaza
Restaurants Pvt. for the north and east, and Hardcastle
Restaurants Pvt. in the west and south.  McDonald’s isn’t alone in trying to capitalize on the
market in India. Louisville, Kentucky-based Yum, which also owns
Taco Bell, has about 479 stores in its India division, which
includes Bangladesh, Mauritius, Nepal and  Sri Lanka , and plans
to open 100 stores there this year.  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  has
about 500 stores in India and has said the nation can be its
second-largest market in three to five years.  McDonald’s was little changed at $89.06 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have dropped 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  