-- Chavez Praises Obama’s Handling of Clint Eastwood Criticism
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-09-05T23:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/chavez-praises-obama-s-handling-of-clint-eastwood-criticism-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said that U.S. President  Barack Obama  handled criticism from
actor Clint Eastwood at the  Republican National Convention  with
class as both politicians seek re-election in coming months.  Chavez, who faces voters on Oct. 7, said that he is also
dealing with rising criticism from the media and Venezuela’s
opposition in similar ways as Obama. The 58-year-old socialist
leader said he is a fan of Eastwood’s films as well as fellow
actors Sean Connery and Charles Bronson.  “Obama received harsh criticism from Clint Eastwood, who
is a great actor but a man of the right, he always has been,”
Chavez told a group of reporters today at a press conference in
Caracas. “Obama’s response was very wise. He said ‘I admire
 Clint Eastwood , and whoever is offended easily should seek
another profession.’”  Eastwood, 82, was a surprise speaker at the Republican
convention on Aug. 30 in Tampa, Florida where he said that Obama
isn’t “strong enough” in dealing with high unemployment levels
and that it “may be time for somebody else to come along and
solve the problem,” in reference to the Republican candidate
Mitt Romney.  ‘Huge Fan’  In a USA Today  interview  published Sept. 2, Obama said he
is a “huge fan” of the actor and said politicians who can’t
take criticism should find another type of job.  Chavez and Obama met for the first time at the Summit of
the Americas in  Trinidad and Tobago  in 2009, where they shook
hands yet failed to resolve a diplomatic standoff. Relations
between the countries remain tense, with neither having an
ambassador and Chavez maintaining charges that the U.S. is
undermining his rule and intent on invading the oil-rich nation.  While Obama faces a difficult election in the U.S., Chavez
said it’s “mathematically” impossible for him to lose his race
against former governor Henrique Capriles Radonski.  Chavez, who counts  Sean Penn  and director  Oliver Stone  as
friends, described Eastwood, Connery and Bronson as  “super
actors.”  “One time I was given a collection of films by Clint
Eastwood and I spent about a month hardly sleeping since I was
watching one every night after work,” he said. “I never missed
a 007 film by  Sean Connery  and ‘The Hunt for Red October’ was a
tremendous film, even if it ends with the Yankee Empire on
top.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  