-- Chile Central Bank Sees 2012 GDP Growth of as Much as 5.25%
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-09-05T14:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/chile-central-bank-sees-2012-gdp-growth-of-as-much-as-5-25-2-.html
Chile’s  central bank  raised its
forecast for economic growth this year to between 4.75 percent
and 5.25 percent and said it expects gross domestic product to
expand 4 percent to 5 percent in 2013.  The bank in June had forecast economic growth of 4 percent
to 5 percent for 2012. Policy makers expect stable interest
rates in the short term and inflation of 2.5 percent this year
and 3 percent in 2013, the bank said today in its quarterly
monetary-policy report. The bank had in June expected inflation
of 2.7 percent in 2012 and 3 percent next year.  Policy makers raised their growth forecast on higher
personal incomes due to low unemployment, increased access to
credit for consumers and companies and investment in mining
driven by the high price for  Chile ’s main export, copper. At the
same time it said a global slowdown may damp exports and growth,
and warned that it expected renewed periods of tension in
international financial markets.  “Monetary policy faces two opposing forces,” central bank
President Rodrigo Vergara told Senators today in Valparaiso,
according to copies of his speech distributed to journalists in
Santiago. “On one hand, a weak external scenario that won’t add
further stimulus to the economy. On the other hand, strong
domestic activity and demand with a tight labor market and
little spare capacity.”  The bank said it expects inflation of 2.9 percent in about
two years’ time, undershooting its 3 percent target.  Beating Expectations  Since the central bank’s last  monetary-policy  report in
June, Vergara has seen economic growth beat economists’
forecasts and annual inflation decelerate to a 20-month low in
July. The central bank has left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5 percent since January. Traders and investors
expect the central bank to leave rates on hold for the rest of
the year and lower the rate by a quarter point to 4.75 percent
in the next six months, according to a bank survey published on
Aug. 22.  “The central bank’s wait-and-see policy has been very
successful,” said Sebastian Brown, a strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in New York. “But the best Chile can hope for is to
manage the slowdown.”  Chile’s stable  interest rates  at a time when the central
banks of Colombia and  Brazil  have lowered borrowing costs helped
make the Chilean peso the most attractive currency in the world
to invest in. Investors in the peso would have returned 11.7
percent this year, more than any other currency tracked by
Bloomberg.  Dollar Purchases  The currency’s rise and stable domestic consumer prices
mean that Chile’s inflation-adjusted exchange rate reached the
highest since December 2010 in July. That led to speculation the
central bank would consider buying dollars to weaken the
currency as it did in January 2011.  While the bank reserves the right to intervene in the
currency when the real exchange rate is out of line with its
fundamental drivers, “in current circumstances, it is not
evident that those criteria apply,” Vergara said.  “The current real  exchange rate , while low compared to a
few months ago and relative to its average of the last 15 to 20
years, is within the range that fits with its fundamental
drivers,” Vergara said. “An intervention has a significant
financial cost for the central bank and the country.”  The bank raised its forecast for  import  growth this year to
5.8 percent from 4.9 percent in its June report. It lowered its
forecast for  export  growth to 3.6 percent from 3.9 percent.  The bank projects a current-account deficit equivalent to
3.2 percent of gross domestic product for 2012, widening to 4.4
percent next year. In June it had projected a 3.1 percent
current-account deficit this year.  Copper Prices  Chile’s terms of trade may worsen as the price of copper
remains little changed while the price of its main import, oil,
is higher than it forecast in June and food prices have risen.  The bank left its average copper price forecasts unchanged
at $3.55 a pound for this year and $3.4 a pound for 2013. In
2014, copper may average $3.5 a pound, it said. The price of
copper has averaged $3.6028 a pound on the Comex in  New York 
this year. The metal accounts for more than half of Chile’s
exports.  According to prices in the forwards market for unidades de
fomento, Chile’s inflation-linked accounting unit, traders
yesterday expected annual inflation to end the year at 2.11
percent. That is the highest projection since June. Traders
expect annual inflation to slow below the central bank’s target
range in February before accelerating again.  In the last two months breakeven inflation rates, a measure
of the future pace of price rises being discounted by the swaps
market, have converged on and in some cases passed the bank’s
central target of 3 percent.  Inflation Forecasts  The one-year breakeven inflation rate rose to 3.18 percent
yesterday from 1.73 percent in July. The two-year rate rose to 3
percent, in line with the bank’s target, from 2 percent, the
bottom of the bank’s target range on July 13. Three-year
breakeven inflation in the swaps market was also 3 percent
yesterday. Five-year breakeven inflation measured in the bonds
market was 2.99 percent.  The central bank targets 3 percent inflation in two years’
time with a margin of error of 1 percentage point on either
side.  “Growth has been above what you would expect GDP in Chile
to be, inflation and inflation expectations have been well-
behaved,” said Bret Rosen, a strategist at Standard Chartered
Plc in New York. “The central bank’s policy has been pretty
pragmatic. They have been generally neutral since January.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 