-- Chinese Solar-Panel Exporters Face Threat of EU Tariffs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-09-06T14:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/chinese-solar-panel-exporters-face-threat-of-eu-tariffs.html
The European Union threatened to
impose tariffs on solar panels from  China  in the biggest EU
trade dispute of its kind, saying producers in Europe may be
victims of unfair price undercutting.  The EU opened a probe into whether Chinese manufacturers of
solar panels sell them in the 27-nation bloc below cost, a
practice known as  dumping . The inquiry covers 21 billion euros
($26 billion) of imports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic
modules or panels and cells and wafers used in them.  At stake is whether European companies such as  Solarworld
AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s largest maker of the renewable-energy technology,
win levies to counter growing competition from China following
similar U.S. trade protection. Europe accounts for around three-
quarters of the global photovoltaic market.  The investigation will determine whether solar panels from
China are “being dumped and whether the dumped imports have
caused injury to the union industry,” the European Commission,
the EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official
Journal . The commission has nine months to decide whether to
impose provisional anti-dumping duties for half a year and EU
governments have 15 months to decide whether to apply
“definitive” levies for five years.  The case highlights EU concerns about the expansion of
Chinese solar companies, which have grabbed market share from
European rivals that were once dominant, and follows a U.S.
decision earlier this year to hit the Chinese industry with
anti-dumping duties as high as 250 percent.  Dumping Investigation  Chinese companies have gained more than 80 percent of the
market in  Europe  for solar goods compared with almost zero in
2004, according to  EU ProSun , a group that represents European
producers including Solarworld and that requested the dumping
investigation in late July.  EU ProSun accused Chinese solar companies of selling in
Europe “far below their cost of production, with a dumping
margin of 60 percent to 80 percent” and hailed the start of the
dumping inquiry.  “The European Commission took a big step today to save
Europe’s green-tech sector and broader manufacturing base,” the
group said in a statement. “The EU must stand up to China’s
unfair competition.”  China produces about 65 percent of solar panels worldwide,
the commission said in a separate statement. The EU is China’s
main export market, accounting for around 80 percent of Chinese
sales abroad, according to the commission.  Solar Panels  China’s  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest
manufacturer of solar panels, denied engaging in unfair trade,
expressed concern about the possibility of European anti-dumping
duties and pledged to cooperate with the EU in the case.  “Our industry’s mission is to make solar affordable for
everyone and we are concerned that trade barriers will only
delay the industry from fulfilling this,” Zhengrong Shi,
Suntech’s executive chairman and chief strategy officer, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “Protectionist measures would
increase the cost of solar energy in Europe and adversely affect
European jobs in the solar industry.”  Suntech Power’s shares were down 7 percent at 76 U.S. cents
at 9:52 a.m. today in  New York . Yingli Green Energy Holdings
Co., China’s second-largest producer of solar panels, dropped
1.9 percent to $1.53, while  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  fell 3.1 percent.
 China Solar Energy Holdings Ltd. (155) , a solar cells and modules
maker, rose 3.5 percent in  Hong Kong .  Punitive Tariffs  Yingli Green Energy will cooperate with the EU in the probe
to “prove that the conditions for the imposition of punitive
tariffs are not fulfilled,” it said in a statement dated
yesterday. The company’s funding sources and cost structure are
“fully transparent,” Yingli Chairman Liansheng Miao said.  The EU should resolve trade frictions in photovoltaic
products through negotiations, Shen Danyang, a spokesman for the
Chinese Commerce Ministry, said today in a statement on its
website. Limiting China’s solar technology will affect the
development of the global photovoltaic industry and clean
energy, Shen said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  highlighted the political
sensitivity of the dispute during a visit last week to Beijing,
telling reporters “it would be better to solve this in talks.”  Spur Development  The EU has sought to spur the development of renewable
energy including solar power as part of a crackdown on fossil
fuels blamed for global warming. In 2008, the bloc approved
legislation that would more than double the overall share of
energy from renewable sources to an average 20 percent by 2020.  The increased competition from China has slashed profit
margins, cut solar-panel prices and led to bankruptcies in
Europe. Germany’s  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the biggest solar-cell maker,
surrendered its lead in the past four years and sought court
protection from creditors in April.  “We are losing companies in Europe week by week,” Milan
Nitzschke, president of EU ProSun, told reporters today in
Brussels. “We are facing a very, very urgent situation.”  EU ProSun, which has also alleged that Chinese solar
companies receive trade-distorting  government aid , may file a
subsidy complaint against China at the commission in the coming
weeks as a complement to the EU dumping case, he said.  “It could happen that we will also file an anti-subsidy
case,” Nitzschke said. “We are thinking about that.”  Anti-Dumping  In addition to anti-dumping duties, the U.S. introduced
anti-subsidy levies against China’s solar industry earlier this
year.  While China faces more EU anti-dumping duties than any
other nation, the bloc has so far applied anti-subsidy levies
against Chinese goods only once -- on paper. Two separate probes
that were opened earlier this year and continue could lead to
European anti-subsidy duties on Chinese bicycles and steel.  As in a dumping case, the commission has nine months from
the start of any subsidy investigation to decide on provisional
measures. EU governments have 13 months from the beginning of a
subsidy probe -- rather than the 15 months for dumping cases --
to impose “definitive” anti-subsidy duties for five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  