-- China Speeding U.S. Solar-Dumping Case as Election Nears: Energy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-05T18:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/china-speeding-u-s-solar-dumping-case-as-election-nears-energy.html
China  is accelerating a dispute with
the U.S. over solar-energy taxes, moving forward its next salvo
to hit as President  Barack Obama  faces re-election.  China’s  Ministry of Commerce  will make preliminary findings
as early as November, eight months before the deadline, on a
complaint that U.S. manufacturers are dumping polysilicon,
according to officials at  Daqo New Energy Corp. (DQ)  and Jiangsu
Zhongneng Polysilicon Technology Development Co., two of four
companies that brought the case. Ministry officials are visiting
the companies to gather proof of damage.  “We’ll show our financial condition, workforce details and
the impact on income,” Kevin He, investor relations manager for
Daqo, said in an interview. “We hope the government sets
appropriate punishment tariffs to curb dumping and protect us
from damages” from U.S. and South Korean imports.  China’s potential penalties on imported polysilicon, the
most costly material in making solar cells, comes after the
Obama administration announced plans to impose punitive duties
of as much as 250 percent on U.S. imports of Chinese solar
cells. The trade dispute is heating up as Obama seeks re-
election in November. The Chinese government hasn’t said its
move is a retaliatory measure.  The struggle between the world’s biggest energy-consuming
nations centers on state support for the solar industry, a
business both Obama and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  have said is
a priority. Global investment in solar projects rose 61 percent
to $137.8 billion last year.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in Beijing for talks
with Chinese officials, said today that while the two nations
don’t “see eye to eye” on everything, “we are convinced that
our two countries gain far more when we cooperate with one
another than when we descend into unhealthy competition.”  ‘Broader’ Conflict  The biggest U.S. polysilicon producer by capacity is
closely held Hemlock Semiconductor Corp., whose largest market
is China. A spokesman for the Hemlock, Michigan-based company
declined to comment and referred to comments made in July by Dow
Corning Corp. President Bob Hansen.  The Chinese case “is part of a broader trade conflict
extending far beyond the polysilicon and solar industries, as an
escalating number of trade disputes have been initiated
throughout the globe in the last 12 months,” he said.  Chinese ministry officials have already visited Jiangsu
Zhongneng to gather evidence of damage, company Deputy Manager
Lv Jinbiao said in an interview. The company is a unit of
China’s  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , the world’s largest
polysilicon maker by annual production capacity, which is 65,000
metric tons, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commerce Department  Lv and He both said they expect a preliminary decision on
possible duties against U.S. companies as early as November. The
administration of Obama, who has dueled with challenger  Mitt Romney  over Chinese trade policy, said the duties it plans are
necessary to counter Chinese dumping, or selling below cost.  The U.S. Commerce Department announced in May it will
impose sanctions on Chinese solar cells. It set preliminary
tariffs on imports after companies including the U.S. unit of
Germany’s  Solarworld AG (SWV)  said Chinese rivals were selling
products below their costs in the U.S.  The Chinese solar-silicon makers have begun pushing for the
punitive tariffs to be imposed 90 days retroactively after a
decision is announced against U.S. importers, He and Lv said.  “We’re seeing signs that more and more sales are being
lost” because of cheaper U.S. imports Lv said. His company
joined Daqo,  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  and China Silicon Corp. in calling
for the investigation and duties earlier this year.  Polysilicon Prices  Overcapacity and slower demand from  Europe  following a cut
in subsidies has resulted in lower earnings at global suppliers
of solar panel makers. The average spot price of polysilicon has
dropped about 26 percent this year to $20.33 a kilogram. Prices
for silicon-based solar cells have lost about 18 percent to 42
U.S. cents a watt this year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data
shows.  GCL-Poly, based in  Hong Kong , last month reported a
quarterly loss of HK$330 million ($43 million), its first since
the second half of 2009. Daqo said on Aug. 17 that its net loss
in the second quarter was $7.1 million compared with a profit of
$25.7 million a year earlier.  GCL-Poly’s shares traded in Hong Kong have plunged 45
percent this year compared with a 5.4 percent gain for the
benchmark  Hang Seng . Daqo’s shares are down 50 percent in  New
York . The 17-member Bloomberg Industries Global Large Solar
Index has  declined  39 percent in the period.  LDK Solar Co.’s credit rating on Sept. 3 was cut one level
by Shanghai Brilliance Credit Rating & Investors Service Co.,
its second downgrade since June, on the solar-wafer maker’s
operating losses and souring export outlook.  China will take “relevant measures” to require the U.S.
to provide fair treatment to renewable energy goods, according
to a Ministry of Commerce statement released on Aug. 20.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  