-- Christmas Cargo Boosts U.S. Rates as Europe Slumps: Freight
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-05T22:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/christmas-cargo-boosts-u-s-rates-as-europe-slumps-freight.html
The shipping lanes of the Pacific
and Indian Oceans show the diverging fortunes of U.S. and
European consumers ahead of the busiest shopping season of the
year.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s biggest container
line, is among carriers raising rates on Asia-U.S. routes as
three-month-high  consumer confidence  and job growth at the
quickest pace in five months tempt retailers to stock up ahead
of the holiday-shopping rush. By contrast, shipping lines are
cutting capacity to Europe.  “Christmas will come to America, but probably not to
Europe,” Soeren Skou, chief executive officer of A.P. Moeller-
Maersk’s container-shipping arm, said in an interview.  On Asia-Europe routes, Copenhagen-based Maersk and other
lines are paring services as economic confidence at a three-year
low and record euro-area unemployment damp demand. The slowdown
has hit European retailers including  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) 
and  Carrefour SA (CA) , while U.S. chains including  Macy’s Inc. (M) ,
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and Victoria’s Secrets’ parent  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) 
are predicting higher sales.  “Europe is still on a downward trend,” said Wan Min,
executive vice president at  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , parent of
the nation’s biggest container line. “The U.S. will see a mild
growth in shipping demand in the third quarter.”  Maersk expects full-year Asia-North America volumes to
increase as much as 3 percent, compared with a 3 percent decline
on Europe routes, Skou said. The company has pared capacity on
Asia-Europe routes by about 10 percent and it will make cuts in
the fourth quarter, he said.  “We are seeing some of the peak from  Asia  to U.S., but
basically no peak for Asia to Europe,” he said.  Retail Imports  U.S. retailers may boost container imports 7.3 percent this
month from a year earlier and by 13 percent in October as they
stock up for the holidays, according to the Washington-based
 National Retail Federation . The  holiday-shopping season , which
begins in November around Thanksgiving, makes up between 25 and
40 percent of U.S. retailers’ annual sales, the trade group
said.  Maersk plans to raise spot trans-Pacific rates by $500 per
forty-foot container starting Sept. 10. China Cosco is planning
an $800 per twenty-foot container levy starting October 1
because of port congestion.  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) 
intends to increase rates every month until November, said
Managing Director Zhao Hongzhou, without elaboration.  Trans-Pacific container rates have already risen 4.9
percent since the end of July, as shippers retain some gains
from an industry-wide increase at the start of August, based on
a Clarkson Plc index. Asia-Europe rates have fallen 23 percent
in the same period, according to the shipbroker.  European Cuts  The decline has prompted the G6 Alliance, whose members
include  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL) ’s APL Ltd. and  Orient Overseas
International Ltd. (316) , to halt one of six weekly Asia-Europe
services next month. The CKYH alliance will also cut of one of
its five Asia-Europe services starting mid-October. Its members
include China Cosco and Hanjin Shipping Co.  Shipping lines had idled 216 ships, with a capacity of
467,000 containers, by the end of July, four times more than a
year earlier as demand on Asia-Europe routes wanes, according to
Alphaliner, a shipping-industry data provider.  “Europe is still very uncertain,” said Stanley Shen, a
spokesman at Hong Kong-based Orient Overseas. “People are not
spending money.”  Orient Overseas has dropped 11 percent this year in Hong
Kong trading, while China Cosco has tumbled 28 percent. Maersk
is little changed in Copenhagen.  Rising Unemployment  European economic confidence fell to the lowest since 2009
last month and unemployment in the euro area has surpassed 11
percent as governments struggle to contain a sovereign debt
crisis. Countries including the U.K., Spain and  Italy  are all in
recessions.  “In the coming period, everybody will be under pressure,”
Georges Plassat, chairman and chief executive officer at
Carrefour,  Europe ’s largest retailer, said on an Aug. 30
conference call. “Retailers are going to have to face up to
drop in consumption.”  Shipping lines are also contending with  fuel prices  that
have surged 55 percent in the past two years. Operators have
slowed vessels to an  average speed  of 10.44 knots, about 10
percent slower than a year earlier to pare fuel usage and cut
overcapacity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Port Strike  On U.S. routes a possible East- and Gulf-coast dock strike
could disrupt shipments ahead of the holiday season, Shen said.
A one-week stoppage would cause a month-long disruption to
lines’ operations, while a two-week shutdown would take three
months to recover from, he said.  The dispute, which centers on a new labor contract, could
affect ports including  New York ,  Boston  and Houston. The
International Longshoremen’s Association has said it could vote
on a strike from Oct. 1 if negotiations fail to produce a deal.  Still, shipping lines remain more confident about U.S.
demand than European as they head into the holiday-shipping
season, said Zhao of China Shipping Container, the nation’s
second-biggest box carrier.  “The U.S. market is turning gradually better,” he said.
“On Asia-Europe trades, there is much less certainty about
rates.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  