-- Cibor Clears Hurdle, Gazprom Antitrust Probe: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-05T12:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/cibor-clears-hurdle-gazprom-antitrust-probe-compliance.html
The Danish Bankers Association ruled
out the likelihood that the  Copenhagen interbank offered rate 
was manipulated from 2007 through the middle of this year, while
offering to improve oversight of the banks fixing the rate.  “While there’s no evidence that points to misleading Cibor
rates, it’s the  Bankers Association ’s view that there are
grounds for clarifying the rules that guide those setting the
rate,” the group said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. There
is a “need for a public oversight body that will be able to
increase confidence in the rate, given recent criticisms,” the
group said.  The bankers’ association pledged in July to conduct its own
investigation of Cibor after analysts at Swedish bank SEB AB
said the rate had been fixed too high. Cibor serves as a
benchmark for about 20 percent, or $70 billion, of all Danish
residential and commercial property loans. As much as 7.5
trillion kroner ($1.3 trillion) in financial contracts are
affected by the rate, the bankers group said yesterday.  Business Minister Ole Sohn said July 10 his department will
conduct a separate probe.  Joergen Horwitz, the director of the bankers association in
Copenhagen, said in an interview yesterday that he assumes the
government will “stick to its plan” and conduct its own
independent investigation.  The Danish central bank handed over publication of Cibor,
which is based on quotes from lenders including  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , to Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. in April last year,
saying it could no longer “assess the quality” of the rate.
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  ceased providing bids for Cibor last month,
reducing the number of quoting banks to seven.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  ECB’s Draghi Criticizes Global Regulators’ Bank Liquidity Rule  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  criticized the
so-called liquidity coverage ratio rule proposed by global
regulators for lenders, telling lawmakers that the standard
discourages banks from lending to each other.  Draghi made the remarks in a closed-door session of the
European Parliament in Brussels. Bloomberg News obtained a
recording of his comments, some of which were published by
Italian news agency AGI Sept. 3.  Global regulators are split over how far to revise the
draft LCR rule, which would require banks to hold enough easy-
to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. The ECB is
pushing the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to expand the
types of assets banks can use to meet the requirements,
according to three people familiar with the talks.  The central bank presented its plan for overhauling the LCR
during discussions in the Basel committee’s working groups,
including a meeting in New York last month, according to one of
the people, who couldn’t be named because the talks are private.
Its arguments received only limited support, the person said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB referred to the closed-door format
of the hearing and didn’t provide any further comment on
Draghi’s remarks. The ECB has warned regulators that the LCR may
hamper efforts to combat the euro-area debt crisis by curtailing
lending and making it harder for central banks to implement
monetary policies.  For more, click here.  Japan FSA Plans Tougher Penalties to Prevent Repeat of AIJ Fraud  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita said the
regulator will consider boosting the role of trust banks in
preventing fraud by asset management firms.  The Financial Services Agency will also review the
application from Japan Post Bank to begin providing mortgage,
corporate and unsecured loans for individuals, Matsushita said.
The agency will examine the impact of Japan Post’s entry into
loan market on country’s commercial banks, according to the
minister.  Europe Proposes Quota for Women on Big Company Boards, FT Says  The  European Commission  is drafting a proposal for Europe’s
listed companies to reserve at least 40 percent of their non-
executive board seats for women by 2020 or face fines, the
Financial Times reported, citing a copy of the legislation it
has obtained.  The proposal is expected to be introduced next month by
 Viviane Reding , the European Union justice commissioner,
according to the newspaper.  In January, women held 13.7 percent of board positions in
big listed groups, EU data showed, according to the paper.  Compliance Action  Gazprom Faces EU Antitrust Probe Over Gas Sales to Europe  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, faces a
European Union antitrust probe over sales of gas in central and
eastern Europe.  The European Commission  said  it’s investigating whether
Gazprom imposed unfair prices by linking natural gas and oil
prices, prevented gas from being traded between countries and
hindered the diversification of supply.  “Such behavior, if established, may constitute a
restriction of competition and lead to higher prices and
deterioration of security of supply,” EU regulators said in an
e-mailed statement.  The Kremlin questioned the European Union’s timing of the
probe, saying Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly is a
“reliable supplier.”  Gazprom is applying the same, commonly used pricing
formula, linked to oil prices, that it has for years,  Dmitry
Peskov , President  Vladimir Putin ’s spokesman, said by phone
today.  Separately, the company has cooperated with antitrust
regulators’ investigation into its long-term gas supply
contracts with central and eastern Europe, the European
Commission said today.  Gazprom, which supplies about a quarter of European gas,
and customers including RWE, E.ON’s Ruhrgas and Hungary units,
 OMV AG (OMV)  and Poland’s  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe I Gazownictwo SA (PGN) 
were raided by EU officials last year to uncover information on
prices and supplies. Companies found to violate EU competition
rules can be fined as much as 10 percent of annual revenue.  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for Gazprom, couldn’t be
reached for comment immediately on his mobile phone after
working hours in Moscow.  E.ON, Germany’s biggest utility, and RWE negotiated with
Gazprom to weaken the link between gas and oil prices in supply
contracts as oil costs surged. The companies lost hundreds of
millions of dollars as they sold gas to customers at less than
it cost to source. Gazprom agreed to adjust accords with E.ON
over prices for gas under long-term contracts and is in
arbitration with RWE, its main partner for supplying the Czech
Republic.  While Gazprom has yielded to pricing demands from German
and French customers, it has conceded little to countries
further east, which are largely dependent on Russian gas, said
Patrick Heren, a London-based consultant.  Lithuania’s government last year asked the EU to
investigate Gazprom for refusing to cut gas prices after the
state announced it would split ownership of gas sales and
transmission. Gazprom estimates export revenue from sales to
Europe will rise this year to $61 billion from $57 billion last
year, approaching the record $64 billion in 2008, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer  Alexander Medvedev  said on June 20.  Barclays Told by Lawmakers to Hasten Hedging Product Redress  Barclays Plc, the U.K. bank fined for Libor manipulation,
was criticized by lawmakers for being slow to provide redress to
customers that were mis-sold interest-rate hedging products.  The comments were made by nine members of parliament led by
Emma Reynolds in a letter yesterday to the bank’s new Chief
Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins , seen by Bloomberg News.  The bank swung to a net loss in the first half of 410
million pounds ($651 million) after setting aside 450 million
pounds to compensate customers wrongly sold interest-rate
hedging products.  Rate swaps are contracts that convert floating-rate debt
into fixed-rate debt, or vice versa. They are supposed to keep
payments within a specific range. When interest rates fall, for
example, customers might pay less interest on a loan to balance
out the higher cost of the swap.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank, said in July it
set aside $240 million to compensate customers sold interest
rate swaps that later lost them money.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  made a 50 million-pound provision last month.  “In line with the Financial Services Authority review
process guidelines we are prioritizing those clients that are in
financial distress,” London-based Barclays said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Courts  Ex-Porsche CFO Haerter Stands Trial Over $12.5 Billion Bank Loan  Former Porsche SE Chief Financial Officer Holger Haerter
denied allegations he misled a bank when the automaker
refinanced a 10 billion-euro loan ($12.5 billion) in 2009.  The charges are “clearly wrong,” Haerter said today to
reporters before the opening of the trial in Stuttgart, Germany.  Two other managers, identified only as XY and XY, are on
trial with Haerter. They’re accused of understating Porsche’s
liquidity needs by 1.4 billion euros, had all purchase options
it then held on Volkswagen AG shares been exercised.  The case is part of a broader criminal investigation into
allegations investors were misled about Porsche’s plans to take
control of VW and a derivatives strategy it set up as part of
that plan. Stuttgart prosecutors are still probing Haerter and
former Chef Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking on market
manipulation and breach of trust allegations.  Frank Gaube, a Porsche spokesman, declined to comment.  The two companies agreed to combine in 2009 after Porsche
racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in its unsuccessful
hostile bid for VW. Porsche started accumulating VW shares in
2005. A merger between the two companies was scrapped last year
because of the lawsuits.  To avoid further delays, Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW
finally purchased the Porsche auto business and completed the
transaction on Aug. 1.  Chinese Medical Firm Sued by SEC Over Weight-Loss Product  China Sky One Medical Inc. (CSKI)  and its top executives were sued
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over claims they
inflated revenue by about $20 million with fake sales of a
weight-loss product.  The pharmaceutical products firm, which began trading on
U.S. markets after a 2006 reverse merger, claimed in 2007 that a
Malaysian company would become exclusive distributor of its
“slim patch,” generating $1 million a month in sales, the SEC
said yesterday in a lawsuit filed in federal court in
California. Chief Executive Officer Yan-qing Liu certified the
false statements, which appeared in company disclosures through
2010 and continue to affect its balance sheet, the SEC said.  The agency’s suit against China Sky is the latest in a
series of regulatory actions targeting financial statements from
Chinese companies listed on U.S. exchanges. Several companies
have been delisted and the SEC has sued auditors for failing to
hand over information on firms.  The company recorded $19.8 million in revenue from
Malaysian sales in 2007 and 2008, while the distributor bought
only $167,542 in slim patches during that period. The SEC is
seeking financial penalties against China Sky and Liu, and is
also asking the executive to disgorge ill-gotten gains.  China Sky earlier said in a statement that Liu is ill and
would be working “substantially less,” and that 26 mid-level
managers recently resigned, according to the statement.  A phone call outside of normal business hours to a number
listed for the Harbin, China-based company wasn’t answered.
James Masella III, an attorney at law firm Blank Rome LLP in New
York who was listed by the SEC as defense counsel, said he isn’t
currently retained by the company in the matter.  Interviews  Blessing Says Europe Banks Require Common Set of Rules  Martin Blessing , chief executive officer of Commerzbank AG,
speaks in Frankfurt about European Union banking regulation, the
impact of the debt crisis on the financial industry and
political integration.  For the audio, click here.  Rehn, Barnier Comment Before Parliament EU Banking Union  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs  Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  discussed steps toward a banking union.  Rehn, who spoke Sept. 3 before the European Parliament’s
Economic and Monetary Committee in Brussels, also discussed
common euro-area bonds.  For the video, click here.  Separately,  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial
services chief, said he’s confident of striking a balance on the
respective roles of the European Central Bank and national
regulators in the EU’s bank-oversight proposal.  Barnier said national supervisors “will have an important
role to play, like in the past” under “ambitious” proposals
concerning supervision of all banks in the 17-nation euro area,
to be published on Sept. 12. He added that it is “not
imaginable to exercise a direct, centralized supervision for all
the banks.” Barnier made the remarks to reporters after
speaking to European Parliament lawmakers in Brussels yesterday.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said last week
the ECB will need to focus its direct oversight on banks that
can pose a systemic risk to Europe. He made the comment in an
op-ed published Aug. 31 in the Financial Times.  This sort of triage is “common sense,” Schaeuble said.
“We cannot expect a European watchdog to supervise directly all
of the region’s lenders -- 6,000 in the euro zone alone --
effectively.”  Comings and Goings  Osborne Seeks BOE Governor; Economic Analyst Wood Resigns  Former Bank of England policy maker Charles Goodhart said
U.K. finance minister George Osborne may struggle to find a
successor for central bank Governor Mervyn King untainted by the
financial crisis and banking scandals.  “There’s a general impression that whoever gets appointed
needs to be as pure as Caesar’s wife,” Goodhart said in a
telephone interview in London yesterday, referring to Julius
Caesar’s comment that his wife must be above suspicion. “In the
present climate, and after all the events of the past five to
six years, it’s actually quite hard to find a Caesar’s wife.”  Osborne will shortly begin the search for a successor to
King, who is scheduled to retire in June, and his task may have
been complicated after the Libor scandal embroiled several
potential candidates. At the same time, lawmakers are debating
handing the central bank sweeping new powers over financial
stability and bank oversight.  Goodhart, a professor at the London School of Economics who
served as a founding member of the central bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee from 1997 to 2000, said the changes may give
one individual too much responsibility.  Still, the job is doable and its expanded power “makes it
even more important to appoint a really excellent person for
that position,” Goodhart said.  The search for a governor will begin as soon as this month
and the successful candidate may be announced by the end of the
year. Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  and Financial
Services Authority Chairman Adair Turner have been linked to the
job, as has former top U.K. civil servant Gus O’Donnell.  Separately, Bank of England official Robert Wood resigned
as London’s finance industry lured a U.K. economic analysis
manager from the central bank for the second time in less than a
year.  Wood, who led analysis of British data for policy makers,
will join Berenberg Bank this month, said two people with
knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified because
the appointment isn’t yet public. He follows a string of
economists who held the position known inside the central bank
as Head of the U.K. Team, using it as a springboard for jobs in
London’s finance industry.  The move coincides with a second year of pay freezes for
Bank of England staff, adding to the lure of more lucrative City
posts.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 