-- Climate Needs to Move to Top of Political Agendas, Denmark Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-05T10:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/climate-needs-to-move-to-top-of-political-agendas-denmark-says.html
The fight against global warming
should move to the top of the world’s political agenda and the
European Union has to lead the shift to climate-friendly
policies,  Denmark ’s Climate Minister Martin Lidegaard said.  “ Climate change  is not only an environmental time-bomb, it
is a serious threat to our economies and wellbeing,” Lidegaard
wrote in a statement during an online discussion hosted by the
WWF’s Climate and Energy Forum today. “The writing on the wall
is crystal clear: we have to act now.”  The Danish call for more efforts to reduce  greenhouse
gases , which scientists blame for global warming, comes as
climate envoys worldwide ended a week of informal discussions in
Bangkok today to prepare the groundwork for the next United
Nations summit.  The talks were “mired in petty politics” and
governments are “still not showing the ambition,” environment
lobby Greenpeace said in a statement today.  Without further action to lower pollution, the planet is
set to warm by 2.6 to 4.1 degrees Celsius (4.7 to 7.4 degrees
Fahrenheit), according to a report yesterday by Climate Action
Tracker, a project run by three European research groups. That
would mean exceeding the key threshold of 2 degrees Celsius
above pre-industrial level, which UN scientists say may cause
more heat waves, flooding and intense storms.  Climate policies in the past few years have been hamstrung
by the recession and the ensuing concerns that the fight against
global warming was “too costly, given the state of public
finances and depressed economic growth,” according to Dimitra
Mavraki, a former adviser at the Greek environment ministry.  Not an Option  “Our experience indicates that business as usual is not an
option if the economic recovery is to be sustained,” she wrote
in the discussion on the Climate and Energy Forum. “So there is
a need for a clear political support for low carbon technologies
and a new energy mix for EU. To me, the only way out is the
promotion of clean and indigenous sources, such as renewable
energy sources.”  To reduce pollution and reliance on fossil fuels  Europe 
intends to increase the share of renewable energy to an average
of 20 percent by the end of this decade, cut greenhouse gases by
20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels and boost  energy
efficiency  by 20 percent.  Poland’s Environment Minister Marcin Korolec told the forum
that politicians “need to combine climate agenda with the
growth agenda” or risk losing the battle against time.  “Saving energy, driving the development of green
technologies and buying consciously are precisely the right
things to do,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  