-- Colbert, Pepsi CEO, Pear Tree at 9/11 Memorial Benefit
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-09-05T15:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/colbert-pepsi-ceo-pear-tree-at-9-11-memorial-benefit.html
Last night at the 9/11 Memorial
Benefit Dinner,  Stephen Colbert  told guests they’d be eating
“sub-prime rib, a meal bundled from other dinners.”  The main course for almost 1,000 guests at Cipriani Wall
Street turned out to be braised short ribs and a bundle of
asparagus with leeks -- accompanied by the emcee’s convention
humor.  Colbert gestured toward an empty chair to introduce his co-
host,  Clint Eastwood . He also teased guests eager to watch
Michelle Obama at the Democratic National Convention.  “All of us here tonight share the same noble purpose of
not watching the DNC,” Colbert declared.  Joe Daniels, president and chief executive officer of the
National September 11 Memorial & Museum Foundation Inc., had
another purpose in mind: to mark almost one year since the
opening of the memorial in Lower Manhattan. More than 4.5
million people have visited from 170 countries.  Its walls are engraved with the names of the almost 3,000
people killed in the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 and
truck bombing of Feb. 26, 1993.  “I’m really proud of what the memorial has accomplished,”
said  Howard Lutnick , chief executive officer of Cantor
Fitzgerald LP. “It’s timeless, elegant and beautiful and
touching to go there. When I ask people to go, I say, ‘Look for
my brother.’” Gary Lutnick’s name is grouped with other Cantor
Fitzgerald employees who died at the World Trade Center.  Paul Britton, CEO of Capstone Holdings Group LLC, has seen
plans for the museum. “I’m impressed with the gravity of it,”
Britton said. No date has been set for when the museum will
open, said foundation spokesman Sarah Lippman.  Dimon Video  Jamie Dimon , CEO of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , appeared in a
video for honoree E. John Rosenwald, a vice chairman emeritus at
JPMorgan Chase. The head coach of the New York Giants,  Tom Coughlin , and former President Bill Clinton turned up in the
video for honoree  Jonathan Tisch , chairman of Loews Hotels Inc.
and co-owner of the Giants.  Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI)  was recognized for funding the printing
of the memorial guide and providing marketing and information-
technology services.  Indra Nooyi, chairman and CEO of  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , and her
husband, Raj, were benefit sponsors. Christy Ferer, founder and
chairman of Vidicom Inc., was dinner chairman.  Among the guests: Tim Armstrong, CEO of  AOL Inc. (AOL) ; Frank Bisignano, JPMorgan Chase co-chief operating officer; Alan Patricof, of Greycroft Partners LLC; and Blair Effron, of
Centerview Partners LLC.  Survivor Tree  Stephen Barton, who as an intern three years ago worked on
the arrangement of names at the memorial, was presented with a
sapling from its Callery pear Survivor Tree.  On July 20, the 2012 Syracuse University graduate was
wounded by a gunman in a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado. He
had stopped there on a cross-country cycling trip.  “It’s remarkable how arbitrary these events can be,”
Barton said. “It’s one thing to understand it, and another to
live through it.”  He’s deferred a Fulbright fellowship in Russia to work on
gun control in the U.S.  The 9/11 foundation’s chairman is New York City Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 