-- Congress’ Lame-Duck Creates Deal Opening, Sperling Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-05T18:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/congress-lame-duck-creates-deal-opening-sperling-says.html
Congress and President  Barack Obama 
shouldn’t waste the chance to reach an agreement on fiscal
policy in the period between the Nov. 6 election and the end of
the year, said  Gene Sperling , director of Obama’s National
Economic Council.  “In terms of making progress and putting ourselves on a
sound fiscal path, the lame-duck would be a terrible thing to
waste,” Sperling said in a brief interview in Charlotte,  North
Carolina  at the Democratic National Convention.  More than $600 billion of automatic spending cuts and tax
increases are scheduled to take effect in January if Congress
doesn’t act. In 2010 and 2011, Congress and the Obama
administration aligned the deadlines for the spending and tax
provisions to expire, compressing everything into a single
fiscal cliff at the end of 2012.  “We, by agreement, put a gun to our heads to help force
all of us to come together to make progress on a significant
agreement that has to include revenues for those who can most
afford them as well as smart and sound reforms on
entitlements,” Sperling said. “Hopefully, the lame-duck period
will provide the impetus, the incentive, the action-forcing
event for us to come together and do what’s right for the
country.”  Democrats, including Obama, want to let expiring tax cuts
lapse on the top 2 percent of earners. Republicans want to
extend the income tax cuts for everyone.  Both sides want to replace the automatic spending cuts with
other changes; they can’t agree on how to do that.  The new Congress elected Nov. 6 won’t take office until Jan.
3, 2013. Even if Obama loses his bid for a second term, he’ll
remain in office until Jan. 20, 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Charlotte , North Carolina at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  