-- Continental Back in German DAX After Schaeffler Recovery
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-09-06T10:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/continental-returns-to-benchmark-dax-after-schaeffler-recovery.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-
largest auto-parts maker, returned to  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX
index (DAX)  after a 45-month absence in a sign of its recovery from
debt woes that invited a takeover bid from Schaeffler AG.  Continental is joined by  Lanxess AG (LXS) , a maker of synthetic
rubber, in the gauge that tracks Germany’s 30 biggest listed
companies,  Deutsche Boerse  AG, the Frankfurt-based exchange
operator that controls the index, said in a  statement  yesterday.
 MAN SE (MAN)  was taken out of the index after  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  increased
its stake in the truckmaker to more than 75 percent.  Metro AG (MEO) 
was also removed because it no longer fulfilled the criteria.  Continental, based in Hanover, Germany, was dropped from
the DAX after family-owned Schaeffler gained control of more
than 90 percent of the stock. The industrial-bearing maker,
which has since reduced its holding, made the bid in 2008 when
Continental was hampered by loans from the acquisition of the
VDO car-parts business. The auto supplier has since cut debt and
boosted profit by expanding outside Europe.  “The perception of Continental will improve,”  Frank Schwope , an analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale in
Hanover, said before the announcement. “The DAX listing rewards
the company’s good operating results.”  Value Triples  Continental  shares  rose as much as 2.4 percent to 80.90
euros and were up 1.5 percent as of 12:00 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The
stock has gained 67 percent this year, valuing the company at
16.1 billion euros ($20.3 billion),  more than triple  its market
capitalization at the end of 2008.  Continental, also Europe’s second-largest tiremaker, raised
its 2012 revenue and profit outlook in August after second-
quarter earnings jumped on lower raw material costs. Stronger
results and a 1.1 billion-euro share sale in 2010 helped
Continental reduce debt to 6.88 billion euros in June from a
peak of 10.9 billion euros in 2007.  “I am optimistic for the near future,” Chief Executive
Officer Elmar Degenhart said at a press conference in Frankfurt
today. “The return to the DAX is both a recognition and a
motivation.”  He expects Continental to continue to grow faster than
global car markets by 4 to 5 percentage points next year.
Degenhart forecast an increase in worldwide light vehicle
production of as much as 3 percent in 2013, as expansion in
 North America  and Asia offsets stagnation in Europe.  Takeover Backfired  Continental has targeted a return to Germany’s  leading
index  since March 2011 when Schaeffler sold shares as part of a
reorganization.  Schaeffler’s sale increased Continental’s free float to
39.7 percent from 24.9 percent. It still directly holds 49.9
percent of Continental’s  shares . Another 10.4 percent is parked
on its behalf at B. Metzler Seel. Sohn & Co. and M.M. Warburg &
Co.  Schaeffler’s takeover effort ultimately backfired, as more
investors than it expected accepted the offer with markets
collapsing in the midst of the financial crisis. The deal
saddled the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based manufacturer with more
than 10 billion euros in debt.  “We have the unconditional backing and support of our
major shareholder,” Degenhart said today. “The cooperation
worked smoothly in the past three years.”  Independent Operators  While Schaeffler and Continental team up in procurement and
turbo chargers, the companies operate independently. Schaeffler
does not plan to sell additional Continental stock in the near
future, Klaus Rosenfeld, Schaeffler’s chief financial officer,
said on an Aug. 28 conference call. A DAX listing would have no
“immediate implication” on the relationship between the two
companies, he said.  The changes in the composition of the index will take
effect on Sept. 24.  MAN’s free float was reduced as part of VW’s plans to
create a truck-making alliance between its  Scania AB (SCVB)  affiliate,
its own commercial-vehicle operations and MAN.  “The move is based on the change in the shareholding
structure,” said Andreas Lampersbach, an MAN spokesman. “This
is not an issue for MAN. We think we are still attractive for
investors being part of the VW group.”  MAN and Metro will join the DAX Mid-Cap Index, or  MDAX. (MDAX) 
Property developer  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  will also join the MDAX,
replacing engine manufacturer  Deutz AG (DEZ) , which will shift to the
SDAX index of smaller stocks, Deutsche Boerse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  