-- Croatia Pledges Cuts, Savings After Fitch Raises Outlook
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-09-06T09:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/croatia-pledges-more-cuts-savings-after-fitch-raises-outlook.html
Croatia ’s government pledged to
reduce spending, improve tax collection and sell bonds abroad to
finance its  budget deficit  and win further upgrades ahead of its
planned European Union entry next year.  Fitch Ratings  raised Croatia’s outlook yesterday to stable
from negative, citing the government’s progress in meeting
spending-cut demands and reducing the shortfall during a
recession. It affirmed the long-term foreign and local-currency
issuer default ratings at BBB- and BBB, respectively.  Croatia, set to become the EU’s 28th member next July, is
struggling with a recession that’s gripping the Balkans because
of  Europe ’s debt crisis. Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  wants to
reduce the former Yugoslav republic’s spending by 4 billion kuna
($700 million) by lowering subsidies to state companies and
cutting public wages as it integrates with the west.  “The outlook upgrade shows the government enjoys a certain
trust, that our fiscal discipline was recognized, but that there
are still risks ahead,” Milanovic told reporters in Zagreb late
yesterday. “The financial situation in Europe is still
difficult. We have no choice but press on with reforms.”  The yield on the bond maturing in April 2017 declined to
4.600 percent at 11:04 a.m. in Zagreb from 4.662 percent on
Sept. 5, according to mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘On Track’  Fitch said the government is “on track” to meet its
deficit target of 3.8 percent of economic output from this year,
compared with a goal of 5 percent in 2011, “despite the
recessionary environment.”  “The key challenge facing the government will be to
further reduce its deficit and implement structural reforms
against a backdrop of prolonged low  economic growth ,” Fitch
said.  Finance Minister Slavko Linic said yesterday in Zagreb that
he will continue austerity measures and sell state assets to
build on the Fitch upgrade and persuade other rating companies
to follow suit.  An improved outlook will build up investor confidence in
the country and allow the government to seek to sell
international bonds in March or April next year, Linic said.  The effort by Milanovic’s Cabinet, which took power at the
end of last year, has given it a stronger outlook than  Serbia 
and Slovenia, also once republics in the former  Yugoslavia , said
Vladimir Gligorov, an economist at the Vienna Institute for
International Economic Studies.  Upgrade Optimism  “It seems reasonable to feel confident that other credit
rating companies will follow suit, particularly as we plan
considerable investments in energy along with reducing
imports,” Linic said.  National grid Hrvatska Elektroprivreda d.d. may have
“immediate benefits” from the outlook upgrade because it’s
considering a corporate bond sale “in the near future.” he
said.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
downgraded Slovenia last month as the need for additional
capital at state-owned lenders such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d. is likely to further burden state finances. All three
rating companies kept a negative outlook on the country.  In Serbia, the new government of Prime Minister  Ivica
Dacic , a former ally of strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , the
 International Monetary Fund  will visit Belgrade this month to
protest the government’s move to cut the central bank’s
independence.  Better Performance  “Croatia seems to be doing better than its neighbors
Slovenia and Serbia, as the government in Slovenia didn’t seem
to have found the way to face the problems, and they are also
burdened with a huge problem in their banking sector,” said
Gligorov. “Serbia on the other hand needs yet to start with the
program of fiscal consolidation, and has its own set of banking
problems.”  Croatia is rated an equivalent Baa3 at Moody’s, the lowest
investment grade, level with Latvia and Romania. It is rated
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elaine Chan in  New York  at 
 echan77@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  