-- Cyprus Debt to Be Sustainable After Bank Aid, Shiarly Says
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-09-05T14:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/cyprus-debt-to-be-sustainable-after-bank-aid-shiarly-says-1-.html
Cypriot finance minister Vassos Shiarly said rescue funds Cypriot banks will receive for their
recapitalization are unlikely to make the government’s debt
unsustainable, even as the bailout amount remains unspecified.  “In our calculations we believe that there is no such
risk,” Shiarly, a former executive at Bank of Cyprus Plc, the
country’s largest lender, said in an interview in Nicosia
yesterday. “The amount required is not likely to exceed the
amount that will push us into areas of lack of sustainability.”  The east Mediterranean island’s finance minister said that
there is no agreement yet with the so-called troika, of the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , on the exact amount which Cypriot
lenders will require for their recapitalization.  Shiarly said the amount needed which “has not yet been
specified or agreed” is still being discussed. He said the
exact amount required to recapitalize banks is harder to
determine than what the state needs in order to refinance
existing debt.  On June 25, Cyprus, which assumed the European Union’s
rotating presidency in July, became the fifth of the euro area’s
17 member states to seek a rescue, following  Greece , Ireland,
 Portugal  and  Spain , after Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the country’s
second-largest, sought government backing for a 1.8 billion-euro
($2.3 billion) right offering. Two days later, Bank of Cyprus,
the island’s largest lender, sought 500 million euros of
government aid.  ‘Worse Shape’  Troika officials told Cypriot lawmakers on July 27 that the
country’s public finances “are in worse shape than we
expected,” signaling that the bailout may exceed the 10 billion
euros staffers first estimated. The new estimate is in the range
of 12 billion euros to 16 billion euros, a European official
said last month on condition of anonymity.  The discovery of natural gas in the island’s offshore
territory in December, will “make a tremendous difference” in
the future, Shiarly said.  “The mere prospect of gas coming onshore, even within the
next five, six or seven years, is enough to give an impetus and
hope that it will help Cyprus out of its financial
difficulties,” he said. “The current political difficulties
with  Turkey  are not an obstacle to the exploitation of natural
resources.”  Gas Discovery  Houston-based Noble Energy Inc., which holds a natural gas
exploration and exploitation license for block 12 in Cyprus’s
exclusive economic zone, said that it discovered as much as 8
trillion cubic feet of gas, which is Cyprus’s first discovery.
Turkey, which occupies the northern part of Cyprus following a
1974 invasion in response to a Greek inspired coup, urged Cyprus
to freeze oil and gas exploration until a settlement is reached
and sent warships to the area.  Shiarly said the troika submitted to the Cypriot government
in late July a “rough proposal” of the bailout agreement which
has been discussed throughout August with the international
lenders. He said that while talks have made “huge progress,”
there are still areas to be resolved in the next two weeks
before negotiations resume after Sept. 17.  The benefits for Cyprus from a requested 5 billion euro
loan from  Russia  aren’t “necessarily different from those that
would be obtained from a troika loan,” Shiarly said.  He said Cyprus has not received confirmation regarding the
loan from Russia, which would be the second after the
governments in Moscow and Nicosia signed an agreement for a 2.5
billion euro loan last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  