-- Czech Premier Seeks Confidence Vote After Tax Bill Rejected
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-09-06T09:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/czech-lawmakers-reject-tax-bill-necas-plans-confidence-vote-1-.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas is
seeking a confidence vote in his government after the ruling
coalition failed to approve a plan to trim the  budget deficit 
with higher taxes.  Necas, who lost his parliamentary majority in April amid
personnel and budget rows, fell seven votes short of the 101
needed yesterday to override a veto by the Senate of a package
of measures raising state revenue and cutting spending. The
Cabinet approved the same bill today, linking its approval to a
confidence vote in Necas’s administration and asking lawmakers
to finish deliberations on the draft within three months.  “Without this package, it isn’t possible to approve state
budget with public finance deficit below 3 percent of gross
domestic product for next year,” Necas said after yesterday’s
vote. “The Czech government has trust of international
institutions and financial markets, and it will continue to
conduct realistic budget policy based on its credibility.”  Necas is trying to avoid the fate of European leaders who
lost power in a wave of protests against austerity measures
aimed at tackling the euro area’s debt crisis while contributing
to recessions in economies from  Romania  to  Spain .  Borrowing Costs  He credits previous austerity measures with helping reduce
borrowing costs and says the new package, which includes higher
sales taxes, a new levy on the highest incomes and slower
pension growth, will maintain investor confidence by trimming
the deficit to less than 3 percent of economic output next year.  The yield on the five-year Czech koruna bond, which fell to
a record low of 1.145 percent on Aug. 30, climbed to 1.284
percent today, according to generic data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rejection of the “fiscal consolidation package could,
in our view, represent a significant immediate risk for the
stability of the government,”  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Prague, said yesterday before the vote.  Disputes over the budget measures are clouding the
 monetary-policy  outlook as the central bank included the effects
of the new package on the economy in its latest forecasts. The
bank said fiscal austerity would continue to depress household
spending and tame inflation, with the estimate from Aug. 2
assuming declining market interest rates in several quarters
before a rebound in 2014.  The ruling coalition holds 100 mandates in the 200-seat
lower house. Members of Necas’s Civic Democrats criticized the
bill before the vote because it violated principles of the party
that traditionally eschews tax increases. The measures are
needed to cut the 2013 budget  shortfall  to below the European
Union’s limit of 3 percent of economic output, according to
Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek, a deputy of the TOP09 party,
another governing partner.  Borrowing Requirements  A potential coalition break-up shouldn’t be “an imminent
large risk for Czech bonds,” as “the borrowing requirements of
the central government are likely covered this year,” Sindel
said.  The government sold the least debt this year at an auction
yesterday as record-low yields and concern over Necas’s Cabinet
hurt investor demand. The country raised 4.5 billion koruna
($229 million) selling notes maturing in six and 11 years, less
than the maximum target of 6 billion koruna and the least since
December 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on the
2018 debt fell to 1.48 percent, the lowest ever.  The two-year-old Cabinet has cut investment, raised the
sales tax and curbed spending on public wages. The budget
shortfall narrowed to 3.1 percent of gross domestic product last
year, from 4.8 percent in 2010.  Recession  The $215 billion  economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, the third consecutive
 contraction , as households curbed spending in response to
 Europe ’s worsening economy. The  Czech Republic , which isn’t part
of the 17-country euro region, relies on the 27-nation European
Union to buy 80 percent of exports, including from companies
such as carmaker Skoda Auto AS.  It may take several weeks before lawmakers will vote again
on the tax changes and the bill will have to go through regular
legislative process, including a vote in the opposition-
controlled Senate.  Apart from the opposition  Social Democrats , the plan to
raise taxes has also been criticized by President Vaclav Klaus,
an economist who founded Necas’s Civic  Democratic Party , or ODS,
after the collapse of communism two decades ago. Klaus said
raising taxes during a recession would slow growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  