-- Danes Ready to Ditch Premier as Crisis Wrecks Election Vows
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-09-06T16:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/danes-ready-to-ditch-premier-as-crisis-wrecks-election-pledges.html
Danish voters are ready for a change
of government one year after electing Helle Thorning-Schmidt as
the first Social Democratic prime minister in a decade.  Support for the 45-year-old has dropped to 33 percent,
versus 52 percent for opposition and Liberal Party leader Lars Loekke Rasmussen, according to a poll by Megafon published on
Sept. 3. Only 21 percent of voters think she’s a good leader, a
Sept. 5 poll for Ritzau by Voxmeter showed.  Denmark ’s first
female premier is even losing backing among women, with 51
percent supporting the opposition, according to an Aarhus
University review of Gallup polls.  Thorning-Schmidt is being punished for failing to deliver
on an election promise to lead Denmark out of a slump triggered
by its 2008 housing collapse. Instead, she’s reining in spending
as the economy heads for its  second recession  in less than a
year. That’s sparked disagreement within the ruling coalition,
exposing political rifts as voters who were expecting more
welfare spending turn their backs on the government.  “Thorning failed even before the election as her campaign
said nothing of welfare services having to be cut, leaving her
electorate unprepared for the meager years they had in store,”
said  Jacob Kirkegaard , a research fellow at the Washington-based
Peterson Institute for International Economics, in a phone
interview.  Backtracked  The premier has backtracked on key election pledges that
propelled her into power in September 2011, including cutting
bus fares and resurrecting a $2.5 billion early retirement
program. She also pushed reforms to keep Danes at  work  two years
longer until 67 and curbed municipal spending, which had caused
budget overruns for more than a decade.  To blame for the about-face is  Europe ’s debt crisis and its
corrosive effect on exports, the government says. The second-
quarter GDP report, which revealed a 0.5 percent contraction
from the first three months, showed the biggest drag on the
economy was a 4.2 percent slump in business investment as
companies cut purchases of machines, software and construction
materials in anticipation of faltering demand. Households spent
0.9 percent less than in the first quarter.  Thorning-Schmidt’s government on Aug. 27 unveiled a budget
with plans to cut the deficit in half next year as it reduces
corporate subsidies by 2 billion kroner ($340 million) and
raises corporate  tax revenue  by 5.8 billion kroner. The minority
coalition also said it will reduce its domestic borrowing need
by 29 percent in 2013 as the deficit is cut to 1.9 percent of
gross domestic product.  ‘Hasn’t Explained’  “The government hasn’t explained to its electorate why it
reneged on election promises, and  Social Democrats  can’t
recognize the prime minister they voted for,” Peter Hummelgaard
Thomsen, the former head of the Social Democratic party’s youth
wing, said in an interview.  Where Thorning-Schmidt has failed with voters, she’s
succeeded with investors and her hard-line approach on spending
has helped Denmark emerge as a haven from Europe’s debt crisis.
The AAA rated country’s central bank has cut its deposit rate
below zero as it seeks to ward off a capital influx that’s
threatening the krone’s peg to the euro. Denmark’s two-year
yields are negative, meaning investors pay for the privilege of
lending the country money.  Fitch Ratings analyst Maria Malas-Mroueh said yesterday the
country’s AAA rating and stable outlook are safe thanks to the
government’s prudent fiscal policies. The rating company
estimates Denmark’s  budget deficit  will be within the European
Union’s 3 percent threshold in 2013 and 2014.  The premier said in a texted reply to questions on Aug. 27
that the government will get rid of its budget deficit in the
“medium term” as economic growth picks up in the Nordic
country.  Red Green  Her handling of the economy, as well as the European Union
presidency in the first half of 2012, won approval from
analysts. A survey of 78 economists published in the summer by
Copenhagen-based daily Borsen ranked her economic policy above
any proposals by other Danish political parties.  Voters, in contrast, would give her three-party coalition -
- which rules with the backing of the Red Green Alliance -- 77
seats in parliament, compared with 98 seats for Rasmussen’s
Liberal-Conservative coalition, the Voxmeter poll showed. The
next election is due in 2015.  The push for austerity has led the Red Green Alliance,
which wants banks to be nationalized and  unemployment benefits 
to be broadened, to threaten to withdraw its backing. Thorning-
Schmidt’s Social Democrats rule with the Socialist People’s
Party, which want increased spending, and the more tax-cut-
friendly Social Liberal Party.  Tax Cuts?  Margrethe Vestager, the economy minister and leader of the
Social Liberals, said on Aug. 29 after the budget was unveiled
that the government may need to reconsider its tax increases to
boost growth. “We will approach the budget negotiations with an
open mind and are willing to discuss any proposal that
strengthens the Danish economy,” she said.  The Confederation of Danish Industry has also criticized
the government for failing to support employers through its
taxation policy.  “This government has done half right as reforms will boost
labor availability, while it is still short of doing anything to
cut costs for businesses allowing us to create jobs,” said Kent
Damsgaard, the policy director of the confederation, the biggest
Danish employer lobby. “That’s what’s puzzling people as they
may have to work longer but the government hasn’t created any
jobs for them.”  Thorning-Schmidt said she regrets that her government
“simply didn’t do a decent job of explaining itself” to
voters, in an interview with Jyllands-Posten, published Aug. 10.
“We did too much, and it was difficult to find the time to tell
people why we were doing what we did.”  Contract Breach  The economy Thorning-Schmidt inherited from her predecessor
put her “on par with southern European leaders,” Kirkegaard
said. “What Thorning-Schmidt has done is straight out of the
textbook for what peripheral crisis economies must do.”  Danish voters had been accustomed to 10 years of a tax-
freeze and spending increases under Rasmussen and Anders Fogh
Rasmussen before him. Both leaders had followed a strict program
of so-called contract politics, enacting laws flagged to voters
years earlier.  “Many voters sees what the government has done as a breach
of a contract,” said Simon Kleis Nielsen, a lecturer at
Roskilde University. “That’s how most voters would perceive it
after the years with Fogh Rasmussen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  