-- Deere Issues Record Debt as Profit Falters: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-09-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/deere-issues-record-debt-as-profit-falters-corporate-finance.html
Deere & Co. is selling more debt
than at any time in its history, exploiting demand from
investors who are charging unprecedented low  interest rates  even
as the world’s largest maker of  farm equipment  said it won’t be
as  profitable  as forecast.  A $1 billion offering from Deere’s finance unit of three-
and five-year notes at its lowest coupons brings its 2012
issuance to $7.35 billion, exceeding the total in any previous
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Average yields on
the company’s bonds fell even after Deere said net income in the
year ending Oct. 31 will be $250 million less than a May
estimate.  Deere is boosting debt sales as it contends with slowing
revenue in Asia and  Latin America  that threatens to undermine
Chief Executive Officer Sam Allen’s goal of reaping at least
half its revenue from outside the U.S. and  Canada  by 2018.
Equity investors are  paying the least  for the Moline, Illinois-
based tractor maker’s sales since November 2009.  “You have slower growth but you still have growth, and so
from a credit metric perspective the company still looks
solid,” Jeffrey Cannon, an analyst at Chicago-based  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN) , said in a telephone interview. “It’s a great time to
issue debt because rates are low and spreads are tight.”  ‘Significant Debt’  John Deere Capital, which issues obligations to help
finance the sale of the parent company’s equipment, sold equal
$500 million portions of 0.7 percent notes due in 2015 that
yielded 42 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries
and 1.2 percent bonds maturing in 2017 with a 62 basis-point
spread, Bloomberg data show. The coupons were the lowest ever
among its similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds.  “Deere had significant debt maturities to refinance this
year in addition to growth in the credit portfolio,”  Ken Golden , a spokesman at Deere, said in an e-mail. Deere is  ranked 
A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, its sixth-highest level, and an
equivalent A by  Standard & Poor’s .  Average yields of 1.74 percent on $14 billion of
outstanding Deere obligations compare with 1.79 percent among
industry peers and 2.63 percent for similarly-rated corporate
borrowers, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Deere bonds yielded 1.85 percent on Aug. 14, a day before
the company reported third-quarter profit that failed to meet
analyst estimates, its first miss in 11 quarters.  Seeking Yield  Demand for corporate bonds is rising as investors seek the
extra yield offered by company debt relative to the declining
rates on  government securities . That’s helped push borrowing
costs on U.S. investment-grade bonds to a record low 2.98
percent as of Aug. 31, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  “Investors are seeing safety in high quality credit names,
like Deere, and are also looking for any incremental yield in an
environment of extremely low yields,” Alan Shepard, an analyst
at Madison, Wisconsin-based Madison Investment Holdings Inc.,
which oversees about $16 billion and holds Deere bonds, said in
an e-mail message.  Net income this year will be $3.1 billion, down from a May
forecast of $3.35 billion, Deere said in an Aug. 15 statement.
After rising 15 percent this year, revenue may increase at a 4
percent pace in 2013, the slowest since declining in 2009,
according to  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Deere’s Allen is targeting developing economies such as
Argentina and  India  as the company aims for $50 billion in
annual revenue by 2018. Deere generated $32 billion in sales
last year, 39 percent of which came from  outside the U.S.  and
Canada, Bloomberg data show.  Foreign Sales  Asia  sales will drop “moderately” in the full year
because of “softening” in India and  China  while South American
sales will be 5 percent to 10 percent lower this year, according
to the third-quarter earnings statement.  Even as investors seek the corporate obligations of Deere,
its shares  have dropped  7.5 percent since Aug. 14 to $74.12
yesterday. A price-to-sales ratio of 0.86 as of Aug. 28 has
declined from 1.16 in January, Bloomberg data show.  “Equity investors are more motivated by the future growth
prospects” that have deteriorated, Shepard said.  Deere’s bond offerings this year account for 13 percent of
the $55 billion of dollar-denominated debt the company has
issued since 1973, Bloomberg data show.  Deere & Co. (DE)  accounts for
about $8.5 billion of the company’s $31 billion of  total debt ;
its John Deere Capital unit has $19.9 billion.  Average Maturity  The company has  pushed out  the length of its debt, with a
$1.25 billion sale of 3.9 percent securities due in three
decades helping to extend the average maturity of its
obligations to 5.72 years, from 3.96 years in 2011.  The 3.9 percent notes were part of a $2.25 billion offering
in June, the  parent company’s  first debt sale since 2009,
Bloomberg data show. Proceeds from that sale were to be used for
working capital and other general corporate purposes, the
company said in a regulatory filing in June.  “Deere, like other high-quality issuers, is taking
advantage of near-perfect issuance conditions to improve its
funding structure despite some short-term challenges to its
sales and earnings growth,” Carol Levenson, director of
research at Chicago-based Gimme Credit LLC, said in an e-mail
message.  Developing Economies  While profit expectations were lowered from the second-
quarter outlook, the most recent forecast would still amount to
an 11 percent increase from 2011 and a third-straight year of
rising profit, Bloomberg data show.  “Deere is a high-quality credit with a track record of
impeccable financial policies,” Kristina Regan, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in  New York , wrote in a report last month.
“Credit metrics still remain solid for the ratings tier and at
the top of management’s cash priorities is maintaining Deere’s
strong ratings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  