-- Del Piero Joins Sydney as Australia’s Biggest Soccer Import
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-06T02:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/del-piero-signs-contract-with-australian-soccer-club-sydney-fc.html
Alessandro Del Piero sought a new
challenge after ending his record-breaking 19-year soccer career
with Italian champion Juventus. He found it in Australia.  Del Piero, a World Cup winner with  Italy  in 2006, will
become the highest-profile player to compete in Australia’s A-
League after signing a two-year contract in Turin yesterday to
become Sydney FC’s so-called marquee player.  “I was lucky to win everything during my career and to end
it in Italy winning once again with the team of my life:
Juventus,” Del Piero, 37, said on his  website . “I was looking
for something new, something different, something that wouldn’t
have things in common with my past.”  Sydney had faced competition from clubs in  England ,
 Switzerland  and  Scotland  to sign Del Piero, who became a free
agent in May after scoring 289 goals in a record 704 matches for
Juventus. He also played 91 games for the Italian national team
and his 27 goals put him in a tie for fourth place on the
country’s all-time goalscorers’ list.  Sydney has been a pioneer in bringing high-profile players
to the A-League, which replaced the National Soccer League as
 Australia ’s flagship competition seven years ago.  The club, which won the A-League championship in 2006 and
2010, made former Manchester United striker Dwight Yorke its
first marquee signing in 2005 and also brought Brazilian World
Cup winner Juninho to Australia in 2007.  Salary Cap  For the 2012-13 season, A-League rules allow clubs to sign
an international player outside the team salary cap of $A2.48
million ($2.5 million). Del Piero will get about $2 million a
season, making him the highest-paid player in Australia’s four
football codes, the Sydney Morning Herald  reported .  “Alessandro Del Piero is a global icon of the game and we
are honored he has chosen Sydney FC, ahead of many other
options, as the club where he will begin the next chapter of his
illustrious football career,” club chairman Scott Barlow said.  Sydney will be Del Piero’s third senior club. He began his
professional career at Padova, playing 14 games before being
signed by Juventus in 1993.  During nearly two decades with Juve, Del Piero won six
Italian Serie A championships, one Champions League title and
the Intercontinental Cup. In 2004, he was named in the FIFA 100,
a list of the 125 greatest living soccer players selected by
Pele as a part of the governing body’s centenary celebrations.  Like Beckham  “This is the biggest signing that Australian football will
ever see,” former Australia and AC Milan goalkeeper Zeljko Kalac, Sydney FC’s goalkeeping coach, said in an interview with
Fox Sports News. “This is exactly like  David Beckham  going to
America. Alessandro Del Piero is our David Beckham.”  Football Federation Australia, which runs soccer in a
country where it competes with rugby union, rugby league and
Australian rules football for fans and corporate support, said
Del Piero’s presence will help grow the A-League. The
competition’s eighth season begins Oct. 5.  “All clubs will benefit when Alessandro comes to town,”
FFA Chief Executive Officer Ben Buckley said today in a
statement. “His stature in international football is well
known, but it’s his desire to put back into the game and create
a legacy in Australia that’s so impressive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  