-- Democrats Drop Jerusalem Pledge From Party Platform
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-09-05T14:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/democrats-drop-jerusalem-pledge-from-party-platform.html
The  Democratic Party  platform
omitted a passage that declared Jerusalem the capital of Israel,
a move giving Republican  Mitt Romney  a fresh opening to cast
President  Barack Obama  as a weak supporter of the U.S. ally.  “President Obama and the Democratic Party maintain an
unshakable commitment to Israel’s security,” states the start
of the section of the Democratic platform related to the  Middle
East . The three-paragraph statement vows an “enduring
commitment” to Israel, advocates for a two-state solution in
the conflict with Palestinians and promises to increase spending
on security.  It says nothing, though, about Jerusalem -- a change from
four years ago, when Democrats stated unequivocally that
“Jerusalem is and will remain the capital of Israel.”  Romney, who long has criticized Obama for his stand on
Israeli security, called it “unfortunate that the entire
Democratic Party has embraced” the president’s “shameful
refusal to acknowledge that  Jerusalem  is Israel’s capital.”  “As president, I will restore our relationship with Israel
and stand shoulder to shoulder with our close ally,” Romney
said in a statement released by his campaign yesterday.  Democrats said the platform didn’t represent a weakening of
their support for Israel and said the Obama administration has
taken the same position on Jerusalem as past presidents.  Democratic Response  “As the White House said several months ago, the status of
Jerusalem is an issue that should be resolved in final status
negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians -- which
we also said in the 2008 platform,” Democratic National
Committee spokeswoman Melanie Roussell said in a statement today.
“This is just another attempt by the Romney campaign to turn
our support for  Israel  -- which has always been bipartisan --
into a partisan wedge issue by playing politics.”  Republican and Democratic leaders have called for Jerusalem
to be the undivided capital of Israel, and they frequently
promise to move the U.S. embassy to there from  Tel Aviv  -- a
pledge that plays well with many Jewish voters in pivotal swing
states such as Florida and Ohio.  The vow is almost entirely about domestic politics: Once in
office, politicians have done little to enforce the policy,
largely because it would undermine attempts to forge a peace
deal in the region. Palestinians would like to locate the
capital of a future state in East Jerusalem, dividing the city
with Jewish leaders.  Bush’s Position  Then-candidate  George W. Bush  declared in a 2000 speech
before the American Israel Public Affairs Committee that he
would move the U.S. embassy “as soon as” he took office. Six
months after taking office, he signed a waiver putting off the
move -- a decision he reauthorized for the rest of his
presidency.  Obama, too, called for Jerusalem to remain the undivided
capital four years ago, in a speech before the American Israel
Public Affairs Committee.  While Jewish voters overwhelmingly backed Obama four years
ago, support for him among them has softened, according to some
polls, amid concerns that the administration is being too tough
on Israel and reports of a tense relationship between Obama and
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu . Romney included a
stop in Israel during a trip overseas in July and met with
Netanyahu, a longtime friend.  Romney’s campaign doesn’t expect to win a majority of the
Jewish votes, though they see an opportunity to gain enough to
change the outcome in a few swing states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  