-- Deutsche Bank Said to Cut 85 Equities Jobs in Tokyo, HK
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-09-05T09:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/deutsche-bank-said-to-cut-equities-division-jobs-in-hong-kong.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
lender, is eliminating about 85 jobs at its Japan and Hong Kong
equities units as Europe’s widening debt crisis curbs economic
growth in Asia.  The bank cut about 15 positions in  Tokyo  yesterday, and
plans to tell 30 employees in equity research, sales and trading
today that they will be dismissed, three people with knowledge
of the matter said. The Frankfurt-based company trimmed 40 jobs
in Hong Kong yesterday, according to another person, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private.  Co-Chief Executive Officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen
are paring costs amid declining investment banking revenue and a
slump in Asian  equity markets . The lender  said  on July 31 that
it will reduce about 1,900 jobs, mainly outside of Germany,
including 1,500 positions in corporate banking and securities
and related infrastructure areas. Total job cuts across Asia
amount to about 100 employees, one of the people said.  “The adjustments were part of the global program announced
on July 31 and there is no change in our full-service equity
offering,” Amy Chang, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for
Deutsche Bank, said by phone today of the local cuts.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has declined more than 8
percent since the end of March.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has
dropped 6.9 percent and Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average has
slid 14 percent.  Global Reductions  Deutsche Bank’s Hong Kong reductions account for about 10
percent of the unit’s workforce, mostly sales and trading
positions, said the person. The Financial Times reported on the
Hong Kong redundancies earlier today.  Deutsche Bank was little changed at 27.72 euros at 11:35
a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has fallen 5.9 percent so
far this year.  Global banks have been reducing equities jobs as trading
volumes slump. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the Wall Street bank
that generated 58 percent of first-half revenue from sales and
trading, eliminated 20 to 30 jobs in that division in the U.S.,
a person briefed on the matter said on Aug. 15.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest state-
owned lender, said in March that it will shut its cash equities,
 equity capital markets  and corporate finance units in  Korea , as
well as cash equities operations in Indonesia and Singapore.
About 70 people will be affected.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s biggest investment bank,
cut about 20 people, or 10 percent of its investment banking
workforce in Asia outside of Australia, two people with
knowledge of the departures said on Feb. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  