-- Dhoot Said to Seek $3 Billion for Africa Gas Block Stake
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-09-05T12:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/dhoot-said-to-seek-3-billion-for-africa-gas-block-stake.html
Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF) , controlled
by Indian billionaire Venugopal Dhoot, is seeking $3 billion for
its stake in a  Mozambique   gas field , said a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  Videocon, which runs businesses from making flat-screen
television sets to operating mobile-phone services, is in talks
with companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the person said,
asking not to be identified because the discussions are private.
Videocon may find a buyer for the stake in about six months, the
person said.  Selling its 10 percent share in the block in Mozambique,
home to the world’s biggest gas discovery in a decade, will help
the group pay 200 billion rupees ($3.6 billion) of debt and
reclaim mobile-phone licenses in  India  that were canceled by the
nation’s top court earlier this year. Videocon may also sell its
phone business in two years to focus on consumer electronics and
hydrocarbons, the person said.  “The valuation Videocon is seeking certainly looks fair,
given the quantities of gas that have been discovered,” said
Deven Choksey, managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “Funding the entire Mozambique
project would put great stress on their finances.”  Dhoot didn’t answer two calls made to his mobile phone
today, while Shell’s spokesman Jonathan French declined to
comment.  Racing to Develop  Energy companies are racing to develop new production in
 East Africa , one of the world’s least-explored oil and gas
regions, to meet rising demand from consumers in  Asia . Videocon
agreed to pay $75 million for the stake in Mozambique’s  Rovuma-1 
area in 2008 to  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which leads the group
exploring the reserve.  Bharat Petroleum (BPCL)  Corp., India’s second-largest state
refiner, and  Cove Energy Plc (COV) , are among the other investors in
the field where natural gas equal to as much as six times the
U.K.’s existing reserves have been found.  Shell in July dropped out of a race to buy Cove Energy,
which owns 8.5 percent of the block, leaving Thailand’s  PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  as the only bidder. PTT
Exploration’s offer values Cove Energy at 1.2 billion pounds
($1.9 billion).  Videocon, which has  dropped  3.7 percent in the past year,
dropped 0.1 percent to 173.75 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai, after gaining as much as 1.1 percent, giving it a market
capitalization of about $1 billion. Profit at the company,
excluding subsidiaries, fell 26 percent to 5.5 billion rupees in
the year ended March.  ‘Big Resource’  Shell, Europe’s largest oil producer, has also begun talks
with Anadarko over buying some or all of its stake in the
Rovuma-1 license, people with knowledge of the matter said in
July.  “It’s a big resource,” Shell’s Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Voser  said on an analysts conference call on July 26 when
asked about energy explorations in East Africa. “The valuation
has to be right, and that’s where we took a view on Cove. We
took a view on the valuation but we also took a view on the
process itself, and therefore we will look at other
opportunities if they come along.”  Rovuma-1 ’s reserves of as much as 60 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable gas is enough to support the construction of
liquefied natural gas terminals for exports to Asia, including
India. Bharat Petroleum, which also owns a 10 percent stake in
the area, may spend $2 billion as its share of the cost of
developing the $20 billion gas project, Chairman R.K. Singh said
in June.  Borrowing Plan  Videocon plans to borrow as much as $1.4 billion to pay for
its share of the development even as it looks for a buyer, the
person said. The loan, which the company plans to raise by
October, will be dollar-denominated and will have a tenure of
six to eight years and pay an interest rate of 300 basis points
to 350 basis points over libor, the person said.  Videocon also owns stakes in four oilfields in  Brazil  and
will wait to complete exploring the area before deciding on
selling the shares, the person said.  Reducing  debt  will help Mumbai-based Videocon bid for
mobile-phone licenses at home after the nation’s  Supreme Court 
canceled 21 of Videocon Telecommunications Ltd.’s licenses,
among the 122 permits it scrapped in February. The Indian joint
ventures of  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  and
Russia’s AFK Sistema were also among those who lost their
licenses.  Mobile-Phone Licenses  The court canceled the licenses after sale of the permits
in 2008 sparked the nation’s biggest corruption probe and led to
the jailing of a former minister. India’s auditor said in a 2010
report the sale of the airwaves lacked transparency and
ineligible bidders bought them at “unbelievably low” prices,
denying the treasury of as much as $31 billion.  India is divided into 22 telecommunications zones and an
operator needs to seek a license and spectrum for each zone to
operate in it.  Videocon plans to bid as much as 45 billion rupees to
reclaim licenses that were canceled, the person said. India last
month set a minimum price of 140 billion rupees for bidding for
nationwide airwaves.  Videocon had 5.58 million mobile-phone users at the end of
June, or 0.6 percent of India’s mobile market, according to data
from India’s telecommunications regulator. India is the world’s
second-largest mobile market after  China , with 934 million
wireless connections.  Videocon is likely to secure seven or eight of its original
licenses, the person said. It will focus on smaller, more
sparsely-populated telecom zones, and will not attempt to keep
licenses in major cities such as Mumbai,  New Delhi  and  Chennai ,
where bidding is likely to escalate, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  