-- Don’t Make Banks Too Small to Succeed
-- B y   P h i l l i p   S w a g e l
-- 2012-09-05T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/don-t-make-banks-too-small-to-succeed.html
Calls by former Citigroup Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Sanford Weill and others to break up the big
banks reflect lingering public fear and anger toward financial
institutions that seem too big to fail.  These calls, however, ignore the unintended consequences of
making our global banks too small to succeed: Much of the
business will migrate to non-U.S. banks and the less-regulated
shadow banking sector. Weill and the rest also neglect to
consider key reforms that protect taxpayers from a potential
failure.  In a global economy, there is a need for financial
institutions with scale and global capacity. Large banks offer
their customers products, services and infrastructure that
smaller banks cannot match, from multicity branch networks to
global coverage that lowers costs. Philadelphia-based chemical
company  FMC Corp. (FMC) , for example, relies on large banks to fund
its $1.5 billion revolving  credit line  and to offer worldwide
support for its financing needs.  The global transaction services that big banks provide to
governments, multinational corporations and institutions simply
couldn’t be replicated as efficiently or as cheaply by smaller
banks, or even a patchwork of smaller ones. As JPMorgan Chase &
Co. CEO Jamie Dimon recently  pointed  out, it takes a certain
scale to offer a $5 billion credit line.  Progress Made  Too-big-to-fail is a serious issue, but there has been more
progress on this front than is widely understood. The orderly
 liquidation authority  in the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial-reform
law means that large banks can and will be allowed to fail in
the future. Dodd-Frank allows the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. to keep a failing bank running, but shareholders will be
wiped out and bondholders, not taxpayers, will cover any
government losses.  The law prohibits bondholders from receiving a taxpayer
bailout and instead requires them to take “haircuts.” This
means that investors thinking of providing funding to a risky
bank know in advance that they will take losses if things go
bad. This reverses the previous advantage of large banks in
obtaining low-cost funding from investors who expected to be
made whole from a government bailout.  Orderly liquidation authority isn’t perfect. There will
still be government intervention in financial markets, and Dodd-
Frank formalizes that. But the intervention will impose costs on
bank investors, which in turn will reduce large banks’ funding
advantage. Some argue that this broad power is insufficient, and
that banks over a certain size should be told to shrink or be
forcibly broken up. This argument is based on faulty analysis.  First, it overstates the danger that big banks pose to the
U.S. economy post-Dodd-Frank. Unlike in other regions, the U.S.
financial system is small relative to the economy it supports,
after adjusting for different accounting standards. According to
the  Federal Reserve , the assets of the top five  U.S. banks  equal
56 percent of gross domestic product. The five largest German
banks have assets that total 116 percent of GDP and in the U.K.,
the top five are at 309 percent of GDP, according to their
central banks.  In addition, growth in the formal banking sector over the
past 20 years has lagged behind the increase in U.S. exports and
the gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index over the same
period. There is arguably less capital in the banking sector
than needed to support strong U.S. growth.  Second, the break-up-the-banks argument underestimates the
negative consequences of forced downsizing. Some services
offered by big American lenders will migrate to regional and
community banks and  credit unions , which are vital participants
in a well-diversified U.S. financial system. But large banks in
other countries and lightly regulated firms in the shadow
banking system will snatch up a great deal of the business.  Shadow Banks  Shadow banks are almost three times the size of the formal
banking sector, and they are less transparent and less
regulated, even with heightened attention from the newly created
Financial Stability Oversight Council. Lending through shadow
banking channels such as securitization or  repurchase agreements 
might not be covered by a taxpayer guarantee, but failures in
these parts of the financial system during the crisis brought
about government intervention all the same.  One need only look at the situation with money-market
mutual funds, where one fund’s failure during the crisis put the
entire economy at risk and required the government to intervene.
This part of the shadow banking system has fended off badly
needed reform. Far from ending too-big-to-fail, breaking up the
banks would merely push business into even larger overseas banks
or to financial firms with less oversight.  Too-big-to-fail needed to be addressed. It was. Breaking up
large banks imposes economic costs without corresponding
benefits in terms of financial stability. It would be better to
focus on making the overall system safer without handing an
advantage to one part of the financial system over the other.  (Phillip Swagel, a professor at the University of
Maryland’s School of Public Policy, was assistant secretary for
economic policy at the Treasury Department from December 2006 to
January 2009.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether  we’re better off  than
four years ago, on why  Quebec’s separatism  is a dead end and on
the disasters that await the end of  Europe’s summer torpor ;
 Susan Antilla  on checking if your  broker is a crook ;  Caroline
Baum  on why Americans  should like Mitt Romney ;  Margaret Carlson 
on the impossible  politics of abortion ; Jonathan Mahler on
 Stephen Strasburg’s false choice .  To contact the writer of this article:
Phillip Swagel at  pswagel@umd.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 