-- Dubai Shares Fall on Concern Rally Is Overdone; Kuwait Rises
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-09-05T13:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/dubai-shares-fall-on-concern-rally-is-overdone-kuwait-rises.html
Dubai’s  shares  fell for the second
time this week amid concern the recent rally was overdone and as
investors awaited third-quarter earnings.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank
by assets, fell the most in more than a week, while logistics
company  Aramex PJSC (ARMX)  dropped the most since Aug. 28.  Drake &
Scull International PJSC (DSI) , the Dubai-based electrical and
mechanical engineering company, retreated 1.4 percent. The  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  declined 0.3 percent to 1,550.13 at the close,
while the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index was little changed.  Dubai’s benchmark index has still gained 6.8 percent this
quarter amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will act to
boost growth in the world’s biggest economy and as  oil prices 
climbed. It has lost 2.4 percent in the two weeks since Aug. 23.  “There was some foreign institutional interest in names
like Emaar through the summer but there is a lack of regional
catalysts to drive the market higher in the third quarter,”
Amer Khan, a  fund manager  at the asset management division of
 Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , said by e-mail. “Consolidation at these
levels would be a big positive going into third-quarter
earnings.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke , in an Aug. 31
address to central bankers and economists at Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, defended the effectiveness of unconventional monetary
policies such as bond purchases and signaled he would soon
deploy them again to attack unemployment. An unexpected drop in
Chinese manufacturing in August spurred bets the government will
announce further measures to stimulate the economy.  2012 Gain  Emirates NBD fell 1 percent to 3.03 dirhams, while Aramex
dropped 1.1 percent to 1.79 dirhams. Drake & Scull declined to
861 fils.  “Investors will look for reasons to put capital to work
and hopefully with the fundamental picture in Dubai continuing
to improve they’ll find it through the earnings season,” Khan
said.  Dubai’s benchmark index has advanced 15 percent this year,
the most in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council. The measure
dropped  17 percent  last year and 9.6 percent in 2010. The index
trades at a price-earnings multiple of 14.2.  Dubai’s economy has improved this year helped by a rebound
in tourism, trade and logistics. Passenger traffic at Dubai
International Airport, home to the world’s biggest international
airline, Emirates, rose 12 percent in the seven months through
July to 32.9 million, the state-owned facility said today.  Elsewhere in the region, Bahrain’s measure rose 0.2
percent. Qatar’s QE Index fell 0.2 percent and Kuwait’s gauge
increased 0.3 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  measure  added 0.2 percent and
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  retreated 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  