-- Dutch Limit Derivative Sales to Social Housing in Wake of Losses
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-09-05T11:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/dutch-limit-derivative-sales-to-social-housing-in-wake-of-losses.html
The  Netherlands  placed greater
restrictions on banks’ derivative sales to affordable-housing
providers after Stichting Vestia Groep unwound billions of euros
of soured  interest-rate swaps  at a loss this year.  Housing associations will only be permitted to purchase so-
called payer swaps and interest-rate caps from Oct. 1, Interior
Minister Liesbeth Spies  said  in a statement on the ministry’s
website today. They can only buy derivatives from banks that
agree to consider them non-professional investors, she said.  Vestia, which owns 89,000 homes and is based in Rotterdam,
lost 1.3 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of collateral as part of a
deal reached in June to unwind derivatives and repay 700 million
euros to nine banks, including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank
AG. (DBK)  The agreement stopped the organization from having to post
more collateral if interest rates kept falling.  Spies “wants to prevent corporations taking irresponsible
risks in future,” according to the statement. “Vestia
struggled with big liquidity issues as it had to add collateral
to the bank because of dropping  interest rates . It also
speculated with complex derivative products.”  The Netherlands has about 400 housing organizations, of
which 162, excluding Vestia, had 17.9 billion euros in
derivative contracts as of Dec. 31, a  supervisory body  said on
June 4. That compared with lending of 62.2 billion euros. Vestia
alone had amassed interest-rate swaps with a value of 22 billion
euros, compared with 6.1 billion euros of loans, the
organization said in February.  Housing organizations using derivatives will be forced to
maintain a buffer that allows them to handle an interest-rate
drop of two percentage points, Spies said.  Payer swaps, contracts in which a housing firm pays a fixed
rate on loan while receiving a variable rate, will be capped at
a duration of 10 years, Spies said. Interest-rate caps provide
insurance that limits interest payments to a certain maximum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  