-- Heating Oil Falls as Gulf Coast Plants Start After Isaac
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-09-05T18:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/heating-oil-falls-as-gulf-coast-plants-start-after-isaac.html
Heating oil fell as Gulf Coast
refineries started up after Hurricane Isaac last week knocked
out 13 percent of the region’s fuel-making capacity.  Futures sank to a one-week low on speculation that
production will increase, rebuilding supplies that dropped as
flooding, power losses and disruption of crude oil supplies shut
seven refineries and reduced output at four others. Valero
Energy Corp. said most production units are back online today at
its two Louisiana refineries.  “The inventory draws were due largely to a hurricane and
things are going to return to normal,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut.  Heating oil for October delivery fell 2.92 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $3.1176 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Supplies of heating oil, diesel and jet fuel probably
decreased 1.55 million barrels last week, according to the
median estimate of 12 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg. It
would be the first decline in four weeks. The Energy Department
is scheduled to report last week’s inventories at 11 a.m.
tomorrow in Washington, one day later than usual because of the
Sept. 3 U.S. Labor Day holiday.  Stockpiles of gasoline probably fell 3 million barrels last
week, the sixth straight decline, according to the survey.
Phillips 66 said today its Alliance refinery in Louisiana, one
of seven plants shut because of the storm, lost power during a
restart.  “Obviously, there are ongoing concerns about how fast the
refineries can get back up,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  October-delivery gasoline declined 0.24 cent to settle at
$2.9498 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, was
unchanged at $3.824 a gallon yesterday, AAA data showed. The
average has climbed 49.8 cents from the year-to-date low of
$3.326 on July 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net 
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 