-- Egypt’s OCI to Build $1.4 Billion Fertilizer Plant in Iowa
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-09-05T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/egypt-s-oci-to-build-1-4-billion-fertilizer-plant-in-iowa.html
Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) ,
Egypt’s biggest publicly traded company, said it will build a
$1.4-billion fertilizer plant in  Iowa , the biggest investment in
the state’s history.  The planned project, with an annual production capacity of
1.5 to 2 million tons, will take advantage of low natural-gas
prices and growing U.S. demand for fertilizers, Chief Executive
Officer  Nassef Sawiris  said in a telephone interview from  New
York  yesterday. OCI is also finalizing an acquisition of Des
Moines-based Weitz Co., a construction company that will assist
in building the plant, he said.  The investment is OCI’s second in the U.S., following the
phased start of production at its $250 million ammonia and
methanol plant in Beaumont,  Texas , over the last year. The plant
will be based in Lee County and is planned to start production
in 2015, Sawiris said. Iowa is the biggest corn-producing state
and the largest consumer of nitrogen-based fertilizer, according
to OCI.  Increasing U.S. natural gas reserves and growing demand for
fertilizers have been “game changers,” Sawiris said, making
the project “a very attractive investment.”  Backlog  The project will be financed using equity and a tax-exempt
bond issuance, according to the company’s statement. Iowa has
approved $100 million in tax breaks for the project, which will
employ 2,500 people, it said.  Sawiris declined to disclose details about the acquisition
of Weitz because the negotiations haven’t been completed. The
company had a backlog of $787.7 million as of the end of June,
which the company expects to increase by about 30 percent when
it starts work on the fertilizer plant.  OCI shares  were little changed at 284.15 pounds at the
close in Cairo. The stock has climbed 41 percent this year,
compared with a 52 percent increase for the benchmark  EGX 30
Index (EGX30) , valuing the company at 59.4 billion pounds ($9.7
billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  