-- Telefonica Leads Corporate Bond Rush Amid Record Low Yields
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-09-05T16:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/telefonica-leads-corporate-bond-rush-amid-record-low-yields-1-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone
company, and France Telecom SA took advantage of record-low
relative yields to sell bonds in euros, spurring the busiest
week for corporate fundraising since March.  Telefonica offered 750 million euros ($941 million) of
five-year bonds in its first deal in the currency since
February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A total 16.7
billion euros has been raised so far this week, the most since
the period ending March 18, when companies borrowed 21.4 billion
euros, data show.  Borrowing costs are tumbling with average yields on
investment-grade securities dropping to 2.58 percent, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporate Index shows, compared with
4.4 percent at the start of the year. The rush of issuance comes
before tomorrow’s  European Central Bank  meeting when President
 Mario Draghi  is expected to flesh out plans for sovereign bond-
buying to ease the region’s debt crisis.  “If the ECB doesn’t announce some details or the plan is
delayed we could see some disappointment and yields back up,
which would deter further issuance,” said Chris Iggo, London-
based chief investment officer for fixed income at Axa
Investment Managers. “However, I suspect that this would only
be temporary as there is a huge amount of cash needing to be
invested, which is why issues are going well even at these low
yields.”  Telefonica Spread  Madrid-based Telefonica’s bonds will be priced to yield 485
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, according to a
person with knowledge of the sale, who didn’t want to be
identified. The securities were originally marketed with a
spread of about 510 basis points, the person said.  France Telecom (FTE) ’s 500 million euros of bonds due March 2023
were priced to yield 80 basis points more than swaps, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with an 84 basis-
point spread on its existing 1 billion euros of 3 percent notes
due June 2022.  Other deals today include German telecommunication company
Unitymedia Hessen’s 650 million-euro sale of high-yield bonds,
which was increased from an initial size of 400 million euros,
and a 350 million-pound ($556 million) offering from Scottish
Power Ltd.  Munich-based  Linde AG (LIN)  sold 1 billion euros of bonds due
2020 while  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in  San Francisco  offered 500
million pounds of 17-year bonds.  Electricite de France SA  and luxury German carmaker  Daimler
AG (DAI)  led 9.6 billion euros of corporate debt sales yesterday, the
region’s busiest day for issuance in 18 months.  “There’s a lot of issuance for opportunistic reasons given
financing is very cheap,” said Oliver Woyda, a  money manager  at
Deka Investment GmbH in Frankfurt. “The peripheral companies
have started issuance as well, even thou it’s still expensive
for them. These companies are fearing that markets might be
closed for them suddenly if Draghi doesn’t deliver.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  