-- Emanuel Says Obama’s Acceptance Speech Visionary (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-09-05T19:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/emanuel-says-obama-s-acceptance-speech-visionary-transcript-.html
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, a
confidant and onetime chief of staff to President  Barack Obama ,
said at a Bloomberg News/ Washington  Post breakfast today in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , that his former boss will give a
“big, visionary” acceptance address tomorrow at the Democratic
National Convention, and he expects a speech with a little more
political “edge” tonight from former President Bill Clinton,
for whom he also had worked.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  DAN BALZ, WASHINGTON POST: Mr. Mayor, thank you for being
with us. Let’s start off with the next two nights. If you were -
if you were able to script both Bill Clinton and President
Obama, what are the arguments that they each need to make? And
how are they different?  RAHM EMANUEL : Well, they’re - OK, they’re somewhat
different in - not similar, but that I think obviously, in my
view, if I was at least drafting or influencing, I think,
President Clinton - I think he - you know, everybody’s
(inaudible) this hazy image of this great bipartisanship of the
’90s. I don’t remember the bipartisanship on the first budget. I
mean, I have slightly - I started that job 6’2” and 250 pounds.
And this is all I got left after those years, so I don’t
remember that bipartisanship.  And we also had a party that shut down the government over
Medicare, Medicaid, education, the environment, or as we used to
write in President Clinton’s speech, M-squared, E-squared. And
so the very things that we’re talking about today are the
battles that happened before. And if you want to see the
economic growth we had before, you’ve got to continue to fight
and invest in the things that actually are most productive for
the economy. That’s number one. And I think the president both
on politics and policy can draw parallels and similarity. That
is President Clinton.  President Obama has a different voice, and I think
everybody else is doing some kind of contextualization.
President Obama, I think, has to tell people where we’re going,
how he plans on getting there, and what I think are the - I
wouldn’t - it’s not a  State of the Union , so I don’t say that,
but it’s the affirmation of what - why four more years will
bring the continued changes that are necessary for the country
to grow.  And I think they’re similar at one level, but I - I mean, I
would - similar in the sense of it’s the same values, same
policies. I think President Clinton (inaudible) I think more
political, and with a little more edge, as the former president
with a 69 percent job approval - favorability, rather than job
approval.  QUESTION: He has spent a lot of time over the summer
defining the differences between his view and Governor Romney’s
view. He spent much less time talking about what you just said,
which is talking about where he’s going.  EMANUEL: He, being President Obama.  QUESTION: He, being President Obama.  EMANUEL: All right.  QUESTION: Why has he not done more of it? Why has he waited
until the convention to do that in a more explicit way?  EMANUEL: Well, I think this is a different stage. And I
think they - my own view is, I think they were - as a campaign -
extremely successful in defining the differences between  Mitt
Romney  and Barack Obama. And Mitt Romney, if you look at the
summer, I think the president - which party, which candidate,
which nominee has succeeded with their summer mission? We have a
fall to go through, and I would say the Obama campaign has
succeeded.  Mitt Romney has a real difficult problem between working-
class, middle-class voters identifying with them. And part of
that is he gave them, obviously, fodder to work with from his
taxes to other issues that help them accentuate where Mitt
Romney does not have the interests of hard-working middle-class
families at heart or in the focus.  You’re now getting into the second - the final part of the
campaign, and you add the introduction and you introduce the
second layer, still the foundation, because the choice is clear,
the choice of the two - the two nominees is different, their
values are different, their policies are different, who they are
sent to work in Washington or in the Oval Office for is
different.  And that said, you now add, I think, the important piece
for the president to add, having laid somewhat of a foundation,
which is an additional piece, which is this is where we’re going
and this is how we’re going to get there, without being a 12-
step policy speech on these nine things on health care. If he
does that, it’s not the speech, and I don’t expect him to do
that.  QUESTION: Let me do a quick follow-up, and then everybody
else jump in. If it’s not a State of the Union address, how can
he give people the kind of vision you’re talking about or the
kind of detail, explicitness about what he wants to do?  EMANUEL: You guys will sit there and say, you’ll look at
what was missing and you’ll highlight it without a doubt. I
won’t read it, but I predict it. And I will read it. I’m joking.  That said, my view is - look, I don’t - if you think this
is a State of the Union, get that out of your mind. It’s a
visionary piece with big goals set out for the country, somewhat
of the roadmap we will take, but not the 10-point plan. That’s
not what it’s going to be; it shouldn’t be that. And I think it
would be a mistake if it was that.  But I want to go back to your first question. I think the
Obama campaign has done a good job, in my view, in the first
part of distinguishing between these two individuals. It set the
precedent now for the second part. And you can’t get to the
second part without the first part.  QUESTION: Getting past the convention, what do you think
the specifics ought to be going forward? Beyond the convention,
where he’s going to put an emphasis or what are the real
objectives for the second term?  EMANUEL: Well, I think it’s not like you all of a sudden
said they’re not the same objectives, but let me do one thing if
I can back up. I don’t - I’m a fan of politics. I like politics,
not just for political (inaudible) I think elections have
consequences, and I think they matter.  In 1995, the Republicans shut the government down. They
shut it down. We had a huge debate in ’96. Now, I’m saying it
could be seven, it could be nine months later, we had a balanced
budget agreement. Why? Because the Republicans came to the
conclusion, all right, the guy’s re-elected, that’s - that was
then, and this is now.  Now, because the president got elected and not  Bob Dole ,
you had a balanced-budget agreement that also created for the
first time a health care plan for children without health care
whose parents work full-time. And that would not have happened
had Bob Dole gotten elected. You had the doubling of the
national parks. You had the creation of the Hope and lifetime
learning tax credits that help middle-class families afford and
send their kids to college education. You had reforms to
Medicare that lengthened and strengthened Medicare for years on,
all things that would have been different had Bob Dole gotten
elected.  But a consequence of the election was the Republicans had
concluded, Mr. President, the battle we started in ’93 opposing
him universally, not one vote for the ’93 budget, that was then,
it’s a different day, and they could then work to cut a deal. I
believe the Republicans, after the election, if President Obama
wins, will say, that was then, this is now, the election - the
voters issued a verdict, and we’re done.  And one other lesson. In 1998, when the Republicans were in
the - ’98, why did the Republicans in the sixth year of a
presidency lose seats when they should have been winning?
Because they refused to take the verdict of the voters and tried
to follow through on an impeachment process. Voters didn’t want
to do that. Elections have meanings. They have consequences.  And I believe if the president wins, it will have
consequences, and the policy will be in a direction, more
investments in infrastructure, more investments in research and
development, greater accountability in our education, building
off Race to the Top, with a balanced approach to fiscal
discipline that doesn’t do in the short term damage that - all
the hard work that I think has been done in the four years,
digging out of what was the worst economic recession since the
Great Depression.  AL HUNT , BLOOMBERG NEWS: What are the odds now Romney will
win?  EMANUEL: What’s the - say again?  HUNT: What are the odds that he will win, that Obama will
be re-elected?  EMANUEL: I’m not doing odds until I see the debates.  HUNT: But how do you feel about the state of the race right
now?  EMANUEL: It’s a - I think this, Al. It’s a close race
because of the - you know, where things are. It’s a close race
because of where things - oh, thank you - was the lox a comment
about Judaism around here? I mean, what is that? All right.
Anyway. You’re now - you get one, too? OK.  One is, it’s a close race. I think the one thing - I will
say this. And you know my view about the summer, so I don’t need
to repeat that. I will say one other thing. The Romney campaign
kept saying, you know, this trip overseas is going to be a real
game-changer. That was a disaster. They constructed it. Nobody
else constructed it. They constructed it. It was their trip.  My view is, if you can’t make it as a tourist, you’re not
really going to make it as a chief of - of commander-in-chief.
You know, you’re a tourist.  HUNT: Much less the chief of staff.  EMANUEL: Yeah, less the chief of staff, horrible job.
Number two, it was their convention. We had more energy in this
room in one night than they had in four nights. The two - the
two things that they constructed didn’t come off. This is real.
This is primetime. You’re running for president. Give me a
break.  And so I think the - you know, and campaigns do matter, how
you - you know, it’s not everything. The campaigns matter. I
don’t think they’ve done a good job for their candidate, and I
think the Obama campaign and President Obama have done a good
job for his candidacy, in a very difficult context.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) left office (OFF-MIKE)  EMANUEL: We’re all older.  QUESTION: We were - we were younger then, but I think we
had a pretty good understanding of (OFF-MIKE)  Bill Clinton  (OFF-
MIKE) Democrat? I don’t feel like I have that same concrete
sense. And is there a difference between a Bill Clinton Democrat
and a Barack Obama Democrat?  EMANUEL: There is no difference. As a - and I say that
because I would describe myself as a New Democrat that I - you
know, in the sense of what Bill Clinton reinvented the way we as
Democrats, post-Great Society, reinvented and thought through
what government could do, rather than do it. It inspired it.  In the ’60s - let me give you a classic example of what I
mean. In the ’60s, we would have basically done a police program
nationally. This is what’s going to - you know, and what we did
was each city got police, but you had to adopt community
policing to get those police, so you inspired the change towards
community policing, rather than demand it. And if you didn’t
want it, you’d have to apply for the cops, OK?  That’s one example. I think the welfare reform, as I said
on Sunday, you know, all the Republicans could say, oh, this was
a great - no, we vetoed two of their bills before we got what
was actually supposed to happen.  Now, the president, Obama, shares exactly that kind of
reinvention and rethinking of what government should do, should
not do, and if it’s going to do it, how it should do it
differently. I think that’s a fundamental different vision.
There’s an affirmative role for - let me - let me just - I saw
you - I saw you, Ruth. There’s an affirmative role for
government to play. It can’t play the role it used to play. It’s
still an affirmative force. You have to think through what it
can do, what it should not even try to do, and if you’re going
to say you should do it, what is it you have to reinvent?  I can - now, I’ve again, folks, been on the local level. I
can give you an example, chapter and verse, of what I would do.
But I think there are certain things like on infrastructure that
are classic examples of what they could do differently to help
us achieve our goals as an economy.  QUESTION: But (OFF-MIKE) Obama’s presidency (OFF-MIKE)
government doing (OFF-MIKE)  EMANUEL: Well, I will say, you know, health care. I don’t
think - look, I’m a - I worked on crime in the Clinton era. You
could not get the health care bill that President Obama signed
into law if you hadn’t gone not only through the Clinton
experience, learned certain things about Clinton. The bill that
Barack Obama signed into law was as close to Senator Chafee’s
bill as you’ll ever get. It was closer to Senator Chafee’s bill
than anything Republicans introduced in the last 10 years, and
that’s -  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  EMANUEL: President - no President Clinton’s bill included
the employee -  (CROSSTALK)  EMANUEL: The big division between President Clinton and
Chafee was employee versus employer mandate. President Obama
signed into law the employee mandate, basically, that’s what
happened.  QUESTION: Rahm?  EMANUEL: Yeah?  QUESTION: One of the most effective lines down at the
Republican convention was this sense of lost hope.  EMANUEL: (inaudible)  QUESTION: You know, the young kids with their faded Obama
posters, the line about how, you know, the best day of the - you
know, the Obama administration (OFF-MIKE) and that’s all been
downhill from there. How do you get over - or get past those
kinds of messages?  EMANUEL: Well, I don’t know. I thought the best day of the
Republican convention was  Clint Eastwood . I mean, I was - I
remember it differently. So that’s one.  Two, look, you’re not going to have in a re-election - Bill
Clinton didn’t have the same thing in ’96 that he had in ’92.
 George Bush  didn’t have the same thing in ’04 that he had in
2000. He was running in a different context; he was a different
president. That’s also - that’s just self-evident for every
person who runs. And it’s different.  Ronald Reagan  ran against
 Jimmy Carter  in 1980, and by ’84, it was a different type of
debate and different type of context.  You can’t have that kind of freshness that came in 2008,
but what you can have is the same - and I think Michelle
advanced that last night - was the core person is still the
same. And I think she did a tremendous job last night for the
president, revealing and constantly reminding people who it is
that she fell in love with, which I think was an essential,
subtle message to all the - to all the public that voted for
somebody in ’08, why you fell in love with this person is the
same reason I did.  QUESTION: How (OFF-MIKE) presidents (OFF-MIKE) voters who
used to love him now seem to only like him?  EMANUEL: Well, that’s better than the alternative. It could
have been the other thing. That’s one. And I don’t buy that
that’s - first of all, I don’t buy your premise.  QUESTION: But the polls show (OFF-MIKE) talk to people - I
mean, you said it yourself. The freshness is gone.  EMANUEL: Well, that’s -  QUESTION: - disappointed, they’re still not wild about
Romney -  EMANUEL: There’s three things that I - let me say this. I’m
trying to - I know we’re doing a live stream, so I want to have
an honest conversation without playing a doctor game with you
guys, OK? In 1992, Bill Clinton ran -first of all, he didn’t run
in the same context of the economic collapse, totally different.
Bill Clinton ran as a New Democrat who was going to change his
party. There was people wavering by ’94. Some of us - you
remember some people even in this building were talking about
trying to plan a primary challenge Bill Clinton in ’94 right
after the midterm.  He held people because it was about whether he was going to
change his party. He ran as a New Democrat. When people work
hard, play by the rules - which is a different value system than
we were associated with as a party - this is going to be your
chance. And by ’96, they saw that, A, the economy was doing
better and, B, also they felt that the president had made some
of the changes that he promised.  Part of the challenge the president has is, unlike running
as, quote, unquote, I’m going to change my party, he was going
to change the tone in Washington. And so there is both an
economic piece to it, and I know this for a fact, because I - as
a student of both polling and focus groups, they don’t blame him
for what he inherited. They know he inherited a bad deal, their
bad deal, and he has made changes and significant progress, but
not enough that they have felt it.  If you ask for where, quote, unquote, the disappointment is
in the context of Washington’s coarseness, and I think the
president shares that frustration with the public.  QUESTION: Rahm, do you -  EMANUEL: (OFF-MIKE) separate the two, political and
economic.  QUESTION: Rahm, another refrain at the Republican
convention was to play off of the president’s “you build it”
comments to try to portray him as anti-business, and you see
that spin pretty persistent strategy. Do you worry, whatever you
think about -  EMANUEL: I’m Jewish.  QUESTION: - the comments, do you -  EMANUEL: I worry about everything.  QUESTION: - that that’s resonating out in the public. And
do you think that -  EMANUEL: No, I think the bigger issue is the ones - I mean,
I think it feeds into more of the kind of - the sense of
coarseness debate. I’m not - I worry about it. I don’t think
it’s healthy for the country. I don’t believe the rhetoric. So
on a fundamental thing - because I think he’s - I know he’s not
hostile to business. I know he also believes that business
creates the jobs that are necessary. Government creates the kind
of environment and atmosphere for economic growth and  job
creation  to happen. And I don’t - and I have a different view of
the relationship - I know what his attitude is (inaudible)
essential role.  I don’t think that that kind of sense of division or
hostility is - I know it’s not one he wants, and I don’t think
he - and I also know he doesn’t think it’s good for the country.  QUESTION: Do you think you need to do more to counteract
that or rebut it than - than you have thus far?  EMANUEL: I think - well, you’ve got to - you’ve always got
to work on every piece of making sure that any attack by your
opponent doesn’t go unanswered, so I would stay on that.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<212719.1204164.3.2.1.0.25>#
 