-- Emanuel Calls Obama Speech ‘Visionary,’ Clinton’s Has ‘Edge’
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-05T15:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/emanuel-calls-obama-speech-visionary-clinton-s-has-edge-1-.html
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , a
confidant and longtime adviser to President  Barack Obama , said
his former boss will give a “big, visionary” acceptance speech
tomorrow at the Democratic National Convention.  Emanuel, who served as Obama’s chief of staff and also
worked for President  Bill Clinton , said at a Bloomberg
News/Washington Post breakfast today that he expects a more
political speech with “a little more edge” from Clinton when
he speaks tonight in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  Obama needs to tell the nation ‘this is where we’re going
and this is how we’re going to get there” on how he would lead
during a second term, the mayor said.  “I wouldn’t give a speech on the role of government,” he
said later. “This is not a political science class.”  Emanuel, 52, suggested voters sometimes have a “hazy
image” about the bipartisanship attributed to the Clinton
administration, as the former chief of staff sought to reduce
hard feelings about party bickering during Obama’s tenure.  “I don’t remember that bipartisanship,” he said, as he
listed 1990s fiscal disputes that led to a shutdown of the
government and fights over education and the environment.  Emanuel declined to predict odds for an Obama victory over
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , as he highlighted
the closeness of the race and the “consequential” importance
of three presidential debates scheduled for October.  The debates will be especially influential for the
undecided, said Emanuel.  “They are going to hold out to the very end to make a
decision,” he said of a sliver of undecided voters who remain
on the sidelines, typically less than 10 percent in polls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  