-- Emerging Market Stocks Decline on China, Europe Concerns
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-05T21:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/emerging-market-stocks-decline-on-china-europe-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with
the benchmark  index (VXEEM)  closing at the lowest level in six weeks, as
concern deepened about economic growth in China and falling
exports to Europe.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 0.8 percent to
939.51, the lowest since July 26.  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) ,
China’s biggest maker of excavators, fell to a two-year low in
Shanghai after the  Securities Times  reported the country’s
industrial output growth may slow. South Korea’s Kospi Index
tumbled 1.7 percent while Russia’s Micex lost 1 percent.
Brazil’s Bovespa gauge advanced 1.1 percent with steelmaker
 Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  leading the gains.  China’s 2012 industrial output growth may slow to about 10
percent, from 13.9 percent in 2011, the Securities Times said
today, citing a joint report by the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology  and the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences. Euro-area services and manufacturing contracted more
than initially estimated in August, according to Markit
Economics. The  European Central Bank  will decide tomorrow on a
proposal to buy bonds as it seeks to stem the debt crisis.  “The global risk sentiment is being affected by data
coming from Europe,”  Benoit Anne , head of  emerging-markets 
strategy at Societe Generale SA, said by phone from London. “In
addition, the growth picture tends to influence the equity
markets and there is continued concern of growth dynamics
weighing quite a bit on Asian markets.”  ETF Slides  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, decreased 0.5
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, slid 1.5 percent.  The Bovespa rose 1.1 percent, with preferred shares of
Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based company is known,
rising 18 percent to a three-month high. Brazil’s government
raised tariffs on products ranging from steel to petrochemicals,
boosting the outlook for domestic sales.  A European gauge based on a survey of purchasing managers
fell to 47.2 from 47.9 in July, London-based Markit Economics
said today. That’s below an initial estimate of 47.5 published
on Aug. 23. A composite index of both services and manufacturing
fell to 46.3 from 46.5, also below an initial estimate.  MSCI’s gauge of developing nations has risen 2.5 percent
this year, trailing a 7.7 percent increase by the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of advanced-nation equities. The 21 countries in the MSCI
emerging market index send about 30 percent of their exports to
the European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  Minsheng, Lenovo  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  declined 1.9 percent,
the most since October. The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.3
percent to the lowest level since February 2009 as Sany Heavy
lost 3.7 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 314, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. sank 3.7 percent to the lowest
level since Oct. 21 after JPMorgan downgraded the stock and
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said non-performing loans at Chinese
lenders may increase.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s second-
largest computer maker, slumped 7.6 percent in Hong Kong after
NEC Corp. sold its stake in the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  