-- Mengele Remark Gets Judge Removed From Philip Morris Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J o r d a n   S e x t o n
-- 2012-09-05T19:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/mengele-remark-gets-judge-removed-from-philip-morris-case.html
A  Florida  judge was disqualified
from a wrongful-death lawsuit after he compared a former chief
executive officer of  Philip Morris Cos. (MO)  to Josef Mengele, the
Nazi war criminal who performed medical experiments on
concentration-camp prisoners.  Senior Judge A.C. Soud of the Duval County Circuit Court in
Jacksonville made the remarks at a June 19 hearing on the
admissibility of a 1971 videotape which shows Joseph Cullman,
then head of cigarette maker Philip Morris, suggesting that
lower birth weight caused by smoking during pregnancy may be
desirable to some women who “might prefer having smaller
babies.” Cullman died in 2004.  “It almost reminds me of Dr. Mengele -- I’m not saying he
is -- of almost Dr. Mengele during World War II that wanted to
use chemicals and different type things to alter -- genetic
altering of people,” Soud said outside the presence of the
jury, according to today’s appeals court decision to disqualify,
which cites the trial transcript.  The lawsuit, brought by the surviving spouse of Rayfield
Brown, a deceased smoker, will be reassigned, according to the
office of Chief Judge Donald Moran of the Duval County Circuit
Court. Soud is out of the office until Sept. 10 and unavailable
for comment, according to Rose D’Amour, Moran’s judicial
assistant.  Soud rejected an immediate motion by attorneys for Phillip
Morris to disqualify him from the case. After a written motion
for disqualification was denied on July 20, the attorneys
petitioned the First District of Court of Appeal in Tallahassee.  Kenneth J. Reilly of Shook, Hardy & Bacon in Miami, who
represented  Philip Morris  in the appeal, declined to comment on
the ruling.  “We believe the decision speaks for itself,” Brian May, a
spokesman for  Philip Morris USA , a unit of Richmond, Virginia-
based Altria Group Inc., said in a phone interview.  The case is Brown v. Philip Morris USA, 16-2007-CA-011175
BX, Fourth Judicial Circuit Court, Florida (Jacksonville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jordan Sexton in Tallahassee at
 christinesextonwork@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  