-- Lenovo Declines After NEC Sells Entire Stake
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-05T09:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/lenovo-declines-after-nec-sells-entire-stake.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-largest computer maker, fell the most in more than two
months in Hong Kong trading after  NEC Corp. (6701)  sold its stake in
the Chinese company to raise cash.  Shares of Lenovo  dropped  7.6 percent to close at HK$6.12 in
Hong Kong trading, the largest decline since June 21. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  slid 1.5 percent. NEC fell 2.6 percent
to 111 yen in  Tokyo , the biggest drop since Aug. 28.  Lenovo had issued 281.1 million shares to NEC in exchange
for a 51 percent stake in a venture between the companies. The
shares were subject to a lock-up restriction that prohibited NEC
from selling them until two years after the deal closed on July
1, 2011. Lenovo shares have risen 39 percent since then, and the
Chinese company yesterday waived the restriction prohibiting NEC
from selling stock.  “The overall stock market is weak today and the sale just
added selling pressure to the share price,” Jonathan Ng, a
Singapore-based analyst at CIMB-GK Pte., said in an e-mail.
“The sale is purely for financial reasons and will not change
the business relationships.”  Brion Tingler, a Lenovo spokesman, confirmed the company
granted a waiver to NEC and referred questions about specifics
of the sale to the Japanese company.  ‘Appropriate Action’  “We believe this is an appropriate action based on NEC’s
requests and financing needs as well as our shared commitment to
our long-term, ongoing strategic partnership,” Tingler said in
an e-mail today. “We will continue to look for ways to expand
and extend our strategic relationship.”  NEC sold its entire 2.7 percent holding in Lenovo to make
use of its assets, Takehiko Kato, a spokesman for the Tokyo-
based electronics maker, said by phone today. The 18 billion yen
($229 million) sale resulted in a gain of about 4 billion yen,
he said. There won’t be any change in NEC’s venture with Lenovo,
Kato said.  “We still expect Lenovo to leverage NEC’s expertise on
developing high-end commercial models,” Christine Wang, a
Taipei-based analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets, said in an e-mail
today. “Meanwhile, we expect Lenovo to produce more in house in
 Japan  for the Japan PC market.”  NEC is cutting 10,000 jobs, or about 8.6 percent of its
workforce, after it posted a third  annual loss  in four years on
slumping demand for its smartphones and notebook computers. The
company plans to provide 17.5 billion yen in loans to  Renesas
Electronics Corp. (6723)  in October to help the unprofitable Japanese
chipmaker trim losses.  NEC shares have declined 29 percent this year.  The electronics maker sold the stake ahead of schedule as
“it was able to foster trust with Lenovo,” NEC’s Kato said.  Sales Boost  Lenovo, which bought the personal-computer division of
International Business Machines Corp. in 2005, boosted sales
last year by buying control of  Medion AG (MDN) , an Essen, Germany-
based computer maker, and NEC’s PC unit. Sales rose 37 percent
to $29.6 billion in the year ended March 31, the fastest rate
since the 12 months through March 2006.  The purchases helped Lenovo increase shipments of computers
including Thinkpad laptops by almost 15 percent in the second
quarter, compared with a 0.1 percent decline in industrywide
sales,  Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. said in July.
That increased Lenovo’s market share by two percentage points to
14.7 percent in the period, almost matching  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s 14.9 percent, Gartner said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  