-- Lenovo Buys Digibras to Boost Brazil PC Share, Add Phones
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-06T08:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/lenovo-to-buy-digibras-to-boost-brazil-pc-share-add-phon.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-largest personal computer maker, will  buy  consumer
electronics maker Digibras to expand its Brazil computer-market
share and add mobile products including phones and tablets.  The deal has a base price of 300 million reais ($147
million), the company said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing
yesterday. The purchase will double Lenovo’s PC market share in
Brazil, boosting market position to third from seventh, Chief
Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming said. The purchase will add to
earnings, he said, without providing a forecast.  “CCE gives us a very good opportunity to build a
foundation in one of the world’s largest markets,” Wong said in
a phone interview, referring to Digibras’ brand. “CCE gives us
exposure to a high growth market in PCs and also exposure to TVs
and smartphones, the entire PC-plus portfolio.”  Lenovo Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing , advancing
toward a goal of passing market leader  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in
global computer shipments, is looking for ways to sustain the
fastest annual pace in sales growth in six years. Yang’s
expansion into mobile devices and rapidly growing markets such
as Brazil and  India  will be bolstered by the purchase of Manaus,
Brazil-based Digibras.  Shares Advance  “This would be a good way to accelerate Lenovo’s operation
in the Brazilian market,” Dennis Lam, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at DBS Vickers, said in an e-mail yesterday. “It fits well with
Lenovo’s strategy of attacking the emerging market
aggressively.”  He estimates Lenovo had about 3 percent of Brazil’s PC
market prior to the acquisition, which is well below its global
average.  The  shares  of Lenovo rose 3.9 percent to close at HK$6.36
in Hong Kong trading, boosting its climb this year to 23
percent,  compared  with a 4.2 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  Yang, who is accelerating the development of smartphones,
tablets and Internet-ready televisions, said in an Aug. 31
interview that Lenovo will consider acquisitions to drive
growth.  Local Facilities  Local production facilities are key to Lenovo’s expansion
in Brazil because value-added taxes on imported PCs and
smartphones can be as high as 43 percent, compared with 2.75
percent for local products, said Wanli Wang, a Taipei-based
industry analyst at RBS Asia Ltd.  Lenovo will issue 46.9 million new shares to vendor
Digibras Participacoes SA for Digibras Industria do Brasil SA
and related companies Digiboard Eletronica da Amazonia Ltd. and
Dual Mix Comercio de Eletronicos Ltd., paying the balance in
cash, according to yesterday’s filing. The maximum consideration
after adjustment is 700 million reais, it said.  Closely held Digibras’s products include the Onix and Iron
line of  laptop computers ; the Mobi line of handsets; the
Wintouch tablet that runs Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 7 software;
and a range of desktop PCs and televisions, according to the
company’s  website .  Lenovo had about $3.8 billion of cash and equivalents as of
June 30, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Shipments  Lenovo increased global shipments of computers including
Thinkpad laptops by almost 15 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a 0.1 percent decline in industrywide sales,
 Stamford , Connecticut-based  Gartner Inc. (IT)  said in July. That
increased Lenovo’s market share by two percentage points to 14.7
percent in the period, almost matching Hewlett-Packard’s 14.9
percent, Gartner said.  The Digibras purchase is in addition to Lenovo’s July 5
announcement of plans to invest $30 million to build a computer
factory and a distribution center in Itu, in the Brazilian state
of São Paulo. That unit will have as many as 700 employees in
two years, when it’s expected to reach maximum capacity, Lenovo
said at that time.  Lenovo’s fiscal first-quarter profit increased 30 percent
on a worldwide expansion of market share, it said in an Aug. 16
statement. Sales in the company’s Asia-Pacific and Latin America
division that includes  Brazil  increased 72 percent to $1.72
billion during the period, the company said at the time.  Lenovo’s sales rose 37 percent to $29.6 billion in the year
ended March 31, the fastest rate since the 12 months through
March 2006.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  