-- Merkel Ally Fuchs Says Germany Backs Draghi With Conditions
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2012-09-05T13:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/merkel-ally-fuchs-says-germany-backs-draghi-with-conditions.html
Germany will back European Central
Bank bond purchases to help overcome the euro-area debt crisis
only if such an operation is limited and recipient countries
agree to strict conditions, said a senior ally of Chancellor
 Angela Merkel .  Michael Fuchs , a deputy parliamentary caucus leader in
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said that Germany would
oppose any ECB plan that foresaw “too much” bond buying
without ensuring countries in need of help commit to overhaul
their economies.  “Germany is a country which is very much afraid about
inflation,” Fuchs told Bloomberg Television today, speaking in
English. “We don’t want to have the ECB just buy on the market,
either in the primary or secondary market,” he said. “The ECB
can do it only if there are certain conditionalities, if the
countries are really doing their homework.”  The remarks are further evidence that Germany will support
ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s plan to buy sovereign debt as a way
to ease bond yields in countries such as Italy and  Spain  so long
as governments sign up to strict conditions in return and the
euro-area’s rescue funds enter bond markets first. Merkel,
speaking in Ottawa last month, said the ECB was “counting on
political action in the form of conditionality as the
precondition for a positive development of the euro.”  Unlimited Purchases  Draghi’s proposal involves unlimited purchases that will be
sterilized to assuage concerns about printing money, according
to two central bank officials briefed on the operation. The ECB
chief is due to give a press conference in Frankfurt tomorrow.  Fuchs said Merkel’s government backed Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann, who opposes bond buying as monetary financing of
state budgets. Merkel’s deputy spokesman, Georg Streiter, said
Aug. 6 that the government backed Draghi and that his bond
buying proposals “now has the backing of the government.”  Fuchs, asked how much backing the ECB chief has from the
chancellor, said: “I have a feeling that he does not have too
much support” from her. “Merkel knows that the Germans are
against buying too much bonds via the ECB, because that, at the
end of the day, means inflation,” he said.  Fuchs also predicted that  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional
Court will approve the euro area’s permanent bailout fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, when it decides on Sept. 12.
Still, there will be conditions attached to the ESM, the
lawmaker said.  “They will give us some conditions under which we can form
the ESM,” Fuchs, who sits in Germany’s lower house of
parliament, or Bundestag, said in the interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  