-- Leslie Grows Into Hurricane Threatening Bermuda, Canada
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-09-06T09:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/leslie-grows-into-hurricane-threatening-bermuda-canada.html
Leslie may grow into a Category 2
hurricane with winds of 110 miles (177 kilometers) per hour as
it approaches  Bermuda  over the weekend and then Newfoundland.  Hurricane-strength winds of at least 74 mph may reach the
island by Sept. 9, according to the Bermuda Weather Service. A
small-craft warning has been issued for the area, where waves as
high as 9 feet (3 meters) and winds of 30 mph are expected
within 36 hours.  “Leslie should be a good pounding for Bermuda, but if
there’s any place along the Atlantic that can take a pounding,
it’s Bermuda,” said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather
Underground  in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .  The hurricane may be far worse for Newfoundland on  Canada ’s
east coast, said Jim Rouiller, senior energy meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc.  Leslie is forecast to strengthen over the next two days
after becoming a hurricane yesterday with top sustained winds of
75 mph. It was about 440 miles (705 kilometers) south-southeast
of Bermuda, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in an
 advisory  at 5 a.m. Atlantic Standard time. The center’s  current
track forecast  sees Bermuda taking a hit this weekend.  Computer models are wavering as to whether the system will
pass to the east or west of the island, said Dan Kottlowski,
expert senior meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania . Conditions on Bermuda would be worse if
the storm strikes from the west, because in most cases, a
hurricane’s power is focused on its northeast side.  Bouncing Back   “The worst hurricanes that have hit Bermuda have always
hit them from the southwest,” Kottlowski said. The island
usually weathers storms very well, he said.  “In past storms where they have been hit hard, it doesn’t
take long for them to recover,” Kottlowski said. “They can
take a walloping and be back in business in a couple of days.”  After Leslie passes over Bermuda, it’s expected to continue
north to a potential landfall in Newfoundland, said Rouiller,
based in  Berwyn , Pennsylvania.  “The tracks are pretty well clustered into Newfoundland,”
Rouiller said. “The eastern half of Newfoundland is under the
gun for what could be a catastrophic storm event.”  A trough of low pressure along the East Coast will keep
Leslie away from the U.S., Rouiller said.  “This will serve to protect the Northeast from any near
misses,” Rouiller said. “From Boston to Bar Harbor, all they
will have is high sea swells.”  Canada Monitoring  The Fire and Emergency Services of Newfoundland and
Labrador are monitoring Leslie’s track, according to a statement
from the agency.  “Officials with  Environment Canada  and the Canadian
Hurricane Centre indicate there is significant uncertainty
around this system, but we remain on the alert,” it said.  The track is reminiscent of the one taken by Hurricane
Igor, which struck Newfoundland in September 2010. Winds of 105
mph were recorded, and 90 cities and towns were isolated after
9.4 inches of rain fell, washing out roads, according to a
provincial report.  The damage from the storm was so great the name Igor was
retired from the list of Atlantic hurricanes. Igor was blamed
for three deaths, one in Newfoundland.  The storm prompted cities and towns on Newfoundland and
Labrador to adopt emergency management plans, according to the
Fire and Emergency Services statement.  Newfoundland Refinery  North Atlantic Refining Ltd. has a 115,000 barrel-a-day
refinery in Come-By-Chance, Newfoundland, at the northern end of
Placentia Bay about 90 miles west of the provincial capital of
 St. John’s .  Meanwhile, Hurricane Michael strengthened to become the
first Category 3 hurricane of the year, the NHC said in a
 separate advisory . The system was located 1,020 miles west-
southwest of the Azores with winds of 115 miles per hour. Top
winds of 111 mph or more make it a Category 3 hurricane on the
Saffir-Simpson scale. The system is churning northeast at 7 mph
and poses no immediate threat to land.  The hurricane center is also tracking a remnant of
Hurricane Isaac that has re-entered the  Gulf of Mexico  and has a
50 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next two
days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  