-- EU, Amnesty Criticize Bahraini Court Ruling Against Activists
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-09-05T17:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/eu-amnesty-criticize-bahraini-court-ruling-against-activists.html
Human-rights groups and officials
including  Catherine Ashton ,  Europe ’s foreign-policy chief,
expressed disappointment at the sentences handed down against 20
men for espionage and planning to oust Bahrain’s government.  Bahrain’s  High Court  of Appeal yesterday upheld verdicts
against 20 activists and reduced another’s sentence. Abdulhadi
al-Khawajah, who holds Danish and Bahraini citizenship, and 12
other men were sentenced to 15-25 years in prison. Guilty
verdicts against seven other activists who were convicted of the
same charges and are fugitives were also upheld.  The men led protests by Bahrain’s Shiite Muslims seeking a
greater political voice in the Sunni-ruled Gulf kingdom. They
can challenge yesterday’s verdicts at the Court of Cassation.  “I am disappointed and concerned” by the appeals court’s
decision “to uphold the harsh sentences against Abdulhadi Al
Khawaja and 19 other individuals,” Ashton said in a statement
today. “I hope the appeal before the Cassation Court will be
fair, transparent and conducted in the full respect of
international obligations Bahrain has subscribed to.”  Amnesty International yesterday urged Bahraini authorities
to overturn the court decision and demanded the immediate and
unconditional release of the convicted men. U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday he was “very
disappointed” by the court ruling and urged Bahrain to respect
human rights and freedoms.  Bahrain’s Foreign Ministry said today that it’s proud of
its “fair and independent judiciary.” The country “believes
in and respects the principles related to the sovereignty of the
law and the separation between authorities, in addition to non-
intervention in the sentences passed down by the independent
judiciary,” the ministry said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  