-- Euro Trades Near Two-Month High on ECB Bond-Buying Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-09-06T12:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/euro-trades-near-two-month-high-on-ecb-bond-buying-plan.html
The euro strengthened to a two-month
high against the dollar on speculation the  European Central Bank 
will today announce unlimited, sterilized bond buying to help
contain the region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency extended this week’s advance versus
the yen after the ECB left its benchmark interest rate at 0.75
percent at a policy meeting today. The dollar rose against the
yen after an industry report showed U.S. companies added more
jobs than economists forecast. Sweden’s krona weakened after the
central bank cut interest rates to help exporters.  “It is one of the most important days this year, a
potential game changer for the  European debt crisis ,” said
Bernd Berg, a currency strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich. “The euro is trading higher into the meeting as
expectations are high but there is a risk of a downward move
after the statements.”  The euro strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.2632 at 1:25 p.m.
 London  time after rising to $1.2652, the strongest since July 2.
The shared currency gained 0.7 percent to 98.50 yen. It earlier
climbed to 99.58, the highest since July 5. The dollar rose 0.5
percent to 78.77 yen.  Policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  left the  benchmark rate 
at a record low, as predicted by 28 of 58 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey . The remainder forecast a quarter-point cut.
Investors are focused on Draghi’s press conference at 2:30 p.m.,
when he may announce details of a plan to intervene in bond
markets to help restore transmission of ECB  interest rates .  ECB Blueprint  Under the ECB blueprint, which may be called “Monetary
Outright Transactions,” the central bank would refrain from
setting a public cap on yields, according to two central bankers
who spoke this week on condition of anonymity. The plan will
only focus on  government bonds  rather than a broader range of
assets and will target maturities of up to about three years,
they said.  The government-bond purchases will be matched by the ECB’s
removal of an equivalent amount of money from elsewhere in the
system to ease concerns about printing money, two central bank
officials briefed on the plan said.  The euro may strengthen to $1.275 if Draghi’s plan
“positively surprises” investors, or weaken to $1.25 if he
disappoints, Credit Suisse’s Berg said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told lawmakers yesterday
she can accept temporary ECB bond buying, according to a member
of her party. German legislator  Norbert Barthle  said in Berlin
that Merkel spoke in a closed-door meeting of Christian
Democratic Union lawmakers.  ‘Conditionality’ Key  “There’s a lot in the mix today but it is really the
conditionality that the market will be looking for” from the
ECB,  David Bloom , head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc
in London, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” with
Linzie Janis. “If the market goes risk on and people think the
break up premium in the euro disappears, it could easily go back
up to $1.30” in coming weeks, he said.  The euro has gained 0.9 percent in the past week, the best
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen fell 0.4 percent, and the
dollar declined 0.2 percent.  The dollar rose the most in three weeks against the yen
after ADP Employer Services said U.S. companies added 201,000
workers in August from a revised 173,000 the previous month.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for an
increase of 140,000. U.S. employers added 127,000 workers last
month, down from 163,000 in July, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey before the Labor Department report tomorrow.  Krona Falls  Sweden’s krona dropped against all except two its 16 major
counterparts after the central bank unexpectedly lowered its
benchmark interest rate for the first time since February.  Policy makers cut the repo rate by a quarter point to 1.25
percent. The move was predicted by six of the 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey, while the others forecast no change.  “During the summer the krona has appreciated faster than
expected and productivity has also been unexpectedly high,” the
Riksbank said. “Inflationary pressures are therefore expected
to be lower than was forecast in July.”  The krona fell 0.3 percent to 8.5027 per euro after sliding
as much as 0.8 percent.  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
 Bank of England  left its benchmark interest rate at a record-low
0.5 percent and kept its asset-purchase target at 375 billion
pounds ($597 billion.)  The Bank of England cut its economic forecasts last month,
while the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
lowered its outlook today.  Sterling traded at $1.5919, and depreciated 0.2 percent to
79.35 pence per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  