-- Europe’s Grains Won’t Make Up for Losses of U.S., Russia Drought
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-09-05T06:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/europe-s-grains-won-t-make-up-for-losses-of-u-s-russia-drought.html
The grain harvest in the European
Union, the world’s third-largest grower, is unlikely to ease a
global supply shortfall as dry weather hurts yields from  Spain 
to Romania and British crops are delayed by rain.  France  and  Germany , Europe’s top growers, are set to boost
grain output by 8.5 percent this year, not enough to offset
declines in the U.K., Spain and  Italy , according to Hamburg-
based trader Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH. Europe’s
wheat harvest may be the smallest in five years, helping send
 stockpiles  at the end of the 2012-13 season to 10.9 million
metric tons, the lowest since at least 1999, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  Milling wheat surged 35 percent this year on NYSE Liffe in
Paris on concern dry weather would spur  Russia , last season’s
third-biggest exporter, to restrict shipments. Corn rallied to a
record last month on the Chicago Board of Trade as top producer
U.S. suffered its worst drought in more than 50 years. While
world consumption of grains may exceed output for the second
time in three years, European shipments will be steady from the
previous season, International Grains Council data show.  “Overall supplies will be tighter than they were last
year,” Amy Reynolds, an economist at the London-based IGC, said
by telephone Sept. 3. “While there may be strong export demand
for EU grain, the amount  Europe  is able to export won’t really
increase.”  Fewer supplies may spur a 9.1 percent drop in global grain
trade this season, the biggest decline since 1986, to 289.37
million tons, according to the USDA. Shipments include nine
grains, ranging from wheat to rice to barley, tracked in the
department’s monthly world supply and demand report.  China  is
the world’s largest cereal producer, followed by the U.S. and
the EU, according to the USDA.  Best Performers  Crops are the best performing commodities this year on the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials, led by a 46
percent jump in soybeans and 35 percent gain in wheat. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of  equities  rose 6.9 percent. Treasuries
returned 2.5 percent, according to Bank of America Corp.  EU cereal production may be 279 million this season, about
2 percent smaller than the five-year average because of dry
weather in some regions, the European Commission said Aug. 31.
The soft wheat harvest may be 127 million tons, similar to the
previous average, while corn output at 60 million tons is
expected to be about 2 percent higher than normal.  Farmers are finished harvesting soft wheat in  France ,
according to crops office FranceAgriMer, while some grain still
needed to be collected in northern Germany, Toepfer said Aug.
23. In the U.S.,  farmers  are just beginning to harvest corn,
while Russia has collected 62 percent of its grains and legumes,
government data show.  Germany, France  German grain  production  may climb 6.7 percent from last
year to 44.7 million tons, after a cold snap last February
failed to dent the country’s crop, the  Agriculture Ministry  said
Aug. 31. Toepfer pegs the German harvest at 45.2 million tons,
and France’s crop at 69.15 million, 8.9 percent more than a year
earlier. Still, combined grain output in the U.K.,  Spain  and
Italy may be 11 percent below a year earlier, the company said.  In the U.K., the  harvest  started about 10 days later than
normal because of rain, and crops on about 40 percent of the
country’s wheat area had been collected as of Aug. 28, the
Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board said.  The U.K. had its wettest summer since 1912, with the fewest
hours of sunshine in the three months through August since 1980,
the  Met Office  said Aug. 30, citing provisional data. Testing of
the country’s winter-wheat crop showed 97 percent of samples had
signs of fungal  diseases  that can reduce yields, with some
fields carrying species that can be toxic to humans and animals,
crop-quality service CropMonitor reported Aug. 23.  Quality Affected  Excess moisture has reduced the quality of the country’s
crop, leading to “shriveled up” kernels that weigh less and
produce less flour, said George Phillips, a grain buyer at
Wessex Grain, a merchant in Somerset,  England . An AHDB
provisional  survey  Aug. 31 showed U.K. wheat samples weighing
71.9 kilograms per hectoliter (2.84 bushels), down from the
previous three-year average of 77.5 kilograms.  “It’s been a bad year,” Phillips said by telephone Sept.
3. “The grain hasn’t filled properly because of lack of
sunlight and damp conditions for a long period of time and
uneven ripening in the crop.”  European grain exports may total 26.9 million tons, little
changed from 26.8 million a year earlier, the IGC estimates. On
Aug. 23, the agency cut its forecast from an earlier projection
of 27.3 million tons. The IGC expects production in the bloc to
total 275.8 million tons.  Crop Losses  Drought and hail caused almost 3 billion euros ($3.8
billion) in crop damage in Italy this year, farming union
Coldiretti said yesterday. Corn  yields  in  Romania ,  Bulgaria  and
 Hungary  may be more than 35 percent smaller than a year earlier
because of “very dry soil conditions,” while Spain’s wheat
yields may drop 29 percent, the EU’s Monitoring Agricultural
Resources unit said Aug. 27.  The USDA estimates that drought may cut the corn harvest in
top exporter U.S. to 10.78 billion bushels, a six-year low. In
June the agency projected output would surge to a record 14.79
billion bushels this year.  Russian Harvest  Russia’s Agriculture Ministry estimates that the wheat
harvest may be smaller than in 2010, when the worst drought in
half a century spurred the country to ban grain exports for 10
months.  “From the  Black Sea , Bulgaria, Romania, into Ukraine and
Russia and further east into  Kazakhstan , none of those countries
had a good year,” said London-based Dan Hofstad, an INTL
FCStone Inc. risk-management consultant for the  Commonwealth of
Independent States / Black Sea region . “It’s playing into the
whole global supply issues we’re seeing. The grain markets
remain bullish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  