-- European Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses Before ECB
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-09-05T16:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/european-stock-futures-little-changed-before-ecb-meeting.html
European stocks closed little
changed, after swinging between gains and losses, as investors
await tomorrow’s  European Central Bank  meeting.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA advanced 1.5 percent after the
maker of Cartier jewelery reported five-month sales rose 23
percent.  BP Plc (BP/)  fell 2.9 percent after the  U.S. Department of
Justice  reiterated it will pursue charges of gross negligence
for the worst U.S. oil spill two years ago. Nokia Oyj sank the
most in almost three months after unveiling two Microsoft Corp.-
powered smartphones.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to
265.49 at the close of trade after swinging between gains and
losses at least 16 times. The gauge pared losses of as much as
0.5 percent as officials briefed on the proposal said ECB
President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying plans involve unlimited
government debt purchases that will be sterilized to assuage
concerns about printing money.  “We are coming into the eye of the storm with regards to
event risk, and today will really be the last  day traders  can
tweak portfolios ahead of the key ECB meeting and U.S. payrolls
on Friday,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG
Markets in  Melbourne , in a note to clients. “After last night’s
adjustment to expectations to the upcoming ECB meeting, we feel
the market has a more neutral approach to what is likely to be
delivered.”  Draghi Plan  Under Draghi’s proposed blueprint, which may be called
“Monetary Outright Transactions,” the ECB would refrain from
setting a public cap on yields, according to two central bank
officials, and a third official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The plan will only focus on  government bonds  rather
than a broader range of assets and will target short-dated
maturities of up to about three years, two of the people said.  An ECB spokesman referred to an Aug. 20 statement in which
the Frankfurt-based central bank said it was misleading to
report on decisions that haven’t been taken yet.  Draghi told the  European (SXXP)  Parliament this week that the ECB
needs to intervene in bond markets to wrest back control of
 interest rates  in the fragmented euro-area economy and ensure
the survival of the common currency. Policy makers will start
deliberating on the plan later today and Draghi will announce
whether it has been agreed to at a press conference tomorrow.  The benchmark SXXP has  surged 14 percent  from its lowest
level this year on June 4 amid speculation that central banks
will do more to support growth.  U.S. data on Sept 7. will show payrolls in the world’s
biggest economy probably grew at a slower pace in August and
unemployment exceeded 8 percent for a 43rd month, economists
said before a report from the Labor Department.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes advanced in 12 of the 18
western-European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index fell 0.3
percent. France’s CAC 40 gained 0.2 percent and Germany’s DAX
rose 0.5 percent.  Richemont (CFR)  added 1.5 percent to 60.05 Swiss francs after the
world’s largest jewelry maker reported revenue that climbed 23
percent in the five months through August as the dollar’s
strength boosted the value of sales in that currency.  That matched the average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Excluding currency shifts, revenue rose
13 percent. The maker of Jaeger-LeCoultre timepieces reiterated
that first-half profit will rise as much as 40 percent.  ING Groep  ING Groep NV (INGA)  added 1.5 percent to 6.10 euros after the
company raised about $3 billion with the sale of 54 million
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  shares received when the Dutch
lender sold its U.S. online bank this year. The shares were
priced at $55.75 each.  Britvic Plc (BVIC)  surged 13 percent to 369.9 pence, for the
biggest advance on the Stoxx 600. The U.K. maker of Robinsons
Barley Water said it’s been approached by A.G. Barr Plc about an
all-share merger and has started talks to create one of Europe’s
biggest soft-drink businesses. A.G. Barr’s shares climbed 8.3
percent to 450.2 pence.  BP, the owner of the Macondo well that caused the worst
U.S. oil spill two years ago, slid 2.9 percent to 423.85 pence
after the U.S. Justice Department reiterated it will pursue
charges of gross negligence in the case. The company faces a
trial with the DOJ after reaching a $7.8 billion settlement in
March with victims of the spill.  Nokia (NOK1V)  sank 13 percent to 1.99 euro after the second-biggest
maker of mobile phones unveiled two smartphones using
Microsoft’s new Windows Phone software to help win back sales
lost to the iPhone and Android handset makers.  STM Falls  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  declined 4.9 percent to 4.40 euros
after UBS AG lowered its recommendation for the biggest European
chipmaker to sell from neutral, saying its share price doesn’t
take account of continuing challenges to the business. Exane BNP
Paribas also downgraded the shares to underperform, the
equivalent of a sell rating, from neutral.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s biggest wind turbine
maker, fell 8.3 percent to 44.5 kroner, halting four days of
gains. DNB Markets said recent jump in the shares was an
overreaction to takeover speculation.  The shares had surged 43 percent since the company on Aug.
27 said it was in “strategic” talks with Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. DNB downgraded the shares to sell from buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  