-- Europe Lures U.S. Pushing Sales to 4-Year High: Credit Markets
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-09-05T15:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/europe-lures-u-s-pushing-sales-to-4-year-high-credit-markets.html
U.S. companies from Cargill Inc. to
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  are selling bonds in  Europe  at the fastest
pace since 2008 as they tap investor appetite for securities
from borrowers outside the crisis-damaged euro region.  Euro-denominated offerings from American companies
including Cincinnati-based P&G’s first deal in the currency
since 2007 pushed sales to $5.7 billion last month, the busiest
August in four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The surge
brings this year’s total to $14.5 billion, the most for the
period since 2010 and matching the amount for all of 2011.  Debt of U.S. companies offers shelter from Europe’s crisis
while at the same time paying a return as the continent’s safest
government bond yields turn negative. The securities are
becoming even more attractive amid speculation policymakers at
the  European Central Bank  will seek to water down measures aimed
at easing the turmoil when they meet this week.  “There’s high demand for non-Eurozone issuers,” said
Christopher Bullock, a  money manager  in  London  at Henderson
Global Investors Ltd., which holds 18 billion euros ($22
billion) of fixed-income assets. “Large-cap U.S. corporates
that have issued bonds in Europe are generally strong companies
benefiting from diversified business portfolios.”  Europe Outperforms  European corporate bonds outperformed last month by the
most since March, returning 1.08 percent including reinvested
interest, compared with 0.4 percent for U.S. securities, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  Investment-grade European company bonds yield a record-low
2.58 percent, down from 4.4 percent at the start of the year,
the firm’s EMU Corporate Index shows. That’s less than the 2.98
percent yield on its U.S. Corporate Master Index. At the same
time, the cost for U.S. companies to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollar-based funding via the cross currency
swaps market is the least since June 2011.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreasing 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of 100.3 basis points
as of 11:21 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.25 basis point to 16.5 basis
points as of 11:20 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Rio de Janeiro-based Vale SA are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 176 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:23 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The world’s biggest
iron-ore producer sold $1.5 billion of 30-year, 5.625 bonds
yesterday.  Cargill, the biggest U.S. agricultural company, raised 500
million euros on Aug. 28 by selling 1.875 percent bonds due 2019
in its first note sale in the European currency since 2008,
Bloomberg data show. The seven-year senior, unsecured bonds
yield 56 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, one
basis point below their issue price, the data show.  European Crisis  “Cargill has a significant business presence and assets in
Europe and investors there are interested in portfolio
diversification,” Laura Brems, a spokeswoman for Minneapolis-
based Cargill at it offices in Cobham,  England , said Aug. 28.  European investors are counting on policy makers to agree
on steps to help resolve the crisis that has roiled the region’s
debt markets for the past three years.  Greece ,  Portugal ,
Ireland,  Spain  and Cyprus have all sought aid.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  told lawmakers Sept. 3 that the
bank’s primary mandate compels it intervene in bond markets to
wrest back control of  interest rates  and ensure the euro’s
survival.  There is growing investor concern that the ECB won’t be
able to decide on a comprehensive survival plan at tomorrow’s
governing council meeting.  Germany ’s Bundesbank opposes the ECB
purchasing  government bonds , saying it is too close to state
financing for its comfort.  P&G Bonds  There is “no silver bullet against the crisis,”  Alberto
Gallo , a debt analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London, wrote in a Sept. 3 research note.  U.S. issuers are helping to fill a void left by European
borrowers, which sold 24.6 billion euros of debt in August,
marking the slowest month in a year and making the year-to-date
total of 389 billion euros the least for the period since 2007.  Offerings globally totaled $251 billion, a record for
August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  P&G, the world’s largest consumer products company, sold 1
billion euros of 2 percent, 10-year notes on Aug. 9 at a yield
of 25 basis points more than the swap rate after initially
marketing the securities at a spread of 35.  The sale was the Cincinnati-based company’s first in the
currency since raising 1.1 billion euros from 10-year bonds in
October 2007, Bloomberg data show.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co ., the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, sold
1.5 billion euros of 2.625 percent 10-year bonds on Aug. 9,
converting the proceeds back to dollars, said  Mary Eshet ,
spokeswoman for Wells Fargo in  San Francisco .  “Issuing in euros provided a benefit to Wells Fargo with
respect to diversification in our investor base,” she said.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap was 27.3 basis
points below the euro interbank offered rate, or euribor,
yesterday. That spread has shrunk from as much as minus 114
basis points at the start of the year. A negative number
indicates investors are willing to receive reduced interest
payments on the euros they lend in order to obtain the needed
financing in dollars.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender by assets, raised 1.5
billion euros from its first bond sale in the European currency
in more than a year on Aug. 17. Before that, the last time the
New York-based lender did a deal in euros was when it raised 1
billion euros in June 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  