-- Ex-Porsche CFO Haerter ‘Aghast’ at Criminal Case Over Bank Loan
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-09-05T12:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/ex-porsche-cfo-haerter-stands-trial-over-12-5-billion-bank-loan.html
Former Porsche SE Chief Financial
Officer Holger Haerter told a German court on the first day of
his trial that he didn’t make misleading statements in 2009 when
the company refinanced a 10 billion-euro loan ($12.5 billion).  Haerter denied charges he downplayed Porsche’s liquidity
needs when negotiating with  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  about a 500 million-
euro share of the loan. He said prosecutors didn’t understand
the complex terminology used in the discussions.  “I am aghast at these charges because I have always been
very meticulous in all my declarations,” Haerter, 66, told the
Stuttgart court today. “It has never been my way to deceive
business partners and I didn’t do it here.”  The case is part of a broader criminal investigation over
Porsche’s unsuccessful hostile bid for  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  using a
derivatives strategy. Stuttgart prosecutors are still probing
Haerter and former Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking on
market manipulation and breach of trust allegations.  Haerter is on trial in Stuttgart with two other Porsche
managers, who under German law can’t be fully identified. The
two men also rejected the charges in court today.  In a March 19, 2009, statement to BNP Paribas, which
Haerter signed and the two other managers helped to set up, they
understated Porsche’s liquidity needs by 1.4 billion euros, had
all purchase options the company then held on Volkswagen shares
been exercised, prosecutor Reto Woodtli said when reading the
indictment. They also didn’t mention 45 million put options
Porsche had sold on VW shares, he said.  ‘Higher Amount’  The statement declared “that the 12.5 billion-euro loan
was enough to finance an acquisition of 70.8 percent of VW
shares,” Woodtli said. “In reality, a much higher amount would
have been needed as all the accused knew.”  Haerter replied that the prosecutors mixed up the
terminology. The statement didn’t discuss liquidity needs and
instead used then net purchase price for VW shares, he said. The
indictment fails to take into account that Porsche would have
earned 1.4 billion euros from cash settled  call options  it
owned. They needed to be subtracted from the gross price, he
said.  “I never claimed that 12.5 billion euros would have been
enough to acquire 70.8 percent of VW,” Haerter said. “It
wasn’t BNP who inferred there was something wrong with the
statement, only the prosecutors did.”  Dirk-Michael Mitter, a German spokesman for BNP, declined
to comment. Frank Gaube, a Porsche spokesman, declined to
comment.  Economic Situation  Under German law, loan fraud doesn’t require that a
creditor is actually deceived. The law punishes incorrect
statements about the economic situation of a business that seeks
a loan, regardless of the actual effect of the statement on the
creditor.  Porsche and VW agreed to combine in 2009 after Porsche
racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in its unsuccessful
hostile bid. Porsche started accumulating VW shares in 2005. A
merger between the two companies was scrapped last year because
of the lawsuits.  To avoid further delays, Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW
purchased the Porsche auto business and completed the
transaction on Aug. 1.  Stuttgart prosecutors said last year their probe into
Wiedeking and Haerter had “solidified” suspicions Porsche
didn’t adequately inform the market between 2007 and 2009 about
its intentions to take control of VW. They also added breach of
trust allegations over the use of derivatives, saying the
instruments may have put Porsche at the risk of bankruptcy.  It’s not clear when that part of the probe will be
finished, Claudia Krauth, a spokeswoman for Stuttgart
prosecutors said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  