-- Texas Pensions Pan Steps on Funding Gaps Taken by Others
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-09-05T22:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/texas-pensions-pan-steps-on-funding-gaps-taken-by-others.html
(Corrects number of union members in final paragraph.)  Texas  public pensions said moving
away from traditional defined-benefit plans wouldn’t shrink
their unfunded liabilities, in contrast to money-saving steps to
end lifetime guarantees by states from Rhode Island to  Kansas .  The state’s $110.3 billion Teacher Retirement System
released a study saying that switching to a 401(k)-style
defined-savings plan may cut payments to retirees. The fifth-
largest U.S. public pension by assets said Aug. 31 that the
change also would widen a $24 billion gap between promised
benefits and projected assets to $36 billion.  The teacher plan’s report and a second study issued
yesterday by the $22.1 billion Employee Retirement System of
Texas contrast with projected savings and unfunded liability
cuts for pensions in  Rhode Island , Kansas and  Louisiana , which
made such changes. All three place in the top 10 among states
with the highest gaps between assets and future obligations,
according to a Bloomberg Rankings study of 2010 data.  “There’s a lot of visibility on this issue nationally, and
there’s a push for change in Texas,” said state Representative
Vicki Truitt, a Southlake Republican who leads the House
Pensions and Investments Committee. The reports set the stage
for a debate by Lone Star State legislators next year.  “This is going to be a hot issue” when lawmakers convene
in January, Truitt said. Her panel will take up the reports
Sept. 12.  Studies Ordered  The Legislature in the second-biggest U.S. state by
population ordered the pensions to study alternative ways to
meet their obligations. Moving away from the current system,
which guarantees retirees set monthly payments for life, would
be the biggest change in the two plans, which cover 1.5 million
beneficiaries combined.  Rhode Island, seen as one model for taking steps to lower
costs, last year mandated a 401(k)-style plan for newly hired
workers and suspended cost-of-living increases for current
retirees, moves projected to help save about $3 billion a year.
Kansas adopted a similar approach, mandating cash-balance plans
for workers hired after December 2014, according to the  National
Conference of State Legislatures .  Louisiana will switch all employees to defined-savings
plans, the group said.  New York  will offer a defined-savings
program to nonunion workers who earn at least $75,000.  Retiree benefits “are really a form of deferred
compensation that shift the risk from workers to the taxpayers,
and as we’ve seen with pension systems across the country,
sometimes taxpayers end up with a pretty steep bill,” said
Chuck DeVore, a spokesman for the Texas Public Policy
Foundation, a research and lobbying group in Austin.  Changes Sought  Defined-savings plans such as 401(k) programs are among
changes in public pensions advocated by DeVore’s group. It has
suggested the switch for new employees and those not yet vested
for retirement benefits.  The report from the teacher fund said such a change would
cut payments to retirees while widening its unfunded
liabilities. Closing the defined-benefit plan to recently hired
workers would reduce contributions, curbing the growth in assets
that generate investment returns to help cover commitments, the
report said.  The Employee Retirement System’s study said its $5 billion
unfunded obligation would climb to $12.8 billion within 10 years
if no changes are made. It has 83 percent of the assets needed
to cover future benefits, as does the teacher plan. Actuaries
generally consider 80 percent funding levels to be healthy, the
Pew Center on the States said in a June report.  Unfunded Liabilities  States face a $1.4 trillion gap between promised pension
and retiree health-care benefits and projected assets, Pew said.
Studies using different methods and assumptions for investment
returns have projected gaps of more than twice that amount.  The retiree health-care fund faces a $1.2 billion shortfall
within five years unless contributions increase or steps are
taken to reduce the gap, according to the teacher system report.  At least 44 states, including Texas, have adopted pension
changes since the beginning of 2009 to lower unfunded
liabilities, according to the Legislatures group in Denver.
Texas placed 36th among states with unfunded liabilities in the
Bloomberg Rankings report, while New York was the only one with
no gap between assets and future obligations.  California Caps  California lawmakers passed measures last week to cap
pension payments and to require new workers to pay half the cost
of their benefits and to work longer before retiring. The
changes omitted defined-savings plans sought by Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, and opposed by union leaders.  In Texas, there’s no cause to tamper with public pensions,
although a fight can be expected when lawmakers take up the
issue, according to Ted Melina Rabb, a senior legislative agent
for the state’s American Federation of Teachers affiliate.  “The pension side is not in a crisis in Texas, and given
the structure of our system and the very modest benefits, the
constitutional protections, it’s just unreasonable to project
that we are going to be in a difficult situation at all compared
to other states,” Rabb said from Austin. The union says on its
website that it represents more than 65,000 members statewide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 