-- MF Global Judge Seeks Changes to Trustee Lawsuit Agreement
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-05T20:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/mf-global-judge-seeks-changes-to-trustee-lawsuit-agreement-1-.html
The judge overseeing MF Global
Inc.’s bankruptcy asked for changes in the agreements a trustee
for customers has made about class-action lawsuits against  Jon Corzine  and other former company executives.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn said the agreement
should give his court more authority to approve the way
customers and creditors share any winnings or settlement
proceeds. The trustee, James Giddens, had proposed sharing
information with customers and overseeing the distribution of
any winnings.  Louis Freeh , the trustee in control of the failed
brokerage’s parent MF Global Holdings Ltd., had objected, saying
he should oversee the lawsuits.  The agreement “reflects an appropriate exercise of
business judgment,” avoids duplicative lawsuits by trustees and
customers and saves money for the estate, Glenn said today.  The wording of the agreement should call for any settlement
to get approval from both the  bankruptcy court  and the district
court where customers sued MF Global’s directors, Glenn said.
He said the initial version of the agreement could have
circumvented an issue on which he has yet to rule, whether
customers have a priority over general creditors to be repaid.
Corzine, MF Global’s former chairman and chief executive
officer, is a former governor of  New Jersey .  Two Trustees  Giddens is overseeing the wind-down of the brokerage unit
under the Securities Investor Protection Act and seeking to
repay customers. Under Freeh, the holding company is winding
down to repay creditors including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “We think this will bring tremendous efficiencies and will
jump start the discovery and the prosecution of claims against
Corzine and others,” said  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for
Giddens, noting that the trustee was pleased with the ruling.  Each trustee has said the other trustee is conflicted. Both
also have made probes into how MF Global failed and have been at
odds over whether certain sums belong to creditors or customers.  Aside from Corzine, Giddens has said he sees possible
claims for breach of fiduciary duty and negligence against
former Chief Financial Officer Henri Steenkamp and former
assistant treasurer Edith O’Brien, among others. Giddens has
said any money recovered should go to customers, who face a gap
estimated at $1.6 billion.  Group Suits  Representatives for customers have already started class-
action, or group, lawsuits making similar claims against former
MF Global directors and officers. The suits were consolidated in
 Manhattan  federal court in April. Giddens has said he plans to
cooperate in the cases, sharing documents in exchange for any
recoveries.  Because Giddens’s agreement calls for general estate
creditors to be paid only after customers are paid in full, the
customers “are clearly not properly incentivized to litigate
fully,” Freeh said in an objection.  MF Global Holdings, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Co-Chairman Corzine until his Nov. 4 resignation, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy in October after a $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations led to margin calls.  Corzine and other officers, a group of lenders and a group
of creditors also objected to Giddens’s agreement with
customers. In court papers, Corzine and 23 other individuals
said that as potential defendants, they opposed Giddens’s plan
to give the plaintiffs whatever materials he wants.  ‘Back-Handed’  The agreement also would limit their right to get
information and make them pay for some of it, the individuals
said. Creditors called Giddens’ attempt to manage the class-
action recoveries “another back-handed attempt” to “allocate
general estate assets to customers.”  The lender group, whose members say they own more than $1.4
billion in customer claims, said there were no provisions that
assure the claims will be “fully prosecuted or fairly settled
for the benefit” of all creditors.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC, MF Global’s former auditor,
also objected to the agreement insofar as it would have
transferred any claims against the accounting firm, saying the
claims “are not assignable.” Glenn said he will rule later in
court papers on how the agreement will apply to
PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Giddens replied to the objections by saying that he’s a
more appropriate overseer of the lawsuits. Freeh has “some
inherent conflicts in opposing this motion because individuals
currently employed” by him are defendants in the litigation,
Giddens said.  Freeh has predicted that MF Global’s customers will
eventually recoup all of their money, while Giddens has said
distributions should be “in the 90 percent range.”  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  