-- FDA Sued by Consumer Group Over Alzheimer Drug Dosage
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-05T22:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/fda-sued-by-consumer-group-over-alzheimer-drug-dosage.html
Higher doses of a drug sold by  Eisai
Co. Ltd. (4523)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  to treat  Alzheimer’s disease  should be
halted because of potentially life-threatening side effects, a
consumer group claimed in a lawsuit filed today in Washington.  Public Citizen Inc.  of Washington sued the  Food and Drug
Administration  seeking to force the agency to accept or reject
its request to remove the 23-milligram dose of Aricept from the
U.S. market. The group cited an Eisai-produced study that it
claims showed the higher dosage didn’t enhance the effectiveness
in treating moderate to severe Alzheimer’s.  “Although the study failed to show that the 23 mg dose has
any clinically meaningful benefit, the study demonstrated that,
in comparison with the 10 milligram dose, the use of a 23-
milligram dose of donepezil is associated with a significant
increase in risk to patient safety,” according to the
complaint.  U.S. regulators approved a 23 milligram dose in July 2010,
four months before a patent on Aricept’s 10 milligram dose
expired. Patients taking the larger amount had more side effects
than the 10 milligram level, including nausea, vomiting and
gastrointestinal bleeding, according to the complaint.  Public Citizen  on May 18, 2011, asked the FDA to pull the
pills from the U.S. market and add a label to lower dosages of
Aricept and generic donepezil warning of “increased toxicity
associated with higher dosages.” The agency hasn’t acted on its
petition, according to the lawsuit.  ‘Acted Unlawfully’  “To protect public safety and prevent needless death and
injury, Public Citizen seeks a declaration that the FDA has
acted unlawfully by withholding action on Public Citizen’s
petition,” according to the complaint.  Sandy Walsh , an FDA spokeswoman, said the agency doesn’t
comment on pending litigation.  In a Dec. 1 letter to Public Citizen, the agency said it
had yet to reach a decision on the group’s request because of
the “significant issues” raised in the petition.  “We stand by the FDA’s decision to approve Aricept 23
milligram as a safe and effective treatment of moderate-to-
severe Alzheimer’s disease,” Marcia Diljak, a spokeswoman for
Tokyo-based Eisai, said in an e-mail.  She declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Christopher Loder , a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Public Citizen Inc. v.  Food and Drug
Administration , 12-cv-01461, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  