-- FedEx Sees First Earnings Decline Since 2009 on Economy
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-05T20:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/fedex-projects-first-earnings-drop-since-2009-as-economy-slows.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  fell in U.S. trading
after projecting its first quarterly earnings decline since 2009
as slowing economic growth hurt demand for the express packages
that provide most of its sales.  A slump in Europe and slowing growth in  Asia  may have
exposed a weakness of FedEx’s express business, which was built
around customers willing to pay more for speed of delivery, said
analysts from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. and  Raymond James  &
Associates Inc.  “The economy needs to get better,” said Arthur Hatfield,
an analyst with Raymond James in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “We see
some pent-up demand but corporations aren’t spending the money
until they get clarity on where policies are going.”  The shares slid  2 percent, the most since July 20, to
$85.80 at the close in  New York  in the first day of trading
after issuing the forecast. Memphis-based FedEx operates the
world’s biggest cargo airline and is considered an economic
bellwether because it moves goods ranging from financial
documents to pharmaceuticals.  Profit for the quarter that ended Aug. 31 will be $1.37 to
$1.43 a share, FedEx said yesterday in a statement. That was
less than a June 19  forecast  of $1.45 to $1.60 a share and year-
earlier earnings of $1.46. It would be the first drop in
adjusted per-share profit since the quarter ended November 2009.  FedEx is set to release quarterly earnings on Sept. 18,
with  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-
delivery company, to follow about a month later. Atlanta-based
UPS dropped 2.4 percent to $71.94.  Speed Focus  Even with an economic rebound, shippers probably won’t
return to paying a premium for overnight service, said Dave Vernon, an analyst based in New York with Sanford C. Bernstein.  “The way that FedEx’s business is set up, it’s really
geared for speed,” Vernon said. “They need to restructure that
and make it a little bit more economical on how they run their
network. That’s going to be a relatively slow process.”  The  International Monetary Fund  in July said it expects the
global economy to expand 3.9 percent, down from an April
estimate of 4.1 percent. FedEx in June lowered its projection
for U.S. economic growth to 2.2 percent for the year that ends
May 31, from a 2.3 percent forecast given six months earlier.  Manufacturing in the U.S. contracted for a third month in
August, the longest slide since the recession ended and a sign
the expansion may lose a source of strength. The Tempe, Arizona-
based  Institute for Supply Management  said yesterday its factory
index fell last month to the lowest since July 2009.  European Weakness  The euro-area economy is forecast to contract 0.4 percent
this year, according to the average of 39 economists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy  is expected to slow to 8
percent from 9.2 percent in 2011, according to 30 estimates.  A decline in Asia caused average volume for international
priority packages to fall 3 percent from a year earlier for the
quarter ended May 31, FedEx said in its June 19 quarterly
report. In the U.S., express package volume fell 5 percent.  “The global economy is weak and it’s impacting their
business in the short run,” Hatfield said. “I don’t think
there’s anything inherently broken with their business.”  Analysts had predicted adjusted profit in the quarter would
be $1.56 a share, based on the average of 23  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. They already had lowered their projections from
earlier in the year. The average for the quarter was $1.70 a
share before FedEx’s outlook statement in June.  Global Weakness  “Weakness in the global economy constrained revenue growth
at FedEx Express more than expected in the earlier guidance,”
FedEx said yesterday.  Slowing sales may add urgency to FedEx cost-cutting efforts
that include a voluntary buyout program and the grounding of
some older, less-efficient cargo planes.  Buyouts will be focused on staff employees at FedEx Express
and FedEx Services, which operates combined sales, marketing,
administrative and technology functions across other businesses.
Shea Leordeanu, a spokeswoman, said last month that FedEx hadn’t
decided how many workers will need to accept offers and expects
to release details at an Oct. 9-10 investor conference.  In June, FedEx said it was retiring 24 jet freighters and
43 older engines to better match shipping volumes. The company
also has said it expects to retire 21  Boeing Co. (BA)  727s this
fiscal year. Those planes will be replaced with Boeing 767-300
and 757-200 aircraft that are more fuel efficient and cost less
to operate, FedEx said.  Cutting Costs  Restructuring the express business may remove $200 million
to $900 million in costs, Hatfield said in an interview, citing
analysts’ estimates.  That pullback is more significant for FedEx’s finances “in
the short to medium term” than changes in earnings forecasts
because of the economy, said Hatfield, who has a strong buy
 rating  on the shares.  The larger 767s that FedEx has on order won’t be available
until the end of fiscal year 2014, constraining the company’s
ability to revamp the unit quickly, said Vernon, who has a
market perform rating on the shares.  “The restructuring of the express business isn’t going to
be cheap and it’s not going to be easy,” Vernon said. “It’s
going to be a slow slog.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  