-- Chongqing Former Police Chief Charged, Xinhua Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-06T07:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/former-chongqing-police-chief-charged-with-crimes-xinhua-says.html
China  charged the former police
chief of Chongqing with a battery of crimes including taking
bribes and abuse of power, pushing ahead with its bid to mop up
a political scandal that shook the Communist Party and led to
the downfall of his boss, Bo Xilai.  Wang Lijun allegedly “neglected his duty and bent the law
for personal gain” to shield Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, from charges
that she plotted the murder a British businessman in November,
the state-run Xinhua News Agency said. Gu was convicted last
month of poisoning Neil Heywood with cyanide.  The breadth of the charges against Wang, which also include
defection for his flight to a U.S. consulate in February with
evidence about the murder, signal the party may be marshaling
its case against Bo, once considered a candidate for the party’s
top Politburo Standing Committee. Chinese leaders are seeking to
move on from the scandal, the worst since the 1989 Tiananmen
Square protests, before a once-a-decade leadership transition
set for later this year.  “They could have fixed Wang simply with the case of
attempted defection and being a traitor, but they’re going in
for corruption, abuse of power,” said  Steven Tsang , director of
the China Policy Institute at the University of Nottingham in
the U.K. “That is implicating  Bo Xilai .”  Chongqing Model  Wang headed Chongqing’s police force from 2009 until early
February. He oversaw a crackdown on gangs that raised the
profile of Bo’s “Chongqing model,” with its focus on getting
tough on crime and fighting social inequality.  The campaign against organized crime, called “da hei,” or
“strike black,” was accompanied by allegations of arbitrary
arrests and beatings even as it boosted Bo’s profile. Chongqing
police arrested 1,544 people in the two months after the
offensive started in June 2009, according to Xinhua.  After he was removed as police chief, Wang fled to the U.S.
Consulate in the Chinese city of  Chengdu , where he told
diplomats that Gu murdered Heywood, according to U.S. officials
briefed on the matter. After a night with American officials
that saw the consulate compound ringed by police, Wang turned
himself over to government authorities.  State-run media said at the time that what’s come to be
called the “Wang Lijun incident” was a “serious political
event that has created an adverse influence both at home and
abroad.”  “China’s judicial authority will conduct the Wang Lijun
trial in accordance with the law,” Foreign Ministry spokesman
Hong Lei said at a briefing in Beijing today.  Clinton’s Visit  The charges against Wang were announced while Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  was in Beijing for talks. The U.S.
government wasn’t told that Wang was going to be charged and
learned the news from reports, U.S. officials said.  The U.S. expected Wang to be charged at some point, and
it’s clear there is ferment in China tied to the leadership
transition, said the officials, who asked not to be identified
discussing diplomatic communications during Clinton’s visit.  Bo, 63, committed “serious violations of discipline” in
the case, Xinhua reported in April. He has not been publicly
charged with any crime and hasn’t been seen in public since the
end of the National People’s Congress in Beijing in March. He
was removed from the Politburo that same month.  Li Cheng , a scholar at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington , said some of the charges against Wang could also be
used in a case against Bo.  Cyanide Poisoning  In a one-day trial on Aug. 9, Gu confessed to poisoning
Heywood in a hotel room because she believed he posed a threat
to her son as a result of a financial dispute, Xinhua reported.
Gu was convicted Aug. 20 and sentenced to death with a two-year
reprieve.  Before Wang went to the U.S. consulate, Bo was seen by
analysts including Brookings’ Li as a top contender for
membership in the Politburo Standing Committee. The panel, now
with nine men, exercises supreme authority in China. Its new
members will be revealed at the Communist Party Congress later
this year. Prior to that, the party’s wider  Central Committee  is
set to meet to complete details for the congress.  “The real connection here is to the upcoming Central
Committee meeting,” said June Teufel Dreyer, professor at the
University of Miami’s department of political science in  Coral
Gables ,  Florida . “I wonder if we’re not seeing some high level
machinations between the factions here.”  Bo’s “Chongqing Model” emphasized state-led investment to
ease wealth gaps between urban and rural residents. He also
reintroduced songs and slogans from the era of Chairman  Mao Zedong  to re-instill a socialist spirit. In 2009, millions of
Chongqing residents received quotes from Mao’s Little Red Book
on their mobile phones.  China’s leaders have sought to portray Bo’s ouster as an
aberration, not a reflection of deeper problems within the
Communist Party.  “China’s development will not be hindered by these
separate incidents, and the overall state of the country will
not be affected,” Xinhua said in an April commentary.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  