-- Former MAN Executives Samuelsson, Hornung Probed Over Corruption
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-09-05T14:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/former-man-executives-samuelsson-hornung-probed-over-corruption.html
Former  MAN SE (MAN)  Chief Executive
Officer Hakan Samuelsson and former Chief Financial Officer
Karlheinz Hornung are being investigated on corruption
allegations by German prosecutors.  The probe was opened after the former head of MAN’s audit
department testified in a related trial last month that both
knew about “possible corrupt practices” regarding business
deals in Slovenia, Thomas Steinkraus-Koch, spokesman for
prosecutors in Munich, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The prosecutors’ office reviewed the issue and found that
the statute of limitation doesn’t yet bar prosecution of the
potential criminal acts,” Steinkraus-Koch said. The office
“opened a probe because the two former MAN managers are
suspected of aiding in bribery in business relations.”  MAN,  Europe ’s third-largest truckmaker, agreed to pay 150
million euros ($189 million) in 2009 to resolve an inquiry into
alleged bribes paid by its truck and turbo units. Investigators
raided 59 company sites and seven private homes looking into
allegations of possible illegal conduct from 2002 to 2009. The
probe yielded several indictments against employees and
managers.  “Of course I haven’t done anything,” Samuelsson said by
telephone, denying any corruption allegations.  Hornung didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.
MAN spokesman Andreas Lampersbach declined to comment, saying
this concerns individuals who haven’t worked for the Munich-
based manufacturer for years. The men resigned in 2009.  Samuelsson is currently a member of the supervisory board
of  Siemens AG (SIE) , which was embroiled in its own bribery case from
2006 until it settled with prosecutors in the U.S. and  Germany 
at the end of 2008.  Siemens spokesman Alexander Becker declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  