-- Fortescue Declines to 3-Year Low as Iron Ore Falls: Sydney Mover
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-09-05T06:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/fortescue-declines-to-3-year-low-as-iron-ore-falls-sydney-mover.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,
Australia’s third-biggest  iron ore  shipper, fell to the lowest
in more than three years in Sydney trading as the price of the
steelmaking material extended losses.  Shares of Fortescue, which today was cut to hold from buy
at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, dropped 8.5 percent to A$3.12,
its lowest close since June 9, 2009. Smaller rivals including
 Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO)  fell 4.8 percent, while  Gindalbie Metals Ltd. (GBG) 
plunged 11 percent.  Iron ore fell to the lowest in almost three years on
concern slowing growth in China, the biggest buyer, will curb
demand in the world’s second-largest economy. Fortescue
yesterday cut its full-year spending forecast by 26 percent to
$4.6 billion, joining other miners in delaying expansions.  “We are really quite concerned looking at prices around
these levels because you are going to see pressures on some of
the balance sheets,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional trader
at IG Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne . “We’re going to see more
production cuts, capex cuts and it will hurt profitability.”  Iron ore for immediate delivery to the Chinese port of
Tianjin tumbled 2.5 percent yesterday to $86.90 a metric ton,
the lowest since Oct. 19, 2009. Brazil’s Vale SA, the top iron-
ore producer, said last month that China’s “golden years” were
gone.  Moody’s Review  Fortescue remained under review for a debt-rating cut as a
result of the drop in prices, Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday following the project deferrals. A rebound in iron ore
to about $115-$125 a ton will “substantially reduce concerns
around liquidity and covenant pressure,” it said.  The company may face a $1.7 billion expansion funding
shortfall on lower cash flow estimates, Citigroup Inc. said
today in a report.  Fortescue said today it will raise $300 million from the
sale of a power plant to  TransAlta Corp. (TA)  The agreement with
TransAlta, Canada’s largest listed power generator, will provide
long-term security of supply to the 60 million metric ton a year
Solomon mine, Perth-based Fortescue said in a statement.  The company last month flagged plans to sell non-core
assets including power stations to help raise funds after
reporting a 7.1 percent cost overrun to $9 billion in expansion
costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  