-- Foster’s Tower, Hadid’s Funnel Dazzle in Venice: Review
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-09-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/foster-s-tower-hadid-s-funnel-dazzle-in-venice-show-review.html
The  Venice  Architecture Biennale
this year gives top billing to U.K. architects, starting with
 David Chipperfield .  The man best known for his work on Berlin’s Neues Museum is
steering the event.  Norman Foster  and (Baghdad-born, London-
based)  Zaha Hadid  also have notable displays.  The central exhibition, designed by Chipperfield, is titled
“Common Ground” to stress teamwork over self-centeredness.  Chipperfield said the theme was “to encourage my
colleagues to react against the prevalent professional and
cultural tendencies of our time that place such emphasis on
individual and isolated actions.”  Foster -- architect of London’s Gherkin tower -- has a dim,
immersive display called “Gateway” in the Arsenale’s first
gallery. Names of generations of architects, critics and
designers slither across the floor in moving projections. Images
of the world’s landmarks, slums and protest sites flash across
wall-to-wall screens.  In the central exhibition, Foster has another room devoted
to his Hongkong and Shanghai Bank tower, completed in 1985 in
 Hong Kong . Surrounding a maquette of the building are an Andreas Gursky photo of it and a Ben Johnson painting.  Hadid shows “Arum” (2012), a huge funnel-shaped pleated-
metal sculpture inspired by Frei Otto, architect of the 1972
Munich Olympic arena.  The Biennale is held within walking distance of St. Mark’s
Square. Exhibitions are inside the “Corderie dell’Arsenale,”
once Venice’s naval ropemaking workshops, and the lush Giardini
gardens, where countries have age-old permanent pavilions.  At the U.S. pavilion, an exhibition called “Spontaneous
Interventions” displays examples of architects, designers and
citizens taking over derelict spaces to make them more
sustainable, creating urban farms and new bike lanes.  Director Wim Wenders -- whose documentary “Pina” focused
on the late German choreographer  Pina Bausch  -- shows the
austere Swiss architect Peter Zumthor in a short movie.  The 13th Venice Architecture Biennale runs through Nov. 25,
2012. The event is held every other year, alternating with the
Art Biennale.  Information:  http://www.labiennale.org/en/architecture .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and
 Jason Harper  on autos.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Venice at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 