-- German Mittelstand Companies Expect Worse to Come in Euro Crisis
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-09-05T13:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/german-mittelstand-companies-expect-worse-to-come-in-euro-crisis.html
Germany ’s small and medium-sized
companies, the backbone of  Europe ’s biggest economy, are bracing
for the debt crisis to worsen, a survey showed.  Seventy-nine percent of Germany’s “Mittelstand” companies
anticipate greater turbulence in the economy as policy makers
fail to stem the debt crisis, the August poll commissioned by
Ernst & Young LLP showed. While an equal portion said they’re
better able than competitors to weather a worsening crisis, 93
percent said they’ve made no preparations in case states exit
the euro or the currency collapse.  “Germany’s Mittelstand companies are right now fighting
their own corners with success -- the picture darkens a few
months down the line,” said Peter Englisch, who leads Ernst &
Young’s Mittelstand unit, in presenting the survey to reporters
in Berlin today. “Clearly, the companies think they have no
influence to prevent the breakup of the euro.”  The survey of 700 companies with annual sales of as much as
100 million euros ($126 million) highlights the competitiveness
of Germany’s “hidden champions” in exploiting global niche
markets from software to car parts and specialist chemicals
while the outlook for the wider economy dims. Ninety-two percent
of those surveyed described their business situation in August
as quite good or good.  More Negative  Whereas 69 percent of respondents in Ernst & Young’s
January survey of the Mittelstand said they expected the
economic outlook to remain stable or worsen, the figure jumped
to 89 percent in August. The German government expects the
economy to grow 0.7 percent this year following 3 percent growth
in 2011.  “It’s frightening how rapid the general picture is
clouding in this country as seen through the eyes of the
Mittelstand,” said Englisch. “Their ability to decouple their
own outlook from that of the wider economy is -- looking a
couple of months down the road -- evaporating.”  The biannual poll was completed on Aug. 12 and surveyed
companies in branches including services, trade and industry.
Small and mediums-sized companies account for 95 percent of all
Germany’s companies, 61 percent of the country’s workers and
about 40 percent of all annual sales, according to the Bonn-
based  IfM  research institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  