-- Glencore’s Offer Undervalues Xstrata by 13%, Bernstein Says
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-09-05T16:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/glencore-s-offer-undervalues-xstrata-by-13-bernstein-says-1-.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s $34
billion all-share takeover offer undervalues  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  by 13
percent because the Swiss miner is set to benefit from
increasing copper production, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. said.  “Our valuation puts a fair exchange at 3.16 times versus
the 2.8 times on offer,” Paul Gait, a senior analyst at
Bernstein in London, said in a note today.  Some Xstrata investors, including 12 percent holder Qatar
Holding LLC, have said they would oppose the offer of 2.8
Glencore shares for each one in Xstrata. Glencore, the world’s
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, is resisting
pressure to raise its bid, according to a person with knowledge
of the matter. Xstrata shareholders are due to vote on the offer
Sept. 7.  “Not only do we consider Xstrata’s operational assets more
attractive than Glencore’s, we believe there is insufficient
transparency to rigorously assess risk in Glencore’s trading
book,” Gait said.  Under Glencore’s so-called scheme of arrangement, agreed to
by the target company’s board, as little as 16.48 percent of
Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata shareholders can block the deal
because Glencore isn’t allowed to vote its 34 percent stake
under U.K. takeover rules.  Opposition grew to about 15 percent after the Financial
Times reported last month that  Norway ’s sovereign wealth fund,
with a 3 percent holding, planned to join with Qatar to block
the deal, Liberum Capital Ltd. said Aug. 29. The fund today
declined to comment on whether it would oppose the deal.  Norges Bank  “We have a general policy of not commenting on individual
investments, we have no plans to make an exception in this
case,” Bunny Nooryani, spokeswoman at Norges Bank Investment
Management, the investment arm of Norway’s central bank that
manages the country’s Government Pension Fund Global, said in
reply to e-mailed questions.  Xstrata gained 1.9 percent to 935.10 pence at the close in
London, while Glencore, based in Baar,  Switzerland , rose 1.1
percent to 389.50 pence. Xstrata shares are trading at a ratio
of 2.4 times to Glencore’s, a discount of about 14 percent to
the bid.  “Should the deal fall through, as the current share ratio
of 2.4 times suggests may be the outcome, then we would consider
a potential dip in Xstrata share prices an attractive buying
opportunity,” Gait said.  Xstrata shareholders would benefit more from a merger with
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  “as this would create, in our view, a
credible challenger” to Vale SA, BHP Billiton Plc and Rio Tinto
Group, the world’s largest mining companies, he said.  Anglo Snub  Xstrata in 2009 walked away from a 29.2 billion-pound offer
for London-based Anglo American after its approach was snubbed
by Anglo’s board.  “Glencore remains at heart a sales and trading house that
has expanded into the mining space,” Gait said. “We consider
the merger a good deal for Glencore as it improves the company’s
operational asset portfolio and operational management.”  The chances of the deal winning approval from Xstrata
shareholders has dropped to 20 percent because their demands for
a sweetened bid are unlikely to be met, UBS AG said yesterday.
An increased offer of 3.25 Glencore shares would be “more
appropriate,” according to a June 26 statement from Qatar, the
biggest Xstrata shareholder after the commodities trader.  “Should the merger be concluded successfully below 3.16
times, Glencore offers, in our view, a ‘cheap’ way of accessing
the fundamental upside we see in Xstrata’s assets,” Gait said.
“However, given the rich exchange ratio demanded by Xstrata’s
largest shareholder, we question whether the merger can be
completed at this point, implying some near-term downside risk
for Glencore’s stock should the deal collapse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  