-- Global Funds Buy Most Korean Stocks on Record, Cut Bonds
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-09-05T03:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/global-funds-buy-most-korean-stocks-on-record-cut-bonds.html
Overseas investors increased
holdings of South Korean shares last month by the most on
record, while pulling money from local-currency bonds, data
today from the financial regulator showed.  The amount of equities owned by foreign funds rose by 6.6
trillion won ($5.8 billion) to 383.9 trillion won, the  Financial
Supervisory Service  said in an e-mailed statement today. That is
equivalent to 31 percent of shares listed on Korea Exchange.
Speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will embark on another
round of monetary stimulus and the  European Central Bank  will
act to resolve the region’s debt crisis spurred demand for
Korean equities, according to the FSS.  Funds based in the U.K. were the top buyers of Korean
shares in August, with net purchases amounting to 3 trillion
won, followed by France and  Singapore , today’s statement showed.
U.S. investors were the biggest sellers, ahead of those in
Luxembourg and  Switzerland . The  Kospi index  of shares rose 1.2
percent last month.  The value of won-denominated debt owned by overseas
investors fell by 2.6 trillion won to 86.9 trillion won, the
biggest monthly decline this year, according to the FSS.
Holdings decreased as 2.8 trillion won of bonds held by
foreigners matured and a bond market rally encouraged investors
to lock in profits, the statement said.  U.S. investors were the biggest sellers, with ownership
falling by 962 billion won, followed by those in Thailand and
 France , according to FSS data. Norwegian funds were the top net
buyers, adding 450 billion won, while those in Switzerland and
 China  raised holdings by 408 billion won and 185 billion won,
respectively, FSS data show.  The  yield  on the government’s benchmark five-year bonds
dropped 11 basis points to 2.86 percent in August, a fifth
straight monthly drop, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the longest run of declines since 2004. The won weakened
0.4 percent to 1,134.63 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  