-- Goldman Sachs Joins Boeing in Nixing Convention Donations
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-09-05T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/goldman-sachs-joins-boeing-in-nixing-convention-donations.html
Goldman Sachs Group (GS) ,  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  gave a total of $1.3 million to the host
committees funding the Democratic and Republican conventions
four years ago. This time, they aren’t on either party’s donor
lists.  They’re among the companies that are opting out of funding
the party’s quadrennial presidential nominating sessions at
which thousands of delegates and elected officials are inundated
with products and pitches by corporations seeking to elevate
their political profiles.  With extra scrutiny of the mingling of delegates and
special interests, some companies may have decided they didn’t
want the attention, said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign contributions.  “For the corporations to transfer funds from their general
treasuries to the conventions may be of less value than in
past years,” Krumholz said. “There’s too much of a
spotlight.”  Some companies are back in the convention business,
including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , according to lists of
donors released by both host committees.  New York-based Goldman Sachs contributed $250,000 to the
Denver host committee for the 2008 Democratic convention and
$255,000 to the Minneapolis-St. Paul committee for the
Republican gathering, according to the Campaign Finance
Institute, a Washington-based research group that studies
convention giving.  Goldman Giving  While Goldman employees are the largest company source of
campaign contributions to Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney’s campaign and were the biggest for President Barack Obama four years earlier, the company is sitting out the
conventions this time.  “We are operating in a constrained spending environment,
so we’ve had to cut back in a number of areas,” said  David Wells , a spokesman.  Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest defense contractor,
and Chicago-based Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company,
also have decided not to give to either convention host
committee.  Their decisions come just months before $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending cuts over a decade -- half of which would
affect the Defense Department -- are scheduled to kick in.  Defense Cuts  The reductions are required by the 2011 agreement to raise
the U.S. debt limit. The cuts, also known as sequester, were
designed to force Congress to find alternative deficit-reduction
proposals. Lawmakers, so far, haven’t agreed on such a plan.
Both Obama and Republican vice-presidential nominee  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin congressman, backed the debt-limit agreement.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin gave $200,000
in Denver and $150,000 in Minneapolis-St. Paul to help finance
the partisan festivities. This year, company officials simply
attended the conventions.  “We take a bipartisan approach in participating in the
political process and engaging with federal, state and local
political leaders committed to national security, homeland
security, education and technology issues,” said  Jennifer Whitlow , a spokeswoman.  Boeing also decided not to contribute to the host
committees this year, according to a spokesman, Tim Neale, after
giving $225,000 to the Democratic host committee and $200,000 to
the Republican committee in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Charlotte,  North Carolina  at  jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  