-- Gross Says Age of Credit Expansion Led Fund Returns Over
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-05T19:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/gross-says-age-of-credit-expansion-led-fund-returns-over.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
private credit-market debt is too high and the age of credit
expansion that led to “double-digit” returns is over.  Instead, investors face an “age of inflation, which
typically provides a headwind, not a tailwind, to securities
prices -- both stocks and bonds,” Gross wrote in his monthly
investment outlook posted on the  Newport Beach , California-based
company’s  website  today.  “Those days are over,” Gross said later during an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with
 Stephanie Ruhle . “Pension funds and individuals and investors
that expect 10 percent consistent returns to pay those bills are
going to be disappointed.”  Gross’s outlook follows his commentary last month, which
sparked debate among investors and analysts after he declared
that the “cult of equity” was dying. In his August comments,
he compared long-term returns from equities to a “ Ponzi
scheme ” and said returns of 6.6 percent above inflation, known
as the Siegel Constant, won’t be seen again. Since offering
equity funds in 2010, Pimco has attracted about $3.2 billion to
its four main funds as of the start of last month, less than 1
percent of the firm’s $1.8 trillion in assets.  “Our credit-based financial system is burdened by
excessive fat and interest rates that are too low,” Gross
wrote. “Central banks are agog in disbelief that the endless
stream of” liquidity pumped into the banking sector has not
stimulated lending, Gross wrote.  Zero Rates  Structured impediments such as regulator capital risk
standards for banks and fear of losing money among household
investors has prevented so-called zero bound  interest rates  from
sparking the economic recovery that central bankers anticipated
through the policies, Gross wrote.  “Too much debt leads to forced diets and deleveraging, a
process that has been going on since Lehman in 2008,” Gross
wrote, referring to the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September of that year. “Not only households, but
financial institutions as well as many countries have reduced
their caloric intake which in turn has promoted slow growth and
in some countries near recession and/or depression.”  Individuals should balance assets according to age, with a
greater emphasis on stocks for younger investors and bonds for
those closer to his age, the 68-year-old Gross wrote.  ‘Dying Cult’  “It’s really a diminished or dying cult of both bonds and
stocks, from the standpoint of a belief that they can get 10
percent types of returns to pay their bills, to pay for
education, to pay for retirement,” Gross said in the interview.  Gross expects bonds to return 2 percent to 3 percent, while
forecasting stocks will return 4 percent to 5 percent, he said
in the interview. “It’s going to be difficult to stimulate the
real economy in the U.S. at a faster rate than 2 percent and
perhaps even less if we have that  fiscal cliff  in December or
January 2013.”  U.S. economic growth slowed to an annualized rate of 1.7
percent in the second quarter from 2 percent in the first,
according to the Commerce Department on Aug. 30. The so-called
fiscal cliff refers to an event in which taxes are set to rise
and spending cut by $1.2 trillion if Congress fails to agree by
Dec. 31 on ways to reduce the deficit.  Reflationary Bets  “If central banks are successful in terms of reflating, if
Bernanke is successful in terms of a new QE, then an investor
should be focused on reflationary assets,” Gross said. “That
would be real assets such as commodities and gold -- to the
extent that they reflect future  inflation . On the bond side that
would be inflation-protected securities, such as TIPS or even
floating rate securities that don’t have a fixed coupon, and
stocks as well.”  Pimco’s founder and co-chief investment officer reiterated
in his commentary that institutional investors will continue to
find the highest returns in countries with faster growth rates
and warned that nations such as the U.S., where he has favored
Treasury debt, offer risk in the long term.  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in his $270 billion Total Return Fund to 33 percent of
assets in August from 35 percent the prior month, according to
the latest data on Pimco’s  website . Mortgages were at 51
percent, down from 52 percent in July.  The Total Return Fund gained 8.1 percent during the past
year, beating 97 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund gained 0.65 percent in the past
month, topping 86 percent of comparable funds.  Inflation Expectations  Treasuries due in  30 years , the securities most sensitive
to increases in inflation, yield 2.70 percent after touching
2.44 percent on July 26, the lowest ever. That compares with an
average of 3.9 percent in 2011 and 4.43 percent in the last
decade.  A  measure  of price-increase predictions used by the  Federal
Reserve  to set policy, the five-year, five-year forward break-
even rate, has averaged 2.54 percent this year. That’s the
lowest since 2001 for the measure, which gauges expectations for
inflation between 2017 and 2022.  U.S. government bonds have gained 2.5 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. That
compares with 3.7 percent for German bunds and 4 percent for
U.K. gilts. Australian securities have gained 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  