-- If Romney’s Harvard Pals Love Him, Why Can’t You?
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-09-05T22:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/if-romney-s-harvard-pals-love-him-why-can-t-you-.html
I keep hearing and reading that  Mitt Romney  has a likeability problem. The Republican presidential
candidate trails President  Barack Obama  by 23 points, according
to an Aug. 20-22  USA Today/Gallup poll . The early post-
convention polling suggests a  slight bounce  in Romney’s
likeability, but not enough, apparently, to ensure entry to the
White House.  Since at least 1984, the more likeable candidate has won
the presidential election, according to the  Washington Post . At
31 percent, Romney ranks below such losers as  Walter Mondale  and
 Michael Dukakis .  Leading up to the  Republican National Convention  last week,
pundits of both persuasions said the party’s goal was to
“humanize Mitt Romney,” as if he were some sort of primate
that hadn’t fully  evolved  from the apes; to show us what kind of
a person Romney really is; and to make him appear less wooden
and more touchy-feely, or something like that.  That’s exactly what many of the speakers at the convention
did. And what was the response from the chattering class?
Romney’s speech was devoid of policy proposals. The guy just
can’t win.  Those paying  tribute to Romney  -- people who have known him
or worked with him over a period of 30 years -- talked of a
caring, compassionate and honorable man, a hard worker who has
devoted his life “to quietly serving others.”  True Charity  “Quietly” is the operative word. No 21-gun salute to
announce his good deeds. Charity in the truest sense.  Jane Edmonds, who was a member of Romney’s Cabinet when he
was governor of  Massachusetts  from 2003-2007 and described
herself as a “liberal Democrat,” said she was struck by his
grace and humanity. “I just wanted to be around him,” Edmonds
said when she  addressed the convention  on the final night, Aug.
30.  To be sure, every candidate can summon a short list of
friends and associates to attest to his character and
accomplishments. But something struck me about the testimonials
to Romney. Bob White, the chairman of Romney for President, has
been at his side for three decades. It wasn’t because he found
Romney unlikeable.  So here’s the odd thing: Those whose lives Romney touched
like, admire and respect him. His problem is with those who see
him through the filter of TV and print. Romney doesn’t brag
about the 10 to 20 hours a week he devoted to helping others
when he was pastor of the Mormon church in Belmont,
Massachusetts. This is who he is and what he does.  Even the  New York  Times can’t find anything bad to say
about  Romney’s character  in all the  profiles  it has done,
starting with his days at  Harvard Business School  and continuing
through his affiliation with the Church of  Jesus Christ  of
Latter Day Saints to  Bain Capital  to the Salt Lake City Olympics
to the Statehouse in Massachusetts.  So what constitutes likeability? And what aspects are
necessary for Americans to install someone in the White House
for four years?  Bill Clinton  was a likeable guy: a real people person. You
could imagine sitting down to have a beer with him at a bar --
and only getting up to leave hours later. Of course, if you
happen to be female, you might not want to be the last person in
the bar with him at 1 a.m. But, hey, trust has nothing to do
with likeability, right?  Advantage Reagan  What about  Ronald Reagan ? Like  Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
and  John F. Kennedy  before him, Reagan was widely admired for
his ability to communicate with the American public. They didn’t
call him the Great Communicator for nothing. Such likeability
wasn’t borne out in the polls. Reagan’s average approval rating
for the first two years in office was lower than any first-term
president since pollsters began tracking the numbers.  True, the  U.S. economy  suffered back-to-back  recessions  in
1980 and 1981-1982. Still, why was Reagan portrayed as popular
in the face of approval ratings to the contrary? His secret
weapon: The Washington press corps liked him, even if they
didn’t like his policies, according to “ The Press and the
Illusion of Public Opinion: The Strange Case of Ronald Reagan’s
‘Popularity ,”’ by Elliot King and Michael Schudson, part of a
 collection  of scholarly articles on communication and  public
opinion .  Reporters dutifully cited Reagan’s poll numbers, then went
about creating the impression that he was more popular, King and
Schudson claim. “The evidence suggests that at no time in
Reagan’s first years was the general public as charmed as the
news media,” the authors found.  Therein lies the challenge for Romney: to win over the
mainstream media. Not an easy task for a Republican, mind you.
But here are a few suggestions from a card-carrying member of
the press:  Invite some of the old-time White House correspondents up
to Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, for a weekend of aquatic sports,
fun and games, good food and wine (none for the host) with the
extended Romney clan.  Tell  Barbara Walters  and the women of ABC’s “The View”
that you want to schmooze with them on the couch. With your good
looks, nothing else will matter.  Enlist your Harvard Business School alumni, a “Who’s Who”
of American exceptionalism and any networker’s dream, to tout
your personal appeal.  Finally, the best way to make sure the media are in your
pocket is to put them in your pocket: Buy a media company. That
would be one sure-fire way to achieve Reagan-like popularity, be
it illusive or real.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether  we’re better off  than
four years ago, on why  Quebec’s separatism  is a dead end and on
the disasters that await the end of  Europe’s summer torpor ;
 Susan Antilla  on checking if your  broker is a crook ;  Margaret
Carlson  on the impossible  politics of abortion ; Jonathan Mahler
on  Stephen Strasburg’s false choice ; Phillip Swagel on why some
 banks need to be big .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  