-- Immigrant Students Top U.S.-Born in High School Diplomas
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-09-05T14:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/immigrant-students-top-u-s-born-in-high-school-diplomas.html
Immigrants were more likely to
graduate from New York City high schools than U.S.-born students
in 2009, according to the city’s Independent Budget Office.  The graduation rate for foreign-born students was 67
percent, compared with about 66 percent for nonimmigrants in the
most populous U.S. city, said the publicly funded nonpartisan
fiscal monitor.  “Students from  Asia ,  Europe  and  Africa  were far more
likely to graduate than U.S.-born students and less likely to
drop out,” the agency said in a report issued today. “Students
from the Caribbean, Central and  South America  and  Mexico  were
less likely to graduate.”  The analysis of almost 73,000 students was conducted after
the Education Department’s report of “dramatic increases” in
graduation rates since the school year that began in 2001
“prompted questions from some education analysts and
advocates,” the budget office said. The report found graduation
and dropout rates no more than 1 percentage point different from
the official calculations.  Children born in southern Africa graduated at the highest
rate, 92 percent, though just 11 students were included in the
analysis. The 954 born in Mexico had the lowest rate, 43
percent. There are about 1.1 million students in New York City’s
public schools.  Hispanics fared worst among ethnic groups regardless of
whether they were born stateside, 60 percent, or overseas, 56
percent. U.S.-born Asians were highest, with 87 percent
graduating; for their immigrant peers, the rate was 75 percent.  Country of origin did little to change the rate among
whites, who graduated about 79 percent of the time. Foreign-born
black students had a rate of 68 percent, beating their U.S.-born
counterparts by about seven percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  