-- Indian Stocks Decline on Growth Concern Ahead of ECB Meeting
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-09-05T10:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/indian-stocks-decline-on-growth-concern-ahead-of-ecb-meeting.html
Indian stocks retreated, tracking
Asian equities, as economic reports from the U.S. to China and
Australia stoked concern global growth is slowing.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the largest power-equipment
maker, tumbled 5.3 percent.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  slumped 3.2
percent. A report showed yesterday U.S. manufacturing fell for a
third straight month in August, marking the longest decline
since the recession ended in 2009.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the biggest
non-state lender, dropped 3.6 percent.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, fell 0.8 percent
to 17,301.23, according to preliminary closing prices at 3:30
p.m. in Mumbai. China’s factory-output growth may slow to about
10 percent, from 13.9 percent in 2011 and 15.7 percent in 2010,
Securities Times reported, citing a joint report by the Ministry
of Industry and Information Technology and the Chinese Academy
of Social Sciences. Data showed today Australia’s economy slowed
more in the second quarter than economists expected.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  lost 1.3 percent, heading for
the lowest close since July. Volatility across the region rose
as investors awaited developments out of Europe.  Mario Draghi ,
president of the  European Central Bank , said the bank’s primary
mandate compels it to intervene in bond markets to wrest back
control of interest rates and ensure the euro’s survival. His
comments came before the ECB’s Governing Council is due to
decide on his bond-buying proposal tomorrow.  The European Union is India’s largest trading partner. It
accounted for 17.2 percent of the nation’s exports in the six
months ended September 2011, according to the commerce ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  