-- Indian Tycoon Seeks 40-Fold Payout in African Gas Deal
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e ,   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-09-06T13:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/indian-tycoon-seeks-40-fold-payout-in-african-gas-deal.html
An Indian mobile-phone billionaire
is trying to turn a $75 million investment in a  Mozambique  oil
license into a $3 billion payday, banking on competition between
the world’s largest energy companies to drive up the price of
 East Africa ’s virgin natural-gas fields.  Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF) , controlled by Venugopal Dhoot,
owns 10 percent of Mozambique’s Rovuma-1 offshore block, where
more gas has been discovered than Libya’s entire reserves. His
price tag is 50 percent more per barrel than Thailand’s  PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  paid when it outbid  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  for a stake in the field earlier this year.  “To get a 50 percent premium would be quite high,” said
Laura Loppacher, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in
London. “There will be buyers out there. Shell is the obvious
candidate,” she said, adding interest is also likely to come
from China,  Japan  and  South Korea .  Mozambique and neighboring Tanzania, which have no track
record of oil and gas production, are home to the largest gas
discoveries in more than a decade and sit across the  Indian
Ocean  from Asian economies needing energy imports to fuel
growth. Still, getting the gas to customers will require the
development of multi-billion dollar plants to turn the gas into
liquid for shipment by tankers, encouraging original investors
like Videocon to sell out now.  Shell Talks  Videocon, which runs businesses from making flat-screen
television sets to operating mobile-phone services, is in talks
with companies including Shell, a person with knowledge of the
matter said, asking not to be identified because the discussions
are private. Videocon may find a buyer for the stake in about
six months, the person said.  The company’s  shares  closed little changed at  173.55
rupees in Mumbai today. The stock fell 3.8 percent in the last
year compared with the 2.9 percent increase in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Selling its 10 percent share in the block in Mozambique
will help the group pay 200 billion rupees ($3.6 billion) of
debt and reclaim mobile-phone licenses in  India  that were
canceled by the nation’s top court earlier this year. Videocon
may also sell its phone business in two years to focus on
consumer electronics and hydrocarbons, the person said.  Dhoot didn’t answer two calls made to his mobile phone
today, while Shell’s spokesman Jonathan French declined to
comment.  $75 Million  Videocon agreed to pay $75 million for the stake in
Mozambique’s  Rovuma-1  area in 2008 to  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
which leads the group exploring the reserve. Houston-based
Anadarko may also sell some of its 36.5 percent stake in the
area and has had talks with Shell, people familiar with the
matter said in July.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL) , India’s second-largest state oil
refiner, is also an investor in the block.  Shell in July dropped out of a race to buy  Cove Energy Plc (COV) ,
which holds 8.5 percent of the block, leaving Thailand’s PTT
Exploration as the only bidder, with an offer valuing Cove at
1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion).  “It’s a big resource,” Shell’s Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Voser  said on an analysts conference call on July 26 when
asked about energy explorations in East Africa. “The valuation
has to be right, and that’s where we took a view on Cove. We
took a view on the valuation but we also took a view on the
process itself, and therefore we will look at other
opportunities if they come along.”  Exports to Asia  Rovuma-1 ’s reserves of as much as 60 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable gas are enough to support the construction of
liquefied natural gas terminals for exports to Asia, including
India. Bharat Petroleum, may spend $2 billion as its share of
the cost of developing the $20 billion gas project, Chairman
R.K. Singh said in June.  The difficulty of developing the resources may cap
valuations, said Stuart Joyner, head of oil and gas research at
Investec Bank Plc in  London .  “People started to realize that the cost side is going to
be a problem,” Joyner said in a phone interview. “I can’t see
any justification for a higher price than PTTEP paid for Cove.”  Videocon plans to borrow as much as $1.4 billion to pay for
its share of the development even as it looks for a buyer, the
person said. The loan, which the company plans to raise by
October, will be dollar-denominated and will have a tenure of
six to eight years and pay an interest rate of 300 basis points
to 350 basis points over Libor, the person said.  Brazil Fields  Videocon also owns stakes in four oilfields in  Brazil  and
will wait to complete exploring the area before deciding on
selling the shares, the person said.  Reducing  debt  will help Mumbai-based Videocon bid for
mobile-phone licenses at home after the nation’s  Supreme Court 
canceled 21 of Videocon Telecommunications Ltd.’s licenses,
among the 122 permits it scrapped in February.  The court canceled the licenses after sale of the permits
in 2008 sparked the nation’s biggest corruption probe and led to
the jailing of a former minister. India’s auditor said in a 2010
report the sale of the airwaves lacked transparency and
ineligible bidders bought them at “unbelievably low” prices,
denying the treasury of as much as $31 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  