-- India Rules Out Bans on Sugar Exports as Monsoon Revives
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-09-05T08:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/india-rules-out-bans-on-sugar-exports-as-monsoon-revives.html
A revival in the monsoon in  India 
will boost crop prospects and enable the world’s second-biggest
producer of rice, wheat and sugar to refrain from banning
shipments, according to Food Minister K.V. Thomas.  “Rice production will be as good as the previous year and
we have no problem in sugar as of now,” Thomas said in an
interview at his office in New Delhi yesterday. “We have
adequate stocks of wheat.”  India’s pledge on exports will ease concern about global
food supplies after the worst  U.S. drought  in half a century
drove corn and soybeans to records. The world needs swift,
coordinated action to avoid another food crisis in the face of
rising prices, the heads of three United Nations agencies said
yesterday. Surging grains and oilseeds drove the biggest gain in
world  food costs  in July since 2009, according to the UN.  “Indian exports will check any drastic gains in global
prices, if not lower the rates,” said Faiyaz Hudani, a senior
analyst at Mumbai-based Kotak Commodity Services Ltd. “The
market knows that India will export to liquidate its excess
stock and will not become very aggressive.”  High  food prices  in 2011 contributed to riots across
northern  Africa  and the  Middle East  that toppled leaders from
 Tunisia  to  Egypt . They also triggered more than 60 riots
worldwide from 2007 to 2009, according to the U.S. State
Department. India extended a ban on exports of sugar, rice and
wheat in 2009 after the weakest monsoon in almost four decades,
before relaxing curbs in later years.  Rains Return  Wheat futures in  Chicago  have climbed 36 percent this year,
touching a four-year high on July 23. Soybeans reached a record
$17.89 a bushel yesterday, while corn surged to an all-time high
of $8.49 on Aug. 10.  The monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
India’s annual rainfall, revived last month, easing drought
conditions in more than 50 percent of the country, according to
the  India Meteorological Department . The return of rains has
narrowed the rainfall deficit to 11 percent from 29 percent at
the end of June, according to the department.  Rainfall and sowing in India have picked up of late and
local prices may ease, Philip Wyatt, an economist at UBS AG,
said in a report on Sept. 3. “Irrigation levels have improved,
which means reduced dependency on rainfall.”  Rain in September will be better than an earlier forecast,
helping the growth of already-planted crops and planting of
winter crops that depend on irrigation, L.S. Rathore, director
general of  India Meteorological Department , said Aug. 28.  State Reserves  The sowing of monsoon crops this year is close to normal
levels and more than in the previous drought year of 2009, Wyatt
said. The area under rice exceeded normal levels, while lentils
and oilseed acreages are close to normal, he said.  Rice was sown in 34.7 million hectares (85.74 million
acres) as of Aug. 31, compared with a normal area of 33.2
million hectares, while sugar cane was planted in 5.29 million
hectares compared with an average 4.67 million hectares,
according to the farm ministry.  India’s non-basmati rice shipments totaled about 6.25
million metric tons as of Aug. 22 after the ban on exports by
private companies was lifted in 2011, according to the food
ministry. Wheat exports were about 2.53 million tons, it said.  State reserves of wheat and rice jumped 24 percent to 76.1
million tons as of Aug. 1 from a year earlier after food-grain
production climbed to a record 252.6 million tons in the year
ended June 30, according to the food ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  