-- Minnesota Campaign Cash Rules May Be Unlawful, Court Says
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-09-05T20:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/minnesota-campaign-cash-rules-may-be-unlawful-court-says.html
A  Minnesota  law that limits some
organizations from making restricted political contributions is
“most likely” unconstitutional, a federal appeals court in  St.
Louis  ruled.  Groups including Citizens Concerned for Life Inc., the
Taxpayers’ League of Minnesota and Coastal Travel Enterprises
LLC sued Minnesota to affirm their right to make unsolicited
“independent expenditures” for or against candidates for
political office, citing the U.S. Constitution’s First
Amendment, which guarantees free speech. A majority of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit said the law may be too
restrictive.  “Independent expenditures are indisputably political
speech, and any restrictions on those expenditures strike at the
core of our electoral process and of the First Amendment
freedoms,” the majority wrote today, singling out the law’s
reporting requirements as especially burdensome.  According to an administrator cited by the court, a donor
must create and register an independent expenditure political
fund, appoint a treasurer, ensure money isn’t commingled with
other funds, track expenditures, file annual reports for the
life of the fund, log the expenditures, names and addresses of
political committees, provide credit details, name people who
receive non-campaign disbursements, and give details of
nonprofits that provide administrative assistance.  Violators are subject to “substantial civil and criminal
penalties” and must keep records for four years, according to
the court.  ‘Red Tape’  “Under Minnesota’s regulatory regime, an association is
compelled to decide whether exercising its constitutional right
is worth the time and expense of entering a long-term morass of
regulatory red tape,” the judges wrote.  This is the second time the Eighth Circuit has been asked
to consider the law. An earlier panel affirmed a lower court’s
refusal to grant an injunction blocking enforcement of the law.
Today’s ruling by an 11-judge panel overturned that ruling and
sent the case back to the district court for further
consideration.  The case is Minnesota Citizens Concerned for Life Inc. v.
Swanson, 10-3126,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Eighth Circuit
(St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  