-- Investors Pay Premium for Scots Fund Making 84 Percent in Crisis
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-09-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/investors-pay-premium-for-scots-fund-making-84-percent-in-crisis.html
Investors are paying more than ever
to buy into Bruce Stout’s thinking that the world is still a
long way off from solving its economic problems.  The 1.1 billion-pound ($1.7 billion)  Murray International
Trust (MYI)  managed by Stout at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  is the
top performer of the U.K.’s 10 largest closed-end funds during
the financial crisis, returning 84 percent in the five years to
Aug. 31, according to Morningstar Inc. Its stock market value is
now 8.3 percent higher than its assets compared with a discount
of 20 percent a decade ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stout hasn’t added a single company to his fund this year.
Key to his strategy is the view that central bankers focus on
 interest rates  and quantitative easing and have yet to find the
right tools to fix the economy while investors are missing
opportunities because they perceive risk incorrectly.  “All they’re doing is going round and round in the credit
cycle believing that old measure of reducing interest rates will
cure the illness that’s completely different from the past,”
Stout said in an interview in Edinburgh. “They’re still looking
at it in the same blinkered way.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on July
26 he would do everything it takes to protect the euro, though
he didn’t announce details of any plan. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  made the case for further monetary easing at the
annual forum last week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “We’re no further forward at all in terms of the defining
issue of the day: the crisis of public sector indebtedness,”
Stout said at his office on Aug. 24. “That unfortunately will
take a decade to make any kind of dent in it.”  Railroad Bonds  The Murray International Trust was founded in 1907 for
wealthy Scots to invest in railroad bonds across the Americas,
the  emerging markets  of the day, and Stout isn’t constrained by
having to invest in specific types of assets.  As a result, the 53-year-old picks and holds companies that
he reckons can make money in any economic climate.  The largest bond investment is securities from Brazil’s
 Vale SA (VALE3) , the biggest iron-ore producer in the world. The
company’s A- rating from  Standard & Poor’s  is the highest among
all Brazilian companies. The yield on the November 2036 Vale
dollar bonds held by Murray International was 5.66 percent
yesterday, down from 6.75 percent five years ago.  The fund’s biggest two stock investments are  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe ’s largest cigarette maker, and PT
Unilever Indonesia, part of the world’s second-largest consumer
products company, according to Murray’s monthly fact-sheet.  Defensive Fund  Murray International is considered “defensive,” meaning
its investments gain less during bull markets and lose less when
stocks and bonds decline, said Richard Troue, an analyst at
 Hargreaves Lansdown , a financial adviser in Bristol,  England ,
that invests in the fund for clients.  “If there was a return to positivity and all of a sudden
markets started to rocket then he’s holding a lot of companies
that would be left behind and that’s one of the risks,” said
Troue. “You have to question whether you’d buy the fund now or
if it’s better to wait. We’d be inclined to wait.”  BAT shares  have risen 5.2 percent this year, while the  MSCI
World Index (MXWO)  of developed markets is up 7.8 percent. The trust
returned 14.1 percent over the past 12 months, the most among
the 10 largest closed-end funds in the U.K., data from Chicago-
based Morningstar Inc. show.  Oil Stocks  Stout said he took advantage of a dip in the oil price and
the decline in related stocks to add to holdings in companies
including  Total SA (FP) , which is among his top 20 equity
investments.  Total shares  dropped 10 percent in the first half
of 2012 and have recovered 10 percent since then.  That reflects how investors should stick with companies
with solid earnings and dividends rather than be swayed by the
markets, Stout said. The MSCI World Index jumped 11 percent in
the first quarter of this year before declining 5.8 percent in
the second and rallying 3 percent so far in the third.  “Sentiment is taking investors’ minds on some kind of
roller-coaster journey where you can come in at the beginning of
the year and drive equity markets higher purely based on hope
and expectation,” Stout said in an interview at his office in
Edinburgh. “You never make money on hope.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  