-- MIT’s Johnson Sees Italian Debt as Most Unsustainable
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-09-05T17:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/mit-s-johnson-sees-italian-debt-as-most-unsustainable.html
Italy may be “first and foremost”
among European nations with unsustainable debt, said  Simon Johnson , a former International Monetary Fund chief economist.  Resolving Europe’s financial crisis will “take a long
time” and involves “a major shift in how people think about
debt and how they think about risk around the world,” Johnson
said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.  “These countries will try and do many things to avoid that
kind of restructuring and this is going to be a long and painful
process,” said Johnson, a professor at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan School of Management  and a
Bloomberg View contributor. “These countries haven’t had major
debt defaults since the 1930s.”  Bringing down funding costs is critical for Italy, which
has a debt of almost 2 trillion euros ($2.5 trillion), the euro-
region’s second biggest in nominal terms after  Germany . The
Treasury still has to finance 165 billion euros of maturing
bonds and bills this year, more than three times the level faced
by  Spain .  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying
proposal involves unlimited purchases of government debt that
will be sterilized to assuage concerns about printing money, two
central bank officials briefed on the plan said.  Temporarily Stabilize  While Draghi’s policies “may temporarily help stabilize”
the crisis, “European economies have to turn themselves around,
they have to get back on a growth track,” Johnson said.
“That’s not what we’re seeing right now.”  In the U.S., debate on how to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases probably
won’t occur until after the Nov. 6 election, and lawmakers have
an “unlimited” ability to delay “big decisions that remain to
be made about taxes,” Johnson said.  Government debt has reached  $16 trillion  for the first time
after rising $1 trillion since November, Treasury Department
data show. Lawmakers must negotiate on raising the $16.4
trillion federal debt ceiling. The U.S. will reach the limit in
the fourth quarter of this year and can take measures so that
Congress doesn’t have to raise it until 2013.  “For sure we’re going to have that debate in November and
December,” Johnson said. “There are huge decisions that are
going to be made, like it or not, in the context of this fiscal
cliff.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  