-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Rise on ECB Bond Buying
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-05T23:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/japan-australian-stock-futures-rise-on-ecb-bond-buying.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  rose on speculation  European Central Bank  President
 Mario Draghi  today will announce unlimited bond purchases to
tame the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  American depositary receipts of camera maker  Canon Inc. (7751) ,
which gets 31 percent of its revenue in Europe, gained 0.7
percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s third-largest bank by market
value, added 0.2 percent. Shares of Lynas Corp. may be active in
Sydney after it said Malaysia issued a temporary operating
license for a rare-earths refinery.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 8,695 in Chicago yesterday compared with
8,670 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,700
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index gained 0.3 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
added 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “ Europe  has been a source of tail risk for markets for the
last two years,” said Prasad Patkar, a portfolio manager who
helps manage about $1 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd.
in Sydney. “If that risk is addressed in a credible manner, the
scene could be set for a relief rally in risk assets.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 1.2 percent this quarter
through yesterday as signs of a global economic slowdown
overshadowed expectations for further stimulus measures. The
Asian benchmark traded at 12.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.6 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
11.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  U.S. Market  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The index fell 0.1 percent in New York yesterday
as London-based Markit Economics said euro-area services and
manufacturing contracted more than initially estimated in
August.  In Australia, data today is forecast to show hiring slowed
and the jobless rate rose in August.  Investors are also awaiting the European Central Bank’s
decision on its bond-purchase program today.Draghi’s proposal
involves unlimited purchases of government debt that will be
sterilized to assuage concerns about printing money, two central
bank officials briefed on the plan said. To sterilize the bond
purchases, the ECB will remove from the system elsewhere the
same amount of money it spends, ensuring the program has a
neutral impact on the  money supply .  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 1 percent to 86.29 at the
close of trading in New York yesterday, its fifth straight daily
loss and the longest string of declines since May 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 