-- Journal Register Co. Files for Bankruptcy for Second Time
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-09-05T19:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/journal-register-co-files-for-bankruptcy-for-second-time.html
Journal Register Co., which publishes
the New Haven Register and was acquired last year by Alden Global 
Capital Ltd., filed for  bankruptcy protection  for the second time 
in less than four years.  The company listed assets of more than $100 million in 
Chapter 11 documents filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in 
 Manhattan . Journal Register said it owes creditors about 
$162.3 million, mostly secured debt tied to its 2009 exit from 
bankruptcy.  “The debtors have been challenged by a recent downturn in
print advertising that was more severe than had been
anticipated,” Executive Vice President of Operations William J. Higginson said in court papers.  21st CMH Acquisition Co., an affiliate of funds managed by
Alden, agreed to act as the stalking-horse, or lead bidder, for
Journal Register’s assets in a bankruptcy auction, according to
court papers. Journal Register expects the sale process to take
about 90 days. The Alden lenders will be credit bidding, or
offering the value of the secured debt they are owed in exchange
for the assets, the company said.  The Yardley, Pennsylvania-based publisher previously sought
court protection in February 2009, at the time listing debt of
as much as $1 billion. Journal Register exited bankruptcy in
August 2009 under the terms of a prenegotiated reorganization
plan.  Philadelphia, Cleveland  The company operates primarily in the Philadelphia and
 Cleveland  areas, as well as in  Michigan ,  New York  State and
 Connecticut . Its newspapers include the Delaware County Times
and the Trentonian near Philadelphia, the Oakland Press in
Michigan, the Daily Freeman in Kingston, New York, the Register
Citizen in Connecticut and the News-Herald outside of Cleveland.  Journal Register and its affiliates have about 1,832 full-
time and 525 part-time employees, with about 23 percent of those
workers under collective-bargaining agreements, according to
court papers.  Digital operations include 237 websites, 38 smartphone and
digital applications and 19 mobile sites affiliated with its
daily newspapers and non-daily publications, court papers show.  Twenty-eight affiliates, including St. Louis Sun Publishing
Co., Northeast Publishing Co., Hometown Newspapers Inc., Acme
Newspapers Inc., Morning Star Publishing Co., Digital First
Media Inc., Great Lakes Media Inc., Greater Detroit Newspaper
Network Inc. and Saginaw Area Newspapers Inc., also sought
protection.  The case is In Re Journal Register Co., 12-13774,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  