-- BOE Maintains Bond Program as Cameron Keeps Deficit Focus
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-09-06T11:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/king-carries-u-k-policy-burden-as-cameron-keeps-deficit-focus.html
The Bank of England persisted with
its quantitative-easing program today after Prime Minister  David Cameron  reiterated his budget plans, leaving the central bank
carrying the burden of reviving Britain’s economy.  With Cameron reaffirming his strategy to reduce the
deficit, ministers are stressing the role of the central bank in
getting the U.K. out of a recession. The Monetary Policy
Committee kept its bond-purchase target at 375 billion pounds
($596 billion), as forecast by 38 of 39 economists in a
 Bloomberg News survey . A separate poll shows economists see the
MPC expanding stimulus to 400 billion pounds by the end of 2012.  Britain’s  double-dip recession  deepened in the second
quarter as spending cuts at home and an escalating euro-area
debt crisis undermined confidence and demand. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  will announce details of a bond-
buying plan later today aimed at calming the debt crisis in the
U.K.’s biggest trading partner.  “MPC members are in wait-and-see mode to gauge how recent
policy initiatives feed into the U.K. economy,” said Nida Ali,
an economist at Ernst & Young’s Item Club. “But the downside
risks, particularly from the euro-zone crisis, remain
significant. Were the crisis to worsen, the bank would be forced
to provide far greater monetary support.”  The MPC, led by Governor  Mervyn King , also left its
 benchmark interest rate  at 0.5 percent, as predicted by all 51
economists in a poll.  ECB Spotlight  The pound traded at $1.5911 as of 12:53 p.m. in London,
little changed on the day. U.K. gilts stayed lower, with the
yield on the 10-year rising 3 basis points to 1.68 percent.  The ECB refrained from cutting  interest rates  today and
left the  benchmark rate  at a record low of 0.75 percent, as
predicted by 28 of 58 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The
remainder forecast a quarter-point cut. Investors are focused on
Draghi’s press conference at 2:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt  when he may
announce details of the plan to intervene in bond markets.  In the U.K., while gauges of  services  and manufacturing
improved in August, the  Bank of England  has said the outlook
remains “unusually uncertain.” It cut its economic forecasts
last month, while the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development lowered its outlook today. The OECD said gross
domestic product will fall 0.7 percent this year instead of the
previously predicted increase of 0.5 percent.  ‘Only Answer’  Cameron, who overhauled his Cabinet this week to reassert
his authority after poor economic data and policy U-turns
damaged his poll ratings, is refusing to bow to calls from the
opposition  Labour Party  to change his fiscal plans.  “We’ve cut the deficit by a quarter already, and we are
sticking to this course,” he wrote in the Mail on Sunday
newspaper on Sept. 2. In Parliament yesterday, Cameron rejected
criticism from Labour leader  Ed Miliband , saying the
opposition’s “only answer to a debt crisis is to spend more,
borrow more and put up the debt.”  The government says the fiscal strategy is helping to
insulate the U.K. from the euro-area debt crisis.  Ten-year
borrowing costs  for Britain are at 1.67 percent, down from about
3.4 percent at the start of 2011. That compares with current
rates of 5.45 percent for  Italy  and 6.27 percent for  Spain .  “There is no simple alternative,” U.K. Business Secretary
Vince Cable said on BBC radio on Sept. 2. “The way we have
approached this is to make sure the government’s finances are in
order so the Bank of England then has confidence to give
stimulus through monetary policy. We’ve got to continue to work
on that combination.”  ‘Heavy Lifting’  Simon Wells, chief U.K. economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
 London , said the government is “clearly looking for monetary
policy to do the heavy lifting.”  “What people tend to overlook is that monetary policy has
already done a lot of heavy lifting,” he said. “There’s a huge
amount of uncertainty in the global macro economy at the moment
so the bank seems to be in a prudent, wait-and-see mode.”  The Bank of England last expanded stimulus in July,
announcing a 50 billion-pound program that runs until November.
It started the Funding for Lending Scheme with the government in
August to boost credit to companies and households.  All nine MPC members voted to leave the QE target unchanged
last month. Still, minutes of the meeting showed some officials
said a “good case could be made” for more asset purchases. The
record of today’s MPC meeting, which will include former
Confederation of British Industry economist  Ian McCafferty  for
the first time, will be published on Sept. 19.  Nomura International Plc economist Philip Rush forecasts a
25 billion-pound increase in QE in November, though “no rate
cut because it would be counterproductive.” Chris Crowe, an
economist at Barclays Plc, sees a 50 billion-pound increase that
month. While he also forecasts a quarter-point rate cut, this is
a “marginal call,” he said.  “Although inaction is likely at the September meeting, we
think that the policy debate on the committee may be
particularly intense, reflecting uncertainty and disagreement
along two dimensions,” Crowe said. “First, is more easing
required? And second, what is the best means of delivering it?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  