-- N. Korea to Hold Second Parliament Session Amid Economic Concern
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-09-05T09:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/n-korea-to-hold-rare-second-parliamentary-session-this-month.html
North Korea  will convene a second
session of parliament at the end of the month amid speculation
new leader Kim Jong Un is open to policy changes addressing the
totalitarian state’s economic backwardness.  The Supreme People’s Assembly, which last met in April,
will gather in Pyongyang Sept. 25, the official Korean Central
News Agency said today without giving details. The meeting comes
as North  Korea  struggles to recover from summer floods that left
hundreds missing or dead in a country where two-thirds of the
population suffers from chronic malnutrition.  Kim Jong Un, who succeeded his late father Kim Jong Il as
leader in December, has sought to bolster his image by calling
for better management of everything from factories to amusement
parks. He has named economic development as a priority for a
country whose gross domestic product is one-fortieth the size of
 South Korea ’s.  “The session may lay the groundwork for new economic
policies designed to improve  living conditions  for the people,
as Kim Jong Un pledged in April,” said Yoo Ho Yeol, a North
Korean Studies professor at Korea University in Seoul.  North Korea last held two parliamentary sessions in one
year in 2010, when  Kim Jong Il  unveiled his son as successor,
South Korean Unification Ministry spokeswoman Park Soo Jin said.
Before then, the country hadn’t held two sessions in one year
since at least 2003, Park said.  About 16 million of North Korea’s 24 million people suffer
from food insecurity, high malnutrition rates and deep-rooted
economic challenges, Jerome Sauvage, the United Nations resident
coordinator in Pyongyang, said in June. North Korea had a gross
domestic product of 32 trillion won ($28 billion) in 2011,
compared with South Korea’s 1,237 trillion won, according to
estimates by the South’s Bank of Korea. The North does not
publish economic data.  Rains, Floods  Heavy rains and floods in July and August further
compounded food shortages and malnutrition after more than 160
North Koreans died, 400 went missing and about 212,000 were left
homeless, according to an Aug. 5 KCNA report. Last week’s
Typhoon Bolaven killed 48 people and destroyed 6,700 houses,
leaving more than 21,000 people homeless, KCNA said Sept. 3. The
monsoon season this year came after the country’s worst drought
in a century damaged wheat, barley and potato harvests.  Kim was named chief of the Workers’ Party on April 12, a
day before the North test-fired a long-range rocket that failed
minutes after liftoff, raising regional tensions. In response,
the U.S. canceled a deal to provide 240,000 metric tons of food
aid.  His public appearances at factories, supermarkets and
restaurants are carefully coordinated to shape an image as a
warm, friendly leader who cares for his people’s livelihood,
according to analysts including Chon Hyun Joon, a senior fellow
at the state-run Korea Institute for National Unification in
 Seoul .  Kim’s uncle Jang Song Thaek won a pledge last month from
 China , North Korea’s main benefactor, to increase economic and
trade activity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  