-- Nagaswami Departs New York Pension to Join Bridgewater
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-09-07T15:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/nagaswami-leaves-new-york-city-pension-post-to-join-bridgewater.html
(Corrects job title to chief  investment adviser  in first
paragraph of article published Sept. 5.)  Ranji H. Nagaswami, who was
appointed by New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  two years ago as
his first chief investment adviser for pensions, has left to
join Bridgewater Associates LP, the world’s biggest hedge fund.  Nagaswami, 48, whose last day was Aug. 21, has been
replaced by Janice Emery, 51, the former chief investment
officer at  Pinnacle West Capital Corp. (PNW) , said Lauren Passalacqua,
spokeswoman for the mayor.  Nagaswami was hired by the city in 2010 to make changes
backed by the mayor and Comptroller  John Liu  that would have
consolidated management and investment practices among five
pension funds run for police, firefighters, teachers, school
administrators and civil-service workers. The plans were stymied
by union opposition. The funds hold $123 billion in assets.  “It was an amazing two years, and I’m just ready to move
on,” Nagaswami said in a telephone interview.  Bridgewater, the Westport, Connecticut-based fund founded
by  Ray Dalio , manages about $130 billion in assets. Nagaswami
said she will have a “senior strategist role,” declining
further comment.  “Her work has improved our investment practices and her
impact will continue beyond her time with the city,” Bloomberg
said in a statement. “While it’s tough to see anyone go, it is
not surprising that there is a lot of demand for the innovative
minds we have been able to attract.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 