-- New York Businesses Face Crackdown on Law-Breaking Cyclists
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-05T19:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/new-york-businesses-face-crackdown-on-law-breaking-cyclists.html
New York City restaurants and
messenger companies whose bicyclists fail to obey traffic laws
are facing a crackdown proposed by the  City Council .  Council hearings scheduled for tomorrow will discuss a
package of bills that would make employers liable for civil
fines of as much $100 if they don’t post workplace signs
instructing cyclists on traffic laws and equip riders with
helmets, lights and reflectors.  The measures would authorize the Transportation Department
to inspect businesses to ensure compliance with the rules.
Another bill would require riders to attend road-safety classes,
said Andrea Bender, a spokesman for Councilman James Vacca,
sponsor of the measures.  “There’s broad consensus among the administration and the
business community that we need to bring commercial cycling into
compliance with the rules of the road,” Bender said. City law
already imposes criminal penalties on companies of as much as
$200 fines and 60 days in jail, she said.  “The criminal penalties get played down or dismissed or
there’s little enforcement against the business that have
responsibilities,” she said. “That’s why we felt the need to
create civil penalties.”  Bike Lanes  Since 2007, New York has added more than 290 miles (467
kilometers) to the now more than 700-mile-long bike-lane system,
part of Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s efforts to tackle two of the
city’s most persistent problems: congested roads and ever-
widening waistlines. The mayor is the founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  One of the council bills, called Stuart’s Law, is named in
memory of  Stuart C. Gruskin , who was killed in 2009 by a
commercial cyclist riding the wrong way on a one-way street,
according to Vacca’s office.  The proposed safety provisions are already required by law,
said Donn Lloyd, assistant manager at  Quik Trak Messenger
Service  in  Manhattan , a delivery service in operation for 26
years, according to its website.  “We have to do this anyway,” Lloyd said in an interview.
“All of our riders are equipped with helmets, reflectors, bells
and other safety gear. These laws are in effect and we’re
prepared for anyone to come in and inspect us anytime.”  Scott Gastel, a spokesman for the Transportation
Department, said the administration wouldn’t take a position on
the bill at this time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 