-- News Corp. Picks Board Member With Ties to Colombia Wiretaps
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-05T20:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/news-corp-selects-board-member-with-ties-to-colombia-wiretaps.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , still seeking to move
past a hacking scandal at its U.K. newspapers, has nominated to
its board a former Colombian president whose administration was
itself embroiled in an illegal wiretapping controversy.  Close allies of former Colombian President  Alvaro Uribe 
have been accused by prosecutors of ordering illegal wiretaps
against political opponents, journalists who covered the
administration and Supreme Court justices who were probing pro-
government lawmakers’ alleged ties to paramilitary groups.  Uribe’s former chief of staff, Bernardo Moreno, was
arrested on criminal charges in a case last year and has denied
wrongdoing. Uribe helped his former intelligence chief, Maria
del Pilar Hurtado, seek political asylum in Panama to avoid a
similar fate.  News Corp. (NWS) , run by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , had
no comment, spokesman Nathaniel Brown said. Uribe, who hasn’t
been charged of wrongdoing, couldn’t be reached.  “The optics of this are terrible,”  Adam Isacson , a
Colombia specialist at the Washington Office on  Latin America ,
said in a phone interview. “When people talk about the dark
side of Uribe, this is one of the main scandals that sullied his
reputation.”  News Corp. continues to face multiple police investigations
in the U.K. for hacking into mobile phones and computers as well
as bribing public officials. U.K. authorities are also
considering whether to bring corporate charges against News
Corp.’s board for the alleged crimes. At least 60 people have
been arrested since police began probes last year into hacking
and bribery that started at News Corp.’s News of the World
tabloid.  Breakup Plan  In addition to nominating Uribe, News Corp. also named
former U.S. Labor Secretary Elaine Chao as a proposed board
member, according to a statement yesterday. The nominees will
replace Andrew Knight and  John Thornton , who plan to step down
as directors following the company’s annual meeting, scheduled
to take place on Oct. 16 in  Los Angeles .  News Corp. is preparing for broader organizational changes
next year. Murdoch announced a plan in June to break up News
Corp.’s publishing and entertainment divisions into separate
companies. Murdoch will remain chairman of both businesses and
CEO of the entertainment division.  The Harvard-educated Uribe was president of Colombia from
2002 to 2010 and more recently served on an advisory council for
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The spying scandal around Uribe’s administration broke in
2009 after Bogota-based magazine Semana revealed that agents
were spying on prominent Uribe foes. To quell public outrage,
Uribe’s former defense minister and successor,  Juan Manuel
Santos , in 2011 shut down the intelligence agency, which had
worked closely with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration.  Defending Allies  While Uribe has denied ever ordering illegal wiretaps while
in power, he’s defended his allies amid calls by the opposition
for a broader probe.  News Corp. already has a business tie to a member of
Uribe’s administration. The company’s new Spanish-language
broadcast network, MundoFox, is a joint venture with RCN
Television SA, one of Colombia’s largest media companies.
Uribe’s vice president, Francisco Santos, took over as head of
RCN radio’s news division after stepping down in 2010.  News Corp. gained 0.9 percent to $23.75 at the close in  New
York  trading. The shares have risen 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  