-- NFL Players Have Greater Risk of Death From Alzheimer’s
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-09-05T20:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/nfl-players-have-greater-risk-of-death-from-alzheimer-s.html
National Football League players
were three times as likely as the general population to die of
disorders that damage brain cells, according to a U.S. study
that may fuel further calls to curb violence in the sport.  A review of death certificates and medical records from
3,439 retired athletes showed they had a four-times higher risk
than the general population for two conditions -- Alzheimer’s
and  amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , also known as ALS or Lou Gehrig’s disease -- according to the study released today in the
journal Neurology. Players in “speed positions” such as
running backs and wide receivers were even more likely to die
from brain disorders, researchers from the National Institute
for Occupational Safety and Health in Cincinnati said in an
accompanying  statement .  The NFL, which opens its 2012 season tonight, faces
lawsuits from more than 2,000 former players seeking damages for
head injuries, while the Pop Warner youth football league said
in June that it would limit contact to reduce the risk of
concussions.  While the study doesn’t prove that football-related
concussions cause neurological deaths, “these results are
consistent with recent studies that suggest an increased risk of
neurodegenerative disease among football players,” Everett J.
Lehman, the lead author and a researcher at the institute, said
in the statement.  Injury Guidelines  The NFL today said it would give  $30 million  for medical
research to the Foundation for the  National Institutes of
Health , in what the league called the biggest donation in its
92-year history. The money, to be overseen by the NIH, may be
used to research brain injuries, concussion management and other
topics, the football league said.  Last year, the league ordered team doctors and trainers to
assess players who have sustained concussions during games after
issuing new guidelines on head injuries in 2007. The NFL has
denied accusations in the lawsuits that it withheld information
about the dangers from players.  Today’s study “underscores the continuing need to invest
in research, education and advocacy, strengthen and enforce our
rules on player safety and do all we can to make our game
safer,”  Greg Aiello , an NFL spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We
remain committed to doing all that we can.”  George Atallah, a spokesman for the NFL Players
Association, said he couldn’t comment for the union until he’d
reviewed the study.  Researchers studied the records of retired NFL athletes who
had played at least five seasons from 1959 to 1988. The
conclusions were limited because only 10 percent of the
participants had passed away at the time of the analysis, Lehman
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  