-- NFL Pledges Record $30 Million to Fight Sports Health Issues
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-09-05T13:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/nfl-pledges-record-30-million-to-fight-sports-health-issues.html
The  National Football League  has
pledged $30 million to the Foundation for the  National
Institutes of Health , dedicating the largest philanthropic gift
in its 92-year history to fighting serious medical conditions in
athletes.  The U.S.’s most-popular sports league is the founding donor
to a new Sports and Health Research Program that may study head
trauma, links between brain injuries and Alzheimer’s Disease,
chronic degenerative joint disease,  heart disease  in athletes
and even heat and hydration, the foundation and the league said
in separate news release.  “Findings from this research will provide us with better
ways to detect, diagnose and treat these conditions, and in some
cases, even prevent their occurrence,” Dr. Story Landis,
director of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, said in the NIH release.  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said specific areas of the
studies were being worked out. They may include sudden cardiac
death in young athletes, chronic pain, and detection and health
effects of performance-enhancing drugs including human growth
hormone.  “We hope this grant will help accelerate the medical
community’s pursuit of pioneering research to enhance the health
of athletes past, present and future,” Goodell said in the
league statement. “This research will extend beyond the NFL
playing field and benefit athletes at all levels and others,
including members of our military.”  The NFL is being sued by more than 2,000 players who say
the league negligently failed to inform its athletes of the link
between repeated hits to the head and long-term brain injuries,
including early-onset Alzheimer’s, dementia and chronic
traumatic encephalopathy. The league has denied those claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  