-- O’Neil Resigns as President of Madison Square Garden Sports
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-09-05T18:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/o-neil-resigning-as-president-of-madison-square-garden-sports.html
Scott O’Neil is resigning as
president of  Madison Square Garden Sports (MSG) , a position that gave
him business oversight of basketball’s Knicks and hockey’s
Rangers.  “My time at The World’s Most Famous Arena has been nothing
short of incredible and I am proud of our results,” O’Neil said
in a statement that didn’t include a reason for his resignation.  O’Neil joined MSG in 2008 from the  National Basketball
Association , where he oversaw team marketing and business
operations. He declined via e-mail to comment beyond
the statement.  “We are grateful for Scott’s years of service and his many
contributions to the company, and wish him the very best of luck
as he moves forward,” MSG said in a statement. “We are
fortunate to have a talented team in place at MSG Sports who
will continue to build on the company’s successes while we
undertake a search for a new president of MSG Sports.”  O’Neil was responsible for marketing partnerships and suite
sales for the arena, which is undergoing a privately financed
billion-dollar renovation.  O’Neil, according to his company biography, has been the
driving force behind unprecedented partnerships for MSG,
highlighted by the addition of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as the
arena’s first marquee partner.  Bob Gutkowski, a former president of MSG, said he’s
impressed with O’Neil’s accomplishments.  “From afar, he’s done a very good job,” Gutkowski said in
a telephone interview. “I think he’s very good.”  O’Neil also has worked for the  National Football League ’s
 Philadelphia Eagles  and NBA’s  New Jersey Nets .  Madison Square Garden Co. shares are down 16 cents to
$42.10 at 2:57 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  