-- Democrats Start Day Two of Convention With Eyes on Clinton
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-09-05T22:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/obama-campaign-to-decide-within-hours-on-moving-speech-indoors.html
Democrats opened the second day of
their national convention where former President  Bill Clinton 
takes center stage to make the case that President  Barack Obama ’s policies are best for the  U.S. economy .  “What kind of country do you want to live in?” Clinton
will ask, according to excerpts released by Obama’s campaign.
“If you want a you’re-on-your-own, winner-take-all society, you
should support the Republican ticket. If you want a country of
shared prosperity and shared responsibility,” voters should
support Obama, he will say.  The president “inherited a deeply damaged economy, put a
floor under the crash, began the long hard road to recovery, and
laid the foundation for a more modern, more well-balanced
economy that will produce millions of good new jobs,” Clinton
will say.  Clinton also will talk about the choices he faced during
his presidency when Republicans wanted to give tax breaks to
companies and the wealthy “to help trickle down” economic
benefits and how “it didn’t work then, it’s not going to work
now,” Obama campaign manager  Jim Messina  told reporters today
at the convention’s site in Charlotte, North Carolina.  The Obama campaign is seeking to portray Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s policies as benefitting the
wealthiest at the expense of middle-class Americans.  Infrastructure Investments  “President Clinton did what President Obama wants to do,
which is invest in education, invest in innovation, invest in
infrastructure to create an economy built to last,” Messina
said. “We did that under President Clinton, it created the best
job growth of a generation, and that’s what we’re building.”  Clinton will be competing for viewers with a prime-time
broadcast on NBC of the  National Football League ’s opening game
between the  New York  Giants and the  Dallas Cowboys .  In their first order of business today, Democrats amended
the party’s platform to recognize  Jerusalem  as Israel’s capital.
Republicans had criticized Democrats after discovering the
language had been omitted, seeking to cast Obama as a weak
supporter of the U.S. ally.  Four years ago, Democrats’ platform stated that “Jerusalem
is and will remain the capital of Israel.” That language was
reinstated.  The convention also added a reference to God, which the
platform had lacked. The document now refers to the “God-given
potential” of “working people.”  Other Speakers  Speakers preceding Clinton to the podium tonight include
 Elizabeth Warren , who is challenging Republican  Scott Brown  for
his Senate seat in Massachusetts.  Warren, a Harvard Law professor who helped set up the
federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau under Obama, is her
party’s hope to recapture the seat long held by  Ted Kennedy , who
died in office in 2009.  She’ll highlight what Romney’s plan to roll-back Wall
Street regulations would mean for consumers, Democratic
officials said. Former employees of companies bought by Romney’s
private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC will also address delegates,
the officials said.  Obama and allied political action committees have attacked
Romney over his work at Bain, linking him to job layoffs and
outsourcing by companies that the firm invested in.  Changed Locale  Obama arrived today in Charlotte, where a possibility of
severe weather prompted the campaign to scrap plans for his
outdoor speech tomorrow night in a football stadium.  Democratic officials moved Obama’s nomination acceptance
speech from the almost 74,000-seat Bank of America Stadium to
the Time Warner Cable Arena, where the convention began
yesterday.  “This isn’t a call we wanted to make,” campaign spokesman
 Jen Psaki  told reporters traveling with the president to
Charlotte. “We’re all disappointed.”  First lady  Michelle Obama  will introduce her husband before
he makes his speech, according to a Democratic official involved
in the convention’s operation.  The Time Warner arena holds about 20,000 people. Those who
had credentials to attend the outdoor event and won’t have seats
for the indoor speech are invited to be part of an Obama
conference call tomorrow, the party officials said.  Waiting List  Democratic officials said they had a 19,000-person waiting
list for the outdoor speech and weren’t worried about filling
the arena. Moving the speech to the smaller venue hurts efforts
to organize and register voters, they said.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said the move of Obama’s speech indoors won’t take away from his
message.  “Whether it rains or not is not in the president’s
control,” Pelosi told reporters today at a Christian Science
Monitor breakfast in Charlotte.  The decision to move the speech was made “to ensure the
safety and security of our delegates and convention guests,”
Steve Kerrigan, chief executive officer of the DNCC, said in a
statement.  The  National Weather Service  is forecasting a 40 percent
chance of thunderstorms for tomorrow in the Charlotte area,
where it has rained much of the week.  Weather also disrupted the  Republican National Convention 
last week in Tampa, Florida, with Hurricane Isaac causing
officials to cancel the opening day of the gathering.  Romney Comments  Romney, who is taking a break from campaigning this week to
huddle with top advisers on a Vermont estate preparing for next
month’s presidential debates, came out of seclusion briefly to
travel to a building supply store in nearby West Lebanon,  New
Hampshire  and to sit for several television interviews.  He also spoke briefly to reporters and criticized Obama’s
fiscal record, saying Democrats during their convention’s first
day avoided talking about the  U.S. debt  that has ballooned and
poverty that has deepened during Obama’s presidency.  “You heard no one stand up and say that people are better
off today than they were four years ago,” Romney said after
stopping at the Lui Lui restaurant to pick up pizza. “They
really can’t say that.”  He said news this week that the national debt has reached
$16 trillion -- up from $10 trillion when Obama became president
-- and that the number of food-stamp recipients has reached 47
million tell the story of Obama’s failed record.  “There’s just no way he can square those numbers with the
idea that America is doing better, because it’s not,” Romney
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Charlotte,  North Carolina  at 
Or  cdodge1@bloomberg.net 
Mark Niquette in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
Or  mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  