-- Obama Enters Convention With Lowest Incumbent Ratings Since ’84
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-09-05T00:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/obama-enters-convention-with-lowest-incumbent-ratings-since-84.html
More voters had an unfavorable
opinion of President  Barack Obama  than favorable going into the
Democratic National Convention that began tonight, with his
lowest ratings among women since he took office, a poll found.  An  ABC News/Washington Post survey  found 49 percent of
registered voters disapproving of Obama, compared with 47
percent viewing him favorably. The poll gave the highest
unfavorable rating of any incumbent going back to 1984, and he
is the first incumbent in the survey with a higher unfavorable
than favorable rating.  Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  was viewed unfavorably by 48
percent and favorably by 43 percent. Before the Republicans
gathered last week, Romney was viewed unfavorably by 51 percent
and favorably by 40 percent.  The latest ABC-Post survey gave Obama a 3 percentage-point
advantage among men, 50 percent favorable to 47 percent
unfavorable, and a 4-point deficit among women, 46 percent to 
50 percent. In the survey released Aug. 26, Obama was viewed 
favorably by 48 percent of men and 51 percent of women and 
unfavorably by 49 percent of men and 45 percent of women.  Women voters had viewed Romney unfavorably by 55 percent to
34 percent before the Republican convention. The latest poll
narrowed that gap to 7 points, 48 percent unfavorable and 41
percent favorable.  The Democratic convention began tonight by showcasing women
candidates.  Platform Differences  The party’s platform endorses abortion rights, while the
Republican platform calls for a constitutional amendment that
would ban the procedure. The Republican vice presidential
nominee, Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , has sponsored
legislation to redefine rape as “forcible rape” before an
abortion could be paid for with federal funds. The provision was
later removed from the bill.  Another co-sponsor of the legislation was Representative
Todd Akin of Missouri, the Republican nominee for  U.S. Senate  in
Missouri. Akin said Aug. 19 that women who experienced
“legitimate rape” rarely get pregnant.  The poll of 842 registered voters was taken Aug. 29-Sept. 2
and had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
at   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 