-- Oil Is Steady as ECB Policy Makers Meet on Bond Plan
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-05T20:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/oil-falls-as-equities-drop-euro-pares-gain-versus-dollar.html
Oil was little changed in  New York 
as European Central Bank policy makers met to discuss a plan
involving unlimited purchases of government debt to ease the
region’s debt crisis.  Futures traded in a $1.41-a-barrel range after two central
bank officials said Germany’s Bundesbank objected to the plan.
Prices initially rose 0.4 percent on the proposal by ECB
President  Mario Draghi , who will announce a decision at a press
conference tomorrow.  “The market is really reactive to whatever comes out of
Europe right now,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“We climbed earlier on the ECB headlines and are now backing
off on the same news.”  Crude oil for October delivery rose 6 cents to settle at
$95.36 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
advanced to $95.67 earlier today and dropped as low as $94.26.
Futures have retreated 3.5 percent this year.  Prices advanced from the settlement after the industry-
funded  American Petroleum Institute  reported oil inventories
dropped 7.21 million barrels last week to 359.3 million, the
lowest level since March. The October contract was up 50 cents
at $95.80 at 4:31 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent oil for October settlement decreased $1.09, or 1
percent, to end the session at $113.09 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade
traded at a $17.73 premium to West Texas Intermediate crude
traded in New York. That’s down from $18.88 yesterday.  ECB Blueprint  Under the ECB blueprint, which may be called “Monetary
Outright Transactions,” the ECB would refrain from setting a
public cap on yields, according to the two central bank
officials briefed on the plan, and a third official, who spoke
on condition of anonymity.  The plan will only focus on  government bonds  rather than a
broader range of assets and will target short-dated maturities
of up to about three years, two of the people said.  “I am mystified that we rose earlier on the ECB
headlines,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “My first reaction was that we had been waiting
for a while and this was all we got? The rally this summer was
predicated on bazookas being unveiled by central banks and what
we’re getting is pop guns.”  Oil dropped as much as 1.1 percent earlier as euro-area
services shrank more than initially estimated in August.  Service Industries  A gauge of euro-area  service industries  based on a survey
of  purchasing managers  fell to 47.2 from 47.9 in July, London-
based  Markit Economics  said today. That’s below an initial
estimate of 47.5 published on Aug. 23. A  composite index  of both
services and manufacturing fell to 46.3 from 46.5, also below an
initial estimate.  “As the economy goes, so goes oil,” said  Chip Hodge , who
oversees a $9 billion natural-resource bond portfolio as senior
managing director at Manulife Asset Management in  Boston . “Any
bad news out of Europe is going to send us lower.”  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
U.S. crude  supplies  tumbled to a five-month low last week
because of Hurricane Isaac, a Bloomberg survey showed. Supplies
of gasoline and distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, are also forecast to decline.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
11 a.m. tomorrow in Washington. The release is being delayed a
day because of the Labor Day holiday Sept. 3.  Gulf Production  About 95 percent of oil output from the Gulf was shut on
Aug. 31, three days after Isaac made landfall, according to the
 Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement . More than 49
percent of oil production from the Gulf remained shut today, a
BSEE report showed.  “It looks like oil production is rebounding nicely in the
Gulf,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures
Group in  Chicago . “The recovery is weighing on the market.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 454,993
contracts as of 4:32 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 513,607
yesterday, 4.4 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.53 million, the most since May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  