-- Brent Oil Declines for Second Day in London Before ECB Meeting
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-05T12:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/oil-declines-a-second-day-amid-signs-of-global-economic-slowdown.html
Brent crude  declined for a second
day in  London  before a meeting of European Central Bank policy
makers amid signs that the bloc’s debt crisis is hurting the
global economy.  Futures fell as much as 0.7 percent. Prices pared earlier
losses after two officials said ECB President  Mario Draghi  will
announce plans for unlimited purchases of government debt. The
ECB will discuss the proposal today, and Draghi will hold a news
conference tomorrow.  Australia ’s economy slowed last quarter on
weaker housing and rising imports, according to the country’s
Bureau of Statistics.  “The debt crisis is still a big risk factor,” said Sintje Boie, an analyst at  HSH Nordbank  in Hamburg who correctly
predicted oil’s rebound in July. “Looking at the world economy,
there’s no reason to have oil prices of $120,” said Boie, who
forecasts Brent crude will fall toward $105 by year-end.  Brent oil for October settlement dropped as much as 82
cents to $113.36 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. It
was at $113.90 at 1:48 p.m. local time.  Oil for October delivery was at $95.50 a barrel, up 20
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The contract decreased $1.17 yesterday to close at
$95.30, the lowest level since Aug. 30.  Draghi’s Blueprint  Under Draghi’s plan, which may be called “Monetary
Outright Transactions,” the ECB would refrain from setting a
public cap on yields, according to the people, and a third
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The proposal will
only focus on  government bonds  rather than a broader range of
assets and will target short-dated maturities of about as much
as three years, two of the people said.  Australia’s second-quarter gross domestic product advanced
0.6 percent from the previous three months, when it rose a
revised 1.4 percent, according to a Bureau of Statistics report
released today in Sydney.  The ISM factory index slid to 49.6 last month, the lowest
level since July 2009, from 49.8 in July, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said yesterday. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected an August reading of 50, the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  “The somewhat disappointing ISM figure in the U.S. clouds
the demand outlook,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney. “It’s showing a picture of relatively
weak conditions and the possibility of softness in production
output for the next few months. For oil, that comes against a
background where prices have risen a long way already and
there’s adequate supply capacity.”  Manufacturing Survey  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area based
on a survey of  purchasing managers  was revised lower to 45.1 in
August from 45.3 estimated earlier, London-based Markit
Economics said Sept 3. The index has held below 50 for 13
months. A similar survey for  China  showed the fastest
contraction in August since March 2009, Markit and HSBC Holdings
Plc said the same day.  Crude stockpiles dropped  5.5 million barrels  last week as
Hurricane Isaac shut offshore platforms, according to a
Bloomberg survey before a government report tomorrow.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably fell  3 million barrels 
last week, according to the median estimate of nine analysts in
the Bloomberg survey before the Energy Department report.
Distillate supplies, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, dropped 1.5 million barrels, the survey shows. The
 American Petroleum Institute  will release separate inventory
data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  