-- Oil Gains a Second Day as U.S. Stockpiles Drop to Five-Month Low
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-06T06:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/oil-gains-a-second-day-as-u-s-stockpiles-drop-most-since-july.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  after an industry report showed stockpiles shrank to the
lowest in more than five months in the U.S., the world’s biggest
crude consumer.  Futures gained as much as 0.9 percent after the  American
Petroleum Institute  said  inventories slid  7.2 million barrels
last week to 359.3 million, the lowest since the period ended
March 23. An Energy Department report today may show supplies
fell 4.95 million barrels as Hurricane Isaac curbed Gulf of
Mexico output, according to a  Bloomberg News  survey. Europe’s
central bank is set to announce President  Mario Draghi ’s
proposal for bond purchases to tame the region’s debt crisis.  “We’ve been looking to see a persistent trend of firmer
commodity use to get those inventories down,” said  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “If we see
stockpiles declining tonight and refineries running above 90
percent capacity, I think that’s going to be a boost for oil.
Throw in Draghi and I’d expect the price of crude to go up.”  Crude for October delivery climbed as much as 90 cents to
$96.26 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $96.11 at 2:25 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract increased 6 cents yesterday to close at $95.36. Futures
have lost 2.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange advanced as much as 87 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $113.96 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was
at a $17.61  premium  to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
grade. The spread was $17.73 yesterday, narrowing for the first
time in six days.  ‘Golden Cross’  Oil may extend gains in New York as futures approach a
“ golden cross ” formation on the daily technical chart,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 50-day moving
average, at $90.84 a barrel today, has pared a discount to the
100-day mean to 67 cents, the smallest gap since May 24.
Investors tend to buy contracts when a shorter-term moving
average rises above a longer-term one.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles dropped 2.3 million barrels last
week, the API data showed. Supplies are  forecast to fall  3
million barrels in the Energy Department report, according to
the median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Distillate-fuel inventories, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, declined 132,000 barrels, the API said.
A median 1.55 million-barrel decrease is projected in the Energy
Department report, the survey showed.  About 680,749 barrels a day of oil, or 49 percent of
production, were curtailed in the  Gulf of Mexico  as of 12:30
p.m. East Coast time yesterday, down from 710,866 barrels, the
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said on its
 website . About 26 percent of natural-gas output was shut in.  Bond Purchases  Oil extended gains after a report showed Australian
unemployment unexpectedly declined. The jobless rate fell to 5.1
percent in August from 5.2 percent in July, the statistics
bureau said today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a
gain to 5.3 percent.  Draghi will announce at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today whether ECB policy makers have agreed on the bond-purchase
proposal. The plan involves unlimited purchases of government
debt that will be sterilized by removals elsewhere to assuage
concerns about printing money, according to two central-bank
officials briefed on the plan.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , last week he wouldn’t rule out more
stimulus to revive growth. Payrolls increased at a slower pace
in August and unemployment exceeded 8 percent for a 43rd month,
according to economist forecasts before a Labor Department
report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  