-- Honda’s New Accord Brings a Boost to U.S. Sales Rebound
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-09-05T21:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/honda-s-revamped-accord-arrives-in-boost-to-u-s-sales-recovery.html
Honda Motor Co.’s 2013 Accord, the
revamped version of the longest-selling U.S. midsize car, debuts
this month as the company seeks to speed its sales recovery and
recapture a reputation for benchmark vehicles.  “We think we’ve hit this one out of the park,” said  John Mendel , executive vice president of U.S. sales, in an interview
last month in  Santa Barbara , California. “This is the decathlon
champ of this category.”  The ninth generation of the car sold in the U.S. since 1976
has a new 2.4-liter direct-injection engine and a continuously
variable transmission, a first for the Accord. Honda also says
the car has more “sculpted” exterior styling, improved safety
and fuel economy, faster acceleration and a quieter ride.  The Accord, built in  Ohio  since 1982, faces competition
that may be the fiercest in the model’s history. The segment it
once led with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry is expanding on rising
sales of sedans from Nissan Motor Co.,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Ford Motor Co. (F)  also expects
high demand for a revamped Fusion sedan arriving this month.  That competition has cut into Accord’s share of U.S.
midsize-car sales, according to Edmunds.com, an industry pricing
and data company in  Santa Monica , California. Accord accounted
for about 11 percent of those sales in the past two years,
falling from 17 percent in 2008, Edmunds said.  This year through August, Camry was the segment’s top
seller, with 280,536 deliveries, up 37 percent from a year
earlier. Accord followed with 218,665, a 35 percent gain, with
Altima sales at 209,592, a 19 percent increase.  ‘Pivotal Model’  “The new Accord is a pivotal model for Honda since it not
only comprises 25 percent of the brand’s sales, but it also
completes the redesign cycle for its trio of core models,” said
Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at Edmunds.  Those other two models are the Civic compact car,
redesigned in early 2011, and the CR-V small sport-utility
vehicle, revamped late last year. Each is the U.S. volume leader
in its segment this year. Civic sales rose 38 percent to 212,483
through August, even after Consumer Reports magazine gave it an
unfavorable review, and CR-V’s gained 35 percent to 191,113, the
most of any SUV in the U.S.  “This Accord launch is an important one for us, probably
the single-most in our history,” Mendel, who is based at
Honda’s U.S. sales headquarters in Torrance  California , told
reporters last month. “It serves as a bellwether for our brand
and is a contributor not only to our U.S. but our global
success.”  Honda’s  American depositary receipts  fell 0.5 percent to
$31.46 yesterday in  New York . They are up 3 percent this year.  Six Versions  The 2013 Accord is available in six model grades, including
a new Sport version to appeal to younger drivers. Both a plug-in
and conventional hybrid version of the car will arrive next
year, the Tokyo-based company said.  Fuel economy  with the new four-cylinder engine improves to
27 miles (43 kilometers) per gallon in city driving, 36 mpg on
the highway and 30 mpg combined, a 7 percent increase. Among
competing cars, only Nissan’s 2013 Altima is better, with 31 mpg
in combined fuel economy, boosted by a 38 mpg highway rating.  “That’s certainly an advantage Nissan can talk about,”
said Alec Gutierrez, an industry analyst for Kelley  Blue Book  in
 Irvine , California. “I could see that influencing a minimal
amount of sales, since it’s not that extreme a difference.”  The Accord’s 103.2 cubic feet (2.9 cubic meters) of
passenger space trails only Hyundai’s Sonata, at 104 cubic feet.  Standard equipment on all 2013 Accords includes hands-free
Bluetooth phone and audio, USB/iPod integration, a rearview
backup camera and an Eco Assist system to coach drivers to
improve fuel economy.  Blind-Spot Warning  EX grade and higher Accords get Honda’s new LaneWatch
blind-spot warning system. A rear-facing camera on the right
outside mirror sends images to a dashboard screen when drivers
change lanes or turn right, making it easier to see if another
vehicle is in the blind spot. Other safety features available
include lane-departure and collision-warning systems. EX is one
step above LX, Honda’s lowest grade.  Pricing will be announced later and will be in line with
the current models, the company said.  A $64 million stamping press installed last year at Honda’s
Marysville, Ohio, plant can shape steel body panels for the
revamped Accord with deeper contours and more detail, said  Ron Lietzke , a company spokesman. The 2,300-ton “servo” press is
Honda’s most advanced, stamping with more precision and speed,
he said.  The result is body panels with creases similar to those of
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz E-Class luxury sedans.  Styling Difference  “It’s not so dramatic a difference but in terms of styling
the new car is enough of a departure for people to see it’s
really something new,” Gutierrez said. “They tried to
differentiate a bit more than Toyota did with Camry last year.”  Bill Fay, Toyota’s group vice president of U.S. sales, said
the new Accord, as well as the revamped Nissan and Ford midsize
cars, should ultimately benefit the Camry.  “We look at it as very positive,” Fay said on a
conference call Sept. 4. “It brings more attention to the
segment, and when that happens Camry usually does very, very
well. We get shopped more often.”  Honda’s goal is U.S. annual sales of at least 350,000 of
the new Accords. That would be the car’s highest since 372,789
in 2008.  With the revamped Accord, the company wants to boost U.S.
sales of Honda and Acura models about 27 percent this year to at
least 1.46 million, Mendel said last month. That would be the
company’s best in five years.  Accord buyers’ loyalty is particularly high, rivaling that
of the Camry, which should buoy sales of the new model,
Gutierrez said.  “Brand loyalty is so high for that car,” he said. “It
looks like they’ve done a good enough job to at least keep those
buyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  