-- Orange Juice Posts Longest Rally in 12 Months; Cotton Declines
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-09-05T20:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/orange-juice-posts-longest-rally-in-12-months-cotton-declines.html
Orange juice  rose, capping the
longest rally in almost year, on speculation that storms may
threaten crops in  Florida , the world’s second-largest citrus
grower. Cotton dropped.  Tropical Storm Leslie will move northward in the Atlantic
from Bermuda on a path to eastern Canada, said Donald Keeney, a
senior agricultural meteorologist with MDA Information Systems
Inc. An area of low-pressure over southern Alabama and the
 Florida Panhandle  is expected to move into the north-central
 Gulf of Mexico  as early as today, the Miami-based  National
Hurricane Center  said.  “There are two tropical storms in the Atlantic”
supporting prices, Fain Shaffer, the president of Infinity
Trading Corp. in Medford,  Oregon , said in an e-mail.  Orange juice for November delivery climbed 2.9 percent to
settle at $1.247 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York. That was the sixth straight advance, the longest climb
since Sept. 7, 2011.  Brazil is the top orange grower and exporter. The  Atlantic
hurricane season  runs through Nov. 30, with severe weather
activity typically peaking in September, according to MDA.  Brazil’s government last week raised the amount of orange
juice that must be used to make orange-flavored nectar, a
beverage that also uses other ingredients including water and
sugar. The beverage now must be comprised of 50 percent orange
juice, up from 30 percent, with 180 days to make the changes,
according to the ministry of agriculture, livestock and supply.  The change in regulation may lift the country’s demand for
orange-juice concentrate by 10,000 metric tons a year and reduce
domestic inventories, Jose Carlos Vaz, the executive secretary
at the ministry of agriculture, said by telephone from Brasilia.  The new rule is “bullish” because demand will rise, and
the change may “improve the taste of the drink” and “increase
sales,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist with Citigroup
Inc.’s institutional client group in Chicago, said in an e-mail.  Cotton futures for December delivery fell 0.4 percent to
75.35 cents a pound on ICE, the second straight drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  