-- Morgan Stanley Group Invests $150 Million in Zhaoheng Hydropower
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-09-05T01:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/morgan-stanley-group-invests-150-million-in-zhaoheng-hydropower.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and a pair of private
equity funds boosted their investment in Zhaoheng Hydropower
Holdings Ltd., buying a $150 million stake as China pushes
utilities to adopt non-fossil fuel sources of energy.  The Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Fund, FountainVest
Partners Co. and Olympus Capital Holdings  Asia , made the
investment last month, according to a press release issued
today. Zhaoheng Hydropower plans to use the funds to acquire
hydropower plants and boost its operating capacity to more than
one gigawatt over the next two years, from more than 650
megawatts now, according to the statement.  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, is pushing
utilities to increase generation from alternative sources as it
seeks to curb reliance on coal and oil. The country aims to get
15 percent of its energy from non-fossil fuels by 2020, and has
a target to cut carbon emissions per unit of gross domestic
product by as much as 45 percent by the end of the decade.  The three firms also invested $150 million in Zhaoheng
Hydropower in December 2010, according to the statement.
Zhaoheng Hydropower was the first investment in  China  by the
Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Fund, James Chern, a Hong Kong-
based executive director at the fund, said in a phone interview.
The fund manages $4 billion which it raised in 2007, he said.  China’s dams produced 21 percent of the nation’s total
electricity last month, compared with 16 percent a year earlier,
data from the China Electricity Council show.  China Three Gorges Corp., the the world’s biggest dam
operator, agreed in December to pay 2.69 billion euros ($3.5
billion) for 21 percent of EDP-Energias de Portugal SA to gain
access to wind and hydropower assets from Europe to the U.S.
That month, the company also agreed to pay HK$2.1 billion ($270
million) for 29.1 percent of renewable-energy producer  China
Power New Energy Development Co. (735)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  