-- Morgan Stanley’s Fleming Visits Brokers Amid Technology Flaws
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-09-05T20:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/morgan-stanley-s-fleming-visits-brokers-amid-technology-flaws.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney
President  Greg Fleming , seeking to avert broker defections, met
with financial advisers in the U.S. to discuss disruptions
caused by a new technology and operations system.  Fleming assured employees that the brokerage, a joint
venture with  Citigroup Inc. (C) , is working to make improvements,
said  Jim Wiggins , a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley.
Fleming, 49, traveled to Atlanta, Boston, Houston,  Los Angeles ,
Miami, New York and  San Francisco  to meet with the advisers,
according to Wiggins.  Morgan Stanley finished integrating its brokerage unit with
Smith Barney in July, an effort that included developing a
technology system for all financial advisers. Some brokers
complained of a more cumbersome process to enroll new clients
and less automation with some distributions, Wiggins said.  “There has been no mass defection threatened, we have not
seen any spike in attrition by financial advisers, and we
haven’t seen an impact on the business,” Wiggins said.
“Wherever we can make changes to cut through some of the
problems that exist and make improvements, we’re doing it.”  Morgan Stanley, which owns 51 percent of the brokerage, is
in the process of buying an additional 14 percent from
Citigroup. Perella Weinberg Partners LP will set the price of
the purchase by Sept. 10 as the two banks failed to agree on a
value for the venture.  Arbitration Cases  Erwin Shustak, a lawyer who represents brokers in employee-
dispute cases, said he received about six inquiries in the past
two weeks from Morgan Stanley  Smith Barney  advisers related to
the integration. Brokers who choose to stay with the company
still could bring arbitration cases against the firm for damages
suffered because of the disruptions, he said.  Wiggins said Morgan Stanley hasn’t faced arbitration cases
over the technology changes.  Morgan Stanley brought some advisers onto the new system
last year and transitioned Smith Barney brokers in three waves
from February through about mid-year, Chief Financial Officer
Ruth Porat said in July. Those three waves involved transferring
2 billion documents and 47 million client positions, she said.  “Given the low attrition while going through platform
integration, we do view that as a real positive, because human
nature is people don’t like change,” Porat said.  Fox Business Network reported Fleming’s meetings earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  