-- Orioles Beat Blue Jays 12-0 to Tie New York Yankees Atop AL East
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-05T05:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/orioles-beat-blue-jays-12-0-to-tie-new-york-yankees-atop-al-east.html
The  Baltimore Orioles  shut out the
Toronto Blue Jays 12-0 to move into a share of first place in
the  American League East  with the  New York  Yankees, who lost
their third game in a row, 5-2 to the Tampa Bay Rays.  The results give the Orioles a share of the AL East lead in
September for the first time since 1997, when they last won the
division and advanced to the Major League Baseball playoffs.
Baltimore has won 21 of its past 29 games.  “We’re just having a good time and we’re not putting
pressure on ourselves,” said  Mark Reynolds , who drove in four
runs last night for Baltimore. “We’re just taking it day by day
and having fun.”  The win at Rogers Centre in Toronto takes the Orioles to
76-59, the same mark as the Yankees, who had a 10-game lead over
Baltimore on July 18. The Rays are 1 1/2 games back in third
place. The  Oakland Athletics , who lost 6-1 to the  Los Angeles
Angels  last night, are tied with the Orioles and Yankees atop
the AL wildcard standings.  “We’ve had a tough time scoring runs the last
couple of weeks,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters.
“It’s hard to win if you don’t hit.”  The last time the Yankees didn’t hold sole possession of
the AL East lead was June 11, when they were tied with the Rays
at 35-25 and the Orioles were one game behind.  “It’s a big deal,” Reynolds told reporters. “Us, the
Yankees and the Rays are all right there. Oakland is having a
good run right now. We can’t take anything for granted.”  Yankees Next  The Orioles, who recorded a season-high 18 hits last night
in shutting out the  Blue Jays  for the second consecutive game,
conclude their three-game series in Toronto tonight before
hosting the Yankees in a four-game series.  Baltimore pitcher Zach Britton (5-1) earned his fourth
straight victory, allowing four hits and striking out eight in
seven scoreless innings.  “He’s really in a good place right now,” Orioles manager
Buck Showalter said. “He was pretty relentless tonight, he kept
pounding the zone.”  Reynolds hit a three-run homer in the fifth inning and sent
home Matt Wieters during Baltimore’s five-run eighth inning.  At Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida, Evan Longoria hit his 10th home run of the season in the third inning
to give the Rays a 3-2 lead. Desmond Jennings and B.J. Upton
followed with back-to-back home runs in the fifth to cap Tampa
Bay’s scoring.  Robinson Cano  gave the Yankees a 2-0 lead in the first
inning with his 29th home run of the season.  Rays starting pitcher Alex Cobb (9-8) allowed two runs on
four hits and struck out five in seven innings. Fernando Rodney
earned his 42nd save of the season.  Freddy Garcia  (7-6) took the loss, giving up five runs over
5 1/3 innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  