-- Osborne Fuels Pressure on Barclays Over Tax-Avoidance Program
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-09-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/osborne-fuels-pressure-on-barclays-over-tax-avoidance-program.html
A U.K. parliamentary panel called on
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  to explain its use of an “abusive” tax-avoidance
plan after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  accused
the bank of breaching commitments agreed with the government.  In a letter to Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie 
published today, Osborne rejected Barclays’ suggestion that the
bond-buyback scheme was widely used and tolerated. The program
was not in line with the 2010 code under which banks pledged to
obey the spirit as well as the letter of U.K. tax laws, he said.  “ The chancellor  flatly contradicts Barclays’ letter to the
committee,” Tyrie said in an e-mailed statement in London
today. “If Barclays thinks the chancellor is mistaken it should
explain why.”  Barclays pledged to comply with the government decision
in February to close two tax loopholes it exploited and which
the Treasury called “highly abusive.” The two “aggressive”
tax-avoidance programs could have deprived the public purse of
more than 500 million pounds ($795 million).  In a  letter to Tyrie  dated May 15, Barclays’ then chief 
executive officer,  Robert Diamond , said the bank believed other
companies had used similar debt-buyback programs and that the 
tax authorities were aware of it.  “The important judgment from our advisers” was that
“because HMRC had taken no action to prevent those treatments,
there was a clear precedent to satisfy the test of the spirit of
the law,” Diamond said.  Not Widespread  Writing to Tyrie in June, Osborne said HM Revenue & Customs
had assured him that Barclays was the only company using such a
system.  “HMRC has not been able to identify any arrangements
similar to those put in place by Barclays, nor has any tax
adviser or other company identified any such arrangements and
HMRC would challenge anything that came to light,” Osborne
said. “HMRC has asked me to point out that had they been
consulted in advance of the bank’s transactions they could have
made the position clear.”  The decision to close the loopholes “was not harsh
treatment of a particular bank but rather the first opportunity
to block a newly identified avoidance scheme,” he said.
Barclays spokesman John McGuinness declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  