-- Motorola Unveils New Verizon Phones, Including a $99 Razr
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-05T18:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/motorola-unveils-new-verizon-phones-including-a-99-razr.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility
division updated its phone lineup at Verizon Wireless with three
new models, including one with an edge-to-edge screen, in a bid
to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  The centerpiece of the new products is the Razr M, a
smartphone with a 4.3-inch display that extends across most of
the device, meaning it lacks the typical frame or bezel at the
edge. The phone has a 1.5-gigahertz dual-core processor, an 8-
megapixel camera and will go on sale today at Verizon for $99
with a two-year contract, Motorola Mobility said.  The rollout represents the biggest product release since
Google acquired Motorola Mobility for about $12.5 billion in
May, thrusting the Internet-search giant into mobile-phone
manufacturing. Google is using the purchase to promote its
Android operating system, which Motorola Mobility was already
using in its smartphones before the merger.  “We want to make devices that drive the Android ecosystem
forward,” Motorola Mobility Chief Executive Officer Dennis Woodside said in an interview. “Market share is not part of the
discussion.”  In addition to unveiling the Razr M, the company is
introducing the Razr HD and the Razr Maxx HD, new versions of
previous models with better battery life and 4.7-inch high-
definition screens. All three phones will be available through
 Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. wireless carrier.  Ice Cream Sandwich  The Razr HD and Razr Maxx HD will come out before the
holidays, said Woodside, though Verizon hasn’t given specific
release dates or prices. All the new Razrs will be equipped with
the Ice Cream Sandwich version of Android and can be upgraded to
the next iteration -- called Jelly Bean -- by year-end, he said.  While Google’s Android is the top smartphone operating
system worldwide -- with more than 68 percent of the market,
according to research firm IDC -- Motorola Mobility’s phones
have struggled to compete with Apple’s iPhone and models from
Samsung.  Google also faces the risk of alienating its Android
partners, which license the software for use in their own
phones. To avoid rankling those companies, including Samsung,
 Mountain View , California-based Google has decided to run the
Android and Motorola units separately. Aside from using Google’s
Chrome browser, the new Razrs don’t have more of a Google
influence than other Android devices.  “There are no advantages for Motorola, no special access
to code and no integration of the two teams,” Woodside said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  