-- Louboutin Wins Appeal Over Saint Laurent Red-Soles Shoes
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-09-05T19:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/louboutin-wins-appeal-over-saint-laurent-red-soles-shoes.html
Christian Louboutin Sarl won
trademark protection for its women’s shoes with red soles and
different  colored tops  while an appeals court also ruled the
company can’t trademark a design that is simply all red.  Louboutin had sought a preliminary injunction that would
have prevented Yves Saint Laurent America Inc. from selling all-
red shoes that Louboutin claimed were identical to some of its
own. U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in August 2011 rejected
Louboutin’s bid for an injunction and indicated it would
probably lose the trademark case against Yves Saint Laurent.  The U.S. Appeals Court in  Manhattan  ruled today that
Louboutin’s red sole is entitled to limited trademark
protection, extending only to a red lacquered outer sole that
contrasts with the color of the rest of the shoe and not to
shoes that are monochromatically red. The judges affirmed the
lower court’s denial of the injunction against  Yves Saint
Laurent  and sent the case back to the trial judge.  “The district court’s conclusion that a single color can
never serve as a trademark in the fashion industry was based on
an incorrect understanding of the doctrine of aesthetic
functionality,” U.S. Circuit Judge Jose Cabranes wrote in
today’s decision. “We conclude that the trademark, as thus
modified, is entitled to trademark protection.”  ‘Achieved Victory’  Cabranes also said that Yves Saint Laurent’s use of a red
outer sole on monochromatic red shoes “does not infringe” on
Louboutin’s trademark. Granting Louboutin broad rights for the
color red would harm competition, he said.  “We are happy to have achieved a victory in defending
against Louboutin’s lawsuit,”  David Bernstein , a lawyer for
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP who represents Yves Saint Laurent, said
in an e-mail. “YSL will continue to produce monochromatic shoes
with red outsoles, as it has done since the 1970s.”  Bernstein said in a telephone interview that the district
court will now consider Yves Saint Laurent’s claim that
Louboutin interfered with its business when it contacted shoe
vendors and ordered them to return the red shoes to Yves Saint
Laurent. “A lot of them did return them and refuse to sell
them,” he said.  Brand’s ‘DNA’  Yves Saint Laurent, the company named for the designer who
died in 2008, began selling shoes with red outsoles “long
before Mr. Louboutin began using them,” Bernstein told Marrero
at a district court hearing in July. He told the appeals court
that the designer’s monochromatic shoe is “the DNA of the
brand.”  Marrero had put off deciding whether to cancel Louboutin’s
trademark for the red sole until the appeals court ruled.  “We are pleased that our central premise, that color on
the red sole, can be a trademark,” Harley Lewin, a lawyer
representing Louboutin at McCarter & English LLP, said in an
e-mail. “We consider this a significant win, not only for
Louboutin, but for the fashion industry in general.” He said he
would “carefully study” the part of the ruling referring to
monochromatic shoes.  Louboutin, a Paris-based fashion company, claimed in its
lawsuit filed in April 2011 that Yves Saint Laurent’s red-soled
shoes “threaten to mislead the public.”  Nail Polish  Christian Louboutin , the designer for whom the company is
named, said he got the idea for the red soles when he painted
red nail polish on the black soles of a pair of women’s shoes.  Louboutin’s red soles were introduced in 1992 and have been
on all of its luxury shoes since then, according to court
papers. They have been popularized by people including Sarah Jessica Parker, the star of the TV show “Sex and the City.”  On the website of high-fashion department store  Barneys New
York Inc. , Louboutin’s red-soled high-heeled shoes are priced
from $625 to $3,995 a pair. In court papers Louboutin projected
U.S. retail sales of shoes for 2011 at $135 million.  The  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office  awarded Louboutin a
trademark for the red sole in 2008, according to court filings.  Yves Saint Laurent is a unit of Paris-based PPR, which owns
luxury brands including Gucci. PPR rose 95 cents to 125.70 euros
in Paris  trading . Louboutin’s shares don’t trade publicly.  The appeal is Christian Louboutin SA v.  Yves Saint Laurent
America Inc. (PP) , 11-3303,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court case is Christian Louboutin
SA v. Yves Saint Laurent America Inc., 1:11-cv-02381, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in  Washington 
at   ctimberlake@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 