-- Oudea Says France’s Lenders Support European Banking Union
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h ,   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-09-05T11:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/oudea-says-france-s-lenders-support-european-banking-union-1-.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  Chief Executive
Officer  Frederic Oudea  said France’s lenders support plans for a
European banking union as it would help rebuild confidence in
the industry.  “This is not only a question of safety but to ensure that
we have a level playing field and a maximum harmonization,”
Oudea said in a speech today at a banking conference organized
by Handelsblatt newspaper in Frankfurt.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive Officer Juergen Fitschen said at the same conference yesterday that he also
supports plans for a European banking union that cover all
lenders, clashing with representatives of smaller lenders such
as Georg Fahrenschon, president of the German DSGV savings banks
association. He said smaller German banks shouldn’t be forced to
contribute funds to a European deposit insurance program as they
have comparable mechanisms in place already.  European finance ministers are fleshing out a plan to help
integrate the banking sector of the 17-member currency area by
placing supervision of the bloc’s banks in the hands of the
 European Central Bank  and setting up a common deposit-guarantee
plan and a bank resolution fund.  Common banking supervision would be a first step in the
creation of a banking union, European Commission President Jose Barroso wrote in a guest commentary in Handelsblatt. The next
step would be to work on a deposit insurance program and a
mechanism for the winding down of banks, he wrote.  Regulation and the high indebtedness of European sovereign
states will continue to dominate the industry’s agenda for
several years,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said in a speech at the conference today. Echoing
comments by Deutsche Bank’s Fitschen and German BdB banking
group head  Michael Kemmer , Blessing said he supports plans for a
“unified banking supervision in Europe.”  “The supervision needs clearly defined rights of
interference,” he said. Local supervision should be carried out
by local authorities, Blessing said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  