-- Lloyds Investigated by U.K. FSA Over Staff Incentive Payments
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-09-05T14:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/lloyds-investigated-by-u-k-fsa-over-staff-incentive-payments.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  is being
investigated by a U.K. regulator over how bonuses and other
incentives were used to motivate staff to improperly sell some
products to consumers, a person familiar with the case said.  The Financial Services Authority referred the bank to its
enforcement division for further proceedings, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the probe is
confidential.  An FSA review of 22 firms found that incentive programs for
bank staff “were likely to drive people to mis-sell in order to
meet targets and receive a bonus, and these risks were not being
properly managed,” Martin Wheatley, a managing director of the
regulator, said in a speech in London today.  The failings at one firm were “so serious” that they
merited further investigation, the FSA said in a  statement . That
company is Lloyds, said the person.  “We have made significant changes to our incentive
schemes,” Lloyds said in a statement. “We reward behaviors
that are focused on achieving correct customer outcomes and
excellent service as well as monitoring sales to ensure that
colleagues have met customer needs appropriately.”  Lloyds has set aside 4.3 billion pounds ($6.8 billion) to
compensate customers who were mis-sold payment protection
insurance, more than any other U.K. bank. British regulators
said last year that consumers may receive as much as 9 billion
pounds in compensation as a result of improper sales of PPI.  Toby Parker, a spokesman for the FSA, declined to comment.
The probe was reported earlier today by the Financial Times.  Wheatley, is chief executive designate of the Financial
Conduct Authority, the regulator that will take over consumer-
protection efforts from the FSA next year. The FSA is being
abolished as part of a supervisory overhaul in the wake of the
financial crisis that saw the nationalization of Northern Rock
Plc and bailouts of other lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  