-- Peabody to Close Coal Mine on ‘Soft Market Conditions’
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-09-05T20:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/peabody-to-close-coal-mine-on-soft-market-conditions-.html
Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest
U.S. coal miner by volume, plans to permanently close a mine in
 Indiana  after a drop in domestic demand and prices.  The company has already stopped output at the Air Quality
mine in Vincennes, Indiana, which produced 1.2 million tons in
2011, St. Louis-based Peabody said today in a statement. Peabody
said it will take an after-tax charge of $75 million in the
third quarter primarily related to the writedown of assets.  The mine’s closing is Peabody’s first in “several” years,
Vic Svec, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. Peabody is the
latest U.S. coal producer to reduce output in 2012 as some  power
plants  switch to natural gas, which traded in April at its
cheapest in a decade. Domestic coal output in 2012 will fall 7.4
percent, or by 81 million tons, according to data from the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  Peabody rose 1.4 percent to $21.20 at the close in New
York.  The Air Quality mine was cited for safety violations 536
times in 2011 and the U.S. Department of Labor’s Mine Safety and
Health Administration levied a total of $693,200 in fines,
according to a February filing by the company. It was the second
most-cited and most-fined of Peabody’s mines, according to the
filing.  Central Appalachian thermal coal, the U.S. benchmark price
for the fuel, has dropped 18 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday to $64.02 a ton.  Peabody is also a producer of metallurgical coal that’s
used to make steel. U.S. low-volatility metallurgical-coal has
dropped 35 percent in the 12 months through Aug. 31 to $187 a
ton, according to Energy Publishing Inc. data.  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) , which is based in Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania, said yesterday it was idling its Buchanan
metallurgical  coal mine  in Virginia and part of its Amonate
complex in  West Virginia  because of “weak market conditions.”
Birmingham, Alabama-based  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)  said yesterday it
would cut metallurgical-coal production at a Welsh mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  