-- Peru Protests to Cut 2013 Mine Investment by 33%, Group Says
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-09-05T23:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/peru-protests-to-cut-2013-mine-investment-by-33-group-says-1-.html
Peru ’s mining industry, the world’s
third-largest copper and zinc producer, will invest 33 percent
less than previously expected next year as social unrest delays
projects, according to the country’s National Society of Mining,
Petroleum & Energy.  Miners including Aluminum Corp. of China and  HudBay
Minerals Inc. (HBM)  will invest about $4 billion next year, compared
with $6 billion planned previously and down from $7.2 billion
this year, according to a presentation by the industry group.
Protests and permit delays have also forced oil and gas
companies to declare force majeure at 23 areas this year, up
from 19 in 2011, the group’s report said.  “We’re worried by what’s happening,” the group’s
president  Pedro Martinez  said today at a press conference in
Lima. “If investment continues to be scared away, many mines
will reach the end of their productive lives and there will
nothing we can do about it.”  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  postponed its $5 billion Minas Conga
gold project following deadly protests by Andean farmers
concerned the project will dry up water supplies.  Southern
Copper Corp. (SCCO) , Zijin Mining Group Co. Ltd. and  Bear Creek Mining
Corp. (BCM)  have also suspended work on mining projects in the face of
environmental opposition.  Output of copper, gold, silver, zinc, lead and tin fell for
the past two years as aging mines deplete, according to the
Energy & Mines Ministry. Zinc, iron and tin production fell in
the first half.  Minerals, oil and natural-gas export revenue totaled $32
billion last year, accounting for 70 percent of Peru’s exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  