-- Philippine Peso Halts 4-Day Rally After Faster Inflation Report
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-09-05T09:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/philippine-peso-halts-4-day-rally-after-faster-inflation-report.html
The Philippine peso fell, halting a
four-day rally, and bonds dropped after  inflation  accelerated to
the fastest pace since January.  Consumer prices rose 3.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, following a 3.2 percent advance in July, the  National
Statistics Office  reported in Manila today. That was more than
the median estimate of 3.5 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.
Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said average price
increases this year will be within the monetary authority’s 3
percent to 5 percent target range.  “Faster inflation tends to diminish the value of the
currency, so there was some reaction in the peso,” said Raul Tan, head of the balance-sheet segment of  Rizal Commercial
Banking Corp. (RCB) ’s Treasury Group in Manila. “It was fast enough
for the current overnight rate to be maintained but not fast
enough for the central bank to be overly concerned.”  The peso declined 0.2 percent to 41.978 per dollar at the
close of trading in  Manila , data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed.
One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 5.7 percent.  The yield on the 11.875 percent bonds due August 2015 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.04 percent,
according to a midday fixing at Philippine Dealing & Exchange
Corp.  “The inflation path is largely expected to continue being
well-behaved,” Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message today.
“The stance of policy therefore remains appropriate.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut the benchmark overnight
borrowing rate for a third time this year in July to a record-
low 3.75 percent. The next meeting is due Sept. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 