-- Pochteca Jumps After Projecting Revenue Surge: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-09-05T22:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/pochteca-jumps-after-projecting-revenue-surge-mexico-city-mover.html
Grupo Pochteca SAB (POCHTECB) , the chemical
distributor controlled by billionaire Antonio del Valle’s
family, rose to the highest price in four years after saying
revenue will more than double by 2015.  The shares jumped 7.2 percent to 3.71 pesos at the close of
trading in Mexico City, the highest level since September 2008
on a closing basis. The benchmark IPC index of 35 Mexican stocks
rose 0.1 percent, while the IRT Small Capitalization  index , of
which Pochteca is a part, fell 0.1 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Armando Santacruz said that sales
will climb to $700 million in 2015 from the $309 million
Pochteca forecasts for this year. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization will rise to $50 million in
2015, tripling from a forecast $16 million this year, Santacruz
said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  “With the market being this fragmented, Pochteca has great
potential to consolidate its position and to buy up companies
and build up its market share,” said Fernando Perez Lizardi, an
analyst with Corporativo GBM SAB, the country’s largest
brokerage by transactions.  Pochteca expects to spend about $200 million on
acquisitions over the next three years, according to Santacruz.  Earlier today, Santacruz said in a phone interview that the
company is planning a reverse stock split. The most probable
scenario is that one new share would equal 10 current shares, he
said from Mexico City. The transaction is likely to win
shareholder approval and be carried out before the end of the
year, he said.  The split is “something we’ve been discussing basically to
give the stock a little more tradability and to get away from
such a low value per share,” Santacruz said.  Pochteca has soared 90 percent this year, the biggest
advance on the  IRT Small Capitalization (IRTSMALL)  gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  