-- Poland Holds Rate at Three-Year High Even as Growth Slows
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-09-05T16:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/poland-holds-rate-at-three-year-high-even-as-growth-slows.html
Poland ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a fourth month at the highest level since
2009 even after the  economy  expanded at the weakest pace in
almost three years.  The Narodowy Bank Polski left the  benchmark  seven-day
interest rate at 4.75 percent, the highest since January 2009,
in line with the expectations of 27 of 28 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . One economist predicted a rate cut to 4.5
percent. The zloty pared its decline against the euro after the
announcement while bonds were steady.  The central bank, the only one in the European Union to
raise borrowing costs this year, increased the benchmark in May
after keeping it unchanged for almost a year. While policy
makers said Poland’s expansion in the face of  Europe ’s debt
crisis allowed them to focus on inflation, growth slowed more
than economists forecast in the second quarter, bolstering the
case for monetary easing.  “Should upcoming data confirm a further weakening of
economic conditions, and should the risk of an increase in
inflationary pressures be limited, the Council will consider an
adjustment of monetary policy,” the bank said in a statement
today. Governor  Marek Belka  declined to comment on the possible
scale of rate cuts at a news conference after the decision.  Slowing Growth  The zloty traded 0.3 percent stronger per euro at 5:50 p.m.
in Warsaw, rebounding from a six-week low 4.2176 before the rate
decision. Two-year government zloty bond yields increased six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 4.06 percent,
according to generic data compiled by Bloomberg.  “An interest-rate cut right now would be a correct move,
justified by the current and expected economic situation
regarding GDP and inflation,”  Maciej Reluga , chief economist at
Bank Zachodni WBK said in a note today. “Apparently the MPC
prefers gradual changes in monetary-policy parameters,
disregarding the fact that the economic outlook has deteriorated
substantially since the previous meeting in July.”  Gross domestic product rose 2.4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since the third
quarter of 2009 and down from 3.5 percent in the January-March
period as companies and consumers scaled back spending amid the
debt crisis. Poland sells more than half its exports to the 17-
nation euro region, where the debt crisis is crimping demand.  Lower Forecast  The government, which has kept its target for 2.5 percent
growth this year, yesterday lowered its prediction for 2013 to
2.2 percent from 2.9 percent, according to the 2013 draft
budget. Belka said he had a similar view on the economy to the
one set out in the budget.  While central banks across the world are undertaking the
broadest cut in borrowing costs since 2009 to avert a global
slump, the Narodowy Bank Polski has kept rates at their highest
since 2009 for a second year.  The central bank’s statement after today’s meeting should
be seen as “opening” a path for potential  interest-rate  cuts,
Belka said, adding “whether it will happen and when, can’t be
currently determined.”  Reduction Room  Forward-rate agreements are trading 47 basis points below
the Warsaw interbank offered rate, signaling bets for almost two
quarter-point rate reductions over three months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on five-year  government
bonds  in zloty was at 4.24 percent today, near yesterday’s
record low of 4.22 percent.  “We will receive a batch of key economic data in November,
including our inflation and growth projections. It doesn’t mean,
however, that already in October we won’t receive sufficient
information confirming an unfavorable tendency that has started
to develop in the economy,” Belka said.  The zloty has weakened 2.4 percent to the euro, the second-
biggest decline among 25 emerging currencies chased by Bloomberg
after the forint, since Aug. 28, when Belka announced a change
in policy bias and  Hungary  unexpectedly lowered rates by a
quarter-point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  