-- Productivity in U.S. Grows More Than Previously Estimated
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-09-05T12:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/productivity-in-u-s-grew-more-than-forecast-in-second-quarter.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
rebounded more than initially estimated in the second quarter as
employers tried to protect profits.  The measure of employee output per hour  climbed  at a 2.2
percent annual rate, after a 0.5 percent drop in the prior three
months, revised figures from the Labor Department showed today
in Washington. The  median  forecast of 59 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 1.8 percent increase.  Expenses per worker 
climbed at a 1.5 percent rate, less than previously estimated.  The biggest gains in productivity during the current
expansion have probably already occurred as companies find they
need to boost staff to further increase output and as investment
in new equipment cools. At the same time, a weakening global
economy is already hurting earnings, indicating businesses will
continue to look for ways to operate more efficiently.  “Companies did a good job on productivity during the
crisis, and they will continue to try to increase productivity
to boost profits, but it’s not so easy to do that from here,”
said  Harm Bandholz , chief economist at UniCredit Group in  New
York . “Investment spending in the U.S. has been lackluster, and
it’s certainly not getting better. The potential for increasing
profits by cutting costs has come down quite a bit.”  Stock-index futures trimmed earlier losses after the
report. The contract on the Standard & Poors’ 500 Index maturing
this month fell 0.2 percent to 1,403.7 at 8:45 a.m. in New York.  Survey Results  Estimates for productivity in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from gains of 1.6 percent to 2.4 percent. The second-quarter
gain was initially estimated as a 1.6 percent annual rate, a
report last month showed.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for productivity
gains, were forecast to advance 1.4 percent in the April to June
period, the survey median showed.  The increase in unit labor costs in the first quarter was
revised up to a 6.4 percent annual pace from a prior estimate of
5.6 percent.  Today’s revision to labor expenses reflected updated
figures on worker pay. Wages and salaries rose by $56.1 billion
in the second quarter, more than previously reported, according
to Commerce Department figures released Aug. 29.  Output rose at a 2.4 percent rate, following a 2.7 percent
gain in the prior quarter, today’s revised figures showed.  Hours worked climbed at a 0.1 percent pace, the smallest
increase in almost three years. Compensation for each hour
worked climbed at 3.7 percent annual pace.  Compensation Gains  Adjusted for inflation, compensation advanced at a 2.9
percent pace last quarter, following a 3.3 percent gain in the
prior quarter.  Among manufacturers, productivity increased at a 0.1
percent rate.  The  U.S. economy  cooled last quarter as sluggish job growth
prompted Americans to curb spending. Gross domestic product rose
at a 1.7 percent annual rate from April through June, down from
a 2 percent gain in the first quarter and 4.1 percent in the
final three months of 2011, Commerce Department data show.  Earnings growth last quarter also failed to reverse the
prior three months’ decline. Before-tax profit at U.S.
corporations increased 0.5 percent in the second quarter after a
2.7 percent drop in the prior three months. Earnings climbed 6.1
percent from a year earlier, slower than the pace of the
previous two quarters.  To combat the slip in profits, business limited hiring,
squeezing more out of existing staff instead. Payrolls increased
by 219,000 workers from April through June, less than half the
677,000-pace in the prior quarter.  ‘Uncertain’ Environment  “As we head into the much larger second half of the year,
we are mindful that the macro environment remains pressured and
uncertain,” Harlan Kent, chief executive officer of Yankee
Candle Co. Inc., said on an Aug. 9 conference call. “Against
this backdrop, we will need to remain focused on flawless
execution, continue to drive operating efficiencies and
productivity.”  Productivity improvements may be harder to come by without
the support of new technology. Corporate spending on equipment
and software rose at a 4.7 percent pace last quarter, the
weakest since the third quarter of 2009, according to Commerce
Department figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  