-- Rain Delays Start of U.S. Open as Roddick-Del Potro Awaits
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-05T16:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/rain-delays-u-s-open-start-as-roddick-match-awaits-correct-.html
Day 10 at the U.S. Open tennis
championships began much like Day 9 ended: wet.  The start of the day session at the National Tennis Center
in  New York  was delayed by rain, which kept all but two matches
yesterday from being completed. There is a 60 percent chance of
precipitation this afternoon with showers likely and a possible
thunderstorm, according to the  National Weather Service .  When play does begin,  Marion Bartoli , the No. 11 seed from
France, will resume her quarterfinal match holding a 4-0
advantage in the first set over  Maria Sharapova  of Russia, the
No. 3 seed, in Arthur Ashe Stadium. During a brief dry period an
hour after the 11 a.m. New York time scheduled start, the two
warmed up and almost began play before precipitation forced them
back into the locker room.  Past U.S. Open winners  Andy Roddick  and Juan Martin Del Potro are scheduled to resume their fourth-rounder as the second
match on Ashe today. They were in a first-set tiebreaker last
night when rain interrupted play. Roddick, the 2003 champion
from the U.S. who is planning to retire from tennis after the
tournament, is seeded 20th. Del Potro of Argentina, the 2009
winner, is the No. 7 seed.  Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  will
continue his fourth-round match with Stanislas Wawrinka, the No.
18 seed from Switzerland, in Louis Armstrong Stadium. Djokovic,
the No. 2 seed, led 2-0 in the first set when play was halted
yesterday.  Janko Tipsarevic, the No. 8 seed from Serbia, led Philipp Kohlschreiber, the 19th seed from Germany, 5-2 before the rain.
They are scheduled to finish their match on the Grandstand
court.  Four Days  If the men’s fourth-round isn’t completed today, some of
the players would have to finish four matches in as many days to
end the tournament as scheduled on Sept. 9. The past four men’s
finals were pushed to a Monday finish because of rain.  Andy Murray , the No. 3 seed from Britain who won gold at
the London Olympics, is scheduled to play Marin Cilic, the No.
12 seed from Croatia, in a quarterfinal this afternoon.  The night session, during which there is a 30 percent
chance of rain, is scheduled to start with three-time champion
 Serena Williams , the No. 4 seed from the U.S., playing a
quarterfinal against Ana Ivanovic, the No. 12 seed from Serbia.  Five-time champion  Roger Federer  concludes play tonight in
Ashe with a quarterfinal against No. 6 seed Tomas Berdych of the
Czech Republic. Federer, the No. 1 seed from Switzerland, is
looking to reach his ninth straight  U.S. Open  semifinal. The 31-
year-old is playing his 34th consecutive Grand Slam
quarterfinal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  