-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Fall Toward Month Low Before Job Data
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-09-05T11:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/treasury-10-year-yields-near-1-month-low-before-jobs-data.html
Treasuries halted a decline from
yesterday before U.S. reports this week that economists said
will show employment is struggling to pick up.  Benchmark  10-year yields  were three basis points from the
lowest level in a month ahead of government data projected to
show payrolls grew at a slower pace, adding to the case for the
 Federal Reserve  to begin a third round of asset purchases to
stimulate the economy. European officials meet today and
tomorrow to discuss measures to stem the region’s debt woes.  “The market is clearly anticipating a fairly weak jobs
report and the Fed’s consequent response to it,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh. “The weakness of the labor market is the
Fed’s primary concern, and demand for Treasuries should be well
underpinned ahead of these reports.”  The 10-year yield was little changed at 1.57 percent at
6:52 a.m. in New York after falling as much as three basis
points. The rate dropped to 1.54 percent yesterday, the lowest
level since Aug. 6. The 1.625 percent note due in August 2022
traded at 100 1/2.  U.S. payrolls increased by 125,000 last month, less than
the 163,000 jobs added in July, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the Labor
Department report on Sept. 7. ADP Employer Services will say
tomorrow that employment by companies increased by 143,000 in
August, the least since May, a separate survey showed.  ‘Number Undershoots’  “If the payroll number undershoots the market consensus,
expectations of another round of quantitative easing will rise,
and Treasury yields will fall further,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a
senior strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. in  Tokyo . “Even
if it doesn’t, expectations of additional easing are more likely
to remain.”  U.S. government bonds have returned 2.5 percent this year,
through yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. That compares with a 13 percent gain in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , including reinvested dividends.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said Sept. 3
that the bank’s primary mandate compels it to intervene in bond
markets to wrest back control of  interest rates  and ensure the
euro’s survival, according to a recording obtained by Bloomberg
of comments to lawmakers in a closed-door session at the
European Parliament. Such purchases wouldn’t amount to financing
deficits as long as they were confined to buying shorter-dated
securities, he said.  Spain, Italy  Draghi’s comments fanned speculation the ECB will decide to
buy  government securities  to lower borrowing costs and curb the
euro region’s financial turmoil. Spain’s two-year note  yields 
fell to the lowest since April today, and  those  in Italy slid to
the least since March.  “Risk appetite could pick up if the ECB can deliver
decisive measures,” said Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-rate
strategist in Tokyo at BNP Paribas SA, one of the 21 primary
dealers obliged to bid at U.S. debt auctions. “There’s some
kind of optimism for the ECB.”  Speaking on Aug. 31 in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the costs of “nontraditional policies”
appeared manageable when considered carefully. That implies Fed
policy makers “should not rule out the further use of such
policies if economic conditions warrant,” he said.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  next meets
on Sept. 12-13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  