-- Treasury Yields Rise From 1-Month Lows on ECB Speculation
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-09-05T21:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/treasuries-little-change-after-ecb-bond-buying-details-disclosed.html
Treasury yields rose from almost
one-month lows after details of the  European Central Bank ’s
bond-buying proposal suggested the bank will make unlimited
sovereign-debt purchases, damping U.S. securities’ haven appeal.  Thirty-year bond  yields fell earlier before data this week
forecast to show U.S. payroll growth slowed, adding to bets the
 Federal Reserve  will begin a third round of asset purchases to
stimulate the economy. The U.S. central bank meets next week.  “Any good news out of  Europe  is a marked change from what
we’ve been used to,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate
strategist BNP Paribas SA in  New York , one of 21 primary dealers
that trade with the central bank. “The fact that we’re up” in
yields “is a positive sign,” he said.  Thirty-year bond  yields increased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.71 percent at 5 p.m. in New York
after falling earlier to 2.66 percent. They reached 2.65 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since Aug. 7. The  price  of the 2.75
percent security due in August 2042 dropped 1/2, or $5 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 7/8.  Ten-year note  yields advanced two basis points to 1.60
percent, after declining earlier to 1.55 percent. They touched
1.54 percent yesterday, the lowest since Aug. 6.  The potential for a significant increase in yields was
limited by the potential for additional Fed monetary easing,
Kohli said.  Cost Declines  Treasuries slipped this week from the most expensive level
in a month. The 10-year term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation, was negative 0.93 percent today,
versus negative 0.96 percent on Aug. 31, the most costly on a
closing basis since July 31. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value. The average for this year is negative 0.73 percent.  U.S.  government bonds  have returned 2.5 percent in 2012
through yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. That compares with a 13 percent gain in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , including reinvested dividends.  European officials are working to stem the region’s debt
crisis, which is in its third year.  The ECB blueprint, which may be called “Monetary Outright
Transactions,” will focus on government bonds rather than a
broader range of assets and will target maturities of three
years or less, according to central-bank officials briefed on
the proposal who requested anonymity.  The ECB will sterilize its bond purchases by removing from
the system elsewhere the same amount of money it spends,
ensuring a neutral impact on  money supply , the officials said.  Treasuries ‘Pressured’  “I don’t think it’s a cure-all or the answer, but it’s a
step in the right direction,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at the
primary dealer Societe Generale SA in New York. “Treasuries
were pressured.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  told the European Parliament
this week the central bank needs to intervene in bond markets to
wrest back control of interest rates and ensure the survival of
the shared currency. Draghi will make an announcement at a press
conference tomorrow after an ECB policy meeting.  “It seems like a plan they can get through,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc. “Budgets have to be adjusted and sacrifices
have to be made, but you also have to have growth. This buys
them more time and allows, hopefully, for the lower rate
mechanism to translate into growth for the economy.”  ECB Rate  The ECB will also lower its benchmark interest rate
tomorrow to 0.5 percent, from 0.75 percent, economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey  forecast.  The U.S. central bank bought $4.7 billion of Treasuries
today due from November 2020 to August 2022 as part of Operation
Twist, a program to swap shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings
with longer-term securities to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  meets
Sept. 12-13. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking on Aug. 31
in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , said the costs of “nontraditional
policies” appeared manageable when considered carefully. He
said he wouldn’t rule out steps to lower a jobless rate he
described as a “grave concern.”  The U.S. unemployment rate exceeded 8 percent in August for
a 43rd month, and payrolls increased by 127,000 jobs, fewer than
the 163,000 added in July, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast before the Labor Department reports the data Sept. 7.  The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion of securities from
2008 to 2011 in two rounds of the stimulus strategy known as
quantitative easing.  Inflation ‘Headwind’  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said investors face an “age
of inflation, which typically provides a headwind, not a
tailwind, to securities prices -- both stocks and bonds.”  Pimco’s founder and co-chief investment officer reiterated
that institutional investors will continue to find the highest
returns in countries with faster growth rates and warned that
nations such as the U.S., where he has favored Treasury debt,
offer risk in the long term. His statements were in his monthly
investment outlook posted on the  Newport Beach , California-based
company’s  website  today.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices during the life of the debt known as the
 break-even rate , widened to 2.30 percentage points. The average
this year is 2.19 percentage points.  The government will auction $66 billion in notes and bonds
next week,  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. rates strategy at
Royall Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in New York,
wrote in a note before the Treasury announces the amounts
tomorrow. The firm is a primary dealer.  The offerings will be $32 billion of three-year debt, $21
billion of 10-year securities and $13 billion in 30-year bonds,
in line with the majority of auctions of the three securities
since 2010, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  