-- ResCap Creditors Seek Plan-Filing Deadline Tied to Probe
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-09-05T19:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/rescap-creditors-seek-plan-filing-deadline-tied-to-probe.html
Residential Capital LLC should lose
exclusive control of its reorganization once a bankruptcy
examiner finishes probing a deal the mortgage company cut with
its parent,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , creditors said in court papers.  ResCap, as the company is known, is seeking a nine-month
extension of its exclusive right to file a reorganization plan
that would settle legal claims related to Ally and mortgage-bond
investors. The official committee of unsecured creditors said
that is too much time. It asked for a shorter period tied to the
probe and assurances that Ally will negotiate on a new plan.  “To date, the debtors have failed to engage in any
substantive discussions with the committee over the terms of a
Chapter 11 plan,” the panel said today in court papers in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  ResCap, based in  New York , filed bankruptcy in May with
plans to sell most of its assets and to resolve legal claims
related to mortgage-backed securities. The deal that it had cut
with Ally is being investigated by a court-appointed examiner.  The creditors asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn to
limit ResCap’s exclusive control over the bankruptcy process to
30 days after the examiner files a report or until March 1,
whichever comes first.  ResCap has agreed to accept $750 million from Detroit-based
Ally in return for dropping any legal claims against its former
parent. The company has also proposed settling a fight over
mortgage-backed securities by giving investors the right to
pursue an $8.7 billion claim in bankruptcy.  Both proposals need Glenn’s approval.  The bankruptcy case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-
12020, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 