-- ResCap, San Bernardino, NewPage, Madoff: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-09-05T12:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/rescap-san-bernardino-newpage-madoff-bankruptcy.html
Residential Capital LLC can’t use
the pending examiner’s report to justify a nine-month expansion
of the exclusive right to propose a reorganization plan,
Aurelius Capital Management LP argued in papers filed yesterday
in  bankruptcy court .  Owning 8 percent of the 9.625 percent junior secured notes
due in 2015, Aurelius calls itself the third-largest holder of
the secured notes. Aurelius contends that three more months of
so-called exclusivity is sufficient. A bankruptcy judge in
 Manhattan  will decide how much is too much at a Sept. 11
hearing.  ResCap filed under Chapter 11 in May, having already
negotiated a reorganization plan that would give non-bankrupt
parent  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  a release of all claims. Aurelius
calculates that Ally is willing to pay $950 million for freedom
from claims that it has liability for selling bonds secured by
defective home mortgages.  ResCap wants nine more months of exclusivity based on the
bankruptcy judge’s decision to bar creditors from voting on a
reorganization plan until after an examiner completes his report
in February.  Aurelius contends that ResCap’s request for nine months of
exclusivity “incorrectly presupposes that their Chapter 11 plan
must release Ally.” The bankruptcy judge should force ResCap to
negotiate with creditors on a plan not entailing an immediate
release for Ally, Aurelius said.  Aurelius said it doesn’t want “Ally to hold hostage the
large amount of cash that soon will be available for
distribution.”  To facilitate immediate talks on a plan, Aurelius also
urged the bankruptcy judge to eliminate a provision in the pre-
bankruptcy agreement that prevents major creditors from
negotiating with one another on an alternative plan. Although
many creditors aren’t bound by the agreement, the inability to
negotiate with the largest claim holders makes plan discussion
fruitless at this time, according to Aurelius.  ResCap is the bankrupt mortgage-servicing subsidiary of
non-bankrupt Ally. In June, the bankruptcy court scheduled
auctions for Oct. 23 where  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  will
make the first bid for the mortgage-servicing business.
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is to be the stalking horse for the
remaining portfolio of mortgages. A hearing to approve the sales
is set for Nov. 5.  The $473.4 million of ResCap senior unsecured notes due in
April 2013 traded yesterday for 24.375 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The $2.1 billion in
third-lien 9.625 percent secured notes due in 2015 traded for 98
cents, Trace reported.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Updates  San Bernardino Says Emergency Justified Bankruptcy  San Bernardino, California, explained to the bankruptcy
court why the city was entitled to file municipal bankruptcy
without undergoing mediation as required by state law.  The city provided details to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Meredith A. Jury in Riverside, California, about the Aug. 1 Chapter 9
bankruptcy filing on an “emergency basis.” Jury required the
city to lay out its case for Chapter 9 eligibility in
preparation for a trial to decide if San Bernardino can remain
in bankruptcy court.  The city said it only learned in “late June” that the
general fund had a negative balance of $18.2 million coupled
with a projected $45.8 million deficit for the fiscal year
beginning July 1. Having depleted the general fund to cover
prior years’ deficits, the city said it would have been unable
to cover payroll within two months absent the bankruptcy filing.  The city said in its Aug. 31 court filings that it was
already not paying debts when they came due “so that it could
make the August payroll.”  Federal bankruptcy law and California state law both
require a municipality to negotiate with creditors before filing
bankruptcy. San Bernardino said negotiations were
“impracticable” because there are so many creditors and there
was so little time to talk before missing payroll.  The city ascribed financial problems to several sources.
For one, so-called Proposition 13 precluded the city from
raising taxes. The recession cut property tax and sales tax
revenue by as much as $16 million annually. Retirement costs
almost tripled since 2001 for public-safety workers and more
than tripled for everyone else.  The city contends it’s insolvent because it was unable to
pay debts when they mature. The city also said it has a $143.3
million book value deficit in pension liabilities provided by
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System . The market value
deficit with Calpers is $319.5 million, the city said.  The firefighters’ union is among creditor groups that may
challenge the city’s right to bankruptcy relief. Jury directed
opposing creditors to file their papers by Oct. 24 in advance of
a status conference on Nov. 5. There also will be a Sept. 21
hearing to resolve disputes if creditors contend the city failed
to turn over relevant documents and information.  Unlike a Chapter 11 reorganization for companies, Chapter 9
requires the judge to make a threshold determination of
eligibility.  San Bernardino filed for Chapter 9 debt adjustment on Aug.
1, making it the third California city to have sought  bankruptcy
protection  in less than five weeks.  The case is In re City of San Bernardino, California,
12-28006,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Central District California
(Riverside).  NewPage Seeks More Exclusivity as Creditors Mediate  NewPage Corp., stuck between conflicting demands from
secured and unsecured creditors, is seeking a third expansion of
the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan.  The paper maker and creditors will no longer be distracted
with a buyout offer from Verso Paper Corp., the second-largest
coated-paper maker in the U.S.  NewPage filed a plan last month that satisfied neither the
secured nor the unsecured faction. The bankruptcy judge
responded by appointing a mediator. Mediation was scheduled to
begin yesterday.  The company said in a court filing last week that arriving
at a “consensual plan” will be “no easy task.”  There will be an Oct. 16 hearing on the so-called
exclusivity motion. If approved by the U.S. bankruptcy judge in
Delaware, the deadline will be pushed out by four months to Jan.
2.  Verso said yesterday that it will no longer attempt to
negotiate an acquisition with NewPage and its creditors. In
early July, NewPage and first-lien lenders rebuffed Verso’s
$1.43 billion offer. For details on Verso’s offer, click here
for the July 3 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The plan NewPage filed in August contains an option under
which there would be settlement of claims by the unsecured
creditors’ committee challenging the validity of liens held by
first-lien lenders. Alternatively, the plan would forgo
settlement, allowing a lawsuit on lien validity to continue
after the company exits Chapter 11.  NewPage has consistently said that unsecured creditors are
“hopelessly out of the money” and there is no theory under
which success in a suit would bring them a dividend under a
Chapter 11 plan. For a rundown on the company’s proposed plan,
click here for the Aug. 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The official committee contends that the lenders financed
an acquisition in 2007 and a refinancing two years later that
included fraudulent transfers. For details on the creditors’
claims, click here for the May 9 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  NewPage, 80 percent-owned by Cerberus Capital Management
LP, listed assets of $3.4 billion and debt totaling
$4.2 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
September. Liabilities included $232 million on a revolving
credit plus $1.77 billion on 11.375 percent senior secured
first-lien notes.  Second-lien obligations include $802 million in 10 percent
secured notes and $225 million in floating-rate notes. In
addition to $200 million in 12 percent senior unsecured notes,
$498 million is owing on two issues of floating-rate pay-in-kind
notes.  NewPage, based in Miamisburg, Ohio, has 16 paper-making
machines operating in seven plants in the U.S. and Nova Scotia.
The Canadian affiliate filed for reorganization in Nova Scotia.
The company reported a net loss of $229 million in the first
half of 2011 on revenue of $1.79 billion, following a
$674 million net loss in 2010 on revenue of $3.6 billion.  The case is In re NewPage Corp., 11-12804, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Madoff Suit ‘Fallacious,’ Schneiderman Argues  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman filed papers
explaining why a U.S. district court is the proper court to
decide whether the trustee for Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC can halt a $410 million settlement with Madoff
investor J. Ezra Merkin.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  sued Schneiderman in
bankruptcy court on Aug. 1 contending that New York State’s top
lawyer is recovering on claims that belong to all Madoff
customers and that only the trustee can pursue. Schneiderman and
Picard reached an interim agreement where the attorney general
committed to file papers last week to remove the lawsuit to
federal district court.  Reduced to fundamentals, Picard contends that money Merkin
took out of the Madoff firm represents money stolen from all
customers and should be paid to all victims of the  Ponzi scheme .
Schneiderman said Picard’s theory is “fallacious.” He argued
that most of the settlement should go to Merkin’s own clients,
who weren’t customers of the Madoff firm and won’t receive
distributions authorized by the bankruptcy court.  Schneiderman also agreed that he won’t take any steps to
carry out the settlement or transfer any of the $410 million
while the dispute over venue percolates. In return, Picard
agreed not to go ahead with a hearing for a preliminary
injunction preventing Schneiderman from completing the
settlement. For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with the
appointment of the trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009.  His bankruptcy case was consolidated with the firm’s
liquidation. Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence
following a guilty plea.  The lawsuit with Schneiderman is Picard v. Schneiderman,
12-01778, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-
cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  SEC Appeals Denial of SIPC Funds for Stanford Victims  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is appealing a
ruling from early July that investors defrauded in the R. Allen Stanford Ponzi scheme aren’t entitled to have their claims paid
by the Securities Investor Protection Corp.  The SEC sued in December, asking a U.S. district judge in
Washington to force SIPC to take over the liquidation of
Stanford’s brokerage firm, Stanford Group Co. Had the SEC won,
SIPC would have been required to cover customer’s claim for as
much as $500,000 each.  U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins ruled against the SEC
on July 3. The SEC appealed Aug. 31. Unless the SEC wins on
appeal to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington, investors in
the $7 billion fraud will be repaid from recoveries in a
receivership pending in a federal court in Texas.  For a discussion of the July opinion explaining why
customers have no protection from the SIPC fund, click here for
the July 5 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Stanford was sentenced in June to a 110-year prison
sentence.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., 11-mc-00678, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  Hostess Reports $15.4 Million July Operating Loss  Hostess Brands Inc. reported an operating loss of
$15.4 million for the four weeks ended July 28. Net revenue in
the period was $174.8 million.  The baker of Wonder bread generated a gross profit of $85.2
million, according to the operating report filed Aug. 31 with
the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in White Plains, New York. The loss
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was $8.7
million.  Net loss for the month was $17.6 million. Contributing to
the loss were $4.1 million in reorganization costs and
$2.5 million in depreciation and amortization.  Hostess’s union workers are voting on contracts with
8 percent in concessions. Workers have been told that rejecting
the contracts would lead to the liquidation of Hostess and the
loss of jobs.  For details on the offer to the unions, click here and here
for the Aug. 21 and Aug. 24 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  Hostess filed under Chapter 11 for a second time in
January, listing assets of $982 million against liabilities
totaling $1.43 billion. Brand names included Wonder, Hostess,
Merita, Dolly Madison, Drake’s and Butternut. The Irving, Texas-
based company has 36 bakeries, 565 distribution centers and 570
outlets.  The new case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Missouri
(Kansas City).  Xanadoo Subsidiaries File Plan Along With Disclosures  Bankrupt subsidiaries of  Xanadoo Co. (XAND)  filed a revised
reorganization plan bearing little resemblance to the prediction
the company made early this year that all secured and unsecured
creditors would be paid in full, with interest.  The accompanying disclosure statement, also filed Aug. 31,
tells unsecured creditors why they will receive nothing under
the plan. Sales of the frequency spectrum didn’t attract outside
bidders at hoped-for prices.  Rhino Communications Inc. paid $3 million for some licenses
in the 2.5-gigahertz spectrum. Secured lender Beach Point
Capital Management LP last month bought assets in the 700-
megahertz spectrum in exchange for $30 million in debt. The
lenders were the so-called stalking horse for the Aug. 20
auction.  The assets included 23 licenses in the 700-megahertz
frequency band that were purchased in 2000 and 2001 for $96
million. Four buyers also paid a total of $614,000 for licenses
leased in the 2.5-gigahertz spectrum that weren’t purchased by
Rhino.  The secured lender will receive proceeds under a settlement
negotiated at the time of the sale of the 700-megahertz assets.
After payment of priority claims that must be paid in full,
nothing will remain for unsecured creditors.  The plan will give stock of the reorganized companies to
the parent Xanadoo in exchange for loans made to support the
Chapter 11 effort.  The Chapter 11 plan the companies filed in February was
based on a prediction the sale of licenses in the 700-megahertz
spectrum would pay all secured and unsecured creditors in full,
with interest. For details on the original plan filed in
February, click here for the Feb. 9 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 filing in June 2011 followed the maturity in
May 2011 of almost $60 million in secured notes owing to Beach
Point.  The  Bala Cynwyd , Pennsylvania-based companies previously
said their total current liabilities were $66.3 million. The
parent isn’t in Chapter 11. One of the petitions says assets and
debt both exceed $100 million.  The case is In re Pegasus Rural Broadband LLC, 11-11772,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Solyndra Modifies Disclosures with Summary of Tax Losses  Objections from the U.S. Energy Department and the  Internal
Revenue Service  prompted Solyndra LLC, the liquidating solar
panel maker, to modify disclosure materials by adding a few
paragraphs summarizing tax losses that might be utilized in
future years by the reorganized company.  The changes were disclosed in a filing yesterday with the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware in anticipation of the Sept. 7
hearing for approval of disclosure materials explaining the
company’s Chapter 11 plan. Once the disclosure statement
receives the court’s imprimatur, creditors can begin voting on
the plan.  Solyndra said that net operating tax-loss carryforwards
will range between $875 million and $975 million when the
company emerges from reorganization. To utilize the tax losses
in offsetting future income, the company’s owners will be
required to acquire business that generate profits. As yet, the
prospective owners haven’t identified businesses to be combined
with Solyndra.  Assuming net income in future years is as much as
$975 million before the ability to use tax losses expire, and
also assuming a 35 percent federal tax rate, Solyndra’s revised
disclosure statement says the owners will be able to save
$306 million to $341 million in taxes.  Objecting to the disclosure statement in August, the
government said that plan sponsors Argonaut Ventures I LLC and
Madrone Partners LP would be able to use the losses “to avoid
hundreds of millions of dollars in future income taxes that they
would owe on business ventures wholly unrelated” to Solyndra.
The government said the two plan sponsors are existing
shareholders.  Assuming shortcomings in the disclosure statement have been
remedied, it remains to be seen whether the government will
object to approval of the plan by contending it’s primarily
meant to avoid taxes. Should the government raise the
confirmation objection, Solyndra might respond by saying that
the plan complies with IRS regulations.  The Energy Department has a claim for $528 million
resulting from a guarantee of debt.  Solyndra filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan at the end of
July. The revised disclosure statement shows unsecured creditors
with claims totaling as much as $135 million recovering 2.2
percent to 3.3 percent. Unsecured creditors with $27 million in
claims against the holding company are projected to have 3
percent dividend. For details on the plan, click here for the
Aug. 8 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The company, based in Fremont, California, filed definitive
lists showing property with a claimed value of $854.1 million
against $867.1 million in debt. Liabilities include $783.8
million in secured claims and $74.1 million of unsecured debt.  In addition to a $535 million government-guaranteed loan,
financing came from $709 million in eight issues of preferred
stock, plus $179 million in convertible notes.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Peregrine Trustee Sticks by $20,000 Raise for Lawyer  The trustee for commodity broker Peregrine Financial Group
Inc. filed more papers yesterday supporting his proposal to give
a $20,000 raise to inside General Counsel Rebecca Wing,
increasing her salary to $400,000. The bankruptcy judge in
Chicago will hold a hearing today to consider the request.  Responding to the trustee’s most recent request for
authority to continue operating the business, the bankruptcy
judge bowed to objection from some creditors and gave trustee
Ira Bodenstein an opportunity to proffer additional support for
his proposal to raise Wing’s salary.  In a court filing yesterday, the trustee said Wing’s salary
was on track to exceed $400,000 this year until the scandal
surfaced and Peregrine went into liquidation. The trustee said
Wing already turned down an offer to become a partner at a
Chicago law firm.  Trustee Bodenstein called Wing “extremely valuable” in
the liquidation and someone who has “important knowledge”
about lawsuits he plans on filing.  Wing had been Peregrine’s general counsel since 1997. The
papers filed yesterday didn’t say anything about what Wing knew
concerning the fraud.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission started a
receivership on July 10 in U.S. District Court in Chicago, where
the judge appointed a receiver and froze the assets the same
day. The company itself filed a liquidating Chapter 7 petition
later that day, leading to Bodenstein’s appointment.  The fraud surfaced when Russell R. Wasendorf Sr., the
founder and former chief executive officer, unsuccessfully
attempted suicide on July 9. He left a note disclosing the
fraud, according to a  Federal Bureau  of Investigation affidavit.
The CFTC alleged that more than $200 million in supposedly
segregated customer funds was misappropriated.  On indictment in August, Wasendorf didn’t object to being
held without bail. He pleaded not guilty.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2021, U.S.
District Court, Northern District Iowa (Eastern Waterloo). The
bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).
The CFTC receivership case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Judge Allows AMR to Impose Contract Concessions on Pilots  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane was loaded and ready for
bear when the pilots’ union from  American Airlines  Inc. appeared
in court yesterday urging him to reject the company’s attempt to
impose $370 million in annual contract savings on cockpit crews.  Alternatively, the union wanted Lane to recommence the
lengthy trial process. After arguments from lawyers concluded,
Lane ruled in favor of AMR Corp., the airline’s parent. Lane
read his lengthy opinion into the record, complete with
citations to case-law precedent.  Eight of AMR’s nine unions voted to accept the company’s
offer, which included 17 percent in contract concessions. The
pilots voted down that offer, forcing AMR to return to court
seeking 20 percent in concessions. AMR had said it would take
lower concessions only in return for “labor peace.”  By early today, an order formally allowing changes in the
pilots’ contract wasn’t yet the court docket. For Bloomberg
coverage of yesterday’s hearing, click here.  AMR, based at the airport midway between Dallas and Fort
Worth, Texas, listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600 aircraft
in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American Eagle, the
feeder airline.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Watch List  Reader’s Digest Demoted to CCC- on Covenant Violation  Reader’s Digest Association received a second downgrade in
five weeks from  Standard & Poor’s  after the publisher and direct
marketer said there may be a loan covenant violation in the
company’s future.  S&P lowered the corporate rating by two spaces to CCC-. The
senior secured notes went to CC, coupled with a guess the
holders won’t recover more than 30 percent following a covenant
default.  The new S&P grade is two levels lower than the downgrade
issued in mid-August by Moody’s Investors Service.  S&P referred to the company’s “declining businesses and
ongoing restructuring requirements,” with adjusted sales down
18.7 percent in the June quarter.  The $522.6 million in secured floating-rate notes due in
2017 last traded on Aug. 16 for 62 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Reader’s Digest emerged from Chapter 11 reorganization in
February 2010. Bankruptcy reduced funded debt by 75 percent
while providing a maximum 63 percent recovery to first-lien
lenders owed $1.65 billion. They received a new $300 million
second-lien loan and all of the new stock.  General unsecured creditors were predicted to have a
maximum 3.6 percent recovery by spreading $4 million in cash
among claims totaling as much as $120 million. For details on
Reader’s Digest plan, click here for the Nov. 25, 2009,
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Daily Podcast  Kodak Losses, Jefferson County, Student Loans: Bankruptcy Audio  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) ’s cash declined $72 million in July,
leading Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News
bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle to ask whether potential
buyers of the digital-imaging portfolio are holding out, hoping
the erosion of cash will compel Kodak to accept lower prices for
intellectual property. The bankruptcy judge overseeing the
municipal bankruptcy of Jefferson County, Alabama, will be
deciding two unresolved questions under Chapter 9 that Rochelle
describes. Rochelle wraps up the podcast talking about a new
decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan finding
debt collectors violated federal law in stating that student
loans can’t be shed in bankruptcy. To listen, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net . 