-- Richemont Growth Led by Europe as Asian Tourists Boost Spending
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-09-05T07:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/richemont-growth-led-by-europe-as-asian-tourists-boost-spending.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the
world’s largest jewelry maker, said  Europe  was its best-
performing region in the last five months as Chinese tourists
bought more watches.  Revenue from Europe rose 19 percent, excluding currency
shifts, in the five months through August, compared with gains
of 12 percent in the Asia-Pacific region and 6 percent in the
Americas, the Geneva-based company said today.  Wealthy Asian visitors are spending more on  luxury goods  in
Europe, attracted by a decline in the value of the euro amid the
region’s debt crisis. Richemont reiterated a forecast made last
month that first-half profit may rise 20 percent to 40 percent
and said it remains confident of its long-term potential.  “Europe banged out a great set of a numbers driven by
Asian tourists taking advantage of the weak euro to buy watches
and jewelry here,” said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research at
Kepler Capital Markets.  Richemont  rose  1.3 percent to 59.90 Swiss francs as of 9:04
a.m. in Zurich trading, taking this year’s gain to 27 percent.  Total sales increased 23 percent in the five-month period,
matching the average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Growth has slowed since May, when the company
reported a 29 percent gain in revenue for last year.  Excluding currency shifts, five-month revenue gained 13
percent, unchanged from the rate of the first four months. That
compared with last year’s 30 percent increase and Richemont said
the month-on-month growth rate is declining.  Euro Decline  “There’s been a slowdown, but the comparison base was very
strong,” said Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in
Zurich, who expects growth to continue to slow. “It’s in line
with expectations and things are still on track.”  The  U.S. dollar  traded 12 percent higher against the euro
on average during the first five months of Richemont’s fiscal
year. The company, which reports earnings in euros, doesn’t
release profit figures for the first five months.  Sales in Richemont’s jewelry unit, which generates about
half of the company’s revenue, rose 12 percent.  Revenue from the watch division gained 16 percent. The
 company  got about a quarter of its sales in the 12 months
through March from the unit. Richemont said in May that growth
had slowed in some Chinese coastal cities. The same month,
 Swatch Group AG (UHR)  Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said demand
at the very high end of the watch market in  China  had eased.  Swiss watch exports increased about 16 percent during the
first seven months of the year, according to the Federation of
the Swiss Watch Industry.  Richemont also gets revenue from businesses including Net-
a-Porter and  Alfred Dunhill , the London-based maker of  leather
goods , fashion and lighters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 