-- Riskiest Debt Safest as High-Yield Rises From Worst: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/riskiest-debt-safest-as-high-yield-rises-from-worst-muni-credit.html
High-yield municipal debt, the best-
returning part of the $3.7 trillion U.S. local-bond market in
2012, is also turning out to be the safest for the first time in
six years.  City and state securities rated below investment grade are
beating the market on an absolute basis and when adjusted for
volatility, according to data compiled by Standard & Poor’s and
Bloomberg. It’s a reversal of 2011, when the bonds proved the
riskiest.  Investors’ quest for a haven from global credit strains has
fueled more trading in high-grade munis than in low-grade, said
Daniel Solender at Lord Abbett & Co. The extra yield on lower-
rated debt has drawn buyers as interest rates on  U.S. Treasuries 
and munis set  record lows .  “A lot of volatility is coming from global interest-rate
moves,” said Solender, who helps manage the $1.9 billion  Lord
Abbett High-Yield Municipal Bond Fund (HYMAX)  in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . “And that’s more directly affecting the movement of
high-quality municipals.”  Speculative-grade local bonds are those rated Ba1 or lower
by Moody’s Investors Service and BB+ or below by S&P. The
securities have earned 7.6 percent this year when accounting for
price swings, compared with a 3.5 percent risk-adjusted gain for
the broader market and better than all other tax-exempt areas,
according to data compiled by S&P and Bloomberg.  On an absolute basis, high-yield’s 13.3 percent earning
outpaces the market’s 6 percent. The last time they were the
safest segment of munis was in 2006.  Individuals’ Control  Individuals, who own about 70 percent of munis either
directly or through mutual funds, have looked to high-yield even
though the lower-rated bonds tend to default more often. From
1970 to 2011, an average of 7.9 percent of munis that were sold
a decade or more earlier and had a junk rating from Moody’s
defaulted, compared with 0.08 percent for investment grade.  U.S. municipal high-yield funds have added $5.9 billion of
assets this year, after investors withdrew about $33 billion in
the same period of 2011, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation. The result gives a measure of income per unit of
risk. The returns aren’t annualized.  Demand Climbs  “There’s a lot more demand for income with interest rates
so low, and people are a little reticent to take equity risk,”
said Guy Davidson, director of muni investments at
AllianceBernstein LP in New York. He helps oversee the firm’s $1
billion  High Income Municipal Portfolio. (ABTHX)   In trading yesterday, yields on AAA munis maturing in 10
years were little changed close to a two-week low, according to
a Bloomberg Valuation index. The benchmark 10-year note yielded
 1.76 percent . The index’s record low was 1.63 percent in July.  The demand for lower-rated tax-exempts has benefited
borrowers such as Temple University Health System. Philadelphia
Hospitals & Higher Education Facilities Authority sold $311
million of hospital revenue bonds on behalf of Temple in June.
The securities have a Ba1 Moody’s rating.  Buyers have been willing to accept a shrinking amount of
additional yield on the debt.  Securities due in 30 years traded Aug. 21 with an average
yield of 4.7 percent, or 1.59 percentage points above a
benchmark index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. When the bonds
were issued, they priced to yield of 5.875 percent, or about
2.75 percentage points above the index.  More Room  Riskier muni debt may still have more room to rally. The
extra yield on munis due in 30 years and rated BBB, two steps
above junk, was about  1.86 percentage points  over top-rated
securities yesterday, almost 33 percent more than the 10-year
average, Bloomberg data show.  The “muddling” pace of U.S. economic growth will depress
 interest rates  and foster demand for more income through next
year, said Tim Pynchon, who helps manage $3 billion of high-
yield munis at Pioneer Investment Management Inc. in  Boston . The
economy expanded at a 1.7 percent annual rate from April through
June, after a 2 percent gain in the prior three months.  “There’s very little value left from a price appreciation
standpoint in the investment-grade market,” Pynchon said.
“We’ll still have some left in the high-yield market.”  Following are pending sales:  ILLINOIS FINANCE AUTHORITY is set to issue $181 million of
revenue bonds on behalf of OSF Healthcare System as soon as
tomorrow. The proceeds will refinance debt and support capital
projects, according to bond documents. (Added Sept. 5)  SAN ANTONIO plans to sell $175 million on behalf of its
water system as soon as tomorrow, according to offering
documents. The proceeds will be used for construction and
refunding. (Added Sept. 4)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  