-- Risk Increases of Prolonged World Slowdown, BOJ’s Miyao Says
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-09-05T03:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/risk-increases-of-prolonged-world-slowdown-boj-s-miyao-says-1-.html
The odds of an extended world
economic slowdown have increased and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  needs to
remain ready to take decisive action if necessary, board member
Ryuzo Miyao said.  “The risk that the global economic slowdown will be
prolonged is increasing slightly,” Miyao said in a speech in
Shimonoseki, southwestern  Japan  today. For Japan, excessive
strength in the yen may weigh on exports, profits and  stock
prices , Miyao said.  Australia  today  reported  slower growth in the second
quarter, after a U.S. report yesterday showed manufacturing
contracted in August in the world’s biggest economy. Japan’s
central bank may add to monetary easing by October at the latest
and a move this month is possible as exports and output weaken,
according to Citigroup Inc.  Businesses around the world have become more cautious as
 Europe ’s debt crisis persists, Miyao said. The pace of a U.S.
recovery is slowing, while a rebound in  China  and other Asian
developing nations may be delayed until after the autumn, the
official said.  Japan stocks declined a fifth day, headed for the longest
losing streak in two months. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average was
down 0.7 percent to 8,712.15 as of 12:39 p.m. in Tokyo. The yen
was at 78.44 per dollar, about 4 percent from its postwar high,
underscoring the threat to exporters of a strong currency.  High Yields  “The decline in demand in the peripheral countries in
Europe is spreading to households and corporate sentiment in
core nations such as  Germany , and bond yields in Spain and Italy
are staying high,” Miyao said. “Given those, the risk that a
recovery in the area will be delayed is increasing.”  In Japan, the world’s largest public debt burden and a
deadlocked parliament may limit Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
ability to supply fiscal stimulus for an economy that risks
swinging to a contraction this quarter.  Australia’s gross domestic product advanced 0.6 percent
from the previous three months, when it rose a revised 1.4
percent, a Bureau of Statistics report released in Sydney
showed. The median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was for a 0.7 percent gain.  The Japanese central bank kept its asset-purchase fund at
45 trillion yen ($574 billion) and lending facility at 25
trillion yen at its two-day meeting ended on Aug. 9. The bank
will next meet on Sept. 18 and 19.  Japan’s  consumer prices  slid at a faster pace in July and
industrial production unexpectedly slumped, raising the danger
that the world’s third-largest economy has slipped back into a
contraction.  The benchmark price gauge, which excludes fresh food, fell
0.3 percent in July from a year earlier, putting the central
bank’s 1 percent inflation goal further from reach, a government
report showed on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  