-- Troika Returns to Athens as Budget Showdown Looms: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-09-05T08:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/troika-returns-to-athens-as-budget-showdown-looms-euro-credit.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
faces a week of wrangling as his coalition government tries to
find common ground on two more years of austerity to persuade
international lenders to keep the country in the euro.  Inspectors from the European Commission,  European Central
Bank  and  International Monetary Fund , known as the troika, are
due back in  Athens  on Sept. 7 to complete a review begun in
July. They are likely to find that the three coalition partners
are still working on an 11.5 billion-euro ($14.5 billion)
blueprint that may test the cohesion of Samaras’s government.  “Implementation is key in  Greece , which means the key is
whether the government survives to implement the program,” said
Athanasios Vamvakidis, head European currency strategist at Bank
of America Corp. in  London . “Greece just got a new aid package,
a large haircut and a new government, and still needs more
money. If Greece cannot implement the program now, the troika is
likely to conclude that it is pointless funding Greece.”  Ten-year Greek  yields  are the lowest in three months, as
concern about an imminent and disorderly exit from the euro area
receded following Samaras’s June election victory and the
creation of a pro-euro coalition government. The rate dropped 10
basis points to 21.86 percent at 11:15 a.m. in Athens today,
down from 23 percent at the end of August and from an average
27.4 percent during the past year.  Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras met in Berlin with his
German counterpart  Wolfgang Schaeuble  yesterday. “The central
point is that Greece implements its obligations completely,”
the German ministry said in a statement following the meeting.  Power Play  Stournaras will meet the troika on Sept. 9 in a bid to
cement the spending cuts before euro-area finance ministers meet
in Nicosia on Sept. 14. Before then, Samaras needs to broker an
agreement with the heads of the two smaller parties, Pasok and
Democratic Left, which are keeping him in power.  Greece’s lenders held back on loans pledged under two
rescue packages totalling 240 billion euros in the wake of two
inconclusive elections in May and June, which derailed reforms,
halted state-asset sales, and stoked concerns about the nation’s
future in the 17-nation euro, spurring Greeks to withdraw their
savings from banks.  A decision on a payment of 4.2 billion euros that was due
in June as the first tranche of a 31 billion-euro transfer may
be made next month, after Parliament votes on the budget, the
troika compiles its progress report and Samaras lobbies for more
time to assuage the impact of the new measures.  Bank Needs  Most of the instalment outstanding is destined for  Greek
banks (ASE) , under a previously-agreed plan to recapitalise the
institutions that suffered the most under the largest debt
restructuring in history. Getting those funds is central to
pumping liquidity back into a cash-starved economy in its fifth
year of recession.  Greece raised 1.1 billion euros by selling 26-week Treasury
bills yesterday, with the yield dropping to 4.54 percent from
4.68 percent at the previous auction.  Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis, who brings 17
lawmakers to the total of 179 votes backing Samaras’s
government, said growth will be a key determinant in how his MPs
vote on the measures. The package is expected to be brought to
Parliament in the second half of the month and approval is
expected, as in the past, to be a condition of the next loan
payment being paid.  Stable Leadership  “It’s not enough for the package to be agreed by the three
leaders and the troika,” said Lefteris Farmakis, a strategist
at Nomura International Plc in London. “ It needs to be passed
through parliament with a clear majority that doesn’t threaten
the government’s stability. The government is trying to
synthesize conflicting approaches, bound by an unrealistic post-
election agreement.”  Kouvelis is fending off criticism that the package is more
of the same medicine that has plunged Greece into the worst
economic slump since World War II. He has said a labor-reserve
plan to reduce the number of state employees is a “fiasco”
that will add to Greece’s “army of unemployed.” The jobless
rate rose to a record 23.1 percent in May, the Athens-based
Hellenic Statistical Authority reported on Aug. 9.  Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos , the former finance
minister who brokered the second rescue package in February, has
also objected to pension and wage cuts, saying they should
target specific groups rather than be across the board.  Delayed Pain  In a bid to stem possible defections from his party,
Samaras said Aug. 30 that this “painful, necessary” package
will show creditors the country is serious about meeting its
commitments. He also vowed it would be “the last of its kind.”  The coalition partners agree on seeking another two years
to implement the measures, in order to diffuse the impact and
give the economy a chance to recover. Bank of America analysts
estimated in an Aug. 22 note that Greece needs a minimum of 5
billion euros and as much as 20 billion euros to close its
funding gap, and at least 40 billion euros to bring debt
dynamics back on track.  The inconclusive May 6 ballot and the June 17 vote that
brought Samaras to power gave gains to the Syriza party, which
opposes the country’s bailouts from the EU and IMF even at risk
of ditching the euro. Syriza is now Greece’s biggest opposition
party.  Alexis Tsipras, Syriza’s head, said Aug. 27 that Samaras’s
bid for another two years was “like asking for more rope to
hang ourselves with.”  Greece has to reduce its  budget deficit  to 7.3 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 9.1 percent in 2011, and
cut its primary deficit, which excludes interest payments, to 1
percent from 2.4 percent.  Vamvakidis said there’s “no way the troika will pull the
plug on Greece” unless the government fails to stick with the
program.  “But there is also no way the troika will give more money
to Greece if program implementation remains as problematic as
before or the coalition government collapses,” he said. The
challenge in Parliament is “make or break,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  