-- Romney’s Threat on China Currency Shortsighted, Albright Says
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-09-05T17:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/romney-s-threat-on-china-currency-shortsighted-albright-says.html
Former Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright  called Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
shortsighted in threatening to designate China a currency
manipulator on his first day in office.  “So what happens on day two?” Albright said today in a
Bloomberg Government interview at the Democratic National
Convention in Charlotte,  North Carolina . She suggested the move
would risk retaliatory sanctions from the Chinese government.  “Clearly there are issues of currency with the Chinese,”
Albright said, adding that Romney’s threat “is an example, if I
may say so, of very shortsighted statements that don’t make any
sense.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and private-equity
executive, has made a forceful stance on trade competition with
China a centerpiece of his appeal to working-class voters in
battleground states such as Ohio, and regularly criticizes
President  Barack Obama  for failing to sanction China.  Romney’s campaign website says that one of five executive
orders the Republican would issue on his first day in the White
House would be directing the Treasury Department to list China
as a currency manipulator and instructing the Commerce
Department “to assess countervailing duties on Chinese imports
if China does not quickly move to float its currency.”  Yuan’s Value  The  yuan  fell 0.03 percent to close at 6.3492 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
While the currency has appreciated, the Treasury Department has
labeled the yuan “significantly undervalued,” which gives
China, the world’s second-largest economy, a trade advantage.  The U.S. ran a $27.4 billion  trade deficit  with China in
June, up from $26.7 billion for the month a year earlier,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau, which doesn’t seasonally
adjust the figure. The deficit with China in goods totaled $295
billion last year, the largest the U.S. has had with any
country.  At the same time, China is the third-largest U.S. export
market behind Canada and Mexico, and many of the largest U.S.
companies prefer a less confrontational approach than Romney’s.  The U.S.-China Business Council, a trade association
including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , General Electric Co. and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , plays down the importance of the currency issue and says
any approach to “global economic imbalances” should be
multilateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  