-- Tropical Storm Leslie Creeps North on Path to Bermuda
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-09-05T15:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/tropical-storm-leslie-creeps-north-may-brush-bermuda-thi.html
Tropical Storm Leslie neared
hurricane strength in the Atlantic Ocean on a path toward
 Bermuda  at week’s end.  The storm was 470 miles (756 kilometers) south-southeast of
Bermuda with winds of 70 miles per hour, according to a National
Hurricane Center  advisory  at 11 a.m. Atlantic time. A storm
becomes a hurricane when sustained winds reach 74 mph.  On its  current track , Leslie is forecast to approach
Bermuda with winds as high as 110 mph, which would make the
storm a Category 2 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale. The
system is already stirring high surf from Bermuda to U.S. East
Coast beaches.  “Leslie is very near hurricane strength and conditions are
expected to become quite favorable for additional
intensification to occur through at least 96 hours,” Stacy Stewart, a senior hurricane specialist at the center, said in a
forecast analysis.  Leslie’s storm-strength winds reach out 230 miles, about
equal to the distance from Boston to  New York  City. The system’s
size and slow forward motion of 2 miles per hour may generate
large waves, Stewart said.  A high-surf advisory has been issued for Cape Cod in
Massachusetts and there is a risk of rip currents along the
southern coast of Long Island,  New Jersey  and Virginia,
according to the  National Weather Service .  Farther east in the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Michael, with
winds of 50 mph, was 1,155 miles west-southwest of the Azores,
the NHC said in an  advisory.   An area of low pressure over southern Alabama and the
Florida Panhandle is expected to move into the north-central
 Gulf of Mexico  today. The system has a 10 percent chance of
becoming tropical in two days, the Miami-based NHC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 