-- Russia Stocks Fall Second Day on Oil; Gazprom Drops on EU Probe
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-09-05T15:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/russia-stocks-fall-second-day-on-oil-gazprom-drops-on-eu-probe.html
Russian stocks sank to their lowest
in a month as oil, the nation’s chief export earner, fell and
investors sold riskier assets on concern global growth is
slowing.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 1 percent to 1,421.62 by the
close in in Moscow, the lowest level since Aug. 3. United Co.
Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer, sank 4.4 percent,
its steepest slide in more than three months. OAO Novolipetsk
Steel, billionaire  Vladimir Lisin ’s steelmaker, declined 1.9
percent. OAO Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly,
slumped 1.8 percent.  Gazprom faces a European Union antitrust probe over sales
of gas in central and eastern Europe, EU regulators said in a
statement yesterday. Crude slid 0.7 percent to $94.62 in New
York, extending yesterday’s 1.2 percent fall after a report
showed U.S. manufacturing contracted for a third month in
August. Oil and gas contribute about 50 percent to Russia’s
state revenue.  “The recent barrage of negative global macro stories,
accentuated by the U.S. manufacturing data is probably the main
culprit for the down-leg in the stock market,”  Ivan Tchakarov ,
chief economist at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by e-mail
today.  The probe will “loom large” over Gazprom and smaller gas
producer OAO Novatek, VTB Capital analysts led by Alexei Zabotkin said in an e-mailed research note.  Gazprom slipped to 155.21 rubles, the most on since July
31. Novatek dropped 0.2 percent to 363.91 rubles. Gazprom has
the  biggest weighting  in the Micex at 15.1 percent, while
Novatek is fifth with 6.4 percent.  Aeroflot, Mail.ru  The European Commission said it’s investigating whether
Gazprom imposed unfair prices by linking natural gas and oil
prices, preventing gas from being traded between countries and
hindering diversification of supply.  OAO Aeroflot declined 0.1 percent to 42.62 rubles, paring
an earlier decline of as much as 1.1 percent.  Russia ’s biggest
airline said first-half net income fell to $7.1 million as
operational costs surged 64 percent.  Mail.ru Group (MAIL)  Ltd. climbed as much as 6.2 percent and
traded up 2 percent at $35.00 in  London , heading for the highest
level since Aug. 14. The largest Russian-language  Internet
company  said profit in the first half advanced 66 percent
compared with the same period last year to 4 billion rubles
($123 million), according to a statement today.  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings  and has
rallied 1.4 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
9.8 times and a 2.4 percent advance for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  