-- Russia, EU Don’t Agree on Kyoto Surplus Fix: CDM Watch
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-09-05T14:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/russia-eu-don-t-agree-on-kyoto-surplus-fix-cdm-watch.html
Russia and the European Union are
among parties that haven’t agreed on a developing-nation plan to
limit trading of a 13 billion-metric-ton surplus of Assigned
Amount Units under the  Kyoto Protocol , according to CDM Watch.  The EU is failing to endorse the plan because of “internal
disagreement,” Eva Filzmoser, program director of the Brussels
environmental lobby group, said today in e-mailed statements.  “The surplus of Assigned Amount Units in the second
commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol is one of the key issues
to be resolved before parties can agree on a second commitment
period of the Kyoto Protocol,” she said.  AAUs are permits handed out to developed nations under the
1997 protocol and represent a cap on their emissions in the five
years through 2012. Countries that emit more than their cap may
buy from those that have reduced discharges of  greenhouse gases .  Nations have so far failed to agree how or whether to
extend the agreement past this year. The CDM Watch surplus
estimate is the equivalent of 38 percent of 34 billion tons of
carbon dioxide, the world’s emissions from energy use in 2011,
according to data from  BP Plc (BP/)  published in June.  “Countries may get to keep their AAUs, but won’t get to
trade them,”  Andrei Marcu , head of the Centre for European
Policy Studies’ Carbon Market Forum in Brussels, said today in
an interview from United Nations climate talks in Bangkok. “The
market reaction will be relatively muted to a decision
restricting use.”  Qatar Talks  Nations may make such a decision at  talks planned  for Doha,
Qatar, starting in November, Marcu said. Under the plan to deal
with the AAU surplus, carried-over units can only be used for
compliance at the end of a second commitment period if emissions
are greater than the cap for that period, which could be the
period starting in 2013 and ending in 2017 or 2020, CDM Watch
said in its statement, which was endorsed by the Centre for
Clean Air Policy in  Washington , which lobbies governments for
climate protection.  Some developing nations are reluctant to allow nations who
don’t sign up to a second set of Kyoto targets to use UN offset
credits such as Certified Emission Reductions and Emission
Reduction Units, Marcu said.  Australia , for instance, is seeking to restrict the use of
UN offsets in its carbon market starting in 2015, under rules of
its program. The country is proposing to trim the limit on CER
use from 50 percent to 12.5 percent under new rules agreed as
part of its deal to link its market with the EU market.  Record-Low Prices  UN CERs for December dropped as much as 9.6 percent today
to a record 2.45 euros ($3.09) a metric ton and were at 2.48
euros on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 1:54 p.m.  Supply of ERUs rose by a record in August, according to the
 UN’s Environment Programme . The volume of ERUs advanced by 51
million metric tons, or 29 percent, to 225 million tons last
month, UNEP’s Risoe Centre in Roskilde,  Denmark , said in a
monthly report on its website. The first offsets were created in
March 2009.  ERUs for December dropped 10 percent today to a record 2.20
euros.  It’s unlikely that the Doha talks will generate new demand
needed to boost carbon prices, Marcu said.  “It was not really expected to,” he said. “There was the
hope of some, including the EU, that things could move faster,
or maybe conclude, in defining a new market mechanism.”  An additional market may add to supply, Marcu said. There
may be some extra demand during the next few years, from
developing as well as developed countries, he said.  “It would be a bonus if the new programs will be
investible instruments in the short term, before 2015,” Marcu
said. Investible means investors can be reasonably certain of
making a return, he said.  The new markets will more likely allow emerging nations to
comply with domestic targets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  