-- Ryan Pick Puts Wisconsin in Play as Michigan Tilts Obama
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-09-05T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/ryan-pick-puts-wisconsin-in-play-as-michigan-tilts-obama.html
The Obama campaign considers two of
the biggest battleground states targeted by the Romney campaign
-- Michigan and Pennsylvania -- to be securely in the
president’s camp, a top aide said, while acknowledging concerns
about Wisconsin, the home state of Republican Mitt Romney’s
running mate  Paul Ryan .  Jim Messina , Obama’s campaign manager, said that given
President Barack Obama’s bailout of the Detroit-based  auto
industry  and Romney’s opposition to it, “I find it hard to
believe that they’re going to be able to compete in Michigan.”
Messina spoke at a Bloomberg-sponsored breakfast in Charlotte,
 North Carolina , the  Democratic Party ’s convention site. He was
joined by  Stephanie Cutter , deputy campaign manager, and Larry
Grisolano, director of paid media for the campaign.  In Pennsylvania, Messina cited a million-person voter
registration advantage for Democrats over Republicans. As for
Wisconsin, Messina said, “We ought to get past both conventions
and figure out, you know, where that state is.”  He said Obama has a strong ground operation in the state
and noted that Wisconsin has elected a Democrat the past five
times.  Messina’s comments came as Obama campaigned yesterday in
Virginia. The president will travel today to Charlotte, where
tomorrow he is to formally accept his party’s nomination for a
second term.  Tax Reform  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to Obama, said in a
separate Bloomberg-sponsored event that the president will work
with the business community to reform the  tax  code if he’s re-
elected.  “Let’s broaden the base and increase the base,” Jarrett
said. “That’s going to benefit the broader business
community.”  Cutter said Obama’s acceptance speech will be both
“aspirational” and “pragmatic” and offer some details about
his plans for  deficit  reduction and clean energy, as he tries to
reach undecided voters who are asking for a more down-to-earth
message than the hope-and-change theme of his 2008 campaign.  “Anybody tuning in or in the stadium or going to a watch
party will have a pretty clear sense of what the second term
will be about,” she said.  The aides also said the campaign will emphasize tax
fairness over Medicare from now until the Nov. 6 election
because it is a more compelling issue with voters.  Grisolano said Republicans tried to use their Aug.27-30
convention in Tampa,  Florida , to “suspend reality” by
misleading voters about how Obama’s policies were affecting
Medicare or welfare recipients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  