-- S&P May Change Grades on $102 Billion of CMBS After Overhaul
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-09-05T16:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/s-p-releases-revised-commercial-mortgage-bond-rating-methodology.html
Standard & Poor’s , seeking to regain
market share for rating commercial-mortgage bonds after being
frozen out last year, said it’s considering changing the
rankings on about $102 billion of the securities it grades after
releasing new ratings guidelines.  S&P will review transactions during the next six months to
determine the extent to which the methodology overhaul will
affect ratings, the New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. said
in a statement today. The changes reflect “ongoing commitment
to more stable ratings and an improved way of evaluating the
relative credit risks of various CMBS structures and loans,”
S&P analyst Peter Eastham said in the statement.  Wall Street banks have been bypassing S&P’s ratings for
commercial-mortgage bonds since the company derailed a $1.5
billion sale by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. last
year by pulling its grades on the securities. Since then, S&P
hasn’t rated a so-called conduit deal composed of loans from
multiple borrowers, the biggest part of the market, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The new criteria establish a so-called credit enhancement
level for securities receiving top AAA ratings that protects
investors from the first 20 percent of losses, S&P said. The
guidelines also change the way it calculates capitalization
rates, a measure of return on real-estate investments, to better
reflect the relative strengths and weaknesses of different
cities and regions.  Ratings Review  S&P is considering changing the rankings on 10.5 percent of
the U.S. and Canadian commercial-mortgage bond deals it grades.
Ratings on $34.4 billion of securities may be cut, while $67.1
billion may be raised, S&P said in a separate statement today.
Deals sold between 2005 and 2008, when underwriting standards
slipped during the market’s boom, account for 88 percent of
potential downgrades, the company said.  For 152 securities classes created in 2009 or later, about
30 percent are on review for an upgrade, said S&P, which set the
final guidelines after taking comments from issuers and
investors on proposed changes released in June.  Ranking structured products such as CMBS and collateralized
debt obligations is one of the most lucrative areas for ratings
companies. They generally charge between $1 million and $2
million to grade a CMBS deal, according to a September paper by
 Andrew Cohen , a researcher at the  Federal Reserve . CMBS are
bundled loans tied to commercial properties and sliced into
securities of varying risk.  Lenders have arranged about $20.5 billion in bonds tied to
skyscrapers, shopping malls and hotels this year, compared with
$28 billion in 2011, Bloomberg data show. Credit Suisse Group AG
forecasts as much as $45 billion in 2012 issuance. Sales are
down from a record $232 billion in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  