-- SABMiller Sends VB Beer the Way of New Coke With Change
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-09-05T08:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/sabmiller-boosts-alcohol-in-vb-beer-after-xxxx-gains-lead.html
SABMiller Plc. (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer, will send its Victoria Bitter beer the way of
New Coke, discarding a recipe change that saw VB overtaken as
Australia’s top seller by  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ’s XXXX Gold.  Carlton & United Breweries, the Australian beer business
SABMiller  acquired  with its takeover of Foster’s Group Ltd. last
year, will revert to a formula abandoned in 2007 and raise the
alcohol content from 4.6 percent to 4.9 percent from October
this year, the London-based company said in a  statement  on its
website. The beermaker today placed full-page advertisements in
the Herald Sun, Australia’s top selling daily newspaper, saying
“we got it wrong.”  The reversal echoes the experience of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s New
Coke, said  John Roberts , a professor of marketing at  Australian
National University  and  London Business School . New Coke
attracted so many protests when it replaced Coca-Cola’s classic
formula in 1985 that the original product was reintroduced three
months later.  “You can do almost anything you want with the taste, but
in beverages you don’t mess with the brand image,” Roberts said
by phone. “People are doing more than drinking beer, they’re
drinking the whole story.”  Excise Tax  Kirin’s  shares  rose 2.2 percent to close at 988 yen in
 Tokyo  today, the biggest gain since Aug. 7, while the broader
Nikkei 225 index fell 1.1 percent. SABMiller fell 0.3 percent at
9:11 a.m in  London  as the FTSE 100 index slid 0.5 percent.  Recipe changes to century-old  VB , as it’s known to locals,
dropped its strength in 2007 and again in 2009 to save on an
excise tax levied on alcohol content, Carlton & United
spokeswoman Jennifer Howard said by phone from Melbourne. The
company also introduced new packaging and new variants of the
brew to arrest a slipping market share.  XXXX Gold, brewed by Kirin’s Lion unit, in April ended VB’s
more than 20 years as Australia’s top selling beer. XXXX Gold
had a 12.4 percent market share in the 12 months through June
compared to 12.1 percent for VB, according to  Nielsen Holdings
NV (NLSN)  data quoted by Lion.  Foster’s has also fallen behind Lion as the country’s
largest brewer since SABMiller completed its A$10.5 billion
($10.7 billion)  takeover  of the Melbourne-based company in
December.  No Tinkering  The decision to up VB’s alcohol content will cost SABMiller
more than A$10 million a year in excise tax, a necessary cost to
restore the beer’s original flavor, Howard said.  “The Vic Bitter drinkers have spoken and told us that we
should not have tinkered with their beer,” Andy Gibson, CUB’s
chief marketing officer, said in a statement. “We have
listened.”  Carlton & United first brewed a beer with the VB branding
in 1907, according to the company’s  website . Its breweries in
Victoria and Queensland states produce more than 20 million
cases per year, Howard said.  VB is considered a “blue singlet” beer, said Roberts, in
reference to the colored tank-tops stereotypically worn by
working-class Australian men. That puts a premium on perceived
authenticity, he said.  Macho Beer  “There’s a whole host of associations that go together
with it being a full-bodied, manly, macho beer,” he said.
“Reducing the alcohol content, making it look lighter, reducing
calories, all send a signal that it’s not a real man’s beer.”  The decisions to drop VB’s alcohol content had damaged the
image of the beer with consumers, Matt Kirkegaard, founder of
beer enthusiasts’ website  Australian Brews News , said by phone.  “Drinkers were always told VB was this important brand and
this just showed them the company itself didn’t really care
about it,” he said. “They were signaling that the bean
counters were in charge.”  In any case, beer drinkers who previously would have
favored VB are increasingly buying imported brands such as
 Heineken NV (HEIA) ’s eponymous brew and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s
Beck’s and  Stella Artois , he said. The prices of imported beer
are now more competitive, he said, thanks to a 19 percent
strengthening of the Australian dollar against the  U.S. dollar 
over the past three years.  “People don’t see themselves in that classic old mold,”
he said. “They see themselves as being a little bit more
upmarket.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  