-- Salix Dragon’s Blood Drug for Diarrhea Delayed by FDA
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-05T20:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/salix-says-fda-decision-delayed-on-hiv-associated-diarrhea-drug.html
Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (SLXP) , a maker
of antibiotics and gastrointestinal drugs, said a decision by
U.S. regulators on its new medicine to treat diarrhea in people
with HIV has been postponed.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said it is still reviewing
the company’s application to sell crofelemer tablets for
patients with the virus that causes AIDS, according to a
statement from the Raleigh, North Carolina-based company today.
A decision on the treatment, which is derived from the Peruvian
Dragon’s Blood tree, had been expected today.  Salix, which got about 69 percent of its $540 million in
 sales  last year from the antibiotic Xifaxan, has been dealt
setbacks in efforts to broaden its product lineup. The FDA in
July rejected the company’s bid for expanded use of the
constipation drug Relistor and last year declined to approve
Xifaxan for a form of irritable bowel syndrome. Salix has said
the U.S. HIV-associated diarrhea market represents a $300
million-a-year opportunity.  “The FDA continues to work collaboratively with Salix” on
crofelemer, said Bill Forbes, the company’s chief development
officer, in the statement. “By taking no action at this time,
the FDA has allowed for the currently ongoing dialogue between
Salix and the FDA to continue.”  First Quarter  Salix now expects the FDA to act on the application by the
end of the first quarter in 2013, Forbes said. Analysts estimate
crofelemer, if approved, may add about $22 million in sales next
year and $33 million in 2014, according to the average of  seven
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The drug is made from the crimson-colored sap of the
Dragon’s Blood tree found in the rainforests of  Peru , said G.
Michael Freeman, Salix’s associate vice president for  investor
relations , in a phone interview. Questions about the production
and control of the extract have been the “primary topic” of
discussions with the FDA, according to the company statement.  That ingredient is “a complex mixture that is the first
botanical product to be reviewed by the agency for oral use,”
Salix said.  Salix fell 1.8 percent to $43.17 at the close of  New York 
trading. The  shares  have risen 53 percent in the past 12 months.  The FDA extended the original decision date for crofelemer
by three months in April to allow regulators more time to review
the application. The agency didn’t ask for additional studies,
Salix said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  