-- Samsung Abuses Workers at Its China Plants, Labor Group Says
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-09-05T04:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/samsung-china-workers-physically-verbally-abused-group-says.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  plants and
suppliers in  China  employed underage workers, forced them to
work overtime and exposed them to unsafe conditions, a New York-
based labor group said as it increased scrutiny on the world’s
largest seller of mobile phones and TVs.  China Labor Watch discovered “severe labor abuses” at six
factories owned and operated by Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, and two facilities of its suppliers, the group said in
a report dated yesterday. The violations include forced overtime
work amounting to more than 100 hours a month, unpaid work and
11 to 12 hours of standing, it said.  The workers, also subject to “verbal and physical abuse,”
don’t have any effective internal grievance channel, the group
said. Labor advocates are widening their monitoring of
electronics factories in  Asia  to Samsung,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co. after suicides at a China plant of Apple Inc.
supplier Foxconn Technology Group in 2010 increased attention on
working conditions.  “Labor violations aren’t restricted to Samsung and are a
problem in the electronics industry,” Kevin Slaten, a spokesman
for China Labor Watch, said in a Bloomberg TV interview today.  China Labor Watch is currently investigating a factory that
makes products for companies including HP, Dell and Microsoft
Corp.,  Li Qiang , a New York-based director at the group, said in
a phone interview through a translator. The group also will
recheck factories run by Samsung and its suppliers to determine
whether improvements have been made, Li said.  ‘Inhumane Violations’  “The treatment of Samsung’s Chinese factory workers is far
from model,” according to the report. “The list of illegal and
inhumane violations is long.”  The findings follow an August report from the group that
said a Chinese assembler contracted by Samsung used child labor,
prompting the Korean company to broaden inspections of its
suppliers.  Samsung “frequently” checks its factories and the company
isn’t aware of instances of hiring underage workers,  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman, said by phone today.  The electronics maker has “zero tolerance” for child-
labor violations at its suppliers and will stop doing business
with any company found to hire minors, Chung said. The company
is aware that some workers in China volunteer to work extra
hours and will take “additional steps to re-evaluate our
working hour practices,” he said, declining to comment on
whether the company will raise wages.  $250 Salary  Samsung’s labor audits on its contractors aren’t accurate
because factory owners learn about the inspections in advance,
Slaten said in the interview.  The eight plants investigated by CLW employed a combined
24,000 workers making mobile phones,  DVD players , mobile
displays and air conditioners, the report said. The base salary
for workers at a printer factory owned by Samsung is about
$250 a month, the report said.  The group said its investigators either posed as workers to
enter the factories or interviewed workers outside.  China Labor Watch  said  last month that seven children
younger than 16 were working in the factory of HEG Electronics
(Huizhou) Co. that makes phones and DVD players for Samsung.
Samsung conducted its own investigation and said this week it
didn’t find any workers younger than 16.  IBM, Dell  Samsung said Sept. 3 it will conduct on-site inspections by
the end of this month on all 105 Chinese companies that make
products solely for the company. The company also plans to have
the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, a Washington-
based industry group, regularly check its own plants and all of
its suppliers in China from 2013.  The EICC is a group monitoring industry supply chains, with
electronics and technology companies as members. Its current
board members include officials from International Business
Machines Corp., Dell, HP and  Intel Corp ., according to its
 website .  Foxconn, the Apple supplier targeted by human-rights
activists after the suicides, has cut working hours and improved
safety at a faster pace than it was required, the Fair Labor
Association said in a report last month.  Apple opened factories making its products to the FLA,
becoming the first electronics company to join the Washington-
based independent labor monitoring group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  