-- Sealed Air Seen as Takeover Target After Fumbling Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-09-05T20:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/sealed-air-seen-as-takeover-target-after-fumbling-deal-real-m-a.html
Sealed Air Corp. (SEE)  is poised to turn
into a takeover target after its biggest acquisition in more
than a decade wiped out a third of its market value and left the
maker of Bubble Wrap trading at a 64 percent discount to sales.  Sealed Air lost $1.4 billion in market capitalization since
it said last June that it would buy Diversey Holdings Inc. for
$2.9 billion to expand into cleaning and food-safety products.
The Elmwood Park, New Jersey-based company is now the only U.S.
packaging company trading below the value of both its revenue
and net assets, and its remaining $2.7 billion in market value
is less than the amount paid for Diversey as well as its total
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With the  stock slumping  after the Diversey deal and Sealed
Air saying last month that it’s weighing options, the company
could become vulnerable to a takeover, according to Stewart
Capital. While it named a  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  executive to succeed
its retiring chief executive officer, Sealed Air has a low
valuation that, combined with its  cash flow  and the potential to
improve margins, still could entice buyers willing to pay as
much as $22 a share, said HighMark Capital Management Inc. That
would be a 56 percent premium to yesterday’s closing price.  “When a company’s been mismanaged like this, and the stock
price is as low as it is, I think vultures can circle whether
it’s strategic or financial buyers,”  Todd Lowenstein , a Los
Angeles-based fund manager for HighMark Capital, which oversees
$17.5 billion including Sealed Air shares, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s got a good collection of assets that are
under-earning their potential.”  Bubble Wrap  Ken Aurichio, a spokesman at Sealed Air, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether a sale may be
among its strategic options and if it has been approached by
potential suitors.  Founded in 1960 , Sealed Air makes products including  Bubble
Wrap  protective cushioning, Jiffy padded envelopes, Cryovac food
pouches and sterile sealed packaging for medical supplies.  The company announced in June 2011 that it would pay $2.9
billion to buy Diversey, a maker of cleaning and sanitizing
detergents, gels and foam, as well as electronic dispensers, for
use in the food-service, health-care and lodging industries.  At an announced price tag of $4.3 billion including net
debt, the deal valued Diversey at a multiple relative to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
that was 53 percent higher than the average among comparable
deals that year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. CEO
William Hickey defended the acquisition, saying at the time that
while the rationale for combining the two companies wasn’t
“intuitively obvious” there would be a “real opportunity.”  ‘Dirt Cheap’  The purchase was Sealed Air’s biggest takeover since its
$4.8 billion acquisition of the Cryovac food-packaging business
from W.R. Grace & Co. in 1998.  Since the Diversey deal was announced, Sealed Air’s  shares 
have tumbled 45 percent to $14.12 as of yesterday.  Sealed Air traded yesterday at 0.96 times the value of its
net assets, the lowest price-book ratio among U.S. packaging
makers and providers of other commercial services valued at more
than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
traded at 0.36 times sales, less than 92 percent of peers in the
group, the data show.  “The market has punished Sealed Air for the acquisition,”
Joshua Strauss, a Chicago-based co-manager of the  Appleseed Fund (APPLX) 
at Pekin Singer Strauss, which oversees $900 million, said in a
phone interview. “It has been horrendous. Now the stock is dirt
cheap. I don’t believe there’s much downside left.”  Estimated Valuation  The firm has been adding to its position in Sealed Air,
which accounts for more than 4.5 percent of the Appleseed Fund’s
value, he said.  Strauss estimates Sealed Air is worth about $26 a share
based on the sum of its parts. He reaches that valuation by
applying a discount to the revenue multiple Reynolds Group
Holdings Inc. paid two years ago for Pactiv LLC, one of Sealed
Air’s competitors, and the multiple investors assign  Ecolab
Inc. (ECL) , a Diversey peer.  The stock hasn’t closed that high since May 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Today, Sealed Air shares gained 6 percent to $14.96, the
biggest advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  After Sealed Air posted its third consecutive quarterly
loss, Hickey said on an Aug. 2 earnings call that the company is
weighing its options, without being more specific. Last week, it
said Hickey will retire in March and named Dow executive Jerome Peribere to succeed him.  Potential Buyers  “When a company says it’s exploring strategic
alternatives, it usually means, ‘Hey, we’re for sale at the
right price,”’  Malcolm Polley , who oversees about $1.1 billion
as chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,
 Pennsylvania , said in a phone interview. “Although I’m sure
they could say it means just about anything.”  Rivals such as Dow, the biggest U.S. chemical company, and
Ecolab, the  largest maker  of cleaning chemicals for hotels and
restaurants, could view the cheap valuation as an opportunity to
bid for Sealed Air, Strauss said.  Nancy Lamb, a spokeswoman at Midland, Michigan-based Dow,
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation related to
acquisitions.  “Dow has been very clear in stating our priorities for
uses of cash, which is to reward our shareholders, pay down
debt, and invest prudently in strategic internal growth,” Lamb
said in an e-mail.  Ecolab doesn’t comment on “possible business
transactions,”  Michael Monahan , a spokesman at Ecolab in  St.
Paul ,  Minnesota , said in an e-mail.  ‘Better Use’  HighMark Capital’s Lowenstein said Sealed Air’s ability to
generate cash and the potential to better manage the company’s
assets and wring out higher profits could make it an attractive
target.  On an annual basis, Sealed Air has generated  cash from
operations  after deducting capital expenses every year since at
least 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
 project  the company will increase free cash flow by 38 percent
this year to more than $369 million, estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The company  earned  less than a penny for each dollar of
sales in the latest 12 months, compared with the industry’s
median profit margin of 4.5 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Suitors would be interested in this collection of assets
and potentially repositioning them for higher and better use,”
Lowenstein said.  Sealed Air could also opt under its new CEO to stay
independent and try to improve operations on its own, or sell
off some assets, such as the Diversey business, without putting
the whole company up for sale, Lowenstein said.  Debt Deterrent  While Sealed Air’s cash flow might attract private-equity
firms, the company’s high  debt levels  would likely keep a buyout
company from pursuing a takeover anytime soon, said  Ghansham Panjabi , a Roseland, New Jersey-based analyst at Robert W. Baird
& Co. Its total debt, at almost $5 billion, is more than three
times what it was before the acquisition, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Is it a takeover candidate? Anything’s possible, but the
reality is it already has a fair amount of debt,” Panjabi said
in a phone interview. “Right now, I just think it has too much
leverage.”  Even so, Stewart Capital’s Polley said there may be
acquirers interested in the packaging business that could then
sell or spin off the Diversey unit. In a split, some of the debt
probably could be  transferred  to Diversey, he said.  “Sealed Air has traditionally been a good business,”
Polley said. “Diversey ultimately became a distraction.
Whenever you screw up, you can become a target.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net . 