-- Shell to Build Canada Capture Project for Oil-Sands Carbon
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-09-05T12:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/shell-to-build-canada-capture-project-for-oil-sands-emissions.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
biggest oil company, will build the first carbon capture and
storage, or CCS, project that locks away emissions from mining
Canada’s oil sands.  The company, together with partners  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , received government backing to start work on
the  Quest venture  north of Edmonton, Shell said today in a
statement. Starting in 2015, Quest is designed to store more
than 1 million metric tons of carbon dioxide a year from Shell’s
Scotford upgrader, cutting emissions 30 percent from the plant
processing heavy oil mined from the area’s tar sands.  Mining oil-sands reserves in the Alberta province has
increased Canadian crude production about 30 percent in the last
decade, while opening oil producers to criticism because of the
amount of energy used to extract the fuel. Increasing emissions
prompted Canada to repudiate the  Kyoto Protocol  on  climate
change , the only nation among 191 signatories to do so.  “If you want to achieve climate change goals, CCS has to
be part of the solution,” Shell Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said in a statement. “We are helping to advance CCS
technology on a number of fronts around the world, but Quest
will be our flagship project.”    Government Backing  Alberta’s goverment will back Shell’s Quest project with
C$745 million ($745 million) from a C$2 billion fund to support
carbon-capture technology. Canada’s government will invest $120
millio from its clean-energy fund, the statement said.  The project wil include an 80-kilometer (50-mile) project
from the Scotfor Upgrader to a storage site where the gas will
be injected more that 2,000 meters (6,561 feet) underground into
porous rock. Monitoring equipment will ensure the gas is
permanently stored, the statement said.  Quest “will demonstrate existing capture, transportation,
injection and storage technologies working together for the safe
and permanent storage of carbon dioxide,” said John Abbott,
Shell excutive vice president for heavy oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  