-- SNB’s Danthine Sees Risk of Property Defaults, Correction
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2012-09-05T08:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/snb-s-danthine-says-economy-facing-risks-of-defaults-correction.html
Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  Vice Chairman
Jean-Pierre Danthine said  Switzerland  is facing an increasing
risk of defaults in the mortgage market as well as a “sizable
correction” in property prices.  “Specifically, an adverse shock -- such as rising interest
rates, lower growth or increasing unemployment -- would leave
some borrowers unable to service their loans, increasing the
possibility and number of defaults,” Danthine said at a
conference in Zurich today. That would spark “a vicious
feedback loop of falling prices and impaired balance sheets
throughout the banking sector.”  The SNB toughened its tone on risks to financial stability
after the introduction of the franc cap of 1.20 versus the euro
a year ago forced policy makers to keep borrowing costs at zero
to help weaken the currency. Danthine said there have been
increasing “indications of a gradual buildup” of imbalances
over the past years, with annual growth rates in mortgage
lending and real estate prices averaging 5 percent and some
regions and segments showing prices exceeding levels that can be
“justified by fundamental factors.”  The government earlier this year toughened lending rules,
forcing borrowers to provide at least 10 percent of the value of
the property from their own funds without using pension assets.
Under the measures, mortgages will have to be paid down to two-
thirds of the lending value within 20 years.  ‘Certain Risk’  It also made a so-called countercyclical capital buffer, or
CCB, available, which Danthine called “an important step.” If
activated upon the SNB’s request, the Swiss government could
force lenders to gradually build up an additional capital buffer
of as much as 2.5 percent of total domestic risk-weighted assets
to target certain segments of the credit market.  Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said in an
interview in Bern on Sept. 3 that the measure had been
“carefully prepared over weeks and months.”  “If it was needed, it could be used,” he said. “I’m
convinced that the impact would be appropriate. It’s true that
certain regions, Zurich, Geneva, are carrying a certain risk,
but the situation has improved in the last months.”  ‘Fire-Sale Spirals’  Swiss officials are trying to prevent a repeat of the
country’s last housing-market crisis in the 1990s, which sparked
a recession and pushed up unemployment. SNB Chairman Thomas Jordan on Sept. 3 also warned of risks, saying there are signs
that residential properties in some regions such as Zurich and
Geneva are already “overvalued.”  Danthine said, given the current environment, the buffer
would be aimed solely to target developments in the domestic
mortgage and residential real-estate markets.  “The CCB should increase resilience by ensuring that an
additional buffer of capital is build up gradually during the
boom, a buffer that can then be released to cushion losses in an
eventual downturn,” he said. “It thus limits the threat of
vicious fire-sale spirals.”  In its June Financial Stability Report, the SNB said the
mortgage market poses a significant risk to lenders. Home loans
have increased by almost 300 billion francs ($313 billion) in a
decade and gained 5.2 percent last year to 797.8 billion francs.
That’s about 140 percent of gross domestic product.  Outstanding Mortgages  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s two
biggest banks, had combined outstanding mortgages of 240.6
billion francs at the end of 2011, up 2.8 percent from the
previous year. Cantonal banks, which are largely owned by the
regions, had a 6 percent increase, while the cooperative-based
Raiffeisen banks saw mortgages surge 7.4 percent.  Danthine said the buffer will only be activated “if deemed
necessary.”  “Most of the time, it is likely to remain turned off,” he
said. “If activated, the CCB would be applicable to Swiss banks
and to subsidiaries of foreign banks in Switzerland, ensuring a
level playing field.”  Still, the SNB said in a statement on Aug. 27 that the
buffer won’t be activated this year as there are “some
indications of a possible slowdown” in the second quarter of
the “exceptionally strong” momentum in the domestic
residential mortgage and real-estate markets. Danthine said the
measure “can and will be used in a balanced and flexible way to
deal with specific cyclical risks” if needed.  “If the CCB generates capital constraints at some banks,
these banks will need to decide which sector to keep lending
to,” he said. “It may seem reasonable that institutions will
prefer to keep lending to the booming sector, while cutting back
on lending to other sectors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  