-- MSNBC Topples CNN as Cable Ratings Leader on Democrats’ Opener
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/msnbc-topples-cnn-as-cable-news-leader-on-democrats-first-night.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s MSNBC attracted the
most viewers among cable networks covering the Democratic
National Convention’s opening night, supplanting  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN, which led the ratings four years ago.  MSNBC drew 4.11 million viewers from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. New
York time on Sept. 4, during the speech of First Lady Michelle Obama. By comparison, CNN registered 3.89 million, and 2.4
million watched on  Fox News , the networks said yesterday in
separate releases, citing Nielsen data.  The ratings loss highlights the challenge facing Atlanta-
based CNN as it reconsiders the down-the-middle approach that
dominated cable news for two decades. The Time Warner Inc.-owned
network’s president, Jim Walton, said in July he would resign at
year-end, telling staff in a memo “CNN needs new thinking.”  “Time Warner has been making a number of talent and
programming adjustments to CNN,”  David Joyce , an analyst at ISI
Group in New York, said in an e-mail. “It is a very important
network in their portfolio.”  First-night convention coverage  averaged  26.2 million
viewers across nine broadcast and cable outlets, an 18 percent
increase from four years ago, Nielsen said on its website.  CNN, which invented 24-hour cable news under  Ted Turner  in
1980, was overtaken by the more-opinionated Fox News during
Walton’s tenure. Fox News, featuring commentators Bill O’Reilly
and Sean Hannity, dominated ratings for the Republican
convention last week in Tampa, Florida, while MSNBC, home to
Rachel Maddow, has cut into CNN’s flank from the opposite side.  MSNBC First  MSNBC’s cable-news ratings win was a first for the network
during a full night of convention coverage, the channel said in
an e-mailed statement. MSNBC’s coverage was hosted by Maddow,
with Chris Matthews, Ed Schultz, Lawrence O’Donnell,  Al
Sharpton , Chris Hayes and others, MSNBC said.  NBC, the Comcast Corp.-owned broadcast network, led all
outlets with 5.02 million viewers in the 10 p.m. hour last
night, repeating its win from 2008, industry tracker TVNewser
reported, citing the Nielsen data.  Cable viewers are migrating to outlets they agree with.
CNN’s audience during convention coverage opening night fell 23
percent from four years ago, while MSNBC’s grew 53 percent,
TVNewser reported.  Time Warner, based in New York, gained 2.2 percent to
$42.25 yesterday in New York. The  stock  has climbed 17 percent
this year. Comcast, based in Philadelphia, added 0.6 percent to
$33.71 and  News Corp. (NWSA) , based in New York, rose 0.9 percent to
$23.75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  