-- Lithuanian Snoras Units Attract Bid From London-Based Fund
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-09-05T12:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/snoras-s-leasing-banking-units-draw-bids-from-london-based-fund.html
Omada Capital , a London-based
investment fund with interests in financial services, said it
has bid for units of failed Lithuanian lender Bankas Snoras AB.  Four bidders have offered to acquire Snoras’s leasing unit
and the  Finasta Group , which controls an investment bank, the
bank’s creditors’ committee said Aug. 24. The committee said it
had selected a winner, without disclosing the buyer’s name.  “We have put in a bid at an attractive pricing, which
involves a premium above book value,” Peter Hellman, a partner
at Omada, said yesterday in a phone interview. “We want to give
Finasta a new life, to realize its potential domestically and
internationally, as well as to add certain new business lines.”  Snoras, once  Lithuania ’s third-biggest bank by deposits,
was declared bankrupt and taken over by the central bank in
November after assets were discovered missing from its balance
sheet. Omada looked at the possibility of acquiring a stake in
Snoras last year, when the lender planned to issue new shares,
according to Hellman.  “We didn’t think that Snoras itself was an appropriate
asset to acquire at the time, and I think we have been proved
right here,” he said. “The opportunity to acquire Finasta on a
stand-alone basis came for the first time this year.”  ‘Most Likely’  Omada’s bid for the Snoras units is the most-likely winner,
the  eversus.lt  online magazine reported Sept. 2, citing people
it did not identify. The fund, which would require central bank
approval for the purchase, is awaiting a final decision from the
creditors’ committee, Hellman said.  “The process is taking a long time -- it’s not complete,”
he said. “It’s been somewhat unconventional. It remains to be
seen if we’re successful.”  Hellman rejected speculation in Lithuanian media such as
eversus.lt that Omada may be associated with Snoras’s former
owners,  Vladimir Antonov  and Raimondas Baranauskas, who are
fighting extradition from the U.K.  “The only contact we have ever had with Antonov and
Baranauskas was last year in connection with exploring the
feasibility of acquiring Snoras and Finasta,” he said.  Veikko Maripuu, managing board member of Estonia-based
 Redgate Capital , declined to comment by e-mail on a report in
the Verslo Zinios newspaper that it may be another bidder for
Snoras’s assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  