-- Solyndra to Add Tax-Break Information to Exit Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-09-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/solyndra-to-add-tax-break-information-to-exit-plan.html
Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar-
panel maker, will add information on potential tax breaks for
the company’s indirect owners to its reorganization plan to
resolve an objection from the U.S. government.  Net operating loss carryforwards may reach $975 million for
Solyndra’s parent, 360 Degree Solar Holdings Inc., according to
court papers filed yesterday in Wilmington,  Delaware . The NOLs
may generate more than $300 million in tax breaks for 360
Degree’s equity owners, including Argonaut Ventures LLC and
Madrone Partners LP, Solyndra said.  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , said in court
papers it will add a section to its restructuring plan
disclosing the estimates and saying 360 Degree “would be
entitled under the plan to use its existing net operating loss
carryforwards in future years to eliminate taxes on a
corresponding amount of its income, subject to any applicable
limitations.”  360 Degree’s investors will inject capital into the
reorganized company, which “would benefit from a reduction in
federal income tax liability of $306 million to $341 million,”
if it can generate income, Solyndra said in court papers.  The solar-panel maker filed a reorganization plan in July
under which the U.S. might get little to nothing for its $528
million claim from an Energy Department loan guarantee. The
government was projected to recoup at most 17 percent on the
$142.8 million portion of the loan and possibly nothing on the
$385 million portion.  Loan Guarantee  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive
a loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus.  Argonaut Ventures, the investment arm of billionaire and
Obama fundraiser  George Kaiser ’s charitable organization, holds
almost 39 percent of Solyndra’s parent.  Solyndra listed about $854.1 million in assets and about
$867.1 million in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31. It was
raided by the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation two days
after seeking  bankruptcy protection  Sept. 6.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  