-- South Africa Beats England to Draw One-Day Series; Pakistan Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-05T23:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/south-africa-beats-england-by-7-wickets-to-draw-one-day-series.html
South Africa  tied its one-day
cricket series against  England  with a seven-wicket victory in
the fifth and final game.  Pakistan  beat Australia in their
opening Twenty20 match.  Hashim Amla and captain AB de Villiers hit unbeaten half-
centuries in a 174-run partnership as South Africa reached the
target of 183 in 34.3 overs last night at  Trent Bridge  in
Nottingham. Amla finished 97 not out and de Villiers hit 75
after the touring team had slipped to 14-3.  “We showed a lot of character under pressure, that’s the
thing I’d like to see going forward,” de Villiers said in the
post-game ceremony. “We were disappointing in the middle of the
series but 2-2 away from home is a good effort.”  The draw ended England’s run of seven straight home series
victories since a 2009 loss to Australia.  Robin Peterson earlier took 3-37 as South Africa bowled
England out for 182. Captain  Alastair Cook  top-scored for the
home team with 51.  “We pretty much all gave our wickets away,” Cook said.
“We came into the game trying to wrap up the series, and you’re
not going to do that when you bat like that.”  After the opener was abandoned by rain, South Africa won
the second game to replace England as the No. 1 team in the
 International Cricket Council ’s  one-day rankings . England then
won the next two to regain the top spot until at least January.  South Africa won the Test series between the teams 2-0 to
take over the No. 1 ranking from England in the game’s elite
five-day format.  The teams begin a best-of-three Twenty20 series in two days
in Durham. It continues in Manchester on Sept. 10 before
concluding two days later in Birmingham.  In Dubai, Pakistan opened its three-match contest against
Australia with a seven-wicket rout, securing the win with 31
balls to spare after bowling out Australia for 89, its second-
lowest total in Twenty20 international matches.  The teams meet again tomorrow at the Dubai International
Cricket Stadium before the final match on Sept. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 