-- South Korea Reduces Estimate of Second-Quarter Expansion
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-09-06T00:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/south-korea-reduces-estimate-of-second-quarter-expansion.html
South Korea ’s economy expanded in
the second quarter by less than the central bank initially
estimated, building the case for another  interest-rate reduction 
as exports wane and confidence slides.  Gross domestic product  grew 0.3 percent from the previous
quarter, compared with a July calculation of 0.4 percent, the
 Bank of Korea  said in  Seoul  today. In the first quarter, the
expansion was 0.9 percent.  South  Korea  is balancing the threat from Europe’s debt
crisis against the need to preserve fiscal and monetary
firepower for any deeper global slowdown.  Barclays Capital  and
Credit Agricole CIB see the central bank cutting the benchmark
rate by a quarter percentage point on Sept. 13, adding to a July
reduction that was the first since 2009.  “The economy is apparently losing steam and sees no sign
of recovery yet,” said Lee Sang Jae, a senior economist at
Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul. “The Bank of Korea will likely
come to its aid with a rate cut next week.”  The Kospi Index of stocks rose 0.2 percent as of 9:09 a.m.
in Seoul ahead of a press conference today where European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may announce measures to
help stem the euro region’s crisis. The benchmark is down about
8 percent from this year’s high in April.  South Korea’s economy expanded 2.3 percent from a year
earlier, less than the earlier estimate of 2.4 percent, today’s
report showed. Domestic consumption and corporate investment
were weaker than initial calculations.  Goldman’s Forecast  “It’s still doubtful whether the worst has passed,” Kong Dong Rak, a Seoul-based bond analyst at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co., said ahead of today’s announcement. “Market
expectations are pretty high for more fiscal and monetary
support, including a rate cut.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its estimate for the nation’s
full-year growth to 2.6 percent from a previous forecast of 3
percent, the bank said in an e-mailed note today.  While Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said Sept. 4 that more
economic support measures will be announced next week, he also
said that the government favors boosting consumption through
deregulation rather than expansive monetary and fiscal policies.  Besides declines in exports, South Korea’s inflation has
moderated to a 12-year low, partly because of a high year-
earlier base for comparison and free child-care services
provided by the government.  “Although the economy is weakening, we’re not looking at a
major collapse,” said Lee Jaewoo, an economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in Seoul. “If the central bank cuts this
month, it won’t be a surprise. Subsequent rate cuts aren’t
likely after this one.”  The central bank lowered its main rate a quarter percentage
point to 3 percent on July 12, as it joined a global stimulus
push from  Europe  to  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.netscha wn:LINK>2@bloomberg.net