-- Spain Set to Surrender Rank of 12th-Biggest Economy to Australia
-- B y   D a n i e l   P e t r i e   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-05T07:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/spain-set-to-surrender-rank-of-12th-biggest-economy-to-australia.html
Australia , driven by the biggest
resource-investment expansion since the 19th century, is poised
to overtake debt-laden  Spain  as the world’s 12th largest
economy, measured by gross domestic product.  Australia’s $1.379 trillion economy will probably supplant
Spain’s $1.386 trillion GDP this quarter, data compiled by
Bloomberg from the national statistics agencies of both
countries show. The  International Monetary Fund  projected in
January that Australia’s economy would be $3 billion smaller
than Spain’s by the end of this year.  “This is a nice microcosm of the structural shifts in the
global economy away from the old developed core to the emerging
and peripheral part of the global economy, in Asia
particularly,” said Richard Yetsenga, head of global markets
research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   While the Iberian nation struggles to extricate itself from
a recession, government data today showed Australia’s economy
expanded 3.7 percent in the three months to June 30 from a year
earlier, marking 21 consecutive years without a recession.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said this month his
country is unable to fund itself at the current cost of
borrowing and needs sacrifices such as higher taxes to restore
its national standing.  Australia, which is aiming to return its budget to surplus
this financial year, has the top debt grade from all three main
ratings companies, while Spain is ranked as low as Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service, the lowest investment-grade rating.
That means one more downgrade would see Spanish bonds
categorized as junk debt by Moody’s.  Highest Unemployment  Spain’s economy contracted in the April-June period,
pushing the European Union’s highest unemployment rate to 24.6
percent, a record in the country’s 36 years of democratic
history.  The jobless rate in Australia has hovered near 5 percent
for the past 15 months.  Even so, Australian economists are sounding a note of
caution as falling prices for  iron ore  and coking coal erode the
nation’s terms of trade -- a measure of windfall gains from
exports that reached a 140-year high in 2011.  “Various global shocks have hit the Australian economy --
the Asian financial crisis, the tech wreck, the global financial
crisis to name a few,” said Michael Blythe, chief economist in
Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest
lender. “These events would normally tip the economy into
recession. But we have bounced through each pothole and come out
the other side in respectable shape courtesy of the stimulus
from a rising terms of trade.”  He said the falling export prices mean that some of the
“insulation that has protected the economy is fraying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  