-- Springboks Pick Vermeulen for Rugby Test Debut Against Australia
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-05T05:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/springboks-pick-vermeulen-for-rugby-test-debut-against-australia.html
South Africa  made five changes for
this weekend’s Rugby Championship match against  Australia ,
including handing Duane Vermeulen his Test debut, as it seeks to
avoid a record fifth straight loss against the Wallabies.  Francois Hougaard shifts from scrum-half to the left wing
in place of Lwazi Mvovo, with  Ruan Pienaar  taking over at No. 9
in changes to the backline that started the 16-16 draw against
Argentina on Aug. 25.  Vermeulen was named to make his debut at No. 8 against the
Wallabies in Perth on Sept. 8, with Willem Alberts switching to
flanker ahead of Jacques Potgieter. Juandre Kruger takes over
from the dropped Andries Bekker in the second row, while
openside flanker Francois Louw, who joined up with the squad two
days ago from English club Bath, was named on the bench.  “I’ve always admired the way Duane plays rugby and he’s
fitted in very well the past week,” Springboks coach Heyneke Meyer said on the team’s website. “He would’ve been a Springbok
years ago if it had not been for injuries and it’s great to
finally see him selected.”  Australia, which won its first southern hemisphere title in
a decade last year, is bottom of the four-team standings with no
points heading into the third of six rounds. The Wallabies
yesterday picked winger Dom Shipperley to make his Test debut,
while Kurtley Beale was recalled as the starting full-back.   SOUTH AFRICA: Zane Kirchner,  Bryan Habana , Jean de Villiers
(captain),  Frans Steyn , Francois Hougaard, Morne Steyn, Ruan
Pienaar, Duane Vermeulen, Willem Alberts, Marcell Coetzee,
Juandre Kruger, Eben Etzebeth, Jannie du Plessis, Adriaan
Strauss,  Tendai Mtawarira .  Reserves: Tiaan Liebenberg, Pat Cilliers, Flip van der
Merwe, Francois Louw, Johan Goosen, Pat Lambie, Lwazi Mvovo.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  