-- Stephen Strasburg’s Season Didn’t Have to End This Way
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-09-05T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/stephen-strasburg-s-season-didn-t-have-to-end-this-way.html
As long as the  Washington Nationals 
are playing baseball -- and Baseball Prospectus puts the team’s
odds of making the playoffs at  100 percent  -- the arguments will
continue about whether  Stephen Strasburg  should still be on the
mound.  For those who haven’t been following baseball’s so-called
Great Debate, Strasburg’s season is scheduled to end next week,
a full month (or more) ahead of his team’s, because the
Nationals don’t want to risk injuring the pitcher’s right arm,
which underwent surgery two years ago.  Arguing over the team’s decision is missing the bigger
point, though. The question isn’t whether the Nationals should
shut down Strasburg. It’s how they could have allowed the best
interests of their most dominant pitcher to collide with the
best interests of their team.  There’s no way to know how Strasburg’s arm would respond to
30, 40 or even 50 more innings of use. But the anecdotal
evidence is hard to ignore -- the long list of precocious big-
league pitchers who threw a ton of pitches in their early 20s
and then burned out early or, for that matter,  Johan Santana ,
the New York Mets pitcher who has been on and off the disabled
list since his 134-pitch no-hitter on June 1.  Plenty Rational  Strasburg is 24 years old. In September 2010, he had a
tendon surgically removed from his leg and attached to his right
elbow. (Whether the injury that necessitated the surgery could
have been avoided by making some minor adjustments to his
delivery is a column for another day.) He was out of baseball
for almost 12 months, and was able to log just 44 1/3 innings
last season. Limiting him to 160 or so this year seems plenty
rational to me.  Among the Nationals’ defenders, the Washington Post has
been especially generous with praise. Last week on the sports
page, Mike Wise became the latest in a long line of Post
columnists  to applaud  the team for having the courage, amid some
pretty  heavy fire , to follow through with its plan to shut down
their ace at about 160 innings. Even the newspaper’s editorial
board -- taking a break from its critique of the president’s
handling of the deficit and the Syrian civil war -- has
editorialized in favor of the Nationals management.  But why let him rack up those innings by mid-September of
the franchise’s most  promising season  in 79 years?  It didn’t have to be this way. Every spring, baseball clubs
try to make an honest assessment of their chances of reaching
the postseason. If the Nationals thought they had a shot -- and
with two additional teams eligible for the playoffs this year,
there was at least some cause for optimism -- they could easily
have created a smarter pitching calendar for Strasburg, one that
would have enabled him to reach about 140 innings after his
final regular-season appearance, leaving him with a surplus of
20 for October.  One way to do so would have been to simply delay his first
start several weeks. After all, a win is a win, whether it comes
in April or September.  Another way would have been to gradually ramp up his
innings, as the  Baltimore Orioles  did with their top minor-
league pitching prospect, Dylan Bundy. The Orioles ultimately
decided that Bundy wasn’t quite ready for the majors, but if he
had been, he would have had plenty of innings left for the
team’s stretch run and postseason.  Even if the Nationals didn’t think they had a shot at the
playoffs, when mapping out Strasburg’s 160 innings, why not
start at the end of the season and work backward, rather than
just sending him out  on Opening Day  and letting him pitch until
he hit his limit?  Small Adjustments  Once it became clear that the Nationals were legitimate
playoff contenders, they could have made some small adjustments
to conserve Strasburg’s innings. They might have stretched out
the time between his starts here and there -- remember that he’s
only a few years removed from college, where he never pitched
more than once a week -- and pulled him from some games a little
earlier.  Why didn’t they? Maybe the Nationals were simply so
unaccustomed to winning that they couldn’t quite believe it was
-- finally -- happening to them.  Whatever the reason, there’s no getting around the fact
that when your team is all but assured a playoff spot in the
middle of September and you are shutting down your most
effective pitcher, you have done something terribly wrong.  In the Post last week, Wise urged readers to look at
Strasburg’s last couple of starts as his playoffs -- “his reward
for being as responsible as anyone for putting a once woebegone
franchise into commanding position of a pennant race.” It’s a
nice thought. But if I’m a Nats fan, the better Strasburg looks
during my final glimpses of him, the worse I’m going to feel.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A long-time contributor to the  New York  Times Magazine, he is
the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx
Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether  we’re better off  than
four years ago, on why  Quebec’s separatism  is a dead end and on
the disasters that await the end of  Europe’s summer torpor ;
 Susan Antilla  on checking if your  broker is a crook ;  Caroline
Baum  on why Americans  should like Mitt Romney ;  Margaret Carlson 
on the impossible  politics of abortion ; Phillip Swagel on why
some  banks need to be big .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 