-- Supervalu to Close 60 Stores Amid Three-Year Sales Slump
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-09-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/supervalu-to-close-60-stores-amid-three-year-sales-slump.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , owner of the
Albertsons and Save-A-Lot grocery-store chains, plans to close
60 stores as it copes with slumping sales.  The closings will result in a pretax charge of as much as
$90 million in its fiscal 2013, the  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-
based company said yesterday in a statement. The largest cuts
will come from the Albertsons chain, which will shut 27
locations, while Save-A-Lot will lose 22 stores.  The third-largest U.S. grocery chain has been eliminating
jobs and cutting prices on food to keep pace with dollar stores
and big-box retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Supervalu,
which has posted three straight years of revenue declines, said
in July it was conducting a strategic review of alternatives and
suspending its dividend.  “It’s accretive and that’s good,”  Scott Mushkin , a New
York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in an interview.
“But it does seem like if they were selling assets they
wouldn’t be doing this.”  The closures “hint at the idea that an imminent sale is
not at hand,” Mushkin said.  Supervalu shares have tumbled 72 percent this year.  The company, which had revenue of $36.1 billion in its
fiscal 2012, said in June that it planned to eliminate as many
as 2,500 jobs at Albertsons to help reduce costs. Chief
Executive Officer Wayne Sales, who took the helm after Craig Herkert was ousted, has said that Supervalu will focus on
cutting its expenses.  Business Critical  “We are doing many things that are not business
critical,” he wrote in an e-mail to the company’s 130,000
employees on July 30 after being named CEO. “Tough decisions
will be made to change this reality.”  The closings will generate $35 million in cash within 12
months and as much as $90 million in the next three years,
Supervalu said. The company, which said it will use the cash to
pay down debt, also expects a pretax gain of about $10 million
from the sale of assets in its fiscal second quarter.  “We are not providing the number of team members
impacted”  Mike Siemienas , a Supervalu spokesman, said in an e-
mail, citing collective bargaining agreements at stores.  Supervalu has about 2,400 retail food stores, including its
licensed Save-A-Lot locations, in the U.S., according to a
regulatory filing.  Kroger Co. (KR) , based in Cincinnati, is the largest U.S.
grocer, and Pleasanton, California-based  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  is the
second-biggest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  