-- Swiss Minister Says German Electioneering May Hinder Tax Accord
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-09-05T07:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/swiss-minister-says-german-electioneering-may-hinder-tax-accord.html
Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said that political jockeying before German
elections next year may be hindering progress on a tax agreement
with  Switzerland .  “I’ve got the impression that election politics are part
of the game,” Schneider-Ammann said in an interview in Bern on
Sept. 3 when asked about the influence on the stalled accord of
 Germany ’s federal vote due in the fall of 2013. “It’s important
that we reach a conclusion on the withholding tax agreement with
Germany.”  Switzerland reached agreement with Germany last year over
the taxation of undeclared bank accounts, under which Swiss
banks would collect taxes on investment and capital gains while
client identities are kept secret. The accord, which includes a
levy for not disclosing accounts in the past, is stalled after
Germany’s main opposition  Social Democratic Party  blocked it in
the upper house of parliament, saying the deal is a loophole for
tax evaders.  Even so, Schneider-Ammann said that he’s optimistic an
accord can still be reached. “Once this has been cleared, I
expect other countries to show interest as well,” he said.  His comments were echoed by  Patrick Odier , chairman of the
 Swiss Bankers Association , who told reporters in Zurich
yesterday that he expects the accord to come into effect.  Switzerland has been under increasing pressure to weaken
its banking secrecy laws introduced in the 1930s after UBS AG,
the country’s largest bank, was forced in 2009 to pay $780
million, admit it fostered  tax evasion  and turn over data on
about 4,700 clients to the U.S. to avoid criminal prosecution.  Schneider-Ammann said he expects the banking secrecy law to
be maintained and that it should be treated “carefully.”  “I expect the withholding tax to prove the right way, even
if discussions are currently difficult -- abroad and at home,”
he said. “Banking secrecy was never an invitation to avoid
taxes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  