-- Swiss Franc Battle May Not Need Tougher Tools, Minister Says
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-09-05T08:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/swiss-franc-battle-may-not-need-tougher-tools-minister-says.html
Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said pressure on officials to take tougher
measures to counter a possible surge in the franc has eased in
recent months.  “Last year, in the most difficult phase of the franc
crisis, we discussed a range of measures and worked to get them
ready should the situation change dramatically,” Schneider-
Ammann said in an interview on Sept. 3 in Bern. “But this need
doesn’t appear to be imminent. There’s less of a risk than a
year ago that these measures will be used.”  Officials have been weighing emergency actions such as
 capital controls  and negative  interest rates  in case the euro-
area debt crisis escalates after the franc’s ascent to a record
prompted the central bank to impose a ceiling of 1.20 versus the
euro a year ago. Schneider-Ammann said European leaders’ pledge
to do everything to safeguard the euro has been “decisive.”  The Swiss currency, considered a haven in times of turmoil,
traded at 1.2011 versus the euro as of 10:01 a.m. in Zurich. It
was at 95.91 centimes versus the dollar.  While Schneider-Ammann wouldn’t elaborate on tools, Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in June that a government-
led panel in cooperation with the  Swiss National Bank  is
“regularly assessing the implementation of additional,
complementary measures” that could be taken as a “last
resort.”  ‘Skeptical’  “These measures are part of the wide range that can be
assessed and discussed,” Schneider-Ammann said, when asked
about capital controls and negative rates. He also said he
remains “skeptical” about negative rates, which “didn’t
really work out as expected” when last used in the 1970s. “But
overall, it’s mainly a discussion of advantages and
disadvantages that should be led by the central bank.”  Switzerland ’s need for tougher measures has eased after
European officials stepped up their crisis response. The euro
has gained about 3 percent against the dollar since Aug. 2, when
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the ECB may
intervene in bond markets in tandem with the region’s bailout
fund. The Frankfurt-based central bank holds its next policy
meeting tomorrow.  ‘Absolutely Decisive’  “It’s absolutely decisive that the European environment
remains stable, that confidence in the European financial system
isn’t questioned,” Schneider-Ammann said. At the moment, “the
situation is under control and that’s why we don’t need to give
details on measures. They would be extremely extraordinary
steps.”  The SNB will hold its next monetary-policy meeting on Sept.
13, with President Thomas Jordan saying this week the franc
ceiling remains the “best policy” for now. The central bank
will defend it with the “utmost determination,” he said.  Schneider-Ammann echoed that view, saying the measure was
of “decisive importance” for the economy.  “I’ve always said it was absolutely necessary and it
remains necessary,” he said. “The purchasing power parity
remains around 1.30, but interestingly there are no longer any
requests that the ceiling should be increased. There’s a certain
awareness that the SNB takes a certain risk.”  Economic Risks  In March, Schneider-Ammann had said the franc’s so-called
purchasing power parity versus the euro is at 1.35 or 1.40. The
Swiss currency has depreciated 7.6 percent in the past year.  Still, a drop in exports was among the factors that led the
Swiss economy to an unexpected  contraction  in the second
quarter. Bruno Parnisari, an economist at the State Secretariat
for Economic Affairs, said in an interview the government may
lower its 2012 growth forecast from 1.4 percent when it
publishes new projections on Sept. 18.  Schneider-Ammann said he sees “more of a flat development
overall” in the second half.  “There’s unfortunately no upward risk” to the outlook for
this year, he said. “I’m aware that the situation will be more
difficult in the third and fourth quarters. Still, I don’t have
any reason for pessimism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  