-- U.K. Stocks Drop as Investors Await ECB Meeting; BP Sinks
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-09-05T16:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/u-k-stocks-extend-one-month-low-on-euro-area-economy.html
U.K. stocks  declined for a second
day, extending a one-month low, as investors awaited tomorrow’s
 European Central Bank  meeting.  BP Plc (BP/) , owner of the Macondo well that caused the worst
accidental U.S. oil spill in history, sank the most in a month
as the Department of Justice reiterated it will pursue charges
of gross negligence in the case. Imperial Tobacco Plc lost 1.8
percent after Le Parisien said France plans to increase
cigarette prices.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  fell 14.15 points, or 0.3 percent, to
5,657.86 at the close in London. The gauge has still gained 7.6
percent since the 2012 low on June 1 as ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do all it takes to preserve the euro. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index slipped 0.2 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.6 percent.  “Investors are waiting for tomorrow’s ECB meeting,” said
 Angus Campbell , head of market analysis at Capital Spreads in
London. “There’s a tussle between political leaders about
whether the ECB will remain within its mandate, so we might see
some uncertainty and fluctuations in the market until we hear
what Draghi has to say.”  Draghi told the European Parliament this week that the ECB
needs to intervene in bond markets to wrest back control of
 interest rates  in the fragmented euro-area economy and ensure
the survival of the common currency.  ECB Plans  The bond-buying proposal includes unlimited purchases of
government debt that will be sterilized to ensure a neutral
impact on  money supply , two central bank officials said today.
Policy makers will start deliberating on the plan later today
and Draghi will announce whether it has been agreed to at a
press conference tomorrow.  Michael Fuchs , a senior member of German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel ’s ruling coalition, told Bloomberg Television today that
Germany would oppose any ECB plan that involves “too much”
bond buying without ensuring countries in need of help commit to
overhaul their economies.  “Today’s events have left investors extremely uncertain
over the ECB’s action on Thursday,” Ishaq Siddiqi, a market
strategist at ETX Capital in London, wrote in e-mailed comments.
“The ECB does have the firepower to significantly ease tensions
in the debt markets in the near term, however the central bank
is extremely constrained with Germany’s opposition.”  European Economy  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted more
than initially estimated in August. A composite index based on a
survey of purchasing managers in both industries fell to 46.3
from 46.5 in July, London-based Markit Economics said today.
That’s below an initial estimate of 46.6 published on Aug. 23. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee began a
two-day meeting today. The central bank will leave its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 0.5 percent tomorrow, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 51 economists.  BP slid 2.9 percent to 423.85 pence, the largest drop since
July 31. Europe’s second-biggest oil company engaged in “gross
negligence and willful misconduct” pertaining to the Gulf of
Mexico spill in 2010, the U.S.  Department of Justice  said in a
court filing from Aug. 31. If BP is found guilty of gross
negligence, the maximum level of penalty could rise to $17.6
billion from $4.51 billion using the government’s estimate of
the size of the spill.  Imperial Tobacco  Imperial Tobacco, which owns the Gauloises brand, retreated
1.8 percent to 2,406 pence after Le Parisien said French Health
Minister Marisol Touraine will announce a plan in the coming
weeks to remove branding labels from cigarette packs and
increase the price by 40 cents per packet from Oct. 1.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  dropped 6.2 percent to 529.5 pence. About 3,000
South African protesters wielding sticks marched to Lonmin’s
Marikana mine where police shot dead 34 people last month during
a strike at the third-largest platinum company. Five worker
representatives threatened to kill management officials unless
they stop operations, the South African Press Association
reported today, citing a Lonmin manager, Jan Thiroun.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  slid 3.9 percent to 1,221 pence as a person
familiar with the matter said Deutsche Bank AG was placing 41
million shares in the natural-gas producer at 1,225 pence each.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  rose 1.9 percent to 935.1 pence as Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. said  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s offer
undervalues the mining company by 13 percent. Xstrata’s
shareholders are due to vote on Glencore’s $33.5 billion all-
share takeover bid on Sept. 7.  Glencore advanced 1.1 percent to 389.5 pence.  Britvic Plc (BVIC)  surged 13 percent to 369.9 pence. The U.K.
maker of Robinsons Barley Water said it’s been approached by
A.G. Barr Plc about an all-share merger and has started talks to
create one of Europe’s biggest soft-drink businesses.  Barr jumped 8.3 percent to 450.2 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  