-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall to One-Week Low on ECB Bond Plan
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-09-05T21:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/u-s-company-default-swaps-hold-at-one-week-low-on-ecb-bond-plan.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell to the lowest level in more than a week as details of
the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying proposal emerged.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 0.6 basis point to a mid-price of
100.5 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps index fell as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  proposed a bond-buying program involving unlimited
purchases of government debt that will be sterilized to assuage
concerns about printing money, two central bank officials
briefed on the plan said. The ECB holds its policy meeting
tomorrow amid investor concern that further economic weakness
will pressure companies’ ability to repay debt obligations.  The swaps measure, which typically declines as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, reached a more
than 15-week low of 98.5 on Aug. 20. The contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  Moody’s Investors Service’s speculative-grade liquidity-
stress index, which climbs when corporations’ ability to manage
cash needs deteriorates, increased to 3.5 percent in August from
a record low of 3.1 percent in July, the New York-based ratings
company said today.  Credit swaps tied to Office Depot Inc. dropped after Kevin Peters, the retailer’s president for  North America , said back-
to-school sales met expectations and the company affirmed its
2012 outlook for adjusted earnings of as much as $135 million at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s retailing conference in  New York .  Contracts on the  Boca Raton , Florida-based company eased
2.3 percentage points to 15.5 percent upfront as of 4:30 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  