-- Most U.S. Stocks Fall on FedEx, Economy Ahead of ECB Plan
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-05T21:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/u-s-stock-futures-decline-amid-economic-growth-concerns.html
Most U.S.  stocks  fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a second day, amid a slump
in  FedEx (FDX)  Corp. and disappointing global economic data as
investors awaited the European Central Bank’s plan to buy bonds.  FedEx, a barometer for the economy because it delivers
goods from mobile phones to pharmaceuticals, slid 2 percent
after projecting its first decline in quarterly earnings in
almost three years.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  jumped 4.8 percent after Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said he won’t start selling
his holdings for at least a year. The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines
Index soared 3.4 percent amid carriers’ improved performances.  The  S&P 500  lost 0.1 percent to 1,403.44 at 4 p.m. New York
time, after rising as much as 0.3 percent earlier. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  added 11.54 points, or 0.1 percent, to
13,047.48. About five shares fell for every four that advanced
on U.S. exchanges, with volume at 5.7 billion shares, or 6.4
percent below the three-month average.  “We’ve had this wait-and-see going on for three weeks
now,” Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at Milwaukee-
based Robert W. Baird & Co., which oversees $85 billion, said in
a telephone interview. “The sellers are being held off from the
anticipation of more quantitative easing. You don’t want to
short or sell in front of that. On the other hand, the economy
doesn’t seem to be able to make it -- either domestically or
globally. It’s really a stand-off.”  The S&P 500 in August climbed to its highest level on an
intraday basis in more than four years, then failed to close at
that milestone. The index has fluctuated near the 1,400 level
for three weeks as European leaders worked to tame the region’s
debt crisis and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming, last week he wouldn’t rule out more
stimulus.  ECB Plan  ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying proposal involves
unlimited purchases of government debt that will be sterilized
to assuage concerns about printing money, two central bank
officials briefed on the plan said. To sterilize the bond
purchases, the ECB will remove from the system elsewhere the
same amount of money it spends, ensuring the program has a
neutral impact on the  money supply .  Draghi told the European Parliament this week that the ECB
needs to intervene in bond markets to wrest back control of
 interest rates  in the fragmented euro-area economy and ensure
the survival of the common currency. Policy makers deliberated
on the plan today and Draghi will announce whether it has been
agreed to at a press conference tomorrow.  Economic Data  Stocks slumped as London-based Markit Economics said euro-
area services and manufacturing contracted more than initially
estimated in August. Separate data showed service industries in
China expanded at a weaker pace last month as new orders slowed
and Australia’s economy slowed more in the second quarter than
economists expected.  Investors also awaited the U.S. government’s monthly
employment report in two days. U.S. payrolls probably grew at a
weaker pace in August and unemployment exceeded 8 percent for a
43rd month, economists said before the Labor Department report
on Sept. 7.  “Investors are still holding that the ECB will surprise us
pleasantly tomorrow,”  Jack Ablin , who helps oversee about $60
billion of assets as chief investment officer of BMO Harris
Private Bank in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. He said
FedEx “really has tentacles in just about everything in the
global economy, and to hear a disappointing report from them is
disappointing to me.”  FedEx Slumps  FedEx lost 2 percent to $85.80 for the biggest drop since
July 20. The operator of the world’s largest cargo airline said
profit for the quarter that ended Aug. 31 will range from $1.37
to $1.43 a share. That was less than its June 19 forecast of
$1.45 to $1.60 a share and year-earlier earnings of $1.46. It
would mark the first drop in adjusted earnings per share since
the quarter that ended November 2009.  Rival  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  also fell, losing 2.4
percent to $71.94. The  Dow Jones Transportation Average (TRAN) , a gauge
of 20 shipping companies, declined 1.1 percent. The index has
dropped in five of the past seven trading sessions.  Utility and industrial shares posted the biggest declines
out of  10 groups  in the  S&P 500 (SPX) , falling at least 0.4 percent.
Commodity, telephone and consumer discretionary companies posted
the largest increases.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  jumped 2.3 percent to
$50.79 for the biggest gain in the Dow.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  sank 3.6 percent for the
second-biggest decline in the S&P 500, to $3.51. The second-
biggest maker of processors for personal computers was  reduced 
to neutral from buy by UBS AG.  Facebook Rallies  Facebook rallied 4.8 percent to $18.58, climbing from its
lowest price since going public in May. Zuckerberg, faced with a
plummeting stock price and deluge of shares hitting the market,
has yet to adopt a share sale plan, the Menlo Park, California-
based company said yesterday in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Typically, insiders use
plans to pare their stakes over time to avoid flooding the
market.  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  rallied 4.3 percent to $16.50. The second-
largest grocery chain in the U.S. is planning an initial public
offering of a minority stake in its Blackhawk Network Holdings
Inc. business. Blackhawk provides prepaid products, such as
restaurant gift cards, to retail and grocery stores in the U.S.,
Canada, Europe, Mexico and Australia.  Miles Traveled  All 10 stocks in the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  rose.
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  climbed 3.7 percent to $8.88, while U.S.
Airways Group Inc. advanced 7.4 percent to $11.22. Passenger
revenue for each seat flown a mile, a measure of airline
performance, rose 4 percent at Atlanta-based Delta in August and
1 percent at Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways. Miles traveled by
paying passengers increased at both carriers, according to
statements.  Sealed Air Corp. (SEE)  jumped 6 percent to $14.96. The Elmwood,
New Jersey-based company is poised to turn into a takeover
target after its biggest acquisition in more than a decade wiped
out a third of its market value and left the maker of Bubble
Wrap trading at a 64 percent discount to sales.  The company lost $1.4 billion in market capitalization
since it said last June that it would buy Diversey Holdings Inc.
for $2.9 billion to expand into cleaning and food-safety
products. With the stock slumping after the Diversey deal and
Sealed Air saying last month that it’s weighing options, the
company could become vulnerable to a takeover, according to
Stewart Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  