-- Hudson’s Bay Said to Plan IPO That May Raise $505 Million
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-09-05T17:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/hudson-s-bay-said-to-plan-ipo-that-may-raise-505-million.html
Hudson’s Bay Co.,  Canada ’s oldest
company, plans to file for an initial public offering that may
raise C$500 million ($505 million), said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Hudson’s Bay plans to complete the offering in Toronto
during North American autumn, said the people, who asked not to
be identified as the process is confidential. Hudson’s Bay would
likely sell 20 percent of itself, one person said.  The retailer, owner of the Lord & Taylor and Bay chains, is
working with banks including Royal Bank of Canada and  Bank of
America Corp. , said one of the people. Hudson’s Bay Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Baker  declined to comment, as did
representatives at Royal Bank and Bank of America. The  New York 
Post reported the offering earlier.  Hudson’s Bay dates back to 1670, when the company was
founded as a Canadian fur-trading venture. U.S. investor Jerry Zucker took the chain private in 2006 for C$860 million after
fighting for more than a year to take control.  In 2008, NRDC Equity Partners, owner of the Lord & Taylor
and Fortunoff retailing brands, agreed to acquire Hudson’s Bay,
investing $500 million in new equity. Today, Hudson’s Bay has
almost 500 retail sites across Canada, according to its website.  Last year, Hudson’s Bay agreed to sell store leases for its
Zellers chain to  Target Corp. (TGT) , allowing the second-biggest U.S.
retailer to expand outside the U.S. for the first time in
history. Target said then that it planned to open its first
stores in Canada starting in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  