-- Hunger Risks Rose in 2011 Along With Food Aid, USDA Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-09-05T14:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/usda-says-50-12-million-facing-hunger-as-food-aid-rises.html
The number of Americans who lived in
households that struggled to afford food increased last year
even as more participated in government nutrition-assistance
programs, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  About 50.12 million Americans were “food insecure” at
some point during the year, up 2.6 percent from 2010 and second
to the record 50.16 million in 2009, the USDA said today in  an
annual report .  A record 46.7 million people received  food
stamps  in June, up 3.3 percent from a year earlier, the USDA
reported yesterday.  Food-stamp spending, which more than doubled in four years
to a record  $75.7 billion  in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30,
2011, is the USDA’s biggest annual expense. The House budget
plan approved in April sponsored by Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , the party’s vice-presidential nominee, would cut
expenses by $33 billion over 10 years. Federal assistance is a
key component of household budgets for the hungry, the USDA said
in today’s report.  Food-insecure families include people whose “access to
adequate food is limited by a lack of money and other
resources,” according to the report, which didn’t offer an
explanation for the increase. Federal programs “increase  food
security  by providing low-income households access to food, a
healthful diet, and nutrition education.”  Food Stamps  Reductions to the food-stamp program have emerged as a
point of contention in debate over a farm bill to replace
current law that expires Sept. 30. The  U.S. Senate  in June
passed a plan that would lower expenditures by $4 billion over
10 years, while the House Agriculture Committee the following
month backed a $16 billion cut, with members arguing that USDA
efforts to increase enrollment are contributing to dependency on
the government.  “Washington needs to have a grown-up conversation about
the unchecked pace of food stamp enrollment,” Representative
Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas Republican on the House Agriculture
Committee, said in a statement yesterday.  Food insecurity was determined by a survey of 43,770
households on hunger-risk factors, including whether they were
running out of food without money to pay for more, or whether
they were unable to afford balanced meals. They also were asked
if some family members skipped meals.  The survey, conducted by U.S.-census takers in December
2011, questioned one adult in each household. The number of
individuals affected was estimated based on household size.  Of the people in food-insecure households, about 16.89
million, or 5.5 percent of all Americans, experienced “very
low” security, meaning they were more likely than others to
skip meals or go days without food, according to the study. That
was a 5.2 percent increase from 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  