-- Vaginal Ring Protects Monkeys Against AIDS Virus, Study Shows
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/vaginal-ring-protects-monkeys-against-aids-virus-study-shows.html
A vaginal ring that emits an HIV-
fighting drug protected monkeys from getting a version of the
AIDS-causing virus, according to a study that suggests the same
approach may help women whose partners won’t wear condoms.  Macaques that received the drug-laced rings were 83 percent
less likely to become infected with simian HIV than those that
got placebo rings, researchers from the New York-based
Population Council wrote in a study published today in the
journal  Science Translational Medicine .  Scientists have been trying to develop tools for women that
would reduce the risk of contracting HIV. While a 2010 study of
a vaginal gel showed it prevented infections in a large trial in
 Africa , researchers  stopped  a similar trial in November because
it wasn’t working, possibly because the women weren’t using the
gel often enough. Rings, similar to those now used for
contraception, may avert that problem.  “This proof-of-concept study confirms that the investment
in vaginal rings as a delivery system for HIV prevention is
paying off,” Naomi Rutenberg, vice president and director of
the Population Council’s HIV and AIDS program, said in a
statement.  The rings, made either of silicone or ethylene vinyl
acetate, released an experimental drug called MIV-150, an
antiviral developed originally by Huddinge, Sweden-based  Medivir
AB (MVIRB)  and licensed to the Population Council in 2003. The approach
is designed to ward off infection by preventing HIV from gaining
a foothold in the body.  The researchers inserted the devices either 24 hours or two
weeks before exposing the monkeys to simian HIV, a virus that
combines genes from the human and monkey versions of the
infection, and removed them immediately before or two weeks
after the exposure.  Timing Matters  Among 17 macaques that got the drug rings, two became
infected, compared with 11 of 16 animals who got plain rings.
While the timing of the insertion didn’t make a difference,
animals whose rings were removed just before the exposure were
more likely to become infected than those whose rings remained
in place.  The Population Council is working on a ring that women
could leave in place for as long as three months, and that might
also prevent other sexually-transmitted diseases and unplanned
pregnancies, it said in the statement.  The U.S. National Institutes of Health said in July it’s
starting a  trial  of a ring that may involve almost 3,500 women
in five countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  