-- Van Griethuysen Leaves NYSE After 33 Years in Business
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-09-05T13:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/van-griethuysen-leaves-nyse-after-33-years-in-business.html
NYSE Euronext’s Alan van Griethuysen, business head of the Benelux region and  Asia , has
left the exchange after 33 years amid a review of operations.  Van Griethuysen, 52, joined the European Options Exchange 
in 1979. That company merged with the Amsterdam Stock Exchange 
and was in turn acquired by Euronext NV. Based in Amsterdam, he
represented NYSE Euronext on the board of the Dutch Securities
Institute, the Association of Futures Markets and on a fund that
helped retail investors in the event of a broker default.  “I’m taking some time off first before looking for new
opportunities,” Van Griethuysen, whose hobbies include sailing
and mountain biking, said today in an interview in Interlaken,
Switzerland, at the  SFOA’s annual conference  for derivatives
exchanges and regulators. “I’ve spent the bulk of my career in
financial services, so that’s where I’ll look first.”  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , operator of the  New York  Stock Exchange,
stock markets in Paris, Amsterdam, Lisbon and Brussels and the
Liffe derivatives exchange, is restructuring after more than a
year’s work on a failed merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1) 
The company in May announced the departure of Garry Jones, head
of global derivatives at NYSE Euronext and chief executive
officer of Liffe.  Van Griethuysen leaves as NYSE Euronext confronts
increasing competition in stocks and derivatives. Alternative
trading systems such as Bats Chi-X Europe Ltd., which have
already taken market share in equities trading, are seeking to
get into derivatives.  Growing Rivalry  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s biggest futures
exchange, plans a  derivatives market  in London by the middle of
2013, setting up in competition with Liffe. Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc., the second-largest U.S. equity-exchange operator, plans to
start an interest-rate derivatives trading platform in the U.K.,
and  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  is seeking to expand the
business after purchasing a stake in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  On Aug. 3, NYSE Euronext, the biggest U.S. exchange
operator, reported second-quarter profit excluding some items
fell to 51 cents a share, compared with 61 cents a year earlier
as equity and derivatives trading dropped.  NYSE executives meeting with shareholders on April 2
pledged $250 million in annual savings by the end of 2014 and
said a stock buyback will be completed this year. NYSE also said
“Project 14,” a program aimed at generating more savings, will
generate about $90 million from technology and “organizational
efficiency” savings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in Interlaken,  Switzerland  at   nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  