-- Vanguard Health-Care Fund Manager Edward Owens to Retire
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-09-05T17:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/vanguard-health-care-fund-manager-edward-owens-to-retire.html
Edward P. Owens, whose $22.4 billion
 Vanguard Health Care Fund (VGHCX)  has outperformed every U.S. equity
mutual fund since it was created in 1984, will retire at the end
of the year.  The fund returned 16 percent a year since May 1984, better
than any other stock fund, according to data from Chicago-based
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 11
percent annually over the same stretch.  “He has made people a ton of money,” Daniel Weiner,
editor of the New York-based newsletter Independent Adviser for
Vanguard Investors, said in a telephone interview. “The guy is
a legend.”  Owens, 65, is a senior vice president and partner at
Boston-based Wellington Management Company LP, which manages
about $234 billion for Vanguard across 20 funds, the  Valley
Forge , Pennsylvania-based firm said today in a statement. Jean
M. Hynes, a Wellington senior vice president and partner, will
take over the fund, Vanguard said. She has worked on the fund’s
team for almost 20 years, and will continue to manage it in a
similar style, Hynes said today in a telephone interview.  “Ed’s long-term track record of excellent returns puts him
in very select company in the investment management business,”
Vanguard CEO F. William McNabb said in the statement. Owens is
Vanguard’s longest-serving outside manager.  Owens, in a telephone interview, said he had an advantage
over peers because he was a value investor in a growth industry.  Immunex Windfall  “During the industry’s high-growth years, small
disappointments created huge declines in stocks prices,” he
said. “We were frequently able to come in afterwards and buy
good companies.”  In 1993, Owens bought shares in Immunex Corp., a
biotechnology firm, after the failure of one of its drugs caused
the stock to plummet.  Amgen Inc., (AMGN)  a  Thousand Oaks , California
company, agreed to buy Immunex in 2001 for $16 billion, a deal
that gave shareholders in Owens’ fund an estimated gain of about
$1 billion, he said.  “A billion dollars is something,” Owens said.  The fund’s performance declined in recent years, according
to data from Morningstar. Over the past three years, it returned
returned 13 percent annually, trailing 65 percent of health-care
funds.  Diminishing Opportunities  Owens said as growth in the health-care business has
slowed, the opportunities once available to value investors such
as himself, have diminished. The fund has also been hurt by a
heavy reliance on traditional drug companies and too little
exposure to biotechnology, analyst  Christopher Davis  wrote in a
November 2011 note on Morningstar’s website.  The fund had 52 percent of its money in pharmaceuticals and
8.4 percent in biotech as of June 30, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The  Nasdaq Biotechnology Index (NBI)  gained 12 percent a
year in the five years ended Aug. 31, compared with 5.2 percent
for the  S&P 500 Pharmaceutical Index. (S5PHARX)   The $2.3 billion  Fidelity Select Health Care Portfolio (FSPHX) 
returned 15 percent a year since May 1984, second-best among
equity funds, Morningstar data show. The $1.2 billion FPA
Capital Fund ranked third with an annual return of 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  