-- VCI Cuts 2012 Forecast for Sales, Production on European Decline
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-09-05T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/vci-cuts-2012-forecast-for-sales-production-on-european-decline.html
Germany ’s chemical association VCI,
which represents 1,650 chemical companies such as  BASF SE (BAS)  and
 Linde AG (LIN) , cut its full-year forecast for revenue and production
for the industry as demand from customers in  Europe  declined.  Revenue is expected to remain unchanged at about 184
billion euros ($230 billion) while production will probably
decline 3 percent compared with last year, the Frankfurt-based
group said in an e-mailed statement today. Previously the VCI
had predicted sales would gain 2 percent and production to
remain unchanged.  BASF, the world’s biggest chemical maker, in July cut its
estimates for global economic growth and abandoned a prediction
for an upturn in the second half. That caution was echoed by
 Lanxess AG (LXS) , a maker of synthetic rubber, which said last month
that profit would remain unchanged in the second half,
indicating that full-year profit would come in at the low end of
its target range.  “We’re having to postpone for the time being our hope for
a stable upturn in the chemical business,” VCI President  Klaus Engel  said in today’s statement. “The European Union debt
crisis is making itself noticed in the domestic market.”  Customers in Germany as well as other European countries
ordered chemicals “cautiously” and chose to destock their
warehouses, VCI said. Selling prices in 2012 are still expected
to be 2.5 percent higher than last year, the VCI said.  Sales for the industry fell 0.5 percent to 45.2 billion
euros in the second quarter compared to the first three months
of the year, the association said. Chemical production dropped
2.8 percent, with the biggest decline coming from the producers
of basic chemicals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  