-- Vodafone, Telefonica Win EU Approval for U.K. Mobile Venture
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-05T14:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/vodafone-telefonica-win-eu-approval-for-u-k-mobile-venture.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s
O2 unit and Everything Everywhere Ltd. won unconditional
European Union approval for a joint venture to create a U.K.
mobile-phone payment platform, the European Commission said.  EU regulators extended their probe in April on concerns the
companies might be able to block competitors from offering their
own “mobile wallet” services to U.K. customers or to “degrade
the quality” of services to make them less attractive.  The results of the investigation showed that the joint
venture “will not likely lead to a significant impediment to
effective competition” in Europe, the Brussels-based antitrust
agency said in an e-mailed statement today.  The U.K.’s three largest mobile operators sought EU
approval for the joint venture to help banks and advertisers
access services that will allow customers to buy items from
groceries to clothes with their smartphones. After losing out to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in offering online application
stores, the companies want to accelerate the development of
additional services to drive revenue and boost smartphone sales.  EU approval means the companies can start working on the
joint venture by hiring staff and creating the new business,
Vodafone, O2 and Everything Everywhere, owned by  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) , said in a statement.  ‘Single Contact’  “The mobile marketing platform is expected to be the first
part of the business that is brought to market,” they said. The
venture “will provide a single contact point for media
agencies, retailers and brands, enabling them to create
campaigns that will reach millions of opted-in mobile users.”  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Three unit raised concerns with
the EU last year over the possibility that its bigger rivals
could exclude it from the U.K. venture.  Three looks “forward to the invitation to become a
customer of the joint venture on the same terms as all
participating U.K. mobile operators,” according to an e-mail
from company spokesman Guy Middleton.  In the U.S.,  Verizon Wireless  last year blocked Google’s
competing mobile-payment system from Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy Nexus smartphone, citing security issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  