-- Voyager 1 Reaches Pocket of Calm at Solar System’s Edge
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-09-05T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/voyager-1-reaches-pocket-of-calm-at-solar-system-s-edge.html
Voyager 1, the U.S. spacecraft that
left our planet 35 years ago to explore Jupiter and Saturn and
then kept going, has encountered a pocket of stillness at the
edge of the solar system, a finding that surprised scientists.  At the rim of the heliosphere, a bubble of charged
particles that surrounds the solar system, Voyager 1 has met
with milder wind than scientists projected, according to a
report published today in the journal  Nature . Where scientists
anticipated a shift in winds along the edge of the bubble,
Voyager 1 data showed hardly a breeze or a waft, they said.  Hypotheses about solar wind at the bubble’s boundary may
need to be reformulated, wrote the authors of the study, led by
Robert Decker of the Applied Physics Laboratory at  Johns Hopkins
University  in Laurel,  Maryland . It’s a surprise and not
completely understood, said Eric Christian, a  NASA  researcher
who had been a project scientist with the Voyager mission.  “The wind has slowed to not quite a halt but almost,”
said Ed Stone, a physics professor at the  California Institute
of Technology  in  Pasadena , in a telephone interview. “We must
be getting closer to the edge of the bubble, but we can’t say
how close.”  Voyager 1’s conditions are different from those surrounding
its brother, Voyager 2, both launched by the  National
Aeronautics and Space Administration  in 1977 and now traveling
in opposite directions. Voyager 2, at about 14.9 billion
kilometers (9.3 billion miles) from the Sun, is encountering the
expected wind patterns, Stone said. He wasn’t an author on the
study. Voyager 1 is about 18.2 billion kilometers from the Sun.  Whether it’s just in one region or what this means for how
solar wind moves through the heliosphere is unknown, Stone said.  Voyager Discoveries  The two crafts have made discoveries such as erupting
volcanoes on Jupiter’s moon Io, the hint of an ocean under the
crust of its moon Europa and geysers spewing from Neptune’s moon
Triton, according to NASA’s  website .  They have enough power to operate until at least  2020 ,
according to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. At that point
Voyager 2 is expected to be almost 17 billion kilometers from
the Sun, and its brother, almost 20 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  