-- China’s Richest Man Benefits From Thirst for Soft Drinks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-06T10:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/wahaha-s-zong-passes-baidu-found-li-as-china-s-wealthiest.html
Zong Qinghou, head of  China ’s third-
largest beverage maker, is the country’s richest man after
disclosing his stake in closely held  Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co. 
is more than double previous estimates.  The 66-year-old soda and juice tycoon owns more than 80
percent of Wahaha, the company’s spokesman Shan Qining said in
an interview on Sept. 3. That stake elevates Zong’s net worth to
$21.6 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He
is now $13.4 billion wealthier than Robin Li, founder of the
nation’s biggest search engine.  Zong, a chain-smoking member of the Chinese legislature who
says he spends just $20 a day, ranks No. 23 globally and trails
only  Li Ka-Shing  and  Mukesh Ambani  in  Asia .  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  Chairman
Li’s net worth has dropped 3.8 percent year-to-date.  Wahaha has benefited from decades of rapid economic growth
in China. The company has about 60 factories in 29 provinces
across the country, making soda, food and baby formula, as well
as children’s apparel, its website shows.  “Zong has made himself a billionaire by staying in the
right industry, positioning Wahaha well and eventually seizing
the opportunity of growth in smaller Chinese cities,” said
Zhang Lu, an analyst at  Capital Securities Corp. (6005)  in  Shanghai .
“Given the fact that Wahaha is already a well-known brand
domestically, disclosing his share and wealth would help to
boost the global profile of both Wahaha and Zong himself.”  ’Laughing Children’  Zong founded Wahaha, which means “laughing children” in
Chinese, 25 years ago with two retired teachers and a $22,048
loan. It has a 7.2 percent share of China’s soft drink market,
according to London-based researcher Euromonitor International.
Coca-Cola dominates with a 16.8 percent share, followed by Hong
Kong-listed  Tingyi (Cayman Islands) Holding Co. (322)   In 2011, Hangzhou, China-based Wahaha generated $11 billion
in revenue and $1 billion in profit, Zong said in a March 2012
interview with Bloomberg News. The closely held operation may
boost net income to $1.6 billion in 2012 on sales of $13.3
billion, helped by the Chinese government’s push to boost
domestic consumption, he said.  The beverage maker’s valuation is derived using the average
enterprise value-to-sales and price-to-earnings multiples of
three publicly traded peers: Tingyi, Hebei Chengde Lolo and
China Huiyuan Juice.  Based on an analysis of dividends, market performance and
taxes, Zong has about $1.9 billion in cash and other liquid
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Baidu Falters  Baidu’s stock  has declined about 23 percent on the  Nasdaq 
since the end of the first quarter on concerns the most-popular
search engine in China may face more competition from Qihoo 360
Technology Co., which started a new search tool on Aug. 16,
Barclays analyst Alicia Yap said.  Kaiser Kuo, a Beijing-based spokesman for Baidu, declined
to comment.  Zong’s net worth change shows the opacity of wealth in
China, where disclosure requirements are less transparent than
in countries such as the U.S.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York and listed in U.S.
dollars at current exchange rates.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  