-- Wall Street Finds Friends Can Help Scrub Records
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-09-05T22:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/wall-street-finds-friends-can-help-scrub-records.html
If there’s one thing we learned from
 Bernie Madoff ,  Allen Stanford  and the countless perpetrators of
the financial crisis, it’s that nobody’s word is worth trusting.  The parade of Ponzi guys and unindicted bankers of recent
years has inspired a new enthusiasm for sleuthing by the public.
There’s even a cottage industry of vetters willing to size up a
broker if you aren’t inclined to do the work yourself.  The catch is, for all the new willingness of investors to
ask questions before they hand over control of their nest eggs,
what you discover in regulatory records may tell less than the
whole story. As for the commercial websites that purport to know
which advisers are good or bad, let’s put it this way: Most are
free to investors, and there’s that issue of getting what you
paid for.  Some investors go the do-it-yourself route and access
 BrokerCheck , a database operated by the  Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority , known as Finra, a self-regulatory
organization financed by  Wall Street . Others check websites with
names like financialjoe.com and investorwatchdog.com that offer
reviews of brokers and their firms.  Investorwatchdog.com, introduced in May, says its users
“avoid costly mistakes, identify problems sooner and select
advisors with the best qualifications.” Financialjoe.com says
it “takes on Wall Street by empowering investors and allowing
them to rate and monitor their financial advisors.”  Freebie Sleuths  Rely on the freebie sleuths at your own risk. If it were my
money, I would be gathering facts from court and regulatory
records, including Finra’s database. I will get back to those
problematic broker-vetting websites in a bit. But it’s worth
explaining that even BrokerCheck has shortcomings.  Finra does require disclosure of some red flags about a
broker’s finances -- liens and bankruptcies, for example.  It doesn’t, however, demand that brokers disclose if they
were sued in a matter that isn’t investment-related. Thus,
although 253 former brokers from the bankrupt Stanford Financial
Group Co. -- yes, that Stanford -- have been sued by a court-
appointed receiver, they have no obligation to report that to
Finra.  Ralph Janvey, the receiver in the 2009 fraud case brought
by the Securities and Exchange Commission, is trying to recoup
money those brokers made while they peddled Stanford’s
securities. If you were thinking about hiring one of the former
Stanford guys, you might like to know if they are on Janvey’s
list: The broker on the receiving end of a big court judgment
might have a lot of motivation to raid your account.  Robert Cornish, a Washington attorney who represents four
Stanford victims, analyzed records of all 253 brokers and
discovered that only 18 disclosed the lawsuit, which seeks to
collect about $177 million from the group Cornish checked.  So BrokerCheck paints only a partial picture of a broker’s
record. But it offers more than some of the vetting Web pages.  Consider investorwatchdog.com, run by former broker Jack
Waymire in Lincoln,  California . I was curious that
 investorwatchdog  says it could help investors pick financial
advisers “with the best qualifications” while cautioning in
the fine print that it doesn’t review compliance records. So I
queried Waymire by e-mail. He responded that the terms of
service I had read the previous day had “out-of-date
information.” Sure enough, after getting his response, I saw
that investorwatchdog’s terms of service were changed from the
printout I had made of its disclosures.  Waymire says advisers -- who pay to be featured -- have to
get a score of 90 or better on his proprietary algorithm before
they can be featured, though he sometimes makes exceptions for
advisers who he says have been subject to “frivolous”
complaints. It is worth noting that he is willing to lose
business from risky advisers: He says he kicked a guy off his
site on Aug. 30 for having huge tax liens.  Background Checks  I noticed that the site featured a California broker whose
record included a fine by a state insurance department, a
customer complaint and a termination. Waymire responded that the
adviser had acknowledged his mistake and reimbursed an investor
in one instance 30 years ago, and hadn’t hurt investors in the
two others. Personally, I would pass on someone like that.  BrightScope Advisor Pages , which says it helps consumers
“conduct due diligence,” also gets revenue from financial
advisers who pay to be highlighted. When I asked Mike Alfred,
the firm’s chief executive officer, about a featured broker who
had a criminal record, he said in an e-mail that BrightScope was
in the business of making information easier to find and use,
but that “We are not in the verification business.”  The operators of these sites themselves have blots on their
records, ranging from a failure to meet a state’s net capital
rules at a brokerage firm a quarter-century ago (Waymire); to
two customer settlements, one for $35,000 and one that was
confidential, for Shawn Tierney, founder of financialjoe.com.  Waymire said his firm ultimately met  Florida ’s
requirements. Tierney said he was no longer handling the account
in question when one of the complaints was filed, and that an
investigation in the other determined he had done nothing wrong.  Then there is the million-dollar claim against Alfred, his
brother Ryan, the president of BrightScope, and Axa Advisors
LLC, one of their former employers. In a BrightScope  blog 
posting on May 16, 2011, Ryan Alfred said “we were not required
to pay any of the settlement.” Finra records for each Alfred,
though, describe an “individual contribution amount” of
$30,000 to the $135,000 agreement.  It took a world-rocking financial crisis to get the public
to be more serious about checking the claims of brokers. Four
years after the crisis began, there still is no substitute for
using BrokerCheck or state regulatory records; Finra’s
arbitration database; lawsuits and liens on pacer.gov; and
LexisNexis’s SmartLinx for state courthouse actions. If that
sounds like too much work and too much financial outlay -- pacer
and Lexis aren’t free -- go ahead and peruse the new sleuthing
sites. But don’t kid yourself about who their customers are.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether  we’re better off  than
four years ago, on why  Quebec’s separatism  is a dead end and on
the disasters that await the end of  Europe’s summer torpor ;
 Caroline Baum  on why Americans  should like Mitt Romney ;  Margaret
Carlson  on the impossible  politics of abortion ; Jonathan Mahler
on  Stephen Strasburg’s false choice ; Phillip Swagel on why some
 banks need to be big .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at   santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  