-- Wellpoint Leads Busiest Start to Week in Bond Sales Since March
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-09-05T18:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/wellpoint-leads-busiest-start-to-week-in-bond-sales-since-march.html
Wellpoint Inc. (WLP)  and  Principal
Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  are leading companies selling $28.9 billion
of dollar-denominated bonds in the busiest start to a week in
six months as yields touched unprecedented lows.  Wellpoint, the second-biggest U.S. health insurer, is
planning a $3.25 billion, four-part  bond issue  and  Des Moines ,
Iowa-based Principal is raising $600 million as offerings reach
the most since $30.2 billion in the two-day period ending March
6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales have already
exceeded the $13.4 billion issued during the past two weeks.  Companies rushed to market as yields on investment-grade
bonds fell below 3 percent for the first time. Borrowers are
coming to market ahead of a meeting by the  European Central
Bank , where officials are expected to provide details on a bond-
buying proposal.  “It’s certainly a tidal wave of issuance,” Edward Marrinan, macro credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “With
all-in funding costs at or near record-low levels, corporate
treasurers are unlikely to be second-guessed for borrowing at
these levels.”  Yields on investment-grade securities reached a record low
2.98 percent on Aug. 31, falling below 3 percent for the first
time, before climbing back to 2.99 percent yesterday, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master
index. The extra yield investors demand to own company bonds
rather than government debentures was at 185 basis points, or
1.85 percentage points.  Fitch Downgrade  Wellpoint, the operator of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield
insurance plans, is offering three-, five-, 10- and 30-year
notes to help fund its $4.9 billion acquisition of Amerigroup
Corp., according to a person familiar with the transaction.  The company’s $625 million of three-year notes may be sold
at a yield of 95 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, while its $625 million of five-year notes may have a
relative yield of 130 basis points, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because terms aren’t set. Wellpoint’s $1
billion of 10-year notes may be sold at a 175 basis-point spread
and its $1 billion of 30-year bonds at 200 basis points, the
person said.  Fitch Ratings today downgraded Wellpoint’s long-term issuer
default rating to A-, four levels above speculative grade, and
its issue ratings to BBB+, three levels above high-yield, citing
increased leverage from the acquisition, the ratings company
said in a release today.  ECB Actions  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying
proposal involves unlimited purchases of government debt that
will be sterilized to assuage concerns about printing money, two
central bank officials briefed on the plan said today. Draghi
will announce whether the proposal has been agreed to at a press
conference tomorrow.  “There is a sense of cautious optimism that the ECB will
finally deliver meaningful policy actions, which is supporting
risk appetite and overall  market sentiment ,” Marrinan said.  Principal, the life insurer and asset manager, may sell
$300 million of 10-year debt to yield 175 basis points more than
benchmarks and $300 million of 30-year securities at a relative
yield of 195 basis points, according to a person familiar with
the transaction. The new bonds may be rated A3, the fourth-
lowest level of investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
terms aren’t set. Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo &
Co. are managing the sale.  CME Offering  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the owner of the world’s largest futures
exchange, is planning to sell $500 million of 10-year bonds to
retire the company’s $750 million of 5.4 percent notes maturing
in August 2013, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the holding company run by
billionaire  Warren Buffett , is selling $750 million in add-on
offerings of five-, 10- and 30-year bonds, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Wells Fargo are managing the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 