-- West Nile Infections Rise as Outbreak Spreads to Northern States
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-09-05T17:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/west-nile-infections-rise-as-outbreak-spreads-to-northern-states.html
The worst-ever U.S. outbreak of West
Nile virus is spreading across the U.S. with a 25 percent
increase in the number of people infected by the mosquito-borne
disease, health officials said.  There were 87 deaths among 1,993 cases of the disease
reported this season through yesterday, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention said today. The cases have increased the
most in the northern U.S., with 44 states having at least one
human infection, said Lyle Petersen, director of the division of
vector-borne infectious disease at the CDC.  Health officials said the outbreak may have peaked in
August though new  reports  of infections may occur through
October. The outbreak could become the deadliest since the 2002-
2003 season when 260 people died. One factor contributing to the
high number of cases may be record-high temperatures, which can
make mosquitoes more infectious, said Peterson.  “The temperature may be influencing this year’s outbreak,
though many areas that have had record-high temperatures haven’t
had outbreaks,” Peterson said. “Temperature is certainly a
factor in mosquito-borne outbreaks.”  Of the infections, 1,069 were infections of the nervous
system, such as meningitis and encephalitis, that are
particularly dangerous, the CDC said. Most cases of West Nile
are mild with about one in 150 people infected developing a
severe illness, according to the Atlanta-based agency. Only
about 2 to 3 percent of people who come down with a fever from
the virus are reported to the government, the CDC said last
week. Symptoms can range from a high fever and stiff neck to
coma and paralysis.  This year’s outbreak is the worst since the disease was
first reported in the U.S. in 1999. Almost half of the reported
illnesses are in Texas, with the outbreak concentrated in that
state and  South Dakota ,  Mississippi ,  Oklahoma , Louisiana and
 Michigan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  