-- Mario Draghi’s Big Moment, Continued
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-05T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/will-draghi-surprise-the-markets-.html
Europe emerges from its summer
torpor with untapped disasters in waiting.  On Thursday, attention turns to  Mario Draghi , the president
of the  European Central Bank , and the plans, if any, he will
announce to help manage the European Union’s financial crisis.
Next, on Sept. 12,  Germany ’s constitutional court will rule on
the legality of the European Stability Mechanism, the euro
area’s new permanent bailout fund, and the fiscal pact that
curbs government deficits. If either event goes badly, watch
out.  In July, Draghi aroused expectations that he has so far
been unable to meet when he promised the ECB would do “whatever
it takes” to defend the euro system. This was seen as a pledge
of unlimited bond buying aimed at lowering the long-term
 interest rates  that  Spain ,  Italy  and other distressed sovereign
borrowers must pay.  We have been recommending such a course for months. But it
turned out Draghi’s promise was less a binding commitment to the
markets than an attempt to nudge dissenters on the ECB’s
governing council -- notably, Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, who opposes an unorthodox bond-buying program on
principle -- to fall into line. They didn’t.  Thursday will show whether Draghi has finally reached
agreement with the dissenters, so that some kind of compromise
effort can proceed, or whether he has to play for time yet
again.  Muddled Compromise  A muddled compromise might neutralize any new ECB
initiative at the outset. Bloomberg News  reports  suggest that
Draghi will announce a program of unlimited but sterilized bond
buying, meaning that the ECB would ensure its bond purchases
didn’t increase the euro area’s money supply. Depending on the
details, that approach wouldn’t neutralize a bond-buying
program, but it would blunt the effect, partly by causing
confusion. The bank needs to impress investors with the scale
and clarity of its commitment: The bigger and bolder the
promise, the smaller the actual intervention will need to be.  As for doing it now or later, the EU has had extraordinary
luck in fending off an outright economic collapse this long.
Still, there are limits to the market’s patience, and it is best
not to test it further.  Critical though this week’s ECB announcements may be, they
could soon be overshadowed by Germany’s constitutional court. If
it decides that the permanent bailout fund is illegal -- the
question is whether it violates the EU treaty’s “no bailout”
clause, which bars member states from assuming one another’s
debts -- it would disable a vital component of Europe’s
financial defenses.  The bond-buying plan that Draghi has apparently been
preparing includes the condition that governments seeking ECB
support have an agreement -- possibly including spending cuts,
tax increases and market reforms -- in place with the European
Stability Mechanism, and that they are abiding by its terms.
That’s not a good idea; it builds in further delay and
uncertainty. However, it might be politically necessary.  Angela Merkel , Germany’s chancellor, has tacitly endorsed that
approach. But if the court strikes down the ESM, the emerging
compromise on ECB action goes down, too.  German legal experts doubt the court will simply throw out
the ESM and fiscal pact. But the court could decide that the
German constitution has been stretched as far as it can be, and
any further European integration would require an amended
constitution and a referendum to validate it.  We are tempted to argue that a referendum on Europe’s
future is exactly what Germany needs. It would force Merkel to
put choices squarely before voters, a responsibility she has
shirked up to now. The danger, again, is further delay.  Sweeping Agreement  A sweeping agreement is urgently needed to stabilize the
European economy, one that covers ECB support and fiscal
cooperation and takes steps toward a banking union. Achieving
that requires working within the existing constitutional
apparatus.  The worst thing would be for the court to throw the euro
area into turmoil by simply blocking the ESM. Precisely because
the stakes are so great, it is  unlikely  to do that. The middle
way would be to let the ESM stand for now, while pushing  Europe 
back to the constitutional drawing board soon. That would be
justified on the constitutional merits, and would start a debate
that Europe’s citizens should have engaged in long ago. The
problem is, at a time of acute anxiety, it’s another signal of
hesitation and confusion.  Designing, approving and ratifying a new set of European
treaties would take not months or weeks but years, if it could
be done at all. That’s an exercise for calmer times. For now,
 crisis management  is the order of the day.  On balance, we hope the court simply takes itself out of
the picture by letting the pact and the ESM stand. Meanwhile,
Draghi’s task is to surprise the markets,  for once , by
delivering more, not less, than expected.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether  we’re better off  than
four years ago and on why  Quebec’s separatism  is a dead end;
 Susan Antilla  on checking if your  broker is a crook ;  Caroline
Baum  on why Americans  should like Mitt Romney ;  Margaret Carlson 
on the impossible  politics of abortion ; Jonathan Mahler on
 Stephen Strasburg’s false choice ; Phillip Swagel on why some
 banks need to be big .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  