-- WilmerHale, Jenner, Hunton, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/wilmerhale-jenner-hunton-skadden-business-of-law.html
Stephen Luparello, vice chairman at
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, is taking a job at
 Washington  law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP,
after working at the brokerage industry’s self-regulator for
more than 16 years, Finra said in a statement.  Luparello, who served as interim chief executive officer of
Finra before being named vice chairman in 2009, will leave Oct.
7 for WilmerHale, Finra said in a statement yesterday. As vice
chairman, he oversaw Finra’s enforcement and market regulation
and helped establish systems for monitoring markets, detecting
fraud and protecting whistle-blowers, Finra said.  “He helped lead the organization through one of the most
critical times for securities regulators and helped build and
shape many of Finra’s regulatory programs,”  Richard Ketchum ,
the organization’s chairman and CEO, said in a statement.  Finra oversees U.S.-listed broker-dealers under the
authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Luparello,
who was set to receive a $1.3 million compensation package this
year, started with the regulator when it was the National
Association of Securities Dealers Inc. He also has worked for
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the SEC, Finra
said.  Jenner Hires Former Homeland Security Chief Privacy Officer  The former U.S. Department of Homeland Security chief
privacy officer, Mary Ellen Callahan, joined Jenner & Block LLP
as a partner in the Washington office. Callahan will lead the
firm’s newly formed privacy and information governance practice.  Callahan joined the DHS in March 2009 as head of its
Privacy Office, overseeing 45 federal employees. She also served
as chief Freedom of Information Act officer. She reported
directly to the Secretary of  Homeland Security  and was
responsible for embedding and enforcing privacy protections and
transparency in all DHS activities, the firm said in a
statement.  Callahan said in an interview that in her new practice she
will counsel Jenner’s clients, particularly media, retail and
technologic clients, on how to best use, understand and manage
information.  “My skills at Homeland Security will help me to understand
the obligations on in-house counsel and privacy officers and
work to get the best result,” she said.  Callahan said she expects the new practice, which has about
10 people, to expand.  Callahan has served as vice-chair of the ABA Privacy and
Information Security Committee of the Antitrust Division; co-
chair of the Privacy Committee of the Chief Information Officers
Council; and co-chair of the Privacy and Civil Liberties
Subcommittee of the Information Sharing and Access Interagency
Policy Committee. Before joining the DHS, Callahan was a partner
at Hogan & Hartson, now Hogan Lovells LLP.  Senior SEC Counsel Joins Hunton & Williams in Washington  Hunton & Williams LLP hired Scott H. Kimpel, former counsel
to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissioner Troy A. Paredes, as
a partner in the Washington office.  At the SEC, Kimpel served as Paredes’s liaison to the
commission’s senior staff as well as external constituencies,
including issuers and other SEC registrants, investors, press,
members of Congress and trade associations. Kimpel advised the
commissioner on all aspects of federal securities laws and SEC
policy, focusing especially on the Division of Corporation
Finance and the Division of Enforcement, according to the firm.  “Scott’s experience will be an advantage for our public
company and emerging growth clients who need sophisticated
securities advice and insights into SEC policies, procedures,
operations and enforcement,” said Steve Patterson, co-head of
the firm’s corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions
practice.  Before the SEC, Kimpel practiced for 10 years at Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, Hunton said.  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers at 19 offices
around the world.  News  NYPD Abuse Increases Settlements Costing City $735 Million  New York  City plans to spend $735 million this year on
settlements or awards in lawsuits claiming negligence, police
abuse and property damage, the most in its history and almost
six times what Los Angeles pays per capita.  The cost of claims is forecast to rise to $815 million by
2016, more than the city pays to run the Parks and Recreation
Department, according to  budget documents . Among the incidents
triggering payments are malpractice in public hospitals, police
beatings, improper arrests, collisions with fire trucks and
potholes causing accidents.  The increase in litigation payouts may put pressure on
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  as he weighs job and service cuts to
close a $3.5 billion deficit in a $72 billion budget next year.
The gap widened by $1 billion last month when a court struck
down a plan to sell 2,000 new taxi medallions.  “It’s a huge problem for the city and trial lawyers will
say it’s only justice, but it’s also a matter of some people
considering a case before a New York jury the same as winning
the lottery,” said E.J. McMahon, a research fellow for the
 Manhattan  Institute’s  Empire Center for New York State Policy .
The institute calls for changes to contingency fees for
plaintiffs’ lawyers and advocates a so-called loser pays system
for legal costs.  One reason New York’s legal payouts are rising, according
to the Law Department, is that unlike  California , Illinois and
 Pennsylvania , the state has no laws that cap damages or limit
liability in suits against municipal governments.  For more, click here.  Philippines Says Rule Seen to Cut Trial Time by 50% Approved  The Philippine Supreme Court approved a rule allowing
affidavits to replace testimony in court as it aims to cut trial
times by 50 percent, Deputy Court Administrator Raul Villanueva
said in a briefing in  Manila .  Under the process that takes effect on Jan. 1, lawyers will
submit “judicial affidavits” containing a witness’s testimony
in question-and-answer format before the trial, doing away with
direct-examination transcriptions, Villanueva said yesterday. It
will apply to civil and special proceedings in lower courts and
in criminal cases where the penalty doesn’t exceed six years, he
said.  The process was tested in Quezon City courts, where trial
time was cut in half, Villanueva said.  Deals  Valeant to Buy Medicis Pharmaceutical in $2.6 Billion Deal  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. (VRX)  agreed to buy
 Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX)  in a transaction valued at about
$2.6 billion.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP  and Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP served as Valeant’s legal counsel. Weil, Gotshal &
Manges LLP and Latham & Watkins LLP were outside legal counsel
to Medicis.  Skadden attorneys on the deal included New York partners
Stephen Arcano, mergers and acquisitions, and Robert Copen,
banking.  The S&C team was led by Los Angeles mergers and
acquisitions partner Alison Ressler, together with Palo Alto
corporate partner Sarah Payne and New York partners Matthew Friestedt, executive compensation and benefits; Yvonne Quinn,
antitrust; and Neal McKnight, financing. New York partner Ronald Creamer Jr. provided tax advice.  The Weil team comprised partners Michael Aiello and Matthew Gilroy, mergers and acquisitions; Ann Malester, Steve Newborn
and Steve Bernstein, antitrust; Ken Heitner and Chayim Neubort,
tax; Jeffery Osterman, intellectual property; Steve Margolis,
benefits; and Greg Danilow, litigation.  Latham’s corporate deal team was led by partners Charles Ruck in Orange County, California, Wesley Holmes in New York and
Joshua Dubofsky in Silicon Valley.  Advice was also provided on antitrust matters by partner
Michael Egge in Washington; on benefits and compensation matters
by partner Jim Barrall in  Los Angeles ; on litigation matters by
partners David Schindler in Los Angeles and Michele Johnson in
Orange County; on regulatory matters by partner John Manthei in
Washington; on intellectual property matters by partner Judith
Hasko in Silicon Valley; on environmental matters by partner
Christopher Norton in Orange County; and on tax matters by
partner Nicholas DeNovio in Washington.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Culotta Named King & Spalding Global Transactions Head  King & Spalding LLP appointed partner Kenneth S. Culotta
leader of the firm’s global transactions practice. He had served
as the practice’s deputy leader since August 2011.  Culotta succeeds Philip R. Weems, the firm’s global
transactions practice leader since 2003. Weems will continue to
be co-leader of the firm’s global energy industry initiative.  The global transactions practice has expanded under Weems’s
leadership, growing from two offices to include lawyers in
Houston,  London , the  Middle East , Moscow,  Singapore  and
Washington.  Culotta is a partner in the Houston office and was a
founding member of the firm’s London office. His 27 years of
experience encompass a range of domestic and cross-border oil,
gas and mining-industry transactions, the firm said. Culotta is
a fluent Spanish speaker and has experience in Latin American
energy matters.  King & Spalding’s energy practice has more than 250
lawyers, with more than 120 dedicated to energy-related matters
full-time. The firm has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
 Europe , the Middle East and  Asia .  Litigation  Lawyer Files Five-Page Cartoon Brief in Apple E-Books Case  Bob Kohn, an expert in music-licensing law and chairman of
RoyaltyShare Inc., filed a five-page brief in panel-cartoon
format, urging a judge to reject a settlement in a price-fixing
case over e-books.  Kohn, a nonparty to the lawsuit who said he’s a consumer of
e-books, asked U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in New York last
month for permission to file a friend-of-the-court brief
opposing the U.S.  Justice Department ’s suit against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and its April settlement with three publishers.  Kohn yesterday filed the cartoon, or “graphic novelette,”
version of what he’d proposed as a more conventional 25-page,
prose-only, brief after Cote limited him to just five pages, he
said in an interview.  “The high court said that collusive conduct is OK under
rule of reason where there is a countervailing pro-competitive
virtue,” Kohn explains to his daughter, a Harvard University
graduate student, in one of the panels.  The panels, which include citations to court papers and
legal rulings, are preceded by a page of authorities for Kohn’s
arguments.  Kohn said he believes the brief complies with local court
rules, which require text of 12-point or larger and one-inch
margins on all sides.  “I’m hopeful I can have an impact on the court’s thinking
in a positive way,” said Kohn, a lawyer who has written on
music licensing.  RoyaltyShare, based in  San Diego , provides Web-based
royalty processing and content management services to the
entertainment industry.  The Justice Department sued Apple and five publishers in
April, claiming they colluded to set prices for electronic
books. Three of the publishers settled the case. Cote must
approve the settlement for it to take effect.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Barnes & Noble’s Riggio’s Investor Suit Settlement Approved  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  founder  Leonard Riggio ’s $29 million
settlement of investors’ claims that he wrongfully pushed the
biggest U.S. bookstore chain to acquire his college-textbook
firm won a judge’s approval.  Riggio’s agreement to give up payments due him as part of
the $596 million buyout of the textbook seller was a reasonable
resolution of claims the Barnes & Noble’s chairman reaped
excessive benefits from the 2009 acquisition, Delaware Chancery
Court Judge Leo Strine concluded.  “The only reason this got done was the plaintiffs’ time
and effort,” Strine said yesterday at hearing in Wilmington.  The settlement, which will be paid personally by Riggio and
won’t be covered by insurance covering Barnes & Noble officers
and directors, came less than a week before Strine was slated to
hear investors’ claims over the buyout in June.  Under terms of the settlement, Riggio will forgo $22.75
million in payments he was to receive under a $150 million
promissory note Barnes & Noble issued as part of the buyout of
 Barnes & Noble College Booksellers Inc.   Riggio also will cut $6.3 million in interest payments due
on the note, which matures in 2014, according to court filings
outlining the settlement.  Shareholders’ lawyers argued the board allowed Riggio to
dictate terms and timing of the buyout and didn’t force him to
seek other offers for the company to justify the purchase price.  Both sides were gearing up for trial in June when they were
able to reach the $29 million settlement, Pam Tikellis, a
Wilmington-based lawyer for Barnes & Noble shareholders, told
Strine.  “This was a hard-fought case where nothing was easy,”
Tikellis said. The lawyer and her colleagues asked Strine in
court filings to award them more than $11 million in fees and
costs for their work in the Barnes & Noble suit.  The judge cut the total award to $7 million for fees and
costs after Barnes & Noble officials objected to the $11 million
request, saying the final figure provided “reasonable reward”
for the plaintiffs’ efforts.  The case is In re Barnes & Noble Stockholder Derivative
Litigation, 4813, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 