-- Twitter Deputizes Masses of Political Pundits at Conventions
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-09-05T14:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/twitter-deputizes-millions-of-pundits-at-political-conventions.html
Gone are the days when politicians
can sleep easy if their convention speeches please television
talking heads and newspaper columnists. Now, they also need
 Facebook  “likes” and Twitter “retweets” by millions of
followers.  Social media prowess is on display during the Democratic
National Convention in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , this week and
at the Republican gathering last week in Tampa,  Florida . The
dominant platforms, Twitter Inc. and Facebook Inc., are hosting
events and keeping track of who’s up and who’s down, socially
speaking.  “We’re measuring in real-time conversations that used to
only take place at coffee shops and water coolers,” said Adam Sharp, San Francisco-based Twitter’s head of government, news
and social innovation.  First Lady  Michelle Obama ’s speech last night captivated
Twitter, inspiring more than double the tweets-per-minute as
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ’s address Aug. 30,
the company said in a blog post. The first night of the
Democratic convention saw 3 million tweets, 1 million shy of the
total tweets during the entire three-day Republican gathering,
Twitter said in the post.  Four years ago, the term “social media” wasn’t widely
used. On Election Day in 2008, there were 1.8 million tweets;
now that many tweets are sent every six minutes, said Rachael
Horwitz, a Twitter spokeswoman. In 2008, Facebook was popular
mostly among college students. This year, there are more than
110,000 political Facebook pages in the U.S. and 11,000 pages
for politicians, said Andrew Noyes, manager of public policy and
communication for Facebook.  Masses Mobilized  Most candidates also use blog network Tumblr, photo-sharing
site Instagram and niche web venues like Pinterest to spread
their messages.  “This will be, without a doubt, the most socially
connected election season ever,” said Joe Green, president and
co-founder of NationBuilder. The Los Angeles-based company helps
campaigns organize their online presence. “Democracy in its
most basic form is really about mobilization of the masses, and
that is what social media enables at the grassroots level.”  President  Barack Obama  and Romney are spending millions of
dollars to advertise online, including with placed media with
 Menlo Park , California-based Facebook and Twitter. Last week,
Romney’s team became the first political campaign to purchase a
“trending topic” on Twitter, ensuring that his message would
pop up prominently in the social network’s stream.  ‘Equal Footing’  The presidential candidates’ campaigns have digital
strategists on their payrolls and also work with firms such as
Targeted Victory, which helps Republicans, and its Democratic
counterpart, Blue State Digital.  When Obama takes the stage in Charlotte Sept. 6, he will
essentially have 19 million potential publicists to spread his
message. That’s how many Twitter followers he has, making his
account the sixth most popular in the world -- behind stars such
as Lady Gaga and Justin Bieber.  Led by Obama and his 2008 technology team, Democrats have
dominated social media. Yet Republicans, in some ways, are now
“on equal footing,” said Katie Harbath, a Facebook public
policy manager and liaison to Republicans. Romney has more than
1 million Twitter followers and, like Obama, multiple Facebook
pages.  Last week, Romney had more than 2 million people posting
about him on Facebook -- at times more than Obama, Harbath said.
She said Romney leveraged the convention to build his social
media base, gaining more than 1 million fans during the week.
Romney got more juice on Twitter during his wife’s speech than
his own, Sharp said.  No one touched  Clint Eastwood  during the Republican
convention.  @InvisibleObama’s Seat  The surprise speaker spawned a Twitter tsunami when he
addressed an empty chair as if it were Obama. The Obama campaign
quickly posted a photo of the president in a chair and the
message, “This seat’s taken.” As of Sept. 4, it had been
retweeted more than 54,000 times -- the most activity of anyone
during the Republican convention and the second most ever from
Obama’s account.  A spoof Twitter account @InvisibleObama, featuring a
picture of an empty chair, quickly popped up and now has more
than 68,000 followers.  Politicians are taking extra steps on social media to
highlight their activities during the conventions.  Political Index  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  started a special
“Twitter handle” -- @ChristieKeynote -- that attracted 7,766
followers and featured backstage photos of himself. Oklahoma
Governor Mary Fallin shared photos from the convention floor in
Tampa with the 26,000-plus people who have “liked” her
Facebook page.  Vice presidential candidate  Paul Ryan  peaked during his
speech with about 6,000 tweets-per-minute when he spoke about
his faith and again when talked about  government spending .  Twitter and Facebook are going one level deeper, measuring
how well the presidential candidates are connecting with their
audiences in addition to how often.  There’s a daily “Twitter Political Index,” which analyzes
the 400 million tweets per day on Twitter to discern how users
feel about Obama and Romney. The social network has partnered
with two polling firms and analytics company Topsy to validate
data.  A score of 25, as Obama had Sept. 4, means that tweets
about him are more positive than 25 percent of all other Twitter
messages. Romney had a score of 14 the same day. Fifty or above
is considered good, Sharp said.  Trend Line  More telling, though is movement from day to day, and both
candidates’ scores had been dropping in recent days, until
yesterday. The trend line of improving or deteriorating
sentiment closely follows the movement of Gallup poll approval
ratings.  Through a partnership with  CNN ,  Facebook (FB)  is tracking
sentiment about the candidates through the volume of Facebook
activity about the election. The site, cnn.com/fbinsights,
enables visitors to view trends occurring in different states,
age groups and male versus female.  Just as the politicians have adapted to social media,
social media is adapting to politics: Twitter and Facebook both
have employees roving throughout the conventions and have
sponsored parties and events to raise their profile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  