-- Romanian Oltchim Management Resigns as Government Plans Sale
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-09-05T14:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/two-big-investors-interested-in-oltchim-romanian-premier-says.html
The management of Romanian  Oltchim
SA (OLT)  including the chief executive officer resigned and employees
staged a protest as the government prepares to sell a majority
stake in the chemical company this month.  CEO Constantin Roibu, who has led Oltchim for two decades,
and 16 other directors, quit, citing a “lack of dialog” with
the head of the  Economy Ministry ’s industrial asset-sale office,
Remus Vulpescu. Communication problems blocked financing
initiatives, according to a statement sent to the Bucharest
Stock Exchange today. About 200 employees demonstrated in front
of the company today because of unpaid salaries over the past
two months, private television station Realitatea TV said.  Prime Minister Victor Ponta said two “big” investors are
interested in acquiring a majority stake in Oltchim, which the
company plans to sell through an auction on Sept. 18. as part of
a pledge to the  International Monetary Fund . He must sell
Oltchim shares and a minority stake in natural-gas grid operator
 Transgaz SA (TGN)  this month to get IMF board approval to unlock the
next tranche of its precautionary accord.  “There is no other solution for Oltchim, but to have a
private investor willing to keep the jobs and secure the needed
financing because the government can’t afford to pump money into
the company anymore,” Ponta said today in Bucharest after a
government meeting.  Funding Conditions  Vulpescu conditioned the funding needed for Oltchim’s
working capital and wages on the replacement of the company’s
management, Oltchim also said in the statement.  The government also needs to cut the overdue debt of local
authorities and increase natural-gas prices, the fund’s Mission
Chief Erik de Vrijer said on Aug. 14.  “We were concerned at one point that no company will show
interest in Oltchim and now we have two big companies from two
totally different geographical areas,” Ponta said.  The Economy Ministry plans to sell its 188 million Oltchim
shares at an indicative price of 0.1 lei a share and will also
offer the company debt to the state of about 1.8 billion lei
($502 million) after it failed to convert the debt into shares
because of a disagreement with minority shareholders, according
to an Aug. 27 statement.  Oltchim’s buyer will have the option to purchase  OMV Petrom
SA (SNP) ’s Arpechim refinery after negotiating terms with  Romania ’s
biggest oil company.  Petrom’s majority owner,  OMV AG (OMV) , and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  plan
to invest about $1 billion in the country, Ponta said after
meeting with representatives of the two companies yesterday.  Petrom and Exxon are prospecting the Neptun Block, located
170 kilometers (106 miles) off the Romanian Black Sea shore in
water about 1,000 meters deep, which holds a potentially “big
discovery” of natural gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  