-- Yanzhou Tumbles as Rate-Cut Doubts Sink ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-09-05T20:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/yanzhou-tumbles-as-rate-cut-doubts-sink-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks fell for a fifth day
in New York and  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  plunged to a three-year
low on concern the government isn’t taking enough steps to boost
growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. sank 1 percent to 86.29 at the close
of trading in New York, posting the longest string of declines
since May 18. Yanzhou Coal, China’s fourth-largest producer of
the fuel, dropped to the lowest since July 2009. Trading in
 Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) ’s shares was halted after the
company said it will start a probe into its units following a
state television report.  China’s Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology 
lowered its forecast for industrial output this year to about 10
percent growth from a December target of 11 percent. The
revision comes as HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics’
purchasing managers’ index for  service industries  fell to 52
from 53.1 in July, the third survey to show a  slowdown  this
month. The People’s Bank of China has held off signaling further
easing measures after two interest rate cuts this year.  “We’re seeing more data showing growth slowing in China
but we’re also seeing very few signs that the central bank is
interested in aggressive easing,”  Timothy Ghriskey , the chief
investment officer at Solaris Group LLC, which manages about $2
billion in assets, said in a phone interview from  Bedford Hills ,
New York. “If the central bank stays on the sidelines, we don’t
see a short-term catalyst that might send us in a different
direction.”  Slowdown Accelerated  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined for a second day,
declining 0.9 percent to $32.17. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
fell 0.1 percent to 1,403.44.  The Chinese ministry’s forecast indicates that the
government recognizes that the slowdown has accelerated after
 growth  dipped to a three-year low of 7.6 percent last quarter.
Factory output  increased  9.2 percent in July from a year
earlier, bringing gains for the first seven months of the year
to 10.3 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics’ report that showed
a decline in new service sector orders raised concern  China’s
economy  risks slowing for a seventh consecutive quarter. Service
industries account for about 43 percent of China’s economy
compared with about 90 percent in the U.S. Under China’s current
five-year plan, the government aims to raise the share of
services in gross domestic product to 47 percent by 2015, the
official Xinhua News Agency said in May.  Curtail Speculation  Despite slowing growth, Chinese monetary authorities have
resisted calls for further interest rate cuts in an effort to
curtail speculation in their property and real estate markets,
Ghriskey said.  “Evidently, they’ve been successful in holding down
housing and property prices, so we don’t see the central bank
reversing itself,” he said. “In a period of slowing growth,
even at China’s comparatively high level, there is risk to the
downside for stocks.”  American depositary receipts of Yanzhou Coal fell 6 percent
to $13.20 after  shares  in  Hong Kong  declined 6.1 percent to
HK$10.38, or $1.34. One ADR is equal to 10 ordinary shares.  Coal mines worldwide will be forced to curtail
metallurgical production to stem falling prices for the
steelmaking component,  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  said.
Fourth-quarter benchmark prices will fall to $190 a metric ton,
down 9.5 percent from a previous estimate of $210, the  St.
Petersburg , Florida-based investment bank said in a report
yesterday.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of commodities
dropped 0.6 percent to 668.72.  Ambow Sinks  Ambow plunged 27 percent to $2.27, the most since the
company’s initial public offering in the U.S. in August 2010,
before trading was halted.  China’s Central Television said on Sept. 3 that Ambow’s
one-on-one education unit exaggerated staff training results and
that the schools’ registrations with industry regulators were
incomplete, according to a  statement  by Ambow posted on Sept. 4.
Ambow said it will start an investigation into the issues
“immediately,” discipline the persons involved and take
corrective steps.  Ambow Chief Strategy Officer Jenny Zhan, in a phone
interview yesterday from Beijing, said it’s not the company’s
policy to encourage staff to exaggerate training results. “The
company’s investigation on the CCTV allegations is still
ongoing, which doesn’t mean we admit everything the TV report
said,” she said.  ‘Disconcerting’  The company reported a $12.7 million net loss for the first
quarter on July 4, compared with $2 million net income for the
same period in 2011.  “It’s disconcerting,”  Trace Urdan , an analyst at  Wells
Fargo & Co ., said in a phone interview from  San Francisco .
“It’s not like they’re asserting financial fraud but this is
coming from state television, which is serious. This definitely
keeps Ambow in the penalty box for some additional period of
time.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.3 percent yesterday to
2,037.68, its lowest since February 2009, while the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
lost 1.9 percent, the most since July 23, to 9,020.34.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 Tbarak@bloomberg.net  