-- Zloty Slides to 6-Week as Low Slowdown Signs Boost Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-09-05T10:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-05/zloty-slides-to-6-week-as-low-slowdown-signs-boost-rate-cut-bets.html
The zloty retreated to a six-week
low with economists from Citigroup Inc. to ING Groep NV
expecting the Polish central bank to signal readiness to cut
 interest rates  today as the debt crisis saps economic growth.  The zloty slid 0.4 percent to 4.2112 per euro, the weakest
level since July 25, as of 11:24 a.m. in Warsaw. It declined 1
percent so far in September for the second-steepest loss among
more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Polish central bank, the only one in the European Union
to raise borrowing costs this year, will “significantly tone
down its statement” and remove references to the “restrictive
bias of the monetary authorities” following today’s meeting,
 Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at Citigroup said in an e-mailed
note today. He is among the 27 of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg who expect that the  main interest rate  will stay at
4.75 percent. Policy makers may reduce rates in October,
according to ING and Citigroup.  “The statement today will de facto pre-announce the rate-
cutting cycle,” Janusz Dancewicz, chief economist at DZ Bank
Polska SA in Warsaw, wrote in an e-mailed comment. “An
unexpected rate cut today could weaken the zloty even further.”  Investors in interest rate derivatives have increased their
bets that the borrowing costs will fall this year after an Aug.
30 report showed  economic expansion  slowed to the weakest pace
in 11 quarters in the three months to June 30. Polish
manufacturing declined in August as output of goods slowed the
most in more than three years, HSBC Holdings Plc said this week.  “We are expecting a change in the policy bias and the
rhetorics to suggest a rate cut in October,”  Rafal Benecki  and
Grzegorz Ogonek, economists at ING in Warsaw wrote in an
e-mailed report today. “A cut today would be taken as a signal
of panic and significant worsening in economic prospects.”  ‘Overly Aggressive’  Three-month forward-rate agreements are trading 47 basis
points below the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate today compared
with 30 basis points a month ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “While we acknowledge that the central bank is slowly
gearing itself up for a rate cut, we believe that this pricing
is overly aggressive,” Guillaume Salomon, a London-based
strategist, and Jaroslaw Janecki, an economist in Warsaw at
 Societe Generale , SA wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today.  They recommend investors pay fixed rate on three-month
forward rate agreements in anticipation the contracts will rise
to 4.85 percent from 4.5 percent today.  The central bank will announce its decision in early
afternoon, followed by a 4 p.m. statement and news conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  