-- Samsung Accused by Apple of Violating Order in Infringement Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/apple-claims-samsung-violated-order-in-infringement-case-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  was accused
by Apple Inc. of violating a court order in a patent-
infringement case by failing to produce source code as directed
by a judge.  Samsung “only partially complied with” a court order
requiring the company to produce source code for products such
as its its 4G smartphone and Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer,
which Apple claims violate its patents, according to a filing
yesterday in federal court in  San Jose ,  California .  As of the Dec. 31 court-ordered deadline, Samsung produced
source code for just one version of each of the products Apple
accuses of infringement, and withheld code for all other
versions, Apple claims. A trial in the case is set for Aug. 25.  “At this point in the case, it is too late for Apple to
make meaningful use of any late produced source code,” Apple
said in the filing. Expert reports in the case are due in less
than two weeks, “which would leave insufficient time for
Apple’s experts to analyze any new code,” Apple claimed.  The same court ruled Dec. 3 against Apple’s request to
block Samsung from selling its 4G smartphone and Galaxy Tab 10.1
tablet computer in the U.S. That order followed an Australian
court ruling that lifted an injunction on the tablet in the
country. Samsung, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones,
and Apple have filed at least 30 suits on four continents
against each other since April.  Denied Evidence  In yesterday’s filing, Apple asked the court to prohibit
Samsung from relying on the source code it failed to produce in
defending the infringement claims.  Apple also argued that because it must build a case against
each version of the Samsung products it accuses of infringement,
and it has been denied evidence required to do so, the court
should rule that the products Samsung provided source code for
to be “representative of all versions of that product.”  Amy Grenek, a Samsung spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  