-- Chelsea Wins in U.K. Premier League Soccer; Bolton Moves Out of Relegation
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-10T19:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/chelsea-wins-in-premier-league-bolton-moves-out-of-relegation.html
Chelsea beat 10-man Stoke 1-0 in
English soccer’s Premier League, as Bolton moved out of the
relegation spots with a controversial 2-1 win over QPR.  Didier Drogba  scored as Chelsea gave interim manager
Roberto Di Matteo a victory in his first league match. Ivan Klasnic’s goal in the 86th minute lifted Bolton over QPR, which
had a goal wrongly disallowed in the first half.  “Today is a very valuable three points,” Bolton manager
Owen Coyle told  Sky Sports . “We’ve managed to leapfrog them and
it was important to win today.”  Everton beat Tottenham 1-0, Blackburn won 2-0 at
Wolverhampton, Sunderland beat Liverpool 1-0 and  Aston Villa 
defeated Fulham 1-0.  Drogba’s second-half goal at Stamford Bridge gave Chelsea a
fourth win in 13 league matches. The Blues were playing their
first league game since Andre Villas-Boas was fired on March 4
and replaced to the end of the season by Di Matteo.  Stoke’s Ricardo Fuller received a red card in the first
half for stamping on Branislav Ivanovic. Chelsea finally took
advantage of the extra man in the 68th minute when Drogba scored
his 100th Premier League goal off a pass from  Juan Mata .  Drogba, Mata and  John Terry  all hit the post for the Blues,
who now match fourth-place Arsenal with 49 points.  Bolton’s first win in six games moved it up to 17th in the
20-team league, one point ahead of QPR, which dropped into the
three relegation places.  Goal-Line Technology  QPR’s Clint Hill had a goal wrongly disallowed by referee
 Martin Atkinson  in the 20th minute. Television replays showed
the ball crossed the goal line before goalkeeper Adam Bogdan
cleared it away.  “Martin Atkinson is a good referee, but he didn’t get any
support today from his two assistants,” QPR manager  Mark Hughes 
told Sky Sports. “We can’t have key moments in games being
officiated the way they are at the moment.”  The Football Association subsequently issued a statement
reiterating its support for goal-line technology.  “The F.A. has been a leading proponent of goal-line
technology for many years,” it said in a  statement  on its
website. “We will continue to press for its introduction once
further independent testing is complete later this year, so that
anyone wishing to introduce the technology is able to do so at
the earliest possible opportunity.”  Darren Pratley gave Bolton the lead in the 37th minute
before  Djibril Cisse  tied it for QPR early in the second half.
Klasnic then scored the winning goal six minutes after coming on
as a substitute.  Nikica Jelavic scored as Everton beat Tottenham at home to
extend its unbeaten run to eight games. The Toffees had beaten
first-place  Manchester City  and Chelsea in their previous two
home games.  Third Loss  Jermain Defoe  had a goal disallowed for offside and  Louis Saha  hit the post in stoppage time as third-place Tottenham lost
its third straight game.  Junior Hoilett scored once in each half as Blackburn posted
its first clean sheet of the season to move three points clear
of the relegation zone. Wolves lost for the third time in four
games to drop to 19th place, two points above Wigan.  Nicklas Bendtner’s goal in the second half as Sunderland
handed Liverpool its third straight loss. Andreas Weimann scored
in second-half injury time as Aston Villa won for the first time
in eight home games.  Manchester City visits Swansea,  Manchester United  faces
West Brom and Wigan is at Norwich in tomorrow’s games. Arsenal
hosts Newcastle in two days and can pull within a point of
Tottenham with a win.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  