-- China Has Biggest Trade Shortfall Since 1989 on Europe Turmoil
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/china-has-largest-trade-deficit-since-1989-as-imports-gain-1-.html
China had its largest trade deficit
since at least 1989 last month as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
turmoil damped exports and imports rebounded after a weeklong
holiday.  The shortfall was $31.5 billion, the  customs bureau  said
yesterday. Imports rose 39.6 percent from a year earlier, after
a 15.3 percent slump in January, while exports increased 18.4
percent, the bureau said. Data in the first two months are
distorted by the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday, which
fell in January this year and February in 2011.  The data, along with lower-than-forecast inflation,
industrial output and retail sales reported March 9, raise the
odds PremierWen Jiabao will ease policies to support growth in
the world’s second-biggest economy. Commerce Minister Chen Deming’s warning last week that boosting trade by 10 percent
this year will require “arduous efforts” may also signal a
slower pace of yuan gains as policy makers seek to aid exporters.  “Easing inflation and weakening economic activity send a
strong signal for further loosening in the upcoming months,”
said Shen Jianguang, Hong Kong-based chief greater  China 
economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  The government is likely to cut banks’ required reserves in
March, the third reduction in four months, while appreciation in
the yuan will be “difficult,” said Shen, who previously worked
for the  International Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank .  Weaker Yuan  China has allowed its currency to weaken against the dollar
this year, aiding exporters, as Europe’s debt crisis clouds the
outlook for overseas sales. Chen, speaking to reporters March 7,
said the yuan  exchange rate  is in a reasonable range.  The nation may “appropriately” widen the yuan’s trading
band to better reflect market supply and demand, People’s Bank
of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said, according to a March 5
report by the official Xinhua News Agency.  The deficit was the first in a year and largest in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1990. The previous record
shortfall during that time was $7.87 billion in February 2004.
It compared with the median estimate for a $5.35 billion deficit
in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists. Analysts forecast a
31.1 percent gain in exports from a year earlier and a 31.8
percent increase in imports.  Some analysts lowered estimates for export growth after
Chen said March 7 that outbound shipments rose about 7 percent
over the first two months of the year, a figure confirmed in
yesterday’s release. Nomura Holdings Inc. forecast a gain of
18.7 percent, while Societe Generale SA projected 18 percent.  Seasonal Adjustments  The relatively fast nominal growth in trade resulted from
the timing of the Lunar New Year, the customs bureau said.
Including seasonal adjustments, exports in February rose 4
percent from a year earlier while imports gained 9.4 percent, it
said.  Asian stocks gained March 9 on speculation China’s
government will take steps to boost growth. The MSCI Asia
Pacific  Index (MXAP)  rose 0.7 percent, while China’s benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index increased 0.8 percent. The yuan rose 0.09
percent to 6.3107 against the dollar.  February exports totaled $114.5 billion, while imports were
$146 billion. China’s shipments to the U.S. climbed 22.6 percent
from a year earlier to $19.4 billion after a 5.4 percent gain
the previous month, the data show. Imports from the U.S. jumped
43.4 percent to $11 billion.  Overseas sales to the European Union, China’s biggest
market last year, rose 2.2 percent to $19.4 billion, after a 3.2
percent drop in January.  Copper Imports  Imports of copper by China last month were the second-
highest on record, the data showed, after the weeklong holiday
slowed  customs clearance  in January.  Net crude oil imports increased to a record to meet rising
demand as farmers prepare for the planting season and the
government adds to emergency stockpiles. The average price of
February’s crude imports was $112.39 a barrel, up from $92.28 in
the same month last year, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Wen, in his state-of-the-nation work report to lawmakers at
the National People’s Congress last week, said the government
will “carry out timely and appropriate anticipatory adjustments
and fine-tuning” of fiscal and monetary policies.  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the largest maker of solar
panels, said increased competition and government subsidy cuts
will lead to a first-quarter drop in shipments, according to a
statement March 8 from the Wuxi, China-based company. Deliveries
in the first quarter will decline by about 30 percent from the
fourth quarter, it said.  The nation will still see a sizable  trade surplus  for the
full year, as the deficit early in 2012 is largely seasonal,
according to Song Yu, a Beijing-based economist with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in Taipei and
Regina Tan, Huang Zhe,  Helen Sun , Baizhen Chua, Huiwen Yang and
Lily Lou in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  