-- Dollar Reaches 10-Month High as Jobs Gains Dim Outlook for More Fed Easing
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-10T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/dollar-climbs-on-reduced-stimulus-prospects-euro-falls-on-swap.html
The dollar strengthened, touching a
10-month high versus the yen, as better-than-forecast payrolls
damped Federal Reserve monetary stimulus speculation.  The euro fell for a second week against the dollar as
Greece’s use of collective-action clauses forcing investors to
take losses under the nation’s debt restructuring will trigger
payouts on $3 billion of default insurance. Mexico’s peso and
 Canada ’s dollar rose against their 16 most-traded currencies
amid stronger economic data for their biggest trading partner.
The Dollar Index reached three-week high before the central bank
holds and policy meeting March 13.  “The payrolls news sets the stage for the Fed finding it
increasingly difficult to talk about further quantitative
easing,” said Shahab Jalinoos, a senior currency strategist in
Stamford,  Connecticut , for UBS AG. “A trend of stronger dollar
seems to be establishing itself. The currencies that are bucking
that trend seem to be Mexican peso and Canadian dollar, which
people see as better variations of the U.S. dollar.”  The dollar added 0.8 percent to 82.46 yen in  New York , its
fifth week of gains, the longest streak since March 2009. The
euro fell 0.6 percent to $1.3123, in its first back-to-back
weekly loss since Jan. 13. The Japanese currency weakened 0.2
percent to 108.22 per euro.  Futures Data  Futures traders  increased net bets that the euro will
weaken against the dollar. Wagers the shared currency will fall
against the greenback exceeded those that will rise by 116,473
for the week ended March 6, figures from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators are betting that
the yen will fall against the dollar. Net-shorts for the yen
were 19,358, compared with 1,203 a week earlier, the first time
the market was net-short yen since May. A short is a bet that an
asset will decline in value.  The euro reached a one-week high on March 8 amid
speculation  Greece  had attracted enough public-sector
involvement to carry out its debt-swap. It weakened as a report
showed the region’s economy contracted last quarter.  Europe ’s
gross domestic product shrank 0.3 percent from the third
quarter, the region’s statistics office said March 6.  The  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged on March 8 and President  Mario Draghi  said recent
surveys showed signs of regional economic stabilization.  European News  “Investor mindset is such that they’re just shunning
European-denominated assets,”  Samarjit Shankar , a managing
director for the foreign-exchange group in Boston at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. said March 6. “You see this spate of news
flow coming out showing that leading policy makers around the
world coming to terms with growth being at a premium.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, advanced 0.6 percent to 79.959.  It touched 80.061, the highest since Feb. 16 as U.S.
nonfarm payrolls increased by 227,000 in February after rising
by a revised 284,000 the prior month, data from the Labor
Department showed yesterday. The  unemployment rate  held at a
three-year low of 8.3 percent.  “If the data continue to improve, however gradually, the
markets should begin preparing themselves for the good Dr. Fed
to wean them from their dependency rather than administer
further dosage,” Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  President
Richard Fisher said March 5 in a speech in Dallas.  Canada Jobs  Canada’s dollar was the second-best performer against its
U.S. counterpart this week as the better-than-forecast payrolls
in its largest trading partner outweighed a weaker-than-
projected domestic report.  The Canadian currency weakened 0.1 percent to 99.05 cents
per  U.S. dollar . It touched C$1.0029 on March 6, the weakest
level since Feb. 27. Mexico’s peso rose 0.9 percent to 12.6425
per dollar.  Japan ’s yen weakened after reported a record current-
account deficit, the biggest shortfall since comparable data
began in 1985, undermining the currency’s haven status.  The yen’s weakness against growth-linked currencies such as
the Australian and New Zealand dollars, after China said it will
lower its target for economic growth to 7.5 percent, compared to
9.2 percent in 2011.  The yen has declined 6.9 percent in the past three months,
the worst performer among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
fell 0.5 percent, and euro slid 2.7 percent.  Carry Trade  Borrowing yen at almost zero percent to invest in
Australia’s dollar,  Mexico ’s peso,  Brazil ’s real and South
Korea’s won returned 0.4 percent this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The trade using euros would result in a
0.7 percent gain compared with a 0.6 percent loss using dollars.  Norway’s krone weakened after Trade Minister Trond Giske
said its strength was hurting exports. Verbal intervention has
increased in an attempt to contain the krone’s ascent after the
currency climbed to a nine-year high of 7.3884 per euro this
month. The krone fell 1.7 percent to 5.7007 per dollar and 1.1
percent to 7.4805 per euro.  Brazil’s real tumbled 3.5 percent to 1.7912 per dollar. It
touched 1.7943, the weakest since Jan. 13.  The Brazilian government may reduce the maturity of short-
term trade loans backed by export contracts, known as ACC, from
360 days currently, Sao Paulo-based newspaper  Valor Economico 
reported March 7. It may also impose a tax on loans from
companies outside Brazil to subsidiaries in the country, Valor
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  