-- Egypt Reports February Inflation Accelerated on Increases in Food Prices
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-03-10T06:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/egypt-reports-february-inflation-accelerated-on-increases-in-food-prices.html
Egypt ’s  inflation  rate accelerated
in February on rising food prices, one of the causes of unrest
that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011.  The annual inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt, the
gauge the central bank monitors, increased to 9.2 percent from
8.6 percent in January, the official statistics agency said on
its website today. Food and beverage costs, the biggest
component of the consumer-price index, increased an annualized
12.6 percent compared with 11.2 percent in January.  February’s higher inflation figure follows “a depreciated
 exchange rate  as compared to the previous year,” said Nada
Farid, a Cairo-based economist at investment bank Beltone
Financial. “We believe the Central Bank of Egypt will keep
policy rates unchanged” at its upcoming meeting, “to balance
between slight inflationary pressures and still-weak economic
prospects.”  Gross domestic product expanded 0.4 percent in the three
months ended Dec. 31, compared with growth of 0.2 percent in the
previous quarter and 5.6 percent a year earlier, according to a
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation report. The
economy grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal year through June, the
slowest pace in at least a decade.  Egypt has requested a $3.2 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund , part of support sought by the
government to boost an economy struggling to recover from a year
of unrest in the wake of the uprising that ousted Mubarak last
February.  Egypt’s central bank on Feb. 2 left the overnight deposit
rate unchanged at 9.25 percent and the overnight lending rate at
10.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  