-- EU Commissioner Says Polish Veto Won’t Stop EU Carbon-Reduction Measures
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-03-10T16:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/eu-commissioner-says-polish-veto-won-t-stop-eu-carbon-reduction-measures.html
The European Union will propose
further measures to cut  greenhouse gases  after  Poland  vetoed a
declaration on emissions-reduction policies, EU Climate
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said.  At a meeting of European environment ministers yesterday in
Brussels, the Polish government blocked a declaration on the
path for the EU to meet a political goal of cutting greenhouse
gases including CO2 by at least 80 percent in 2050. The veto,
Poland’s second in nine months, was “bad news,” Hedegaard said
in a statement today.  “The good and encouraging news is that Poland was the only
country to block,” Hedegaard said. “The other 26 member states
explicitly asked the commission to move on, and that is what we
will do.”  Denmark, which holds the EU rotating presidency in the
first half of this year, had sought support from all member
countries for the cheapest potential emission-reduction targets
identified by the European Commission. The commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, said in a strategy paper last year that the best
scenario for  Europe  would be to cut emissions by 40 percent in
2030 and 60 percent in 2040 compared with 1990 levels.  The EU, the world’s biggest market for  emissions trading ,
is on schedule to meet its binding goal of lowering discharges
of greenhouse gases by 20 percent in 2020. The bloc may exceed
this target and reduce emissions by 25 percent as long as
nations step up energy savings, the commission said in the paper
known as the 2050 low-carbon road map.  Coal Dependence  To ensure nations meet their political pledge of increasing
energy efficiency by 20 percent in 2020, the commission last
year proposed a law that is now being discussed by member states
and the European Parliament.  Denmark  has said it hopes the EU
will adopt the legislation by the end of June.  “Now the commission will work on further measures needed
to reach the cost-efficient milestones that will lead us to a
low-carbon future,” Hedegaard said.  Poland relies on coal for about 90 percent of its
electricity generation and blocked an EU declaration on climate
policies in June last year. It has repeatedly said it would
oppose any more stringent climate policies than those already
agreed. Poland also objects to any decisions on post-2020 goals
before Europe gets more clarity on a global emissions-reduction
deal that countries worldwide agreed to achieve by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  