-- Foxconn to Hire for Safety, Lifestyle Posts at Apple-Linked Unit
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-03-10T06:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/foxconn-to-hire-safety-and-lifestyle-staff-at-apple-unit.html
Foxconn Technology Group (FOXCGZ) , targeted
by labor groups for criticism over its working conditions, is
seeking a safety and security officer, a lifestyle services
manager and two fire chiefs for a China unit that supplies  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)   Foxconn’s Integrated Digital Products Business Group
advertised the positions in the southern China city of Shenzhen
on human resources website  cjol.com . The group is one of two
Foxconn units that supply to Apple.  Apple, which contracts Foxconn to make its iPhones and
iPads, in January became the first technology company to join
the Fair Labor Association, opening up suppliers’ factories to
inspections by the Washington-based group after complaints by
human rights organizations. The group found “tons of issues,”
while also seeing “dramatic” improvements, FLA Chief Executive
Officer Auret van Heerden said last month.  “Yes we are hiring these positions,” said Louis Woo,
chairman of Foxconn’s retail division, declining to comment
further. Foxconn, the world’s largest custom manufacturer of
electronics, employs more than 1.2 million people in 18
countries, most of them in  China . In addition to Apple,
customers include Microsoft Corp., Sony Corp., Hewlett-Packard
Co. and Dell Inc.  Excessive Overtime  Apple, criticized by organizations including China Labor
Watch for conditions at its suppliers, has said infractions
occurred including excessive overtime and environmental
violations. It didn’t specify which companies breached its
supplier code of conduct.  Foxconn, founded by chairman Terry Gou in 1974, last month
raised the base pay for junior workers by as much as 25 percent
and said it pays wages higher than government mandates.  The lifestyle manager will be responsible for conditions at
the company’s dormitories, canteens and health departments,
according to the advertisement. The safety and security post
requires a college degree in criminal investigation or legal-
related disciplines, while the fire chiefs must have at least
four years of related experience.  Those positions are among more than 20 advertised on
cjol.com in the past month for the Shenzhen unit, including
production line managers, waste management engineers and energy
conservation engineers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net . 