-- Israel Strikes Gaza as Netanyahu Says Fighting May Continue
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-03-11T12:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/gaza-death-toll-hits-14-in-worst-israel-palestinian-clashes-since-october.html
Israeli airstrikes killed three
Palestinians in the Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip , raising the
death toll to 18, as Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  warned
that attacks will continue “as necessary.”  The Israeli  air force  fired on two squads of militants
preparing to fire rockets today, the army said in e-mailed
statements. In the first strike, a member of the militant
Popular Resistance Committees and a 13-year-old boy were killed,
Gaza health official Adham Abu Selmeya told reporters. The
second killed the watchman at an orange grove, he said.  The fighting, which began on March 9, has been the worst
round of bloodshed since August and comes just days after
Netanyahu returned from a trip to  Canada  and the U.S., where he
said  Israel  must be free to protect itself from any threat.  “We are still in the midst of this round,” Netanyahu told
members of his Cabinet today, according to an e-mailed statement
from his office in  Jerusalem . “We have exacted from them a very
high price. Naturally, we will act as necessary.”  The bloodshed started with an Israeli airstrike on what the
army said were two militants planning an attack from the
Egyptian-controlled Sinai, including Zuhir al-Qaisi, head of the
Popular Resistance Committees.  Rockets Fired  Militants based in Gaza have fired more than 95 rockets at
Israel’s southern towns since March 9, and Israel has hit about
15 targets in the seaside territory. Israel has been concerned
about Sinai-originated violence since eight people were killed
in an attack near the resort city of Eilat in August.  Netanyahu described al-Qaisi as an “arch terrorist” and
said he was “eliminated” in the midst of planning another
similar attack. “We are still on alert,” he said.  Twelve Gaza rockets have struck open areas in southern
Israel since the early morning with no injuries or damage
reported, police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said. Schools in
southern towns and cities were ordered to stay closed today,
affecting some 250,000 students, Rosenfeld said in a phone
interview.  An Israeli army spokeswoman, speaking anonymously in
accordance with regulations, said four Israelis have been
wounded, one seriously. Abu Selmeya said 25 Palestinians have
been wounded.  Civilian Defenses  Netanyahu pledged to boost civilian defense with more Iron
Dome anti-missile systems, which have shot down at least 32
rockets in the current round of violence, the army said.  Israel holds the Hamas Islamic movement that controls Gaza
responsible for all attacks emanating from there, Israeli
Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said today.  “I suggest to all the heads of terrorist organizations
they consider carefully what they are doing, and understand that
even with all our desire for restraint, we will respond,”
Liberman told Israel’s  Army Radio .  Most of those killed in Gaza were members of Islamic Jihad,
a small, militant group supported by  Iran  and considered a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European
Union.  “This is a serious escalation by Israel,” Hamas spokesman
Fawzi Barhoum said in an e-mailed statement to reporters. He
called on the Palestinian Authority in Ramallah to halt security
cooperation with Israel and to “allow a free hand to
Palestinian resistance in response.”  Palestinian Cause  Palestinian Authority spokesman Nabil Abu Rudeina also
blamed Israel for the escalation. “The Israeli intentions are
clear and that is to destroy the Palestinian national cause,”
he said in a phone interview.  Mahmoud Abbas , the  Palestinian Authority  president, ordered
medical aid sent to Gaza as soon as possible, the Palestinian
News & Information Agency-WAFA said.  Yoram Meital, chairman of Ben Gurion University’s Herzog
Center for Middle East Studies in Beersheba, questioned Israel’s
wisdom in carrying out the initial strike. “This could easily
escalate into something even wider than just an exchange of
attacks during this weekend,” he said in a phone interview.  Talal Oukal, a political scientist at Gaza’s Al-Azhar
University, said Israel was using the violence in an attempt to
stop reconciliation between Hamas and Abbas’s Fatah movement.
Israel has said it won’t negotiate with a Palestinian Authority
that includes Hamas.  Hamas, which has ruled Gaza since 2007, is considered a
terrorist group by the U.S., Israel and the European Union. The
group seized full control of the territory in 2007, ousting
forces loyal to Abbas after winning parliamentary elections a
year earlier.  Peace Talks  Peace negotiations between Israel and Abbas’s Palestinian
Authority fell apart in September 2010 when Netanyahu refused to
extend a 10-month building freeze in West Bank settlements and
Abbas said he wouldn’t negotiate unless all construction
stopped.  “Israel is benefitting from the escalation, but it won’t
promote a larger operation because it isn’t interested in one,”
Oukal said by phone, adding that  Egypt  was likely to step in to
mediate a renewal of the unofficial truce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  