-- IMF Scales Back Aid to Greece in Nation’s 2nd Rescue Package
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-03-10T09:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/imf-scales-back-aid-to-greece-in-nation-s-second-bailout-package.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
intends to contribute 18 billion euros ($23.6 billion) in fresh
funds to the second aid package for  Greece , scaling back IMF
help for the nation that triggered  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The planned IMF contribution disclosed yesterday represents
14 percent of the 130 billion-euro second rescue of Greece being
arranged with the euro area. The IMF accounted for 27 percent --
or 30 billion euros -- of Greece’s initial 110 billion-euro
bailout in May 2010.  “The IMF is trying to manage a difficult balance between
staying involved in the rescue package for Greece while limiting
the risk to its own funds,”  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at
the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington  and a former IMF
official, said in an e-mail. The IMF is “increasing its overall
exposure to Greece. This poses both financial and political
risks for the fund.”  Two years after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  insisted
that the IMF play a role in aiding Greece and any other
distressed euro government, the Washington-based lender has
joined the U.S.,  Canada  and other nations in pressing Europe
itself to do more to stem the debt crisis.  Germany , the biggest economy in Europe, has repeatedly
stalled over bolstering the euro area’s bailout firepower amid
skepticism in the country about the merits of aiding euro
nations that flouted European budget-discipline rules.  Smaller Role  The smaller IMF role in the latest Greek bailout leaves 112
billion euros to be provided by the euro area’s rescue fund, the
European Financial Stability Facility, which sells debt to
finance emergency aid. The EFSF has a capacity of 440 billion
euros.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday that
she plans to recommend 28 billion euros in financial aid for
Greece to support its “ambitious economic program over the next
four years.”  The 28 billion euros that Lagarde is proposing include 9.7
billion euros that remained from the previous support package,
the IMF confirmed in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The entire
28 billion euros will need to be approved by the IMF executive
board.  “Restoring competitiveness and a sustainable fiscal
position will require Greece to undertake sustained and deep
structural reforms over a prolonged period,” Lagarde said in a
statement in Washington. “The scale and length of the fund’s
support is a reflection of our determination to remain
engaged.”  Biggest Restructuring  Greece yesterday pushed through the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history after getting private investors to
forgive more than 100 billion euros of debt, opening the way for
the second bailout.  Euro-region finance ministers agreed that, with the swap,
Greece had met the terms for the 130 billion-euro rescue package
arranged with the IMF. Ministers freed up 35.5 billion euros in
payments and interest for bondholders, with a decision on the
balance of the bailout funds to be made at a March 12 meeting in
Brussels.  Greece’s debt swap “exceeded expectations” and gives the
country a “realistic chance” to pare down its debt and
recover, Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said in an
interview today on state-owned broadcaster YLE TV1.  The euro area’s 80 billion-euro share of the first Greek
rescue of 110 billion euros came from national governments. The
Luxembourg-based EFSF was not involved in that package.  The EFSF is committed to providing a total of almost 44
billion euros to the rescues of Ireland and  Portugal  that
followed the initial Greek bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  