-- Mets’ $303 Million Madoff Fraud-Profit Trial to Be Heard by 9-Member Jury
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/judge-sets-rules-for-mets-303-million-trial-over-profit-in-madoff-fraud.html
The New York Mets owners will face
a decision by nine jurors whether they have to pay $303 million
to the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s former firm in a
trial to begin March 19 in  Manhattan .  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, in a hearing yesterday, set
the number of jurors and other ground rules for the trial of
trustee Irving Picard’s claims against Mets owners  Fred Wilpon ,
Saul Katz and a group of related defendants.  Rakoff ruled this week that the Mets defendants must give
up as much as $83 million in fictitious profits from Madoff’s
 Ponzi scheme  and face a trial over whether they acted in bad
faith, a decision that could cost them $303 million more, he
said.  The parties said they expect the trial to take 10 days,
which may result in a verdict before the team opens the season
against the  Atlanta Braves  on April 5.  Rakoff, saying it’s difficult for jurors to absorb too many
facts at the start of a trial, said he will limit opening
statements by each side to 45 minutes. Rakoff said he’s
reluctant to ask jurors to decide too many individual questions
in their verdict, saying they tend to take “holistic views of
cases.”  Social Media  Rakoff said he will instruct jurors not to read about the
case on Facebook and other social media sites, in addition to
avoiding news stories about the case. Robert Wise, a lawyer for
the Mets, told Rakoff he expects that Picard may call Wilpon and
Katz as part of his case.  “The court remains skeptical that the trustee can
ultimately rebut the defendants’ showing of good faith, let
alone impute bad faith to all the defendants,” Rakoff said in
his March 5 ruling. “The principal issue remaining for trial is
whether the defendants acted in good faith when they invested in
Madoff securities in the two years prior to bankruptcy or
whether, by contrast, they willfully blinded themselves to
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.”  The Mets owners had opposed a  jury trial  and tried
unsuccessfully to get Madoff trustee  Irving Picard ’s remaining
lawsuit dismissed after Rakoff cut it to $386 million from $1
billion. Picard’s lawyers had said they were confident a jury
would find the Mets owners knowingly ignored the fraud because
it benefited their businesses, which included real estate as
well as the team.  ‘Willful Blindness’  Picard must prove to a jury that the Mets owners and other
defendants were willfully blind to Madoff’s scheme to recover
the $303 million, representing principal they took from their
Madoff accounts in the two years before the con man’s 2008
arrest, Rakoff said. The Ponzi scheme cost investors an
estimated $20 billion in principal, according to Picard.  “It’s a very hard road for Picard, but going to trial has
little downside for him,” said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer
in Louisville,  Kentucky . “Picard may get a jury to buy willful
blindness and still can appeal” if he doesn’t prevail at trial.  Rakoff said he will decide separately how much of the $83
million must be given up, and by whom. The sum represents
fictitious profit from the Ponzi scheme in the two years before
it collapsed. To take it back, Picard has said he only has to
prove that Madoff was running a fraud.  Mets Defendants  The Mets defendants include partnerships, trusts and
related entities of Wilpon, Katz and their relatives. The two
main entities that own and operate the baseball team are liable
for no more than $30 million of the $83 million, although Wilpon
and Katz personally might owe as much as another $11 million,
according to court documents.  The Mets owners, after losing $500 million in the Ponzi
scheme, have cut the team’s basic payroll to about $90 million
this season, from $140 million last year. They also have sold
seven minority ownership stakes in the team, mostly to existing
business partners, Wilpon said last month. His target is to sell
a total of 10 shares valued at $20 million, each representing
about 4 percent of the franchise.  Rakoff ruled March 5, just hours before the Mets played the
 Washington Nationals  in  Port St. Lucie ,  Florida , in their first
spring training game. The team has won three games and lost
three in spring training so far.  Wilpon and Katz have said they trusted Madoff, who they
said had a solid reputation. Both sides presented conclusions
disguised as facts that might not be admissible at trial, Rakoff
said.  ‘No Substitute’  “Conclusions are no substitute for facts, and too much of
what the parties characterized as bombshells proved to be
nothing but bombast,” he said in the ruling.  If Picard doesn’t present evidence of willful blindness at
trial, the Mets owners could ask Rakoff again to dismiss the
remaining suit.  As the Mets team lost more games than it won, annual
attendance at Citi Field stadium in Queens,  New York , has
dropped 27 percent since 2009, to 2.29 million last year,
according to Standard & Poor’s analyst Jodi Hecht.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina . Picard and his  law firm ,  Baker & Hostetler LLP (1155L) , have
charged about $273 million in fees for liquidating the Madoff
firm since it collapsed in December 2008.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  