-- Napolitano Credits Golf Course With Smoothing Security Role
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-10T16:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/napolitano-credits-golf-course-with-smoothing-security-role.html
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary
 Janet Napolitano  once used golf to open communication with men.  “I remember taking golf lessons in  Arizona  to talk to the
FBI guys,” Napolitano, the state’s former governor, said at the
Women in the World conference in New York. “They didn’t talk at
meetings, but boy did they talk on the golf course.”  Yesterday she prodded her audience to increase the number
of young women in national security and safety positions.
They’ve made up about 35 percent of the profession in the U.S.
since 2005, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics  data .  In the decade that followed a United Nations Security
Council  resolution  to increase women’s participation in global
security and conflict resolution, fewer than 3 percent of
signatories to peace agreements were women, UN figures show.  “Women tend to -- and some men do too -- try to resolve
problems,” said  Jane Harman , a former Democratic congresswoman
from  California  who heads the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars in Washington. “Women are lionesses in
terms of how we protect our families. That fierce instinct to
protect helps all of us perform security.”  Women are also less likely to support war, Harman said at
the  conference  hosted by  Newsweek  and the Daily Beast.  Atifete Jahjaga, the first female president of  Kosovo  or of
any Balkan country, said women’s ability to listen during
conflict is a unique skill.  A Unique Skill  “Our tasks and our obligations are the same; there’s no
difference for being a man or being a woman,” said Jahjaga, who
was elected in an 80-10 vote by lawmakers in April. “What is
additional to us is that we as women are more accountable, are
more responsible. The combination of the decision-making with
the ability of listening is the best combination that one leader
should have.”  Washington  Police Chief Cathy Lanier said she focused on
taking care of her young son during the early part of her law
enforcement career. Now, curtailing homicides is among her top
priorities. Last year they dropped  18 percent  and the
department’s homicide closure rate was 95 percent compared with
a 57 percent national average.  “I didn’t ever have a dream of being the chief,” she
said. “I was a young single mother, with a drive to take care
of my son. It was due to a few very enlightened men, like the
mayor who appointed me to be the chief, that I had these
opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Kassenaar at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net  