-- Moscow Vote Fraud Protests Cool as Police Say Rally Draws 10,000
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-03-10T14:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/moscow-vote-fraud-protests-cool-as-police-say-rally-draws-10-000.html
Demonstrators took to a central
avenue in Moscow today to challenge  Vladimir Putin ’s election
win as vote-fraud protests showed signs of cooling.  While  City Hall  gave permission for 50,000 to gather on
Moscow’s Novy Arbat, about 10,000 people came, police spokesman
Maksim Kolosvetov said by phone today. The number was more than
double that at 25,000, opposition leader  Vladimir Ryzhkov  told
demonstrators.  Parliamentary elections in December sparked the biggest
street protests in  Russia ’s post-Soviet history as tens of
thousands rallied amid mass reports of ballot-stuffing. Prime-
minister Vladimir Putin secured his return to the presidency for
a third term, winning almost 64 percent of the vote in March 4
elections that international observers criticized as unfair.  “The protest wave is going down,” said Ilya Venyavkin,
30, a historian who attended the gathering on Novy Arbat, a
central avenue where traffic is blocked daily as high-ranked
officials speed to the Kremlin in motorcades. “But the social
network, that appeared during these months is here to stay.”  Today’s demonstration saw a fraction of the turnout on Feb.
4 when Putin’s opponents said they gathered at least 120,000 in
subzero temperatures for a march to Bolotnaya Square, an island
south of the Kremlin. City police put the number at 36,000. A
pro-government rally held that day near a World War II memorial
park mustered 138,000 people, Moscow police said.  Police Detentions  Activist Sergei Udaltsov was detained today by police as he
sought to lead dozens of demonstrators in a march after
permitted hours, Interfax reported, citing police. About 60
people were held in  St. Petersburg  for gathering without
approval from the city administration, Interfax said.  “The movement should search for new formats,” Leonid Parfyonov, a TV-presenter and co-founder of the Voters League,
an independent elections watchdog, said by phone today.  The theme of vote fraud has been exhausted as a rallying
call and demonstrations will fizzle by summer, Valery Fedorov,
head of the All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion 
said by phone in a Feb. 29 interview.  Putin’s victory gives the former KGB officer a six-year
term in the job he ceded to protege Dmitry Medvedev in 2008
after eight years because of a limit on serving more than two
consecutive terms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  