-- Quarterback Mark Sanchez Reaches Agreement With Jets for Extra Three Years
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-03-10T05:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/quarterback-mark-sanchez-reaches-agreement-with-jets-for-extra-three-years.html
Quarterback  Mark Sanchez  reached
an agreement with the  New York Jets  to extend his contract by
three years through the 2016 season, the team said.  Terms weren’t disclosed by the team. The three-year deal is
worth $40.5 million, ESPN reported, citing a person with the
 National Football League . The five-year total of $58.25 million,
with $20.5 million fully guaranteed, makes him the seventh
highest paid quarterback, the sports network reported.  The deal includes an additional $10 million in potential
escalation, ESPN said.  Sanchez directed the team to an 8-8 record that missed the
playoffs last season. He had two years left on the contract he
signed after being selected by the Jets in the 2009 draft. In
his first two seasons, he led the team to the American Football
Conference championship game as a wild card.  “Mark’s a guy we identified that we wanted to sign to an
extension,” General Manager Mike Tannenbaum told reporters last
night in announcing the five-year deal. “Mark’s our starter and
we’re excited about 2012.”  Tannenbaum said he contacted  Peyton Manning ’s
representatives after the quarterback was released by the
 Indianapolis Colts  on March 7.  “Part of my duties when opportunities come along are that
we have to investigate it,” Tannenbaum said. “Peyton’s a
future Hall of Famer, a tremendous person. We looked into it and
had internal discussions, but we continued to talk with Mark’s
representatives all the way through it.”  Sanchez, 25, started all but one game in his three seasons
with the Jets. Last season, he set career highs with 543
attempts, 308 completions, 3,474 yards and 26 touchdown passes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  