-- Treasuries Decline as Greek Debt Exchange, Jobs Report Ease Refuge Appeal
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-03-10T05:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/treasuries-decline-as-greek-debt-exchange-eases-refuge-appeal.html
Treasuries (YCGT0025)  fell for the first time
in three weeks as  Greece ’s debt restructuring reduced the haven
appeal of U.S. government securities and February’s employment
report pointed to a strengthening economic recovery.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes climbed to the highest in
a week yesterday after the jobs report reduced speculation
Federal Reserve policy makers may hint at next week’s meeting
that they’re moving closer to more monetary stimulus. The
Treasury will sell $66 billion in notes and bonds over three
consecutive days beginning March 12.  “The Greek deal has been achieved and the labor market has
improved, which has weighed on Treasuries some,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government and agency
debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year notes rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.03 percent in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 2 percent
security due in February 2022 declined 15/32, or $4.69 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 23/32.  The 10-year yield reached as high as 2.06 percent
yesterday, the most since March 1. It reached a record low of
1.67 percent in September.  The 227,000 increase in payrolls followed a revised 284,000
gain in January that was bigger than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed yesterday in  Washington . Job growth
over the last six months was the strongest since 2006. The
median projection of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 210,000 rise in February employment.  U.S. government bonds have lost 0.5 percent this year as of
yesterday, while corporate debt has returned 3.2 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  ‘Turn the Page’  Treasuries rallied 9.8 percent last year as  Europe ’s
widening sovereign-debt crisis drove investors to the world’s
largest securities market.  Greece got private investors to forgive more than 100
billion euros ($131 billion) of debt, opening the way for a
second bailout.  Euro-region finance ministers agreed on a conference call
that with the swap Greece had met the terms for a 130 billion-
euro rescue package designed to prevent a collapse of the
economy. Ministers freed up 35.5 billion euros in payments and
interest for bondholders, with a decision on the balance of the
bailout funds to be made at a March 12 meeting in Brussels.  “You want to turn the page on these guys, but it’s
unbelievable,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe General SA
in New York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the U.S.
central bank. “You can’t believe it’s the end of the problems
for Europe.”  Steady Demand  While the economy has added the most jobs in a three-month
period since March-May 2010, when the government added temporary
workers to carry out the decennial census survey, the 10-year
note yield has been stuck between 1.79 percent and 2.09 percent
this year.  “Any dip in yields and buyers flock back to Treasuries,”
said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in New York at
BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer. “If the events of this week
can’t take us out of the range, it’s unclear what will, and it
underscores how strong the demand for Treasuries has been.”  The U.S. government will sell $32 billion of three-year
notes, $21 billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year
bonds next week.  Stimulus Speculation  Policy makers were “prepared to provide further monetary
accommodation if employment is not making sufficient progress
towards our assessment of its maximum level, or if inflation
shows signs of moving further below its mandate-consistent
rate,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a Jan. 25 news
conference. Bond buying is “an option that’s certainly on the
table,” he said.  In congressional testimony on Feb. 29, Bernanke failed to
indicate that the central bank would boost stimulus. The
Commerce Department on Feb. 29 raised its estimate for U.S.
economic growth for the fourth quarter to 3 percent, from 2.8
percent, and the Conference Board’s gauge of confidence among
American consumers climbed for February the highest in a year.  Fed officials are considering a program in which the
central bank would buy long-term mortgage or Treasury bonds and
effectively tie up the money by borrowing it back for short
periods at low rates, the Wall Street Journal reported without
citing sources. The approach would keep excess money out of the
system and head off inflation, damping criticism by opponents of
earlier Fed efforts to support the economy, the newspaper said.  Quantitative Easing  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two quantitative-
easing rounds from December 2008 until June 2011 to spur the
economy. In September it announced it would buy $400 billion of
longer-term U.S. securities through June while selling an equal
amount of shorter-term debt in its holdings to lower borrowing
costs. The central bank’s  target rate  for overnight bank lending
has been zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Global central bank easing has been beneficial,  Bill Gross ,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a
radio interview yesterday on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Gross raised the proportion of U.S. government securities
in Pimco’s $252 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 37 percent of
assets, from 38 percent in January, according to a report on the
company’s  website  yesterday. He raised mortgages to 52 from 50
percent, the highest level since June 2009.  “These numbers are significantly better than we would have
expected three to six months ago,” Gross said of the February
employment figures. “There’s a long way to go before there are
any inflationary pressures or relatively strong growth rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  