-- Rick Santorum Takes Kansas Caucus as Romney Wins Weekend’s Other Contests
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/rick-santorum-wins-kansas-caucus-as-romney-wins-weekend-s-other-contests.html
Rick Santorum  is banking on his
victory in the  Kansas  caucuses yesterday to lead to twin
primary wins this week in Mississippi and Alabama that could
winnow the Republican presidential primary field.  Santorum won 51 percent of the vote in Kansas and
secured his fifth state caucus win.  Mitt Romney , 64, who leads in the delegate count, and
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  largely ceded the state,
while Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  did campaign in Kansas.
Romney received 21 percent, followed by Gingrich at 14 percent
and Paul at 13 percent, according to an Associated Press tally.  “This is a great win for the campaign and further evidence
that conservatives and Tea Party loyalists are uniting behind
Rick as the true, consistent conservative in this race,” said
 Hogan Gidley , Santorum’s spokesman, in a statement.  Kansas (BEESKS) , where Santorum won 33 of 40 delegates, has a large
proportion of Republican voters motivated by their opposition to
abortion rights and gay marriage.  Caucuses were also held yesterday in the Virgin Islands and
the delegate-selection process was being completed in  Wyoming .
Romney will have seven delegates from the Virgin Islands, while
Paul won one and one remains uncommitted, the AP reported.  ‘One Step Closer’  “Our campaign is on the move, and today’s victories in the
island territories bring us one step closer to defeating
President Obama and restoring American’s promise,” Romney said
in a statement last night.  Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul e-mailed a memo to reporters
noting that even though Santorum won Kansas, her candidate
netted more delegates this weekend, at least 38 versus at least
34.  Even after winning the majority of the states that held so-
called Super Tuesday contests on March 6, Romney and his
campaign have presented the March 13 races in Mississippi and
 Alabama  as unfriendly turf for the former Massachusetts governor
because of his northern upbringing and background. Romney has
likened it to playing an “away game.”  Those states together will send 90 delegates to the
Republican nominating convention in August. Romney has secured
453 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the nomination,
including endorsement from Republican Party leaders who
automatically attend and can vote for anyone, compared with 217
for Santorum, according to AP estimates.  Two-Person Race  Santorum, 53, a former Pennsylvania senator, has said his
goal is to have the Republican race become a two-person contest
following the Alabama and Mississippi primaries.  “Hopefully after this Tuesday, this will be a two-person
race, and we can get down to business of deciding whether we
want a conservative or a moderate to go up against” President
 Barack Obama , Santorum said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this
weekend.  Earlier in the weekend, Romney picked up an additional 18
delegates with wins in the U.S. territories of Guam and the
Northern Mariana Islands. The AP reported that Romney won the
unanimous support of the 215 people eligible to vote at the
Republican convention in Guam. One of Romney’s sons, Matt, had
visited both island chains ahead of the voting.  In Wyoming, where the delegate-selection process started
March 6 and was completed yesterday, Romney won 7 of the 12
delegates at stake, Santorum 3 and Paul 1, while one
delegate remained uncommitted, the AP reported.  Santorum won the first-in-the-nation caucuses in  Iowa  on
Jan. 3, as well as caucuses in Colorado, Minnesota and North
Dakota. He also won two primaries in Oklahoma and Tennessee that
were part of the March 6 voting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  