-- Saudi Arabian Equities Jump Most in More Than Five Months; Sabic Advances
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2012-03-10T14:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/saudi-arabian-equities-jump-most-in-five-weeks-sabic-rajhi-shares-gain.html
Saudi Arabian shares jumped the
most in more than five months amid high volumes as climbing oil
prices boosted confidence in the Arab world’s largest economy.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 1.4 percent, its biggest
gain since Sept. 17, to 7,481.27 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Riyadh with 551 million  shares  traded, compared with a six-month
daily average of 290 million.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s largest petrochemicals maker, advanced to its strongest
level in more than seven months. The 152-member index rallied
1.4 percent last week, capping a 7-week winning streak, the
longest since January last year.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday, capping the fourth straight
weekly rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, and oil
climbed for a third day, after a government report showing
stronger-than-forecast payroll growth bolstered optimism in the
world’s largest economy. Crude also advanced as Greece pushed
through the biggest sovereign restructuring in history.  Saudi
Arabia  relied on oil exports for 93 percent of revenue in 2011.  “Gulf Cooperation Council equities have emerged as an
attractive investment option which would explain rising volumes
and sustained strength, particularly on the Saudi market,” said
Asim Bukhtiar, head of research at Riyad Capital. “High net-
worth individuals may be repatriating funds back to regional
markets as attractive investment opportunities dry-up in
developed markets.”  The Saudi gauge has gained 17 percent this year compared
with a 16 percent increase for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF) 
The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  has added 10.1 percent in the
period, while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  rose 5.8 percent.  Capital Adequacy  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , Saudi Arabia’s biggest publicly traded
lender by assets, added 1.3 percent, the strongest increase
since March 3, to 77.75 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s Capital Market Authority said in a statement
today that an assessment of securities companies showed the
industry’s capital adequacy ratio rose to 35 percent at the end
of last year, compared with the 13 percent ratio required by
Basel III.  Saudi Basic Industries, or Sabic, which has the heaviest
weighting in the index, gained 3 percent to 104.75 riyals, the
highest level since Aug. 1. Oil rose for a third day in  New York 
yesterday, increasing 0.8 percent to $107.40 a barrel.  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co. (ALARKAN)  dropped 0.5
percent, the biggest decline this month, to 10.10 riyals. Saudi
Arabia’s second-biggest property company by market value had its
credit rating downgraded to B+ from BB- and was placed on
negative watch by  Standard & Poor’s .  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
that opens on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  