-- Some Candidates Think U.S. Voters Have ‘Amnesia,’ Obama Says
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/some-candidates-think-u-s-voters-have-amnesia-obama-says.html
A lot of “folks running for
office” think voters have “amnesia,” President  Barack Obama 
told guests at a fundraiser in Houston.  “They want to go back to spending trillions of dollars
more on tax breaks for the wealthiest individuals” and roll
back the health-care overhaul, the president said at an event
yesterday, without naming any candidates.  “Their philosophy is simple: We’re better off when
everybody has to fend for themselves,” Obama said. “Let me
tell you, they are wrong.”  The president spoke at Union Station at Minute Maid Park,
home of the Houston Astros baseball team, to about 750 people
who paid at least $500 apiece. Through Jan. 31, Obama has raised
$140 million for his re-election campaign, compared with about
$64 million for the top fundraiser among the Republican
candidates, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  “This is a make or break moment for middle-class
families” and everyone trying to get into the middle class,
Obama said.  Later the president attended a reception at the River Oaks
home of Anthony Chase, chairman and chief executive officer of
ChaseSource LP, a Houston-based staffing company, with about 70
people who paid $35,800 each. The reception was co-hosted by his
wife, Dina Alsowayel, associate director of women’s studies at
the  University of Houston . Chase resigned as director and deputy
chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  in 2008 to
campaign for Obama.  Energy State  “Texas is an energy state, and over the last several weeks
I’ve had to remind people we actually have higher production now
in oil than in any time over the last eight years,” Obama said
at the second fundraiser.  Still, he said, “we only have 3 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, which means that we’re going to have to focus on
efficiency.”  Obama’s re-election campaign expected to raise at least
$2.8 million at yesterday’s events, according to a campaign
official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.  Obama has visited  Texas , a Republican stronghold, twice
since filing for re-election in April, including four
fundraisers in Dallas and Austin. Obama lost Texas by 11
percentage points in 2008 to his Republican opponent, Arizona
Senator  John McCain .  Employment (NFSETX)  in Texas has risen almost 2 percent,  personal
income  has increased about 11 percent and home prices have
fallen about 2.5 percent since Obama took office, according to
the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States Index, which uses
data on employment, real estate, taxes and local stocks to track
the direction of state economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  