-- South Korea Opposition Parties Form Coalition to Improve Election Outlook
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-03-10T03:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/south-korea-opposition-parties-form-coalition-to-improve-election-outlook.html
South Korea ’s two main opposition
parties formed a coalition against President  Lee Myung Bak ’s
ruling party in an effort to win next month’s parliamentary
elections.  Han Myung Sook, leader of the Democratic United Party and
Lee Jung Hee, co-head of the United Progressive Party, signed an
agreement today to form  a “comprehensive national opposition
coalition” after four days of talks.  “We entered negotiations with the determination to create
a society where 99 percent of the people win against a
government that works solely for the top 1 percent,” Han said.
“This is the road to hope, the road for victory.”  The alliance seeks to regain control of the legislature
from Lee’s recently renamed New Frontier Party in Apr. 11
elections, as well as win the December presidential race. While
the NFP is struggling to overcome a series of scandals and
public discontent over widening income gaps and rising inflation,
the opposition hasn’t offered a unified alternative.  “The best thing about this coalition is that it unifies
all anti-Lee and anti-NFP sentiments into one,” said Kang Won Taek, professor of political science at  Seoul  National
University. “It will also help the opposition save votes from
being split by silencing much criticism against individual
opposition parties.”  Election Barometer  The approval ratings for both the NFP and the DUP stood at
36.3 percent, according to a weekly poll conducted by Seoul-
based Realmeter between Feb. 27 and Mar. 2. The survey of 3,000
people had a margin of error of plus or minus 1.8 percentage
points. The UPP’s support rose 1.4 percentage points to 6.1
percent, the poll said.  Lee’s approval rating was at 28.8 percent, down from 76
percent when his term began in February 2008.  In a barometer of national elections, independent Park Won
Soon in October won the Seoul mayoral election, beating the
ruling party candidate. Park joined the DUP last month and his
backer Ahn Cheol Soo, a software entrepreneur, is considered a
possible presidential candidate.  Party Platforms  The opposition coalition released its policy platform today
pledging inter-Korean parliamentary talks, welfare reforms and
revision of labor and prosecution laws. It also expressed
dissent to South Korea’s free-trade agreement with the U.S.,
which takes effect on Mar. 15.  The NFP unveiled a new platform in January to attract more
voters unhappy with Lee. Interim leader Park Geun Hye, a
probable presidential candidate, softened the party’s stance on
 North Korea  after Lee was blamed for raising inter-Korean
tensions.  Fifty South Koreans died in attacks in 2010 after Lee
reversed his predecessor’s “Sunshine Policy” of engagement
with the Pyongyang government. The totalitarian North rejected
Lee’s offer for dialogue following the Dec. 17 death of dictator
 Kim Jong Il  and the succession of his son, Kim Jong Un.  Park also changed the party’s 15-year-old name from the
 Grand National Party  and announced a campaign for “fresh, young
and new blood” to rejuvenate the party. At least four party
leaders quit their leadership posts in December and others have
chosen not to run for re-election.  The opposition is consolidating while the NFP is
disintegrating, said Lee Nae Young, professor of political
science and director of the Asiatic Research Center at Korea
University in Seoul.  “The NFP is trying to reverse the hostility in public
opinion by revamping its image while internally party members
are unable to agree on a course of action,” Lee said. “The NFP
doesn’t have enough time to do both and that’s why it’s in a
dilemma.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  