-- Syria’s Crackdown Continues as World Debates Next Steps
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-10T00:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/syria-s-assad-continues-crackdown-on-protest-as-u-s-sees-no-quick-endgame.html
More than a year after political
protests began in Syria, the regime’s violent crackdown
continues, the options for U.S. action are murky, and the world
remains divided over what, if anything, more to do.  Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain  made the strongest
appeal for action to date this week, advocating U.S.-led air
strikes to help the Syrian opposition that by U.S. assessments
remains unfocused, unorganized and, in some respects, unknown.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and other administration
officials countered the calls for intervention by urging caution
and citing intelligence assessments that President Bashar al- Assad could cling to power indefinitely.  The latest U.S. push for diplomatic action by United
Nations Security Council has foundered on Russia’s support for
its longtime Mideast ally. Analysts such as Aram Nerguizian, a
senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington, foresee no early end to the conflict.  “Six months ago, there was a specific set of assumptions
with regard to the opposition’s ability to create more cohesion
over time,” Nerguizian said in an interview. “There were also
assumptions about the regime, the security apparatus and the
likelihood there would be real divisions and real cracks. On
both assumptions, the international community has been proven
wrong.”  This puts the U.S,  Europe  and the Gulf states in a bind,
having gone on the record saying Assad’s days are numbered. Now,
they are dealing with a scenario in which that may not come to
pass for a long time, said diplomats at the UN.  Death, Destruction  More than 7,500 people have died in Assad’s crackdown,
according to the UN. The turmoil has sent the value of the
Syrian pound down almost 20 percent against the  U.S. dollar , and
more on the black market.  A bloody siege of the city of Homs last month led to
intensified international pressure as Syrian forces used tanks
and artillery to bombard residential neighborhoods. UN emergency
relief coordinator  Valerie Amos , the first envoy to visit Homs’
Baba Amr district this week, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that she was “horrified” by what she saw there.  Eighty-two people were killed nationwide yesterday, the
Local Coordination Committees of  Syria  said on its website. UN
envoy  Kofi Annan  is set to meet with Assad today to seek a
cease-fire as a prelude to negotiations on a political
transition. His two-day trip will be limited to Damascus and not
include areas ravaged by Assad’s shelling, UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon told reporters in  New York .  ’Not Overly Optimistic’  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday she will
continue her diplomatic push with her Russian counterpart at the
UN on March 12. “I talked with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  a few days ago about our hope that Russia will play a
constructive role in ending the bloodshed and working toward a
political transition in Syria,” Clinton said in remarks to
reporters, describing the “intense” diplomatic effort under
way.  “We continue to urge the international community to come
together to take action” on humanitarian relief and a political
transition, Clinton said.  Syria is now “topic one, two and three” in talks with
 Russia , State Department Spokesman Victoria Nuland said
yesterday. Still, she added that the administration isn’t
optimistic about winning Moscow’s approval for the latest U.S.-
backed UN resolution. Russia, along with  China , has already
vetoed two resolutions aimed at censuring Assad.  “We are frankly not overly optimistic that an agreed text
will be reached in the near future,” she said yesterday.  Russia Unswayed  The UN diplomats, who weren’t authorized to speak on the
record, said efforts to get Russia to sign on to the latest
Syria resolution have died after three days of meetings, in part
because of how much the text was watered down in the attempt to
win Moscow’s support. As a result, they said, Clinton and Lavrov
will have little to work toward at their Monday meeting.  The hope that the presidential election victory of Russian
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  might lead to a change of policy
on Syria has dissipated, they said. Syria remains Moscow’s last
outpost of influence in the Arab world, buying its weapons and
hosting its only military base outside the former  Soviet Union .  The heart of the dispute between Russia and the U.S. lies
in the two nations’ differing assessments of Assad’s longevity,
the diplomats said. The Russians clearly are invested in Assad’s
future and survival, the diplomats said.  Seen from  Washington , though, the ouster of Assad’s regime
would be a major strategic blow to  Iran , depriving Tehran of its
lone Arab ally and its main route for shipping arms and men to
Hezbollah in Lebanon.  Retaining Power  This puts the U.S, Western Europe, and the Gulf states in a
bind, having said that Assad’s days are numbered, only to find
themselves dealing with a scenario in which that may not come to
pass for a long time, the UN diplomats said.  Even as President  Barack Obama , French President Nicolas Sarkozy and British Prime Minister David Cameron have predicted
Assad’s demise, U.S. military and intelligence services have
offered starkly different assessments.  “I think that he could remain in power for some time,”
Army Chief of Staff General Raymond Odierno, told the Senate
Armed Services Committee on March 8.  General Ronald Burgess, director of the Defense
Intelligence Agency, testified to Congress last month that the
Assad regime and its military remain a “viable, cohesive and
effective force,” while  James Clapper , the U.S. director of
national intelligence, testified that without some kind of
external intervention, Assad will “hang in there and continue
to do as he’s done.”  Lawmakers who advocate military intervention aren’t
satisfied with declarations that Assad’s “days are numbered,”
as Clinton said at a meeting of so-called “Friends of Syria”
nations in Tunis on Feb. 24.  Abdicating Responsibility  “Tell that to the people of Homs,” McCain said on the
Senate floor March 5 as he called for U.S.-led air strikes
against Syrian forces to create civilian safe havens. “Tell
that to the people of Idlib, or Hama, or the other cities that
Assad’s forces are now moving against. Nothing in this world is
predetermined. And claims about the inevitability of events can
often be a convenient way to abdicate responsibility.”  McCain, the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, is joined by Connecticut Senator  Joseph Lieberman , an
independent, and South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham in seeking U.S. military intervention. McCain also argues
that the U.S. has “a clear national security interest” in the
fall of a regime that is Iran’s major ally.  Military Options  “In addition to the moral and humanitarian interests at
stake in Syria, what is just as compelling, if not more so, are
the strategic and geopolitical interests,” McCain said in his
Senate remarks.  The U.S. military is examining a range of options at
Obama’s request, from providing humanitarian aid to imposing a
no-fly zone over Syria, General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the
U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the Senate Armed Services
Committee March 7.  Still, Panetta has urged caution in response to the calls
for intervention. “What doesn’t make sense is to take
unilateral action right now,” Panetta said in testimony with
Dempsey.  “Before I recommend that we put our sons and daughters in
uniform in harm’s way,” he said, “I’ve got to make very sure
that we know what the mission is, I’ve got to be very sure that
we know whether we can achieve that mission and at what price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  