-- U.N. Envoy Annan to Meet With Assad Again to Seek Ceasefi
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-03-11T11:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/u-n-s-kofi-annan-arrives-in-syria-to-press-assad-for-ceasefire.html
Kofi Annan  will meet with Bashar al-Assad in Damascus a day after the Syrian president told the
U.N. envoy he won’t open talks with groups he describes as
terrorists.  The conversation with Assad yesterday was “candid,” and
Annan, who also travels to  Qatar  today, put “several proposals
on the table,” according to a statement released by the UN
press office in  New York .  Assad said yesterday he’s ready to help with “honest
efforts” to end the conflict. Annan, the UN and Arab League
special envoy to  Syria , has been asked to seek an immediate
cease-fire and political pluralism, according to UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon. During the two-day trip focused on
Damascus, Annan is also scheduled to meet with opposition
figures and civic groups.  Russia  and the Arab League, meeting in Cairo yesterday,
agreed to a five-point plan for quelling the Syrian violence,
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said in a statement. It includes
“firm support” of Annan’s mission, a complete cease-fire,
monitoring procedures, no foreign interference and humanitarian
aid.  Assad Must Quit  Assad “stepping down is a first condition of any
discussion, any negotiation,” Bassma Kodmani, a member of the
Syrian National Council, the leading alliance of opposition
groups, told the  BBC  from Istanbul. “If this is turned into a
conflict between two parties, it’s not going to go in the right
direction,” she said.      “People have bonded together in the
face of the regime and the face of the atrocities,” she said.
“This lays the ground for a political arrangement to emerge
from the aftermath of the regime.”  Syrian security forces killed 83 people across the country
yesterday,  Al Jazeera  reported. Three Syrian soldiers were
killed and more than 20 wounded when they attempted to storm the
city of Idlib in the north using heavy machine-gun fire and
shelling, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-
mailed statement.  Opposition forces shot down a helicopter and destroyed six
tanks during the fight in Idlib, Al Jazeera reported, citing an
interview with Colonel Riyadh Al-Asa’ad of the Syrian Free Army.
Syrian state forces executed 10 men in Idlib, Al Jazeera
reported, citing activists. There were also clashes between
government forces and opposition groups near the capital of
Damascus.  Battles Rage On  Syria’s tank and artillery attack on residential areas in
the city of Homs last month led to intensified international
pressure. UN emergency relief coordinator  Valerie Amos , the
first envoy to visit Homs’s Baba Amr district, was “horrified”
by what she saw, she said in a March 9 e-mailed statement.  Assad’s regime has stepped up a violent campaign to crush
the resistance since  China  and Russia vetoed a UN  Security
Council  resolution last month that called for Assad to step
down. Russia is a major arms supplier to Syria and maintains a
naval base in the port of Tartous. More than 7,500 people have
died since protests started last year, according to the UN.  Weapons Supply  The Syrian National Council said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that money, weapons and expertise provided to the
Syrian regime by parties it did not name are “part of a
deliberate and active partnership in killing people, including
children, women and the elderly.  “This declaration of war will necessarily result in these
parties’ exclusion from any future cooperation in building the
new Syria,” the statement said.  Arab League  head Nabil el-Arabi said in Cairo yesterday
that the group will try to include parts of the agreement with
Lavrov in a new draft UN resolution, helping its chances of
passage by coordinating with all sides, including Russia.  The latest U.S. push for diplomatic action by the Security
Council has foundered as Russia maintains support for its
longtime Mideast ally. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
last week she will continue diplomatic efforts with Lavrov at
the UN on March 12.  The turmoil has sent the value of the Syrian pound down
almost 20 percent against the  U.S. dollar , and by more on the
black market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 