-- Hungary Files Further Amendments to Meet EU Conditions for IMF Aid Talks
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-03-10T08:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/hungary-files-further-amendments-to-meet-eu-conditions-for-imf-aid-talks.html
Hungary’s government filed further
amendments to laws criticized by the European Commission that
have blocked the start of talks on a European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  loan.  The latest changes narrow the prime minister’s room to fire
the independent data-protection commissioner, according to the
amendment posted on Parliament’s  website  yesterday. It doesn’t
address a second EU objection about the termination of the
previous commissioner’s mandate before it expired.  The amendments aim to “strengthen the independence” of
the data-protection agency “in line with the European
Commission’s concerns,” according to the document.  Hungary is seeking to quell investor concern that it isn’t
committed to an IMF deal after the European Commission, the EU’s
executive arm, said March 7 that the government failed to meet
preconditions for the start of talks four months after asking
for aid as the forint dropped to a record and the country’s
sovereign-credit rating was cut to junk.  The European Commission this week took a formal step toward
seeking a court order to require  Hungary  to redraft laws on the
judiciary and data-protection agency and asked for more
information on planned changes to a new central bank law.  The amendment filed yesterday will eliminate the right of
the prime minister to ask for the dismissal of the data-
protection commissioner on the grounds of a failure to carry out
the work for more than 90 days. It also allows the commissioner
to contest a dismissal in court and prevents the president from
agreeing to it if the court rules in the commissioner’s favor.  The government didn’t address the commission’s other
concern regarding the firing of the previous data-protection
commissioner before the end of his term, which the European
Union executive said was “a violation of the personal
independence of the data protection authority.”  The government on March 7 sent the  European Central Bank 
planned amendments to a central bank law, which the EU and the
ECB had said may undermine monetary policy independence. Hungary
is awaiting the ECB’s opinion on those changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  