-- VIETNAM’S AIRPORTS WELCOME FOREIGN INVESTORS FOR UPGRADES
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-10T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-10/vietnam-s-airports-welcome-foreign-investors-for-upgrades.html
Vietnam  is seeking foreign
investors to build two airports in the country so it can compete
with other Southeast Asian nations for regional air traffic.  “We are in need of financial investments from many sources,
domestic and foreign,” Nguyen Cong Hoan, director of planning
and investment of a newly-established nationwide airport
operator,  Airports Corporation of Vietnam , said at a March 9
briefing in Ho Chi Minh City. Overseas investors had already
expressed interest in developing Van Don International Airport,
in the northern province of Quang Ninh, he said, without giving
any specifics.  Vietnam is developing three new airports and upgrading
existing facilities in an effort to boost tourism and vie for
more international routes. Increased domestic travel, propelled
by an increasingly prosperous middle-class, is also spurring
demand.  “We’re developing a strategy to compete with the
neighboring airports in Thailand and  Singapore ,” Hoan said.  Domestic passenger volume rose as much as 19 percent last
year, while international passengers grew less than 3 percent,
Hoan said.  The first of the planned new airports will open on Phu Quoc
by the end of the year, Hoan said at the briefing. The resort
island near  Cambodia  is popular for its sandy beaches and fish
sauce industry.  Vietnam also plans to begin construction in 2015 of the $10
billion  Long Thanh International Airport  outside the financial
capital of Ho Chi Minh in the southern province of Dong Nai. The
5,000-hectare airport, to be built in three phases, is expected
to become operational in 2020, with four runways.  Four Runways  “We hope that a new and good infrastructure at Long Thanh
airport will help us to compete better,” Hoan said.  Long Thanh International Airport, about 40 kilometers (25
miles) northeast of Ho Chi Minh’s Tan Son Nhat Airport, will
initially have capacity for 25 million passengers. That’s 50
percent more than the number of passengers who traveled through
Tan Son Nhat airport last year. It will also be able to handle 5
million tons of cargo when complete, according to a June
statement on the government’s website.  Located in a province that’s home to industrial parks and
rural villages, the new Long Thanh airport will handle 90
percent of international flights to  Ho Chi Minh City  and
position itself as a regional hub, he said. The  current airport ,
which is located in the city and served as a military base
during the  Vietnam War , will be used to ferry mostly domestic
passengers.  No Overseas Investment  Foreign investors are keen to invest in the construction of
the Van Don International Airport, in the north, Hoan said.
Vietnam hasn’t received any foreign investment in its airports
so far, he said.  The Van Don airport would be about 45 kilometers away from
the country’s iconic Ha Long Bay dotted with hundreds of small,
limestone islands and caves.  The provincial government in Quang Ninh is calling for
investment in the $1.2 billion airport and a $5 billion casino
project, according to its  Investment Promotion Agency website .  Vietnam eventually plans to have as many as six
international airports, Hoan said. International flights are now
routed through mostly three of the country’s 21 airports.  Facilities at existing airports are also being upgraded to
meet increased domestic demand for travel propelled by the
country’s young population, with 60 percent of its 87 million-
population under 35 years old.  The country has merged three state-owned, regional airport
operators under one national, state-owned company that will
begin operations April 1, Hoan said. The national body will be
responsible for developing all airports across the country, he
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  