-- Hong Kong Appeals Court Decision Allowing Maids to Apply for Residency
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-02-21T04:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/h-k-appeals-ruling-on-maid-residency.html
Hong Kong ’s government, facing calls
to limit strains on the city’s health and social services,
appealed a court ruling that cleared the way for foreign maids
to apply for permanent-resident status.  The government today challenged Judge Johnson Lam’s Sept.
30 decision, with its lawyer David Pannick telling the city’s
Court of Appeal that lawmakers must be able to define residency
requirements in the self-administered Chinese region.  The landmark decision would allow 117,000, or a third of
the maids working in Hong Kong, to apply for permanent
residency. Some political parties warned such an influx might
add to strains on health and education resources in the city of
7 million, where the increasing use of maternity services by
women from mainland China has already stirred public opposition.  “The government has to defend the rights of local
residents,” said Joseph Wong, visiting professor in public
administration at  City University  of Hong Kong and a former
senior civil servant.  Children of mainland Chinese parents born in Hong Kong are
entitled to residency and births in the city almost doubled in
the decade to 2010, thanks to 232,536 infants born to mainland
mothers, according to official statistics.  That’s helped lead to protests including a full-page
anonymous advertisement demanding the government stop mainland
pregnant women from “invading” the city. The advertisement had
a picture of a locust superimposed on a hilltop overlooking Hong
Kong’s skyline.  Bankers Unrestricted  Philippine-born Evangeline Banao Vallejos, who has lived in
Hong Kong for 25 years, won her challenge against her rejected
residence application in September.  Her lawyer, Gladys Li, argued that other expatriates such
as bankers and cooks could gain right of abode in the city after
seven years. Li also said restricting maids from applying for
residence doesn’t fall within the government’s right to control
immigration.  The government suspended the processing of permanent-
residence applications from maids after Lam ruled that a
suspension wouldn’t be considered contempt of court.  The government will argue this week that the lower court
should have ruled that foreign domestic helpers should be
treated as distinct from other types of residents and that the
legislature can modify the part of the Basic Law that governs
permanent residency, according to a notice of appeal it filed
last October.  The Basic Law is the de-facto constitution that Hong Kong
adopted after the British handed the city of 7.1 million
residents back to  China .  Social Security  Foreign domestic helpers have residence restrictions and
can’t accept other jobs. The law mandates a minimum monthly wage
of HK$3,740 ($482). In 2004, maids contributed HK$13.8 billion
to the economy, or one percent of Hong Kong’s output, according
to a report by the Asian Migrant Centre, a non-governmental
organization.  Permanent-resident status in Hong Kong confers a legal
right to live in the city without a visa, take any jobs, study,
or establish a business. The resident has access to benefits
such as public housing and social security, and can vote.  The  Liberal Party  and the leader for New People’s Party,
Regina Ip, have previously called on the government to consider
seeking an interpretation of the Basic Law by China’s Standing
Committee of the National People’s Congress over the case.  The special administrative region was guaranteed an
independent judiciary for 50 years under the “one country, two
systems” framework following the handover in 1997.  The case is Vallejos Evangeline Banao and Commissioner of
Registration, CACV204/2011 in Hong Kong’s Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  