-- Abu Dhabi Shares Rise to 5-Month High on Etisalat Dividend Plan
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-02-21T08:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/abu-dhabi-shares-rise-to-5-month-high-on-etisalat-dividend-plan.html
Abu Dhabi’s shares rose to the
highest in almost five months after  Emirates Telecommunications 
Corp. proposed a dividend for 2011 and on investor bets the
emirate’s spending plans would support real-estate companies.  Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH) , the emirate’s second-largest
developer, advanced 0.9 percent. Emirates Telecommunications,
the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest phone company known as
Etisalat, rallied 2.3 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
rose for a third day, gaining 1 percent to 2,528.3, the highest
intraday level since Oct. 3, at 11:30 a.m. in the emirate. The
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  was little changed.  Etisalat, the company with the  heaviest weighting  on the
benchmark index, helped lead today’s gains “and buying momentum
has been driven by real-estate stocks after the government
announced spending plans last month,” said Sebastien Henin, who
helps oversee $100 million at The National Investor in  Abu
Dhabi .  Shares in the U.A.E. capital are climbing as the oil-rich
emirate transforming itself into a business and cultural hub
unveiled plans last month to resume projects, including branches
of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums, after reviewing their
viability.  Etisalat, which is up 4.3 percent so far this year, said
its board proposed a dividend of 60 fils for 2011, the same
amount it paid for 2010. The phone company also said it may
outsource some operations as part of a plan to lower costs after
posting a decline in 2011 profit. The shares rose to 9.52
dirhams, the highest since Feb. 7.  ’Overreacted’  Sorouh climbed to 1.10 dirhams, headed for the highest
close since Sept. 27. The company last week said 2011 profit
surged as income from rentals and housing projects rose.  “The market will probably stabilize in the coming days as
investors have overreacted,” The National Investor’s Henin
said.  Rents in Abu Dhabi will drop further this year as property
supply outstrips demand, said real-estate consultant CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc. U.A.E. property markets suffered more than
others in the  Middle East  with the onset of the global credit
crisis. Since September 2008, Dubai house prices slumped more
than 60 percent and the cost of residential real estate in the
capital, Abu Dhabi, dropped by half as banks curbed mortgage
lending and speculators fled.  About 77  million shares  traded in Abu Dhabi today, compared
with a 12-month daily average of about 64.5 million shares.  Oman’s benchmark stock  index  was little changed and
 Kuwait ’s  gauge  gained 0.5 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose less
than 0.1 percent. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  and Bahrain’s
 measure  declined 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  