-- Lafarge, Anglo Venture Ruled Anti-Competitive
-- B y   J o h n   V i l j o e n   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-02-21T09:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/lafarge-anglo-american-venture-ruled-anti-competitive.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Lafarge SA (LG) ’s
proposed U.K. joint venture could damage competition in the
market for bulk cement and other construction materials, the
country’s Competition Commission said today.  “We have a number of concerns about this joint venture,”
Roger Witcomb, chairman of the commission’s Anglo-Lafarge
inquiry group, said in a statement on its provisional findings
today.  The venture could reduce competition in the markets for the
supply of bulk cement, rail ballast and high-purity limestone
for emissions abatement from coal-fired power stations, the
commission said. The agency is also concerned about its impact
on the supply of construction aggregates in 23 local markets,
and asphalt in two markets.  The creation of the 50-50 venture, intended to help the two
companies withstand a decline in Britain’s construction
industry, would create a business with 1.8 billion pounds ($2.85
billion) in sales and annual cost savings of at least 60 million
pounds, they said in a joint statement in February 2011.  The two companies are “confident” they can address the
antitrust concerns, Paris-based Lafarge said in a statement.  ‘Confident’  Lafarge Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont plans to sell
more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of assets this year and
deepen cost cuts amid higher raw material prices as he seeks to
repair a  credit rating  that has fallen below investment grade.
Cement demand in the U.K. may drop as much as 5 percent this
year because of austerity measures and slowing economic growth,
Lafarge predicted on Feb. 17.  “We are now consulting on the possible actions we could
take in response to the reductions in competition we have found,
bearing in mind the close links that exist between the different
product markets,” Witcomb said.  The commission invited comments on possible remedies by
March 6, and on its provisional findings by March 13.  “We continue to work with the  Competition Commission  to
address the issues raised in their provisional findings and
continue to believe in the strategic rationale of the
transaction,” London-based Anglo American said in a statement.  Lafarge  shares  rose 1 percent to 35.84 euros at 10:17 a.m.
in Paris. Anglo American  shares  were up 1.6 percent at 9:18 a.m.
in  London .  The venture is intended to absorb Anglo’s Tarmac unit in
the U.K. as the miner of copper and iron ore exits the materials
business, the company said last year.  The U.K.’s Office of Free Trading referred the case to the
commission in September, and a final report is due by May 1.  The British Aggregates Association trade group has said the
U.K. market is dominated by London-based Anglo American,
 Germany ’s  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) ,  Switzerland ’s  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , Paris-
based Lafarge and  Mexico ’s Cemex SAB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  