-- Allen Stanford Taking Witness Stand Is Seen as Risk to Fraud Trial Defense
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-21T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/allen-stanford-taking-witness-stand-seen-as-risk-to-fraud-trial-defense.html
A decision by R. Allen Stanford to
testify at his investor fraud trial may focus juror attention on
his credibility without helping him win acquittal, three white-
collar criminal defense lawyers said.  Jurors in federal court in Houston were told by a Stanford
lawyer during opening statements on Jan. 24 that they would hear
from the  Texas  financier accused by prosecutors of leading a
$7 billion fraud scheme.  “It makes almost everything that came before irrelevant,”
said defense lawyer Barry Pollack, who isn’t involved in the
Stanford case. “Either the jury identifies with and believes
him and discards the evidence that came before. Or it doesn’t,
and it takes every possible negative inference from what it's
heard.”  “It’s always a game changer when the defendant
testifies,” Pollack said.  Stanford, 61, who denies any wrongdoing, faces 14 charges
including mail- and wire-fraud counts that carry maximum
sentences of 20 years in prison. While prosecutors must prove
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, defendants aren’t required
under the U.S. Constitution to testify or prove their innocence.  Robert Scardino, a Stanford attorney, didn’t tell jurors
when the defense team would summon its client to the witness
stand, or whether Stanford has decided since then against
testifying. U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who is presiding
over the trial, has barred lawyers from talking to the press.  Antigua CDs  At the trial, now in its fifth week, prosecutors have
presented evidence and testimony from investors who bought
allegedly fraudulent certificates of deposit issued by Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd., as well as from the
executives who helped sell them.  The witnesses included government officials and former
Stanford Group Co. Chief Financial Officer James M. Davis, who
pleaded guilty to charges. Davis testified he knew Stanford was
committing fraud and didn’t stop it.  Defense attorneys began their case last week with testimony
from former Stanford employees who said they saw no evidence of
fraud at the company. Some offered testimony in support of the
defense’s contention that Stanford was an absentee visionary who
left the details of running his operation to Davis. Stanford’s
lawyers are scheduled to continue their case today.  Accused executives who testified in their own defense have
fared differently with juries.  Pollack, a partner in  Washington ’s Miller & Chevalier LLP,
represented Michael Krautz, an executive with the Internet unit
of the failed Houston energy company  Enron Corp (ENRNQ) . Krautz
testified in his trial and was acquitted. Enron Chairman  Kenneth Lay  and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling  testified and
were convicted of fraud in 2006.  Deadlock, Retrial  Frank Quattrone , a former Credit Suisse Group AG banker,
testified at his 2003 trial, which ended in a deadlock, and
again in 2004. He was convicted of obstruction of justice at his
retrial. That verdict was thrown out on appeal and prosecutors
dropped the case.  Former Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich  didn’t testify in
his first corruption trial, which ended with a hung jury on 23
of 24 counts in 2010. He took the stand in his second trial in
Chicago and was convicted on 17 of 20 retried counts last year.  Former Hollinger International Inc. Chairman  Conrad Black 
didn’t testify at his 2007 fraud trial in the same federal
courthouse and was found guilty of mail fraud and obstruction.  Defendant testimony is a bad idea in most cases, said Eric
Sussman, who led the Black prosecution and is now a criminal-
defense lawyer and a partner at New York-based  Kaye Scholer LLP (1192L) .  Burden Changes  “You kind of change the burden of proof, not legally, but
practically,” Sussman said. “It becomes, ‘Does the jury
believe you or doesn’t it,’ rather than proof beyond a
reasonable doubt. That’s the risk.”  Criminal defendants often believe they can talk their way
out of anything, he said. “More often than not, that’s not the
case.”  Douglas T. Burns, a former federal prosecutor who is now a
criminal defense lawyer in New York, echoed Sussman’s
sentiments.  “It’s generally a dumb move, but desperation breeds dumb
moves,” said Burns, who, as a federal prosecutor, was deputy
chief of the U.S. Attorney’s criminal division on New York’s
 Long Island  before leaving for private practice in 1996.  Risking Worse  Defendants are generally confronted with two choices, he
said, do nothing and face possible conviction or testify and
risk making matters worse, Burns said.  Pollack, Sussman and Burns said the decision to testify is
a choice only a defendant can make after consultation with his
lawyer.  Considerations in such discussions include whether the
defendant can credibly present himself as honest and truthful
and cope with the rigors of cross-examination, as well as
whether testifying will enable prosecutors to introduce evidence
that may not otherwise be admissible.  For Stanford to succeed, Pollack said, he must “be
thoroughly prepared, to the point where he can relive the events
at issue in the trial so he’s able to answer all the
questions.”  Recall Challenging  Most people don’t have good recall of events three or four
years ago, especially e-mails or texts or phone calls, Pollack
said. He said recall is challenging under the best of
circumstances, and it’s more difficult when the defendant was
jailed and, in Stanford’s case, beaten by another inmate.  Stanford, who sustained head injuries in that 2009 assault,
developed an addiction to prescription anti-anxiety drugs and
spent almost nine months at a federal prison hospital in Butner,
 North Carolina .  “Juries are very good at detecting when somebody’s putting
on an act,” Pollack said. “If he appears to be a very
different person than what was reflected in his e-mails and
phone conversations, the jury’s going to see right through that.
You want to be yourself, warts and all. Juries appreciate that
you’re baring your soul.”  Steven Molo, a white-collar defense attorney, said a
defendant “has to strike a balance between being candid and
being sincere, and being appropriately defensive or indignant
over being accused of a crime that they have not committed,
while on the other hand not appearing arrogant or overly
outraged by the situation.”  Molo, a co-editor of the 2008 book “Your Witness: Lessons
on Cross-Examination and Life from Great Chicago Trial
Lawyers,” is a former partner in  New York ’s  Shearman & Sterling
LLP (1441L)  and in 2009 formed the boutique law practice MoloLamken LLP
with appellate lawyer Jeffrey Lamken.  Indignation  “Some level of indignation needs to be there but if it
goes too far, it may turn the jury off,” Molo said.  The decision whether to testify needs to be the
defendant’s, Molo said, because it’s his life and future at
stake.  Burns said defendants may benefit from taking the stand
“if they can somewhat rationally explain their thought process
and convince a jury.”  Still, “history teaches us that the examples where the guy
gets up there and saves the day are in the statistical
minority,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  