-- Lamborghini Revives Rambo Competing in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/lamborghini-revives-rambo-competing-with-maserati-in-china-cars.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ’s Lamborghini is
upending tradition with a new sport-utility vehicle, joining
Bentley and Maserati in super-sizing their supercars to make
more of a mark in  China .  “An SUV comes in handy when you need to ferry more
passengers and things about, like when you go shopping,” said
Bill Liu, 26, who runs a real estate company in Shanghai and
owns a Range Rover Evoque and five sports cars, including a $1
million gray Lamborghini Aventador.  To grab another space in Liu’s garage, the exotic Italian
sports-car maker will unveil an SUV study at the 2012 Beijing
Auto Show in April, nearly two decades after discontinuing the
so-called Rambo Lambo military vehicle, said a person familiar
with the Sant’Agata Bolognese-based company’s plans. A
production version may be available by 2016, said the person,
who declined to be identified before the public announcement.  “Chinese customers love their big cars,” Christian
Mastro, Lamborghini’s general manager for the Asia-Pacific
region, said in a phone interview. “All the brands are making
cars more specific for the Chinese market.”  Bentley, which counts  Queen Elizabeth II  and  Paris Hilton 
as customers, will display its own SUV concept at the
International Motor Show in Geneva next month, a person familiar
with the matter said. The model may roll into showrooms by 2015
if parent VW approves the project this year, the person said.  The two VW units are playing catch-up.  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Maserati
will start production in 2013 of a Jeep-based SUV, currently
called the Kubang, while  Ferrari SpA (FERI)  last year added the
260,000-euro ($344,000) FF family car, its largest model. The
moves reflect a shift east, breaking with traditions developed
in  Europe  in pursuit of a new class of wealthy consumers in
countries like China and Russia.  ‘Dare Something New’  The cars will be available globally, with China the target
market.  “Luxury cars are at the top of the consumption desires of
rich Chinese,” said Giuliano Noci, vice rector for the China
campus of Milan Polytechnic. Since wealthy Chinese consumers
have a limited history with the European brands, “the luxury-
car makers can dare something new.”  Sales of ultra-luxury cars may almost double in China to
8,100 vehicles and surge more than five times in  Russia  to 500
by 2015, according to IHS Automotive. That growth rate compares
with a 21 percent increase in Europe to 11,700 cars over the
same period. Even with the growth of the Chinese luxury market
slowing this year, the automakers see long-term benefits.  The shift by Maserati, Bentley and Lamborghini to SUVs
replicates  Porsche SE (PAH3) ’s strategy. The maker of the 911 sports
car departed from its roots when it rolled out the $48,200
Cayenne in 2002. The Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer now
relies on the SUV for half its deliveries. The model has a
waiting list of about a year in China.  Porsche’s Macan  After expanding with the $75,200 Panamera four-door coupe
in 2009, Porsche will add the Macan, a compact SUV in 2013.  Deliveries of luxury SUVs, including the Cayenne and
 Mercedes-Benz (DAI)  GL-Class, are forecast to climb 49 percent in
China to 265,200 in 2015, almost three times the 18 percent
growth in global demand for those vehicles, according to IHS.  “SUVs are just a great interest for a lot of people,
because of the driving position -- above everyone else -- and
also the road conditions in some fast-growing economies,” said
 Ian Fletcher , a London-based analyst with IHS.  The segment is also profitable because the additional space
and comfort command higher prices, while development costs are
kept in check by borrowing technology from other models, said
Fletcher. Bentley and Lamborghini can use parts developed by
Volkswagen, copying Porsche’s strategy with the Cayenne, while
Maserati can rely on Fiat’s resources.  Lamborghini’s ‘Surprise’  Lamborghini will have “something to show: at the Beijing
auto fair, said Mastro, declining to elaborate. The Italian
supercar maker discontinued the boxy LM002 SUV, the Rambo Lambo,
in 1993 after a failed effort to make military vehicles.  ‘‘With an SUV, there is a great chance in the  emerging
markets ,’’ said Rolf Frech, head of engineering at Bentley, who
moved from Porsche in November after 28 years. ‘‘The basis is to
make Bentley a sustainable business case, which is the same as
we did at Porsche,’’ which had focused on sports cars before the
Cayenne.  Bentley plans to position its SUV above the top-of-line
Cayenne Turbo, with a price tag of more than $140,000, Bentley
chief  Wolfgang Duerheimer  said in January. The Crewe, England-
based company is also expanding its lineup by adding a eight-
cylinder engine to the Continental coupe. Bentley says the down-
sized model is aimed at a younger, edgier clientele. It starts
at 136,000 euros, compared with 154,600 for the existing 12-
cylinder version.  Traditionalist View  Still, the expansion into SUVs doesn’t appeal to
traditionalists like Ronald Venn, 67, a three-time Bentley owner
from  London .  ‘‘I wouldn’t be interested in an SUV from Bentley -- I’d go
to Range Rover,” said Venn, who runs a security equipment
supply business. “They’d screw up their image for me. I go to
Bentley for a luxury limousine. I just love the comfort of them,
the power, and the ostentatiousness of the engine.”  Chinese customers may have a different approach. Liu, who
paid twice as much for his Aventador as a U.S. buyer would
because of China’s import taxes, is ready for something new.  “I would definitely consider such a vehicle, but the car
has to be practical and not exorbitantly priced,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  