-- Anadarko’s Walker to Replace Hackett as CEO as of May 15
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-02-21T21:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/anadarko-s-walker-to-replace-hackett-as-ceo-as-of-may-15-1-.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the
largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market
value, named Chief Operating Officer Al Walker to take over as
chief executive officer effective May 15.  Walker, 55, will replace Jim Hackett, who has served as CEO
since December 2003, the company said in a statement today.
Hackett, 58, will become executive chairman and retire in 2013.  “He’s been integral to a lot of the big decisions we’ve
made, both strategically and tactically,” Hackett said of
Walker today on a conference call with reporters.  Walker, who joined Anadarko in 2005, will assume leadership
of a $43.8 billion company whose shares have nearly quadrupled
in value under his predecessor as Anadarko expanded deepwater
projects off the coast of  Africa  and in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Hackett’s job is done, Subash Chandra, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York, who rates the shares a “buy” and
owns none, said today in a telephone interview.  “He took the helm of an organization that needed some
work, and he very quickly put his stamp on it,” Chandra said.  Hackett bought Kerr-McGee Corp. for about $16.4 billion in
2006, adding fields in the Gulf. Today, Anadarko announced an
oil and gas discovery offshore  Sierra Leone  and another
successful well in the 2.6-million-acre gas concession off
 Mozambique , both projects spearheaded by Hackett.  ‘Attractive Takeover Target’  Walker takes the helm of a company now viewed as “the most
attractive takeover target in the industry” because of its
overseas assets and Gulf of Mexico holdings,  Fadel Gheit , a New
York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., who rates Anadarko
“outperform” and owns none, said today in an interview.  Exxon
Mobil (XOM)  Corp. may covet the Gulf holdings, Gheit said.  Though the timing of Hackett’s announced departure was a
surprise, Hackett was always viewed as a “change agent”
brought in to transform The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko,
Chandra said. “I don’t think he has a desire to be a career
CEO.”  Gheit said Hackett may be eyeing a new career in politics.  “He told me 15 years ago he had no intention of retiring
as CEO of an energy company,” Gheit said. “He has other things
he wants to do -- public service, as he put it.”  Walker Board Election  Walker will stand for election to the board at the May 15
annual meeting, the company said. Walker previously served as
president of Enex Resources Corp., a Houston-based oil and gas
producer, and was a managing director at UBS AG.  “This is a good time for the transition to a long-planned
succession, given the company’s strong exploration and
operational success and robust portfolio for long-term growth,”
Hackett said in the statement.  Anadarko fell 2.6 percent to $85.74 at the close in  New
York . It has gained 12 percent this year.  Independent oil and gas producers don’t refine fuels or
sell them at retail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  