-- Lance Armstrong Gives Ironman Impetus for U.S. Television First
-- B y   M i k e   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/lance-armstrong-gives-ironman-impetus-for-first-live-tv-coverage-in-u-s-.html
World Triathlon Corp. is in
discussion with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network about televising
live part of its 2012 Ironman World Championship in Hawaii as
 Lance Armstrong  targets a spot in the race.  Andrew Messick, World Triathlon’s chief executive officer,
said he’ll be “much more aggressive” in getting television
coverage for its marquee race because of Armstrong, a seven-time
winner of cycling’s Tour de  France . NBC currently televises the
annual championship race in Kailua-Kona on tape-delay about two
months after it takes place.  “We want to investigate opportunities to be able to
potentially put parts of the race live, something that has never
been done in the U.S.,” Messick said in an interview yesterday
in  San Diego ,  California , where he is attending the  Triathlon
America  Business of Triathlon conference. “Lance brings a
spotlight to our sport that’s brighter perhaps than anything
that has ever happened.”  NBC Sports is “happy our long-term relationship with
Ironman runs through 2018,” spokesman Chris McCloskey said in a
telephone interview. He declined to comment further.  Armstrong, 40, finished second in his first 70.3-mile half
Ironman race on Feb. 12 in  Panama  City, Panama, an initial step
in his quest to qualify for triathlon’s World Championship.
Armstrong was overtaken in the final two miles by  New Zealand ’s
Bevan Docherty, a two-time Olympic medalist.  The race, which consisted of a 1.2-mile swim, 56-mile bike
ride and 13.1-mile run, wasn’t televised and there was no live
video stream on the Internet. Text updates of the event drew
150,000 unique visitors to  Ironman’s website , Messick said, up
from about 7,500 for similar races a year earlier.  11th Hour  “The race in Panama came about at the 11th hour and we
made a decision that it probably wasn’t the right thing to do to
put a ton of audio and video resources behind it,” Messick
said. “We had very little time to talk about it and get
ourselves organized and do the kind of job that we felt we
needed to.”  Armstrong, whose Livestrong cancer charity foundation has a
sponsorship agreement with World Triathlon, will also compete in
 half Ironman events  in  Texas  in April,  Florida  in May, and
Hawaii on June 2.  For those races, Messick said Ironman plans to increase its
online coverage to include video and audio to spotlight
Armstrong’s participation. Armstrong competed as a professional
triathlete at age 18 before focusing on cycling.  “Our opportunity as a sport is to use the fact that we
have an athlete like Lance and use it to bring more people into
triathlon,” Messick said. “There’s going to be a lot of
opportunity for people who successfully embrace that.”  Armstrong will race his first professional 140.6-mile full
Ironman event June 24 in Nice, France, as he seeks to earn
enough points to qualify for the Oct. 13 World Championship in
 Hawaii . He currently ranks 58th with  1,200 points . The top 40-
ranked professionals by July 29 will qualify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in San Diego, California, at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  