-- Marauding Ants Make “Hellstrom” Best Bug Movie Ever: DVD Review
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/marauding-ants-make-hellstrom-best-crazed-bug-movie-ever-peter-rainer.html
     Feb. 21 (Bloomberg) - “ The Hellstrom Chronicle ,” one of my
favorite headtrippy movies from the 1970s, announces its
intentions from the first frame.  According to its hyperintense onscreen narrator, “famed
entomologist” Nils Hellstrom, “if any living species is to
inherit the Earth, it will not be man.”  Hellstrom isn’t a real scientist. He’s played by actor
Lawrence Pressman, who went on to become a fixture on TV series.
Although “The Hellstrom Chronicle” won the 1971 Oscar for best
feature-length documentary (beating “The Sorrow and the Pity”!),
it’s not quite real, either.  Director Walon Green and his crew intersperse startlingly
beautiful insect footage with clips from grade-Z sci-fi movies
and Hellstrom’s doomy end-of-days rants. Finally out from  Olive
Films  on DVD/Blu-Ray, it’s a one-of-a-kind movie whose awesome
nutbrain fascinations are undiminished by time and the advent of
computer-generated imagery.  Green had one of the weirder movie careers leading up to
“Hellstrom.” Specializing in National Geographic documentary
specials about reptiles and amphibians and the “the mystery of
animal behavior,” he also co-wrote the classic western  “The Wild
Bunch”  with director Sam Peckinpah. That film memorably opens
with a close-up of a scorpion being eaten alive by a torrent of
red ants as laughing children look on.  I used to think that scene was pure Peckinpah but now I’m
not so sure. It’s pure “Hellstrom,” too.  Buggy Put-On  Green and his screenwriter, David Seltzer, frame the film
with deadly seriousness, yet it all seems like a put-on. How
else are we to interpret a scene like the one in which we see a
copulating black widow spider “thrashing with obese sexuality”?  Green portrays most insects as essentially walking (or
crawling or slithering) digestive tracts, which predate humans
by 300 million years and birds by 50 million, and are a lot
tougher than we are.  Insects will prevail because, Hellstrom says, unlike
mankind, which thinks too much, bugs are “mindless and soulless”
battalions ignorant of everything except survival. It’s going to
take more than a Roach Motel to win this war.  And make no mistake, this is a battle to the death. Famed
movie composer Lalo Schifrin, best known for his theme for TV’s
“ Mission Impossible ,” amps up the jangliness as if he were
scoring a horror film. Come to think of it, he was. (I could
have lived without the scene where Hellstom kills a lab mouse
with a wasp.)  Moth Marvels  But if this is war, it’s an eerily photogenic one. Few
documentaries have brought us closer to the marvels and
intricacies of insectdom: the caterpillar emerging from its
cocoon as a butterfly, the architectural wonders of African
termite hills, the poignant 18-hour lifespan of a mayfly, the
mating of moths. (A female luna moth’s pheromones can attract a
mate 20 miles away.)  In sequences like these, you may regret the film’s mad-
scientist trappings, which were clearly designed to break out of
the prettified  Disney (DIS) /National Geographic nature-film mold.  I’m glad that stuff is in here, too. It transforms what
might have been a straightforward documentary into a loony
frolic.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer responsible for this review:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this review:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  