-- Margins Widen at U.S. Companies
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-21T21:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/margins-widen-at-u-s-companies-as-wage-growth-lags-behind-prices-economy.html
Companies are improving margins and
generating profits as wage growth for the American worker lags
behind the prices of goods and services.  The year-over-year change in the so-called core consumer
price index, which excludes volatile food and fuel, has outpaced
hourly earnings for the last four months. In January, average
hourly earnings climbed 1.5 percent from a year earlier, while
 core inflation  was up 2.3 percent.  “A lot of the outperformance of profits has been due to
the fact that margins are expanding,” said  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .
“Firms have been able to keep prices intact even though labor
costs have been declining.”  While benefiting the bottom line for businesses, the
decline in inflation-adjusted wages bodes ill for the
sustainability of economic growth as consumers may eventually be
forced to cut back, Feroli said. Businesses have also been slow
to redeploy their profits into new hiring.  “So far what you’ve had is the government has been able to
step in and prop up household purchasing power by various cuts
in payroll taxes, various increases in social benefits,” said
Feroli. “That has sort of kept the whole thing going, but you
might worry with real wages being hit spending is going to
decline.”  Of the 394 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
that have reported since Jan. 9, earnings for the quarter ended
Dec. 31 increased 5.1 percent on average and beat analyst
estimates by 3.2 percent. Some 70 percent of the companies have
posted better-than-projected results.  Stocks Today  Stocks erased gains after the  S&P 500  failed to hold above
its highest close since 2008, as approval of  Greece ’s bailout
was offset by economic concern with crude oil jumping to a nine-
month high. The  index  added 0.1 percent to 1,362.21 at the close
in New York, paring an earlier advance of 0.5 percent.  European finance ministers approved 130 billion euros ($173
billion) in aid for Greece by tapping into European Central Bank
profits and coaxing investors into providing more debt relief to
shield the region from a default. Greece’s debt may still
balloon to 160 percent of gross domestic product in a worst-case
scenario, analysis by the  International Monetary Fund  and
European officials indicated.  Corporate profits in the U.S. reached a record $1.97
trillion in the third quarter of 2011, according to the most
recent data from the Commerce Department. That’s up 1.7 percent
in the third quarter from the previous three months and 7.5
percent higher than the same period in 2010.  Limited Wage Pressure  “In regards to labor, we currently do not anticipate
significant pressure for 2012 for both wages and salary,”
Gregory Levin, chief financial officer at  BJ’s Restaurants Inc. (BJRI) ,
said on a Feb. 16 conference call with analysts.  The Huntington Beach, California-based company, which owns
and operates restaurants in  California ,  Colorado , Oregon,
 Arizona , Nevada and  Texas , said revenue increased 29 percent in
the three months that ended Jan. 3 from the prior year, while
net income rose 42 percent.  Corporate profits tend to rise early in a business cycle,
and get squeezed once growth picks up and workers are able to
negotiate wage increases adequate to keep pace with inflation.
High unemployment reduces a worker’s bargaining power.  The jobless rate fell to 8.3 percent in January, down from
9.1 percent a year earlier and the lowest level in three years.
A broader measure of  underemployment , including people who have
given up searching for work and those employed part-time while
seeking full-time work, was 15.1 percent in January.  Low-Rate Pledge  The  Federal Reserve  has pledged low  interest rates  until
late 2014, citing in part the weakness of the job market.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  repeated the low-rate pledge
after the Labor Department reported the January jobless rate and
said the decline in the unemployment rate may mask weakness in
the labor market.  “It is very important to look not just at the unemployment
rate, which reflects only people who are actively seeking
work,” Bernanke said in response to a question during testimony
in Congress. “There are also a lot of people who are either out
of the  labor force  because they don’t think they can find work”
or who have taken part-time jobs.  The central bank said in January that it currently
estimates maximum employment to be between 5.2 percent and 6
percent.  “If you continue to get the  unemployment rate  down,
workers may be able to more readily demand higher wages which
will force some of that profit back over to the household
sector,” said JPMorgan’s Feroli.  Employment growth will put more money into the pockets of
consumers, said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  “Once the jobs creation begins again, those new people
have paychecks, and that’s what powers the economy forward,”
Rupkey said today in an interview with  Kathleen Hays  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  