-- Armstrong Investment Sells Italian Treasury Bonds, Sees Rally Almost Over
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-02-21T12:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/armstrong-investment-sells-italian-treasury-bonds-sees-rally-almost-over.html
Armstrong Investment Managers is
selling the Italian bonds it bought last year, making a 15
percent return, after they surged as European policy makers
stepped up efforts to stem the region’s debt crisis.  The  money manager , which purchased the securities in
November and December, has reduced its position by half and will
exit completely should they rise any further, said Patrick Armstrong, managing partner at the company, which has about $353
million under management. The bonds currently account for about
3 percent of the firm’s total holdings, down from around 6
percent in December, he said.  “I don’t see a significant rally much beyond where we are
now,” Armstrong said today in a telephone interview from
 London . “We’re not worried about Italy’s solvency but we think
the bonds are about fair value where they are now. They’ve had a
good run.”  Italian and Spanish 10-year yields have dropped more than
1.5 percentage points from euro-era record highs set in November
after the  European Central Bank  said on Dec. 8 it would provide
unlimited three-year loans to banks to boost lending. Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on Jan. 30 the extraordinary
facility was “useful” for the nation’s sovereign debt.  The securities extended gains today as European finance
ministers awarded 130 billion euros ($172 billion) in a second
aid package to  Greece , easing concern the sovereign debt crisis
will spread.  Armstrong said he’s selling the Italian 5 percent bond
maturing in March 2025 and the 6.5 percent security due in
November 2027, both of which he bought when they were yielding
more than 7 percent.  Yield Slide  The yield on the March 2025 bond dropped five basis points
today to 5.64 percent at 12:06 p.m. in London, after rising as
high as 7.71 percent on Nov. 9 according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on closing prices. The November 2027 security
yielded 6.01 percent today, down from 8.09 percent on Nov. 25.  “There is always going to be risk with  Italy ,” Armstrong
said. “It has a high debt-to-GDP ratio and competitiveness
problems which will only be solved with a weak euro. If
something bad happens and Italian yields will blow out, we may
buy again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  