-- Asia Stocks Retreat as Oil Seen Curbing Optimism After Greece Bailout Deal
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-02-21T10:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/asian-stocks-pare-losses-as-euro-ministers-said-to-agree-greece-aid-terms.html
Asian stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index retreating from a six-month high, as higher oil
prices threatened to curb spending and accelerate inflation,
tempering optimism after Euro-area finance ministers agreed to a
bailout for Greece.  Korean Air Lines (003490)  Co. fell 6.4 percent after being cut to
“sell” by Deutsche Bank AG amid weak cargo markets and rising
fuel costs.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , Japan’s least profitable major
automaker, slumped 9.9 percent on a report it plans to raise
capital. National  Australia  Bank Ltd., the nation’s No. 4 lender
by market value, rose 1 percent after the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia said it kept  interest rates  unchanged as European
risks abated and can ease monetary policy if conditions worsen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index retreated 0.4 percent to 127.57
as of 7:41 p.m. in Tokyo, with five stocks falling for every
four that rose. The gauge yesterday closed at its highest  level 
since Aug. 4, and moved within 1 percent of completing a 20
percent advance from its October low and entering a so-called
bull market.  The Euro-area agreement “is positive news for the market,
as it eases one of its concerns,” said  Ayako Sera , a market
strategist in  Tokyo  at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which
manages the equivalent of $298 billion. “But the market has
been rising on the hopes of the agreement, so when the fact
comes out the focus will turn to whether Greece will be able to
actually implement its deficit cut promises. The market will be
dominated by uncertainties going forward.”  Asia Earnings Slide  Of 473 companies in the Asia-Pacific gauge that have
reported net income since Jan. 9, more than half have fallen
short of analysts’ estimates and profit has fallen 59 percent on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with the U.S., where net income has grown an average of 5.1
percent for  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  companies that have
reported, the data show.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.2 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index was little changed after rising as much as
0.3 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index increased 0.8
percent, reversing an earlier decline as the Reserve Bank of
Australia released minutes of a Feb. 7 meeting that said risks
of an “extremely bad outcome” from  Europe  have “diminished
somewhat.”  National Australia Bank rose 1 percent to A$23.40 in
Sydney, while Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s
biggest by market value, gained 0.8 percent to A$49.47.  Euro-area finance ministers reached agreement on a second
bailout package for Greece, wringing concessions from private
investors and tapping into European Central Bank profits to
stave off a default next month. The leaders awarded 130 billion
euros ($173 billion) in aid, engineered a central bank profits
transfer and coaxed investor representatives into providing more
debt relief in an exchange offer meant to tide Greece past a
March bond redemption.  China Policy Stance  Oil traded near the highest price in nine months on
speculation that the deal in Europe will boost demand as
increasing tensions between Iran and the West put pressure on
supply. Oil futures for March delivery, which expire today,
advanced as much as $2.20 to $105.44, the highest intraday price
since May 5 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  China  Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s biggest oil
refiner, slid 1 percent to HK$8.76 in  Hong Kong  on concern
higher oil prices will hurt profit margins.  Geely Automobile
Holdings Ltd. (175) , the unit of the Chinese automaker that owns Volvo
Cars Corp., slumped 5 percent to HK$3.05.  Korean Air Lines sank 6.4 percent to 53,000 won after
Deutsche Bank cut its rating to “sell” from “hold.” The
company probably won’t have “stellar earnings” this year and
the shares are expensive, analyst Joe Liew said in a note dated
yesterday.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.3 percent, led by
Chinese retailers, shippers and property companies, and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.8 percent.  “If crude oil surges, that’ll add more imported inflation
to China and limit China’s ability to boost economic growth,”
said Dai Ming, a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun Investment
Management & Consulting Co. “Policy easing is still under way,
but at a very slow pace.”  Control Property Loans  Separately, Shang Fulin, chairman of the China Banking
Regulatory Commission, said preventing systemic and financial
risks is an urgent task, according to statement posted on the
regulator’s website today. The watchdog needs to “steadily”
resolve risks associated with local government financing
vehicles and control property loan risk, the statement said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 12 percent this year
through Feb. 20, compared with an 8.2 percent advance by the  S&P
500  and a 9.7 percent increase by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 14.6 times
estimated earnings on average at the last close, compared with
13.1 times for the S&P 500 and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , a Japanese electronics company, dropped
1.9 percent to 710 yen in Tokyo after saying it plans to re-
enter the European mobile-device market with a smartphone in
April.  Mazda slumped 9.9 percent to 145 yen after NHK reported the
company may be preparing for a 100 billion yen ($1.25 billion)
share sale.  Among stocks that rose,  OneSteel Ltd. (OST)  surged the most in
almost three years in Sydney as Australia’s second-biggest
steelmaker said it’s switching focus to iron ore away from its
loss-making steel unit. The shares rose 12 percent to 82
Australian cents, the biggest jump since April 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Gentle in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  