-- Aussie Dollar Declines as Reserve Bank Minutes Suggest Scope for Rate Cut
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-02-21T19:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/aussie-dollar-declines-as-reserve-bank-minutes-suggest-scope-for-rate-cut.html
Australia’s dollar fell after the
nation’s  Reserve Bank  said in minutes of its policy meeting this
month there is scope for easing should demand “weaken
materially.”  The so-called Aussie and New Zealand’s dollar trimmed
declines after euro-area officials reached agreement on
providing  Greece  with a second rescue package and the Greek
finance minister said a formal offer for a debt swap will be
made by the end of this week. Demand for the South Pacific
currencies was limited after technical indicators suggested
recent gains were excessive.  “Effectively, the RBA has maintained an easing bias,”
said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in  Hong Kong , who expects 50 basis points of interest-
rate cuts in  Australia  this year. “The Aussie is really
struggling to strengthen on the back of that.”  Australia’s currency fell 0.7 percent to $1.0685 as of 1:56
p.m. in  New York  from yesterday, when it rose 0.5 percent. It
lost as much as 0.9 percent, the most since Feb. 14. The Aussie
declined 0.5 percent to 85.19 yen from yesterday, when it
touched 86.36, the highest since July 11.  New Zealand’s dollar lost 0.5 percent to 83.58 U.S. cents
from yesterday, when it reached 84.29, the highest since Sept.
5. The so-called kiwi bought 66.63 yen from 66.87.  The RBA said that “while the financial situation in  Europe 
remained fragile, the likelihood of an extremely bad outcome
seemed to have diminished somewhat,” according to minutes
released today of its Feb. 7 meeting. The central bank
unexpectedly kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 4.25 percent
at the gathering after two quarter-percentage-point reductions
late last year.  Greek Debt Talks  The deal hammered out by euro-area finance ministers
meeting in Brussels includes a 53.5 percent writedown for
investors in Greek bonds, Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
led the gathering, told reporters early this morning.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  called the
Greek bailout deal “a very good agreement.” Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said private bondholders agreed to take a
bigger writeoff on their Greek debt after “intense”
negotiations.  “The detail of the package plus the increase in the
haircut have all come at the time when the market has found
itself short risk,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of
currency sales in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc. “I expect the
Aussie and the kiwi to really go a lot higher.”  The kiwi has risen 10.4 percent in the past three months,
the best performance among 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The Aussie has gained 6.8 percent
for the next best performance in the period.  Relative Strength  The  New Zealand  currency’s 14-day relative strength index
against the yen was at 79 yesterday, above the 70 level that
some traders see as a sign that an asset may be about to reverse
direction. The index for the Australian dollar against the yen
was at 76 yesterday.  New Zealand company executives lowered their expectations
for the nation’s inflation rate, a survey conducted for the
central bank showed. Inflation will average 2.5 percent in two
years’ time, according to the 75 business managers surveyed.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell four basis points to 3.03 percent.  Australia sold A$900 million ($965 million) of 1.25 percent
Treasury indexed bonds due 2022, excluding a A$10 million
allotment that will be taken up by the central bank. The bonds
were priced at a real yield to maturity of 1.37 percent, the
Australian Office of Financial Management said in a statement
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  