-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Rise Versus Yen on Commodities, U.S. Housing Data
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-02-22T19:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/australian-dollar-maintains-loss-on-speculation-asian-stocks-will-decline.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars strengthened against the yen amid better than expected
U.S. housing data and higher commodity prices, spurring demand
for higher-yielding assets.  The Australian currency maintained gains after Foreign
Minister  Kevin Rudd  resigned, potentially paving the way for a
leadership battle with Prime Minister  Julia Gillard . Demand for
the South Pacific currencies was tempered after a report
signaled China’s manufacturing may shrink.  “Japanese investors are buying Aussie against the yen,”
said Lee Wai Tuck, a strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .
“There’s some hope that things in the U.S. may be turning
slightly better. There’s a bit of optimism over there for now
and that’s helped to encourage some risk-taking.”  Australia ’s currency gained 0.5 percent to 85.46 yen at
2:30 p.m. New York time. It was little 0.2 percent lower at
$1.0652. New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to 66.63 yen. It
was 0.5 percent weaker at 82.95 U.S. cents.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  Index (SPGSCITR)  of 24 raw materials
advanced 0.5 percent, gaining for a fifth straight day.  Sales of previously owned homes  in the U.S. rose for a
fourth month in January, climbing 4.3 percent to a 4.57 million
annual rate, the highest level since May 2010, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  Leadership Challenge  The Australian currency held its advance after Rudd, the
former Prime Minister who was ousted by Gillard as leader in
2010, announced during a trip to  Washington  that he was quitting
as foreign minister. His resignation follows speculation about a
challenge for the leadership of the governing  Labor Party  and
opens the door for Rudd to contest for the top post again.  The Aussie was also supported after figures from the
statistics bureau today indicated  wages  in the country rose 1
percent in the fourth quarter from the previous three-month
period when they gained 0.7 percent. A separate report by
Westpac Banking Corp. and the Melbourne Institute showed that
the nation’s  leading economic indicators  climbed in December.  A preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’ index by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed the gauge was at
49.7 this month, after a final figure of 48.8 in January. A
reading below 50 points to a contraction. January and February
economic data are distorted by a weeklong Chinese holiday.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  