-- Auto Rally Sways Traders in Most Sales Since at Least ’08: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-02-21T16:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/auto-rally-sways-traders-in-most-sales-since-at-least-08-credit-markets.html
Automakers are selling bonds linked
to vehicle debt at the fastest pace since at least 2008 as
soaring investor demand sends relative yields on the notes to
the lowest level in more than six months.  Issuance of auto asset-backed securities has reached $14.8
billion this year, compared with a range of $7 billion to $9
billion in the comparable periods of 2008 to 2011, according to
data from  Barclays Capital . Nissan Motor Co., Honda Motor Co.
and Ford Motor Co. sold $5.5 billion of bonds this month,
boosting the offerings by at least 35 percent, in their biggest
deals in as many as seven years.  Bond buyers are fueling the deals as the lowest U.S.
 unemployment  rate in almost three years drives car sales and as
European leaders agreed to a second bailout for Greece, averting
a potential global credit crisis. Relative yields on AAA rated
auto asset-backed bonds have declined to 67 basis points, the
lowest since Aug. 1, from last year’s high of 97 basis points in
November, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “With some of the concerns over  Europe  starting to ease a
bit, people are less cautious,” said Brian Wiele, a managing
director at Barclays Capital in New York. “We are seeing a lot
of that cash coming into our market.”  Sales of asset-backed securities tied to auto loans account
for 58 percent of about $25.3 billion of asset-backed issuance
this year, according to the firm.  Low-Cost Funding  The asset-backed market is providing automakers with low-
cost funding for lending to customers, potentially spurring more
business, according to  Wells Fargo Securities LLC . The rates may
aid parts of the market where the  Federal Reserve (FDTR) ’s program to
boost borrowing “may have fallen short,” analysts led by John McElravey in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , wrote in a Feb. 17
report.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk declined to the lowest level in a week, with
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing by 1.4 basis points to a mid-price
of 97.2 basis points as of 11:11 a.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd. That’s the lowest since Feb. 13.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Chesapeake Energy  Bonds of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  are the most actively
traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers today, with 42
trades of $1 million or more as of 11:15 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 1.01 basis point to 30.51 basis points
as of 11:15 a.m. The gauge widens when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Demand for asset-backed securities tied to auto debt is
being driven in part by an improving outlook for the economy and
the automakers, said  Chris Sullivan , chief investment officer at
United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York.  Claims for  unemployment insurance  have fallen for three
straight weeks, adding to evidence the labor market is
recovering from the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.
The  jobless  rate in January unexpectedly fell to 8.3 percent,
the lowest since February 2009.  Growth Signs  European governments awarded a 130 billion-euro ($171
billion) aid package for  Greece  after talks in Brussels, seeking
to avert the region’s first sovereign default.  General Motors Co. reported the largest annual profit in
its 103-year history last week, Ford had its 11th consecutive
profitable quarter, and Toyota Motor Corp. this month raised its
net income forecast for the fiscal year ending March 31.  U.S. sales of cars and light trucks rose 11 percent in
January from a year earlier, Autodata Corp. said Feb. 1. The
light-vehicle seasonally adjusted annualized  rate  was 14.2
million last month, up from 12.7 million a year earlier,
Autodata said. That was the fastest since the “cash for
clunkers” government incentive program in August 2009.  “It increases the breadth of the investor base as more
people become optimistic on the near to intermediate-term future
of the  auto industry ,” said Wiele of Barclays. “Investors
start to look for different ways to get access to the credit of
the auto manufacturers.”  Wells Fargo  Sales of auto asset-backed securities may jump 11 percent
to about $63 billion this year, accounting for about 55 percent
of bonds tied to consumer borrowing, according to Wells Fargo.
Top-ranked auto bonds have returned 0.69 since Nov. 17, when
spreads peaked last year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. That compares with a loss of 0.29 percent over the
same period for AAA rated corporate bonds.  Spreads on the debt reached as high as 825 basis points in
November 2008 amid the credit crisis, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  Wells Fargo may raise its 2012 asset-backed forecast for
auto deals, according to the report last week. The San
Francisco-based lender is predicting $63 billion in 2012
issuance.  Nissan sold $1.54 billion of the securities, after
increasing the sale from $1 billion, in its largest issue since
2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The automaker paid 15 basis points more than the benchmark
swap rate on $514 million of top-ranked securities maturing in
about two years, Bloomberg data show. In November, Nissan paid a
spread of 26 basis points on a 2.4-year slice.  Honda Sale  Honda, which boosted a sale to $1.69 billion from $1.25
billion in its biggest offering since 2009, paid a spread of 18
basis points on a $520 million portion of debt that’s rated Aaa
by Moody’s Investors Service and matures in about two years,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with 20 basis points in
October on its last sale.  Ford more than doubled the size of its Feb. 7 offering of
debt backed by loans to car dealers, its largest since 2005. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker sold $2.3 billion of the debt
after initially marketing $1 billion.  A top-ranked portion maturing in 1.92 years priced to yield
47 basis points more than the one-month London interbank offered
rate, a borrowing benchmark, Bloomberg data show.  “The insatiable demand for relatively short, high quality
assets has encouraged untypically large initial offerings or
upsizes at some of the narrowest pricing levels in years,”
Sullivan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  