-- Avon Board Said to Debate Firing Jung Before Keeping as Chairman
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-02-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/avon-board-said-to-debate-firing-jung-before-keeping-as-chairman.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  directors debated
for three weeks whether to fire  Andrea Jung  before deciding to
remove her as chief executive officer and retain her as
chairman, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Avon’s nine independent directors decided Jung, 53, should
stay on because she’s the well-known face of the company and a
role model for its 6.5 million mostly female sales
representatives, said the two people, who declined to be named
because the matter is private.  The directors also didn’t want to oust Jung amid management
turnover and as Avon probes potential violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, said one of the people, who called the
decision to keep Jung on as chairman an elegant solution.  Doing so, however, may make it harder for the new CEO to
turn Avon around, Rakesh Khurana, a professor at  Harvard
Business School  in  Boston , said in a telephone interview.  “While separation of chairman and CEO is considered best
governance practice, if the former CEO stays on, especially when
there are performance questions, that probably isn’t the best
practice,” Khurana said. “Her staying on adds another layer of
complexity to an already complicated and opaque situation.”  The board deliberations occurred in November and early
December after Avon said third-quarter profit trailed analysts’
projections and announced that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission was investigating potential overseas bribery, the
people said. That probe has since been taken up by a U.S. grand
jury, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  Some directors initially wanted to fire Jung and even those
who wanted her to stay on as chairman agreed Avon needed a new
CEO, the people said.  New Contract  Several meetings were held among independent directors, who
then also met with Jung and negotiated a new contract with her
to serve as executive chairman, one of the people said. Avon
announced on Dec. 13 that it would separate the roles of chief
executive and chairman and search for new CEO.  Victor Beaudet, an Avon spokesman, declined to comment.  Since taking the job in 1999, Jung has become inextricably
entwined with the Avon brand. The first woman to lead the
world’s largest direct seller of cosmetics, Jung, attired in
designer-label clothing, her signature pearls and red lipstick,
was a celebrity and women’s advocate as well as an executive.  She helped raise more than $800 million for Avon’s
charitable programs, focused on breast cancer research and
fighting violence against women, and encouraged sales
representatives to gain economic independence by pitching the
company’s products.  Marketing Background  Because Jung had a marketing background, the New York-based
company surrounded her with executives with operating
experience, Connie Maneaty, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in
 New York , said in a December interview.  Still, the Avon board gave Jung more latitude than most
chief executives. Typically CEOs sign two-year or three-year
contracts. Jung’s was open-ended and renewed again and again.  No longer. The new contract will run for two years once a
new CEO is hired, and includes a potential two-year rather than
three-year severance payment, according to a Dec. 16 regulatory
filing. Her salary as chairman will fall to $1 million from
about $1.38 million, and she’ll be paid a potential bonus of $2
million, compared with $3.8 million under her current agreement.  The new contract gives Jung an incentive to make sure the
company is turned around. If the shares rebound to $30, near
last year’s high, the value of Jung’s stock options will rise by
about $9 million to $12.8 million, according to David Schmidt, a
senior consultant at compensation advisory firm James F. Reda &
Associates in New York. His calculations are based on a Feb. 15
valuation.  Turnaround Advantage  “Her name is so intertwined with this company, to have a
turnaround is to her advantage -- just for her reputation,”
said Schmidt, who estimates Jung passed up about $7.9 million in
severance to stay at Avon.  As of yesterday’s close, Avon shares had risen 16 percent
since Dec. 12, the day before the company announced Jung would
be replaced as CEO. They fell 0.2 percent to $19.16 at the close
yesterday in New York.  Jung, whose 13-year tenure as CEO is more than double the
average five years for Fortune 500 chiefs, told analysts on Feb.
14 she wouldn’t interfere with the new CEO.  Her successor will
report to the board rather than to her, and Jung won’t have
operational responsibilities after he or she is named, one of
the people said.  Most Avon board members have worked closely with Jung for
most of her tenure.  Five of the nine independent directors have
served on the board for a decade or longer. They include lead
director Fred Hassan, managing director and partner at  Warburg
Pincus  and chairman of Bausch & Lomb Inc.  “The kind of compromise directors reached to keep Jung on
as chairman while also recruiting a new CEO serves no good
purpose for investors,”  Charles Elson , head of the University
of  Delaware ’s Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  in
 Newark , Delaware, said in a telephone interview. “But at least
the board limited Jung to a two-year contract. It’s a lot harder
to terminate an executive with an open-ended contract that
automatically gets renewed over and over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  