-- Bank of Korea Changes to Put New Board Members in Majority Starting April
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-02-21T07:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/bank-of-korea-reshuffle-to-put-new-board-members-in-majority-from-april.html
Bank of Korea  board changes will put
new members in the majority as early as April, prompting
criticism that the central bank is putting its credibility and
policy consistency at risk.  Park Won Shik will join as senior deputy governor on April
8, subject to the president’s approval, the central bank said in
a statement yesterday. Park replaces Lee Ju Yeol, whose term is
expiring. Three other members of the seven-person body finish on
April 20 and a fourth seat is currently vacant.  The Bank of Korea has kept interest rates unchanged for
eight straight months as officials balance inflation risks
against the threat to  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy from an
export slowdown. Board changes may make it harder for economists
and investors to pick the next move.  “We may have five new members out of seven, a rare and
undesirable situation that raises questions about policy
consistency,” said Hahm Joon Ho, a professor at Yonsei
University in Seoul who advised on the creation of the current
board system in 1997. “The central bank’s credibility as an
independent decision-making body is at risk.”  No comment was immediately available from the Bank of
 Korea .  Besides the scheduled replacements, one seat has been
vacant since April 2010. Governor Kim Choong Soo, who said in a
January interview that rates remain “accommodative” and
shouldn’t stay that way for “a long period of time,” is near
the half-way point of his four-year term.  New Board Composition  On Feb. 9, the Bank of Korea kept the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate unchanged at 3.25 percent.  “Although our economy is in a difficult situation, it will
return to a long-term growth trend,” Kim said at the time. “We
will stay on alert to price gains as inflation expectations are
still considerably high.”  Three board members -- Kim Dae Sik, Choi Do Soung and Kang Myung Hun -- are scheduled to leave on April 20.  “The board change adds uncertainty to market players,”
said Kim Nam Hyun, a Seoul-based fixed-income analyst at Eugene
Investment & Futures.  Kim and Choi were described in March by Erik Lueth, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co., as “hawkish,” or more likely to push for
faster rate increases.  Views on Policy  Kang and Lim Seung Tae voted against tightening policy in
January 2011 when  interest rates  rose to 2.75 percent from 2.5
percent, meeting minutes showed. Kang said in an interview in
June that the Bank of Korea may need to slow the pace of
interest-rate increases after five such moves since July 2010
because of risks to the global economic outlook.  “Park will likely follow the governor’s will as his
predecessor does and the rest of the board may be filled with
doves supporting the government’s view,” Eugene Investment’s
Kim said.  Board members are appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the bank, government departments or industry.
For the April change, the BOK,  Finance Ministry  and Financial
Services Commission are to recommend the replacements.  The Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, responsible for
recommending a person to fill a seat vacant for two years, is
still considering candidates, Sohn Young Ki, a director at the
chamber, said today.  In other moves at the central bank, chief economist Kim Jun
Il and directors general Kang Juno, Kang Tae Soo and Kim Jong
Hwa will become deputy governors in April, the central bank said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  