-- BC Partners Raises $8.6 Billion for New European Buyout Fund
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-02-21T10:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/bc-partners-raises-8-6-billion-for-new-european-buyout-fund.html
BC Partners  Ltd., the British
private-equity owner of gym operator Fitness First Ltd., raised
6.5 billion euros ($8.6 billion) for leveraged buyouts,
surpassing its target.  BC European Capital IX, which will target controlling
stakes in “defensive growth” companies, was oversubscribed and
is 14 percent bigger than the previous one, the London-based
firm said today in a statement.  “I am delighted with the enthusiastic response from
existing and new investors from around the world, particularly
in the context of a challenging fundraising environment,”
Charlie Bott, head of  investor relations  and a managing partner,
said in the statement.  BC Partners was one of the first private-equity firms in
 Europe  to come back to investors in 2010 for a new fund after
the financial crisis stymied dealmaking. Initially targeting 6
billion euros, it offered a 5 percent discount on fees for
investors who committed money before its first close in early
2011, people with knowledge of the matter said then. It also
agreed to end transaction fees, billed each time the firm or one
of its companies make an acquisition, to lure investors at a
time when lack of distributions made them reluctant to commit to
new pools.  The firm said it secured “a substantial amount” of
commitments from the majority of existing investors. About 40
percent was raised from backers in  North America , 30 percent in
Europe and 30 percent in  Asia  and the  Middle East , it said.
About 37 percent of backers are pension funds, while sovereign
wealth funds make up 25 percent and fund of funds 12 percent.  Some of the largest European firms, including Apax Partners
LLP, Cinven Ltd. and Permira Advisers LLP, are raising buyout
funds. Private-equity firms, which are seeking $711 billion
globally, raised 46 percent less in the third quarter than in
the previous quarter as the European debt crisis deepened,
according to London-based research firm Preqin Ltd. Meanwhile,
the value of LBOs announced by private-equity firms in the
second half of last year dropped 32 percent to $71.5 billion
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  