-- Belarus Urged to Cut State Lending for Next Bailout Loan Tranche
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-02-21T13:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/belarus-urged-to-cut-state-lending-for-next-bailout-loan-tranche.html
Belarus must curb state-backed
lending as the country seeks a third disbursement from a
Russian-led $3 billion bailout loan, said Sergey Shatalov, who
oversees the anti-crisis fund that provided the credit.  “Clearly they can’t maintain the level of credit to the
economy which was the case in 2011,” Shatalov, managing
director of the Eurasian Economic Community’s rescue fund, said
in an interview in Moscow today. “It fuels inflation, and it’s
the main driver for the balance of payments deficit.”  Belarus, whose currency depreciated 64 percent against the
dollar last year as inflation soared to 108.7 percent, should
curtail state lending to the economy to 1 percent of gross
domestic product by next year, Shatalov said. Government
deposits with banks are still fueling credit growth after the
central bank stopped making direct loans in June, he said.  “The government implemented a program that clearly moved
the country toward a turnaround,” Shatalov said. “The
stabilization has begun, but it hasn’t yet been concluded.”  The former Soviet republic received the second bailout
tranche of $440 million last December following a payment of
$800 million in June. Belarus also wants to secure a new loan
from the  International Monetary Fund  and extend payments on its
$3.8 billion debt to the Washington-based lender, central bank
Chairman Nadezhda Ermakova said last month.  New Targets  Policy makers in the capital Minsk are drafting new
economic targets in the so-called letter of intent for approval
with the Russian-led emergency fund, which will be used to
determine when a third tranche of the loan is released, Shatalov
said.  Belarus is conducting a review after inflation surged above
100 percent and the government balanced its budget, exceeding a
planned deficit of 1.5 percent initially agreed, Shatalov told
reporters.  “One of the difficult questions is how the inflation
targets will be reached,” he said. Under the bailout accord,
Belarus is supposed to sell $2.5 billion in state assets, the
same as last year, he said.  The anti-crisis fund, which agreed to provide the $3
billion loan to Belarus in June, is managed by Eurasian
Development Bank. Both the fund and the bank are Russian-
controlled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  