-- BHP Billiton’s $5.25 Billion Bond Offer Leads New-Issue Revival
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-02-21T23:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/bhp-billiton-s-5-25-billion-bond-offer-leads-new-issue-revival.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, sold $5.25 billion of bonds in the U.S.
as the corporate new-issue market rebounds from a two-week
slump.  BHP raised the third-biggest amount this year in a five-
part offering of varying maturities yesterday. The miner’s $1
billion of 30-year notes were priced to yield 102 basis points,
or 1.02 percentage points, more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only
 SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR) , which issued $7
billion of bonds each, have sold a greater amount of debt on a
single day in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Borrowers raised the most debt in the U.S. yesterday since
Feb. 8 when $11.9 billion of bonds were sold, Bloomberg data
show. Global bond sales began this month with a record start
before issuance tapered off. Corporate borrowers had sold more
than $158 billion of bonds through Feb. 9 and only $92.1 billion
after that through Feb. 20, the data show.  BHP, based in  Melbourne , plans to use proceeds from the
sale to repay existing obligations and for general corporate
purposes. The miner is spending $80 billion over the next five
years to boost output of  iron ore , copper and coal.  Credit-default swaps on BHP tumbled 10.2 basis points
yesterday to 74.4, the lowest level since August, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Spreads Narrow  The relative yield on investment-grade corporate debt in
the U.S. has fallen to 212 basis points from 244 on Nov. 16 when
BHP last issued a dollar-denominated bond, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Foreign issuers in the U.S. have
already raised more than $170 billion, the most at the start of
the year since records have been kept, Bloomberg data show.  BHP’s offering included a $1 billion, two-year floating-
rate note that priced at 27 basis points more than the three-
month London interbank offered rate; a $1 billion three-year
security at 62 basis points more than Treasuries; a $1.25
billion five-year tranche that priced at 77 basis points over
Treasuries; as well as a $1 billion 10-year portion that priced
at 92 basis points more than comparable Treasuries.  The sale was managed by Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. BHP has more than $2 billion of bonds maturing this year,
Bloomberg data show. The mining company is rated A1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and A+ by  Standard & Poor’s .  American Honda Motor Co.’s finance unit also sold $1.75
billion in a two-part U.S. dollar offering yesterday and Cargill
Inc., a privately-held producer and marketer of food and
agricultural products and services, raised $1 billion of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  