-- Bill Clinton’s Offer of Face Time at $255,000 Raises Charity Auction Bar
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/bill-clinton-s-offer-of-face-time-at-255-000-raises-charity-auction-bar.html
Debbie McLeod could have had  Paul McCartney  for $70,000 or Jay-Z for $42,000.  Instead, the Houston resident bid $255,000 last autumn to
spend a day with former U.S. President  Bill Clinton . The money
went to support the work of the William J. Clinton Foundation.  “We think Clinton has done an outstanding job outside of
his presidency,” said McLeod, 52, executive director of  Grant
Me the Wisdom Foundation , which aids girls and women in the
developing world. “I wanted to know what his schedule was like.
I wanted to know more about his daughter.”  McLeod led  Charitybuzz.com ’s 2011 list of top celebrity
auction bids. The New York-based company arranges the events to
help nonprofits raise money through its Website or at galas.  Last year, it offered more than 5,000 experiences, a 25
percent increase from 2010, said Coppy Holzman, founder and
chief executive officer of Charitybuzz, by phone. It takes a
percentage of final bids as its fee.  Other celebrity-auction experiences in the top 10 included
$105,000 to meet  Oprah Winfrey  backstage at the last taping of
her popular television show, which benefited the  Robert F.
Kennedy Center for Justice & Human Rights , and a private voice
or guitar lesson with  Paul Simon , to benefit the Children’s
Health Fund, with two such sessions available for $75,000 each.  As the 2012 gala fundraising season begins this month,
Charitybuzz has plans to broker other encounters with Clinton
beginning in April.  ‘Iconic Star’  “President Clinton is truly a unique combination of being
a global philanthropist and an iconic star,” Holzman said. “He
has a larger-than-life personality, which makes him a unique
global philanthropist who has universal appeal.”  Since leaving office, Clinton’s profile has risen through
the work of his Global Initiative, a nonprofit that pairs
businesses with nonprofits and programs that tackle issues such
as malaria prevention and the empowerment of women and girls.  Charitybuzz noted the Clinton cachet two years ago when a
bidder at a Christie’s charity auction paid $80,000 for 18 holes
of golf with him.  One reason why Clinton attracted a much higher bid last
year was the chance for a “glimpse into the world of an ex-
president that you can’t get” otherwise, Holzman said.  The $255,000 bid won McLeod the opportunity to shadow
Clinton last autumn on one of the days he spent promoting his
latest book, “Back to Work.”  “What struck me was that Clinton is willing to give up
golfing 200 days a year so that he can change the world,” she
said. “I wanted to know how he became a vegan. His staff
brought him some food and it had some cream on it, and he didn’t
touch it.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 