-- BMW to Sponsor London Symphony Orchestra Open-Air Concerts
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-02-21T16:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/bmw-to-sponsor-london-symphony-orchestra-for-series-of-open-air-concerts.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , is teaming up with the
London Symphony Orchestra for three years to sponsor free,
annual open-air concerts.  The inaugural performance in the BMW LSO Open Air Classics
program will take place in London’s Trafalgar Square on Saturday
May 12, and appear on giant screens on either side of the stage.
Conducted by Valery Gergiev, the concert will feature
Stravinsky’s “Firebird Suite” and “The Rite of Spring,” LSO
and BMW said at a news conference in an hotel overlooking the
square.  The series “is the first international location of similar
partnerships in Munich and Berlin,” said  Ian Robertson , member
of BMW’s board of management. “It was a logical extension to
start this during 2012, a special year for us here in the U.K.”  BMW -- a sponsor of the 2012  London   Olympic Games  --
manufactures its three brands partially or wholly in the U.K.:
BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce, Robertson said. The U.K. is also the
BMW group’s fourth-largest market.  Gergiev, who is the LSO’s principal conductor, said he
hoped the partnership would draw young audiences.  “If classical music always hid behind the big walls of
 Carnegie Hall  and the Barbican, I don’t think it would be the
smartest solution,” he said. “People come to us regularly:
sometimes we have to make an effort and go to them.”  No details were given on the value of the sponsorship.  BMW is also teaming with Tate Modern in London to
commission art performances exclusively for live Web broadcast,
the London-based gallery said last October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 