-- Bank of England’s Bean Says Greek Deal Doesn’t End Disorderly Outcome Risk
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-22T08:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/boe-s-bean-says-greek-deal-doesn-t-eliminate-euro-crisis-risks.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean said agreement on a second bailout for  Greece  may
not be enough to end the debt crisis and countries in the euro-
area periphery must reduce debt and improve competitiveness.  While the agreement “between the Greek government and the
euro-area authorities is certainly welcome, there still remains
a possibility that events could unfold in a disorderly and
damaging fashion at some stage in the future,” Bean said in a
speech late yesterday in Glasgow,  Scotland . The euro crisis
“represents the biggest downside risk” to the U.K.  The Bank of England expanded its  bond-purchase target  by 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) to 325 billion pounds this month in
response to a recovery weakened by a squeeze on consumers and
 Europe ’s debt turmoil. Bean said that while inflation is easing
and some recent  business surveys  have been encouraging, growth
will be “sluggish” in the first half of 2012 and there’s
“added incentive” to cement the recovery.  The deputy governor said a “disorderly outcome” in the
euro area would hit the U.K.’s export and financial links,
reduce confidence and lead companies and consumers to “hunker
down and postpone spending.” He also said that Greece isn’t the
only country in the currency zone facing challenges.  “Greece is the country in the headlines right now, but
several countries of the euro-area periphery face, in varying
degrees, a challenging mixture of unsustainably high public
and/or private indebtedness and weak competitiveness,” Bean
said. “At best, these countries face an extended period of very
low growth while the necessary adjustments take place.”  The pound was little changed from yesterday, and traded at
$1.5780 at 8:20 a.m. in London.  BOE Minutes  The  Bank of England  will publish the minutes of its
February meeting at 9:30 a.m. in London today, which will show
how the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee voted on the
expansion of so-called quantitative easing. In its first round
of stimulus, which ended in early 2010, it bought 200 billion
pounds of gilts.  Data to be published Feb. 24 will probably confirm the
economy shrank 0.2 percent in the  fourth quarter , according to
the median estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Still, indexes of manufacturing and services improved in
January, indicating the economy is strengthening.  “A margin of unused capacity and labor in the economy is
likely to persist for some while yet,” Bean said. The prospect
of a permanent loss of capacity and scarring of the long-term
unemployed create “an added incentive to getting the recovery
back on track quickly.”  He said that while growth should “gradually strengthen,
the continuing headwinds from the unwinding of excessive debt
and the government’s continuing fiscal consolidation mean that
the pace of recovery is likely to remain moderate by historical
standards.”  QE Impact  Bean also said the central bank’s bond program boosts asset
prices and should encourage spending, though investors
anticipating the bank’s actions “make it harder than before”
to isolate the effect. Still, “so far we have seen little to
suggest that the effect on nominal demand will be markedly at
odds with that of our first round of purchases,” he said.  He also defended the policy from criticism that it has
reduced returns on pensions and other savings. While the gilt
purchases have helped  lower yields , their impact on assets such
as equities provides an “offset to the fall in annuity rates.”  “The impact of quantitative easing on those approaching
retirement is thus more complex than it seems at first blush,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  