-- BofA’s Stock Is Cheap After 44% Rise, Second Curve’s Brown Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-21T17:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/bofa-s-stock-still-cheap-after-44-rally-brown-says-tom-keene.html
Thomas Brown , chief executive
officer of Second Curve Capital LLC, said it’s not too late to
purchase shares of  Bank of America Corp.  and other lenders after
U.S. financial-industry stocks rallied this year.  The reason to own Bank of America “is not because they’re
going to become a great banking company, but because the
valuation of the company is just too low relative to even their
weak earning potential,” Brown said today in a radio interview
with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets,
jumped 44 percent this year through Feb. 17, leading a 16
percent increase in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company finished last week at
$8.02, or 62 percent of its  tangible book value  as of Dec. 31.  “If we could just get it back to tangible book value,
we’ve had a pretty good investment,” said Brown, who has held
Bank of America shares and is a Bloomberg contributing editor.  Brown said it often doesn’t make sense for investors to
pile into a vehicle such as a mutual fund based on past
performance. Retail investors often get lower returns than the
mutual funds they buy into because people unsuccessfully seek to
“time the market” and they are often “chasing the performance
of a manager” who may not maintain past results, he said.  “The retail-investor performance in mutual funds is 600
basis points lower, 6 percentage points lower, than the mutual
fund itself,” Brown said. “That’s an average.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 