-- Cabot Joins Williams to Move Marcellus Gas to New York
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-02-21T21:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/cabot-williams-form-venture-to-move-marcellus-gas-correct-.html
Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  and  Williams
Partners LP (WPZ)  will join forces on a new pipeline to move at least
500 million cubic feet of natural gas a day from  Pennsylvania  to
higher-priced markets in New York and  New England .  Williams will own 75 percent of the “Constitution”
pipeline system, scheduled to begin operating in March 2015,
according to a statement today. The pipeline will carry gas from
Houston-based Cabot’s production in the Marcellus Shale of
Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, to pipelines in Schoharie
County, New York.  The project will allow Cabot, which will own 25 percent, to
bring its gas to markets in “the most constrained demand area
in the country,” Dan O. Dinges, Cabot’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said today in a conference call with
investors.  “This pipeline for the future is our next major step for
development of our Marcellus resource,” he said.  The Marcellus shale formation, which stretches from  Canada 
to Kentucky, holds an estimated 141 trillion cubic feet of gas,
the U.S. Energy Department said on Jan. 23.  Cabot, which has fallen 6.1 percent this year after
outperforming every company in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index
in 2011, has joined other producers including Chesapeake Energy
Corp. in scaling back its gas drilling plans. Cabot will cut its
spending on new gas wells by $100 million this year, the company
said in a statement yesterday.  Falling Gas Prices  The benchmark U.S. gas price has  fallen  by more than 55
percent since 2008 as hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking,” has
allowed companies to boost production and tap hydrocarbons in
dense shale rock formations.  Cabot’s 25 percent stake in the Constitution pipeline
represents a value of $175 million to $200 million, Dinges said.
Williams will build, operate and maintain the pipeline, the
companies said in separate statements today.  Cabot reported fourth quarter net income of $26.4 million,
or $0.13 a share, compared with $49.1 million, or $0.24 a share,
a year earlier, the Houston-based company said in a statement
yesterday.  Cabot fell 1.7 percent to $36.01 at the close in  New York .
Williams, a Tulsa, Oklahoma-based master-limited partnership,
rose 0.1 percent to $61.75.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  