-- California Gay Marriage Ban Supporters Ask Panel to Reinstate Voided Law
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-22T01:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/california-gay-marriage-ban-supporters-seek-appeal-rehearing-1-.html
Proponents of  California ’s
Proposition 8 ban on gay marriage asked a federal appeals court
to reconsider a ruling by two of its members that struck down
the measure this month.  Lawyers for Proposition 8 backers today asked that a larger
panel of judges at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San Francisco
rehear their appeal of a federal judge’s 2010 ruling that the
marriage ban violates equal protection rights of gay and lesbian
couples. On Feb. 7 a three-judge panel of the court voted 2-1 to
uphold the 2010 ruling. They kept in place an order that
maintains Proposition 8 as law in the state.  “The panel majority erred in breaking with the uniform and
binding precedent upholding the constitutionality of laws
adopting the traditional definition of marriage,” said  Charles
Cooper , an attorney for Proposition 8 defenders, in a court
filing today.  The case will be reheard if one of the appeals court’s 25
active judges asks for a vote on whether to rehear the case and
13 judges favor review, said David Madden, a court spokesman.
There’s no deadline for the court to act on the petition for
rehearing. If no judge seeks a vote on rehearing, Proposition 8
proponents could petition the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  to hear the
case. The proponents said on Feb. 7 that they hoped the measure
would be upheld by the nation’s highest court.  Theodore Boutrous , an attorney for couples that sued to
strike down Proposition 8, said the plaintiffs oppose rehearing
in the  San Francisco  appeals court.  ‘Ready to Defend’  “We are ready to defend our victory whatever path this
case takes,” Boutrous said in an e-mailed statement.  Proposition 8, which amended California’s constitution to
say that marriage is between one man and one woman, was approved
by 52 percent of voters in 2008 after the California Supreme
Court legalized gay marriage earlier that year.  The San Francisco-based appeals court ruled that the
measure’s only purpose “was to lessen the status and human
dignity of gays and lesbians in California,” which the U.S.
Constitution doesn’t allow.  The court said it looked only at the issues of this
particular case and not at whether same-sex couples may ever be
denied the right to marry under the U.S. Constitution.
California gay couples were allowed to wed under a May 2008
decision by the state’s highest court. That November,
Proposition 8 trumped the state court’s ruling.  Struck Down  U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker in San Francisco struck
down Proposition 8 after a trial without a jury. Shortly before
retiring from the bench last year he revealed that he has been
in a long-term relationship with a man, prompting Proposition 8
proponents to ask the appeals court to throw out his ruling on
grounds that he should have disqualified himself from the case.  The appeals court ruled unanimously that Walker didn’t have
to recuse himself. Proposition 8 defenders today asked for
rehearing of that issue before a larger panel of judges.  As of 2006, there were an estimated 109,000 gay couples in
California, more than any other state, according to U.S. Census
data compiled by the  University of California , Los Angeles.  Gay marriage is legal in  New York ,  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,
 Massachusetts , New Hampshire, Vermont,  Washington  and the
 District of Columbia , according to Human Rights Campaign.  The cases are Perry v. Brown, 11-17255 and 11-16577, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  