-- Canada December Retail Sales Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-02-21T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/canada-december-retail-sales-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's retail sales report for December as released by
 Statistics Canada .  Retail sales edged down 0.2% in December to $38.6
billion, following four consecutive monthly increases.  In volume terms, retail sales were stable.  Retail sales edge down in December  Declines were reported in 7 of 11 subsectors,
representing 61% of retail sales.  Sales at motor vehicle and parts dealers (-1.0%)
declined in December for the first time in five months.
This decrease came mainly from a 9.4% decline at
automotive parts, accessories and tire stores, which more
than offset gains made in October and November. Declines
were also reported at new car dealers (-0.4%) and other
motor vehicle dealers (-0.7%). Following two consecutive
monthly decreases, sales at used car dealers rose 1.0%.  Gasoline stations reported a 1.1% decrease in December
after rising for four straight months.  Receipts at food and beverage stores rose 1.2% in
December. Higher sales at supermarkets and other grocery
stores (+1.0%) accounted for most of the gain.  Weaker holiday sales  Most store types typically associated with holiday
shopping registered weaker results in December.  Sales at general merchandise stores decreased 1.1%,
reflecting lower sales at department stores. Sales at
department stores declined 1.5%, down a fourth consecutive
month.  Sporting goods, hobby, book and music store sales fell
for the first time in five months, down 3.4% in December.
The decrease largely reflected weaker sales at sporting
goods stores.  Electronics and appliance store sales decreased 2.8%, a
second consecutive monthly decline.  Sales at clothing and clothing accessories stores fell
0.8% after two consecutive monthly gains.  Furniture and home furnishings store sales increased
3.2% in December, more than offsetting declines in the
previous three months. This increase came from higher
sales at home furnishings stores (+6.7%) and furniture
stores (+1.1%).  Sales down in half of the provinces  Retail sales were down in five provinces in December.  British Columbia (-1.4%) reported the largest decrease
in dollar terms, with widespread declines across store
types. This decrease did not offset the previous four
consecutive monthly gains.  Retail sales in Saskatchewan fell 3.5%, a second
decrease in 12 months.  Following four monthly increases in a row, Alberta
reported a 0.7% sales decline in December.  Quebec  (+0.6%) reported higher sales for a fifth
consecutive month. These gains more than made up for
declines reported in early 2011.  Sales in  Nova Scotia  rose 2.4%, more than offsetting
declines in October and November.  New motor vehicles and gas lead gains in 2011  Retailers sold $454.1 billion worth of goods and
services in 2011, up 3.6% from 2010. Retail sales in
volume terms rose 1.6%.  Sales at gasoline stations rose 17.3%, mainly as a
result of higher prices. Motor vehicle and parts dealer
sales advanced 4.8%, reflecting higher sales at new car
dealers. According to the New Motor Vehicle Sales Survey,
sales of trucks rose in 2011 while passenger car sales
fell.  Sales at general merchandise stores, which include
department stores, increased 3.8%.  Building material and garden equipment and supplies
dealers posted a 2.6% decline in 2011, more than
offsetting the sales increase registered in 2010.  Retail sales rose in all provinces in 2011. The highest
growth rates were in Saskatchewan and  Alberta .  It is possible to consult the tables of unadjusted data
by industry and by province and territory from the Tables
by subject module of our website.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and in
current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Total retail sales by volume are measured by deflating
values in current dollars of the various trade groups
using consumer price indexes. This retail sales in chained
dollars series (2002) is a chain Fisher volume index with
2002 as the reference year.  All annual comparisons in current dollars in this
release use the sum of unadjusted monthly data. With the
release of data in April, seasonally adjusted monthly
figures for 2011 will be revised to equal the sum of the
unadjusted data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  