-- Canadian Stocks Gain as Oil, Metals Rally on Greek Aid Deal
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-02-21T21:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/canadian-stocks-gain-as-oil-metals-rally-on-greek-aid-deal.html
Canadian stocks  rose to a five-month
high as metals and oil advanced after Greece won a second
bailout, easing concern the European debt crisis will crimp
growth and demand for commodities.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the country’s largest oil and gas
producer, increased 1.8 percent as oil rose to its highest price
in nine months.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest gold
producer, rose 3 percent, while  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s
largest base-metals and coal producer, also jumped 3 percent.
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. rallied 1.2 percent after it was rated buy in
new coverage at Bank of America Corp.  The  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 165.06 points, or 1.3
percent, to 12,623.36, the highest closing level since Sept. 8.  “It’s more confirmation that things are getting better,”
Anil Tahiliani, a money manager at McLean & Partners in Calgary,
said in a telephone interview. The firm oversees about C$1
billion ($1 billion). “Oil has rallied, so we see gold and
other commodities that are related to oil rally off of that.”  The index advanced eight of the past nine weeks as
improving U.S. employment, manufacturing and housing data
overshadowed the European debt crisis. Seventy-four percent of
Canadian exports went to the U.S. last year, according to
Statistics Canada.  Aid Package  European finance ministers approved 130 billion euros ($172
billion) in aid for  Greece  by tapping into European Central Bank
profits and coaxing investors into providing more debt relief to
shield the region from a default. Greece’s debt may still
balloon to 160 percent of gross domestic product in a worst-case
scenario, analysis by the  International Monetary Fund  and
European officials indicated.  Materials companies  led gains in Canada as metals rose on
improved prospects for commodity use. Gold had the biggest
advance in more than three weeks as Iran pledged to press on
with its efforts to develop nuclear energy, increasing political
tension and demand for a haven. Copper in  New York  rose the most
since Nov. 30 as China eased bank-reserve requirements for a
second time in three months.  Barrick advanced 3 percent to C$48.25.  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the country’s second-biggest publicly traded
copper producer, gained 3.7 percent to C$23.06. Teck Resources
jumped 3 percent to C$39.44.  Copper Spinoff  NovaGold Resources Inc. (NG) , which is developing projects in
Alaska and British Columbia, rose 3.9 percent to C$8.74. The
company said its shareholders will get one share of NovaCopper
Inc., a unit it plans to spin off, for every six NovaGold shares
they hold. The spinoff will be voted on at a shareholder meeting
in Vancouver on March 28, NovaGold said.  Ivanhoe Mines, Rio Tinto Group’s majority-owned partner in
Mongolia’s Oyu Tolgoi copper project, rallied 1.2 percent to
C$16.65 after it was rated buy at Bank of America, with a price
estimate of C$22.  The  S&P/TSX Energy Index (STENRS)  rose 1.4 percent. Suncor increased
1.8 percent to C$34.74.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) ,
Canada’s second-largest energy company by market value, rallied
1.3 percent to C$37.86.  PetroBakken Energy Ltd. (PBN) , a western
Canadian oil and gas producer, jumped 7.1 percent to C$16.51.  Oil in New York climbed 2.5 percent to $105.84 a barrel,
also boosted when Iran said it will stop selling crude to France
and Britain in order to preempt a European Union ban.  Flint Energy Services Ltd. (FES)  surged 66 percent to C$24.79
after URS Corp., a San Francisco-based construction company,
 agreed to buy  the oilfield-services company for C$1.25 billion
in cash to add projects servicing oil and natural gas producers
in Western Canada. Flint shareholders will get C$25 per share.  The S&P/TSX Financials Index rose 0.9 percent.  Royal Bank
of Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest lender by assets, gained 1.1
percent to C$53.72.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , its largest domestic
rival, advanced 0.8 percent to C$79.18.  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) ,
Canada’s third-largest insurer, jumped 3.5 percent to C$21.47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net .
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  