-- Canada December Wholesale Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-02-21T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/canada-december-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's wholesale trade report for December from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales rose 0.9% in December to $49.6 billion,
mainly as a result of higher sales in the motor vehicle
and parts, and the food, beverage and tobacco products
subsectors.  December's increase in wholesale sales was the seventh
in the last eight months of the year.  In volume terms, wholesale sales were up 1.3% in
December.  Wholesale sales increase in December  Motor vehicle sales post the strongest gain  In December, four of the seven subsectors, representing
71% of wholesale sales, reported increases.  The motor vehicle and parts subsector (+3.4%) posted
the strongest gain. Sales in this subsector reached $8.4
billion in December, their highest level since March 2007.  December's increase in sales in the motor vehicle and
parts subsector was entirely the result of higher sales in
the motor vehicle industry (+3.1%) and the new motor
vehicle parts and accessories industry (+4.3%).  Wholesale sales of food, beverage and tobacco products
rose 1.8% as a result of increased sales in the food
products industry (+1.9%), which accounts for almost 90%
of this subsector. Sales in this industry strengthened
throughout most of 2011.  The building materials and supplies subsector (+0.7%)
and the machinery, equipment and supplies subsector
(+0.4%) reported gains in December.  The miscellaneous subsector posted the largest decline
in dollars, with sales down 0.9% in December.  Provinces: Sales growth concentrated in the East  Sales increased in six provinces in December.  Ontario and  Quebec  wholesalers contributed the most in
dollar terms to the national increase. Wholesalers in
those two provinces benefited from higher sales in the
motor vehicle and parts, and the food, beverage and
tobacco products subsectors.  Ontario saw its wholesale sales advance 1.3% to $24.6
billion in December, while Quebec posted gains of 1.5%.
These increases follow several months of relatively stable
sales in the two provinces.  In Western Canada, only Manitoba (+3.7%) recorded
higher sales. Saskatchewan (-3.3%) posted the largest
decline, with a second consecutive month of decreasing
sales.  Of the four Atlantic provinces, three reported gains.
Sales in Prince Edward Island declined 1.6%.  Inventories rise  Inventories rose 1.4% in December to $58.5 billion.
Overall, 18 of the 25 industry groups reported an increase
in their inventories.  Inventories increase in December  Wholesalers in the agricultural supplies industry
(+9.9%) and the construction, forestry, mining and
industrial machinery, equipment and supplies industry
(+1.8%) reported the largest inventory gains in dollar
terms.  The inventory-to-sales ratio rose to 1.18 in December
from 1.17 in November.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time
in months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to
remain at their current level.  Widespread growth in wholesale sales in 2011  On an annual basis, wholesale sales rose to $577
billion in 2011, up 7.4% from the previous year. This
increase is slightly smaller than that seen in 2010, which
was the strongest annual growth since 1997.  All seven component subsectors in wholesale trade
registered increases in 2011. The machinery, equipment and
supplies subsector posted the strongest gains in dollar
terms, followed by miscellaneous wholesalers.  The motor vehicle and parts subsector, which accounted
for most of the increase in 2010, recorded slower growth
in 2011. Sales in this subsector may have been affected by
the supply disruptions stemming from the earthquake that
struck  Japan  in March 2011.  Wholesale sales rose in all provinces. Saskatchewan
recorded the strongest gains in 2011, with a growth rate
exceeding 20%.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and in
current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  All annual comparisons in this release use the sum of
unadjusted monthly data. With the release of data in
April, seasonally adjusted monthly figures for 2011 will
be revised to equal the sum of the unadjusted data.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  